
    
      The formation of insoluble extracellular deposits consisting of misfolded, aggregated protein
      is the hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is
      a degenerative disease in the eye associated with extracellur deposits named drusen. Recent
      evidence suggests that drusen formation and AMD share some similarities with another
      neurodegenerative disease named Alzheimer's disease (AD) which is associated with amyloid
      deposits. AMD and AD are strongly correlated with advancing age and the formation of amyloid
      deposits. In addition, inflammatory mediators and in particular activated microglia are
      present in amyloid deposits as well as in drusen, suggesting a possible common role for the
      inflammatory pathway in AMD and amyloid diseases. Moreover, Ambati et al described a new
      model of AMD in transgenic mice when an absence of normally functioning macrophages led to
      the development of clinical AMD.

      Michal Schwartz and her group have recently shown that aggregated b-amyloid (Ab) induces
      microglia to become cytotoxic and block neurogenesis from adult rodent neural progenitor
      cells (NPCs). IL-4, reversed the impediment, attenuated TNF-a production and overcame
      blockage of insulin like growth factor (IGF)-I production caused by Ab. The significance of
      microglia for in-vivo neural cell renewal was demonstrated by enhanced neurogenesis in the
      rat dentate gyrus after injection of IL-4-activated microglia intracerebroventricularly and
      by the presence of IGF-I-expressing microglia in the dentate gyrus of rats kept in an
      enriched environment or in the animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). Using
      double-transgenic mice expressing mutant human genes encoding presenilin 1 and chimeric
      mouse/human amyloid precursor protein (mice Alzheimer's disease model), the group of Michal
      Schwartz showed that modulation of microglia into dendritic-like cells, achieved by a T
      cell-based vaccination with Copolymer-1 (Copaxone), resulted in reduction of cognitive
      decline, elimination of plaque formation, and induction of neuronal survival and
      neurogenesis. These results introduce a new microglia phenotype as necessary players in
      fighting off neurodegenerative conditions such as AD and AMD.
    
  