
    
      Children receiving kidney (renal) transplantation face distressing issues in
      post-transplantation including but not limited to growth retardation directly attributable to
      corticosteroids (steroids). It is hypothesized that robust immunosuppression with sirolimus
      and calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine or tacrolimus) in conjunction with induction therapy
      should enable successful steroid withdrawal. A steroid-free environment could lessen side
      effects by enabling a child to achieve catch-up growth, reducing the need for
      anti-hypertensive therapy, and reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease. This trial tests
      the objective of providing a steroid-free state without incurring the risk of increased
      incidence of acute transplant rejections.

      Patients are enrolled prior to kidney transplantation and receive standard evaluations.
      Patients receive induction therapy with basiliximab preoperatively and on Day 4 after
      surgery. Immunosuppressive therapy begins with sirolimus and either cyclosporine or
      tacrolimus on Day 1 following surgery, and with corticosteroids the day of surgery. Infection
      prophylaxis with Bactrim is begun on Day 1 after surgery and center-specific
      anti-cytomegalovirus (CMV) therapy is given for all recipients of a CMV positive kidney. At 6
      months post-transplantation, all patients who have not had an episode of acute rejection
      undergo a renal graft biopsy. Patients who are confirmed to be free of subclinical rejection
      are randomized to either undergo complete steroid withdrawal or continue maintenance on daily
      steroids. Patients receive either steroids or placebo, while continuing other
      immunosuppressive medications. Patients are segregated into weight groups for steroid
      withdrawal that occurs over months 7 to 13. Any acute rejection event during withdrawal is
      confirmed by renal biopsy and managed with methylprednisolone treatment. Patients are
      followed for 3 years post-transplantation for analysis of growth rate, blood pressure, lipid
      profile and renal function as measured by serum creatinine and calculated creatinine
      clearances. Post-transplantation clinic visits are weekly for the first 2 months, every 2
      weeks until 13 months, weekly during Month 13, every 2 weeks through Month 18, and monthly
      until the study ends.

      Patients who exhibit evidence of acute or subclinical rejection do not continue the steroid
      withdrawal trial and care is managed by their pediatric renal transplant center physicians.
    
  