
    
      Study population:

      The study will include patients maintained on hemodialysis for more than 12 months, have
      oliguria or anuria, reduced bladder capacity, have no history of lower urinary tract
      dysfunction and have no evidence of urological cause of renal failure. Patients with history
      of lower urinary tract symptoms before developing renal failure and those with lower urinary
      tract disease resulting in renal failure will be excluded.

      Study design:

      It is a randomized controlled trial comparing the outcome of programmed bladder cycling
      before the time of renal transplantation and direct transplantation without bladder cycling
      in patients with defunctionalized bladder. Patients, who meet the inclusion criteria, will be
      randomly allocated into two groups. The first group will undergo renal transplantation on the
      defunctionalized bladder without bladder recycling. The second group will undergo renal
      transplantation after bladder recycling.

      Measurements:

      All patients will be diagnosed by proper history taking, cystoscopy, ascending cystogram and
      cystometry in order to confirm the diagnosis of reduced bladder capacity and exclude any
      organic or neurological cause. Bladder recycling will be done by the patient after proper
      education. It will be started by the instillation of the sterile water in the bladder in
      amount equal to the estimated bladder capacity. Then the amount will be gradually increased
      till the patient can withstand filling the bladder with 300 cc of sterile water for 2 hours.
      Any associated complications will be reported and the time needed to reach the due bladder
      capacity will be recorded. The procedure of renal transplantation will be carried out
      according to the hospital protocol and the ureteroneocystostomy will be done by a non-stented
      Leich Gregoir technique.

      Assuming that the bladder will regain its activity and full capacity after 8 weeks of
      transplantation, all patients will be assessed 3 months after transplantation by the
      following:

        1. IPSS questionnaire in order to evaluate the lower urinary tract symptoms.

        2. Ascending cystogram.

        3. Cystometry.

        4. Graft function.

      Outcome:

      The primary outcome is to evaluate whether bladder recycling is efficient to restore bladder
      function prior to renal transplantation in terms of IPSS score, and urodynamic evaluation.
      The secondary outcome is to evaluate the differences in graft and patients outcome between
      groups.

      Power calculation and Statistical analysis:

      We hypothesized that at 3 months postoperatively; recipients without bladder training will be
      non-inferior to those underwent bladder training in terms of cystometric capacity. Based on
      this, to achieve a difference in mean cystometric capacity of 50 cc in favor of bladder
      training patients, 16 patients in each group are required to achieve a power of 80% and an α
      error of 0.05. Statistical power is determined using medcalc version 12.5.0.0 software and
      all statistical analyses will be performed using IBM version 20 statistical software.
    
  