
    
      Description Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a real public health problem in the world. In Western
      countries, CRC is the third of the most common cancers and the second leading cause of cancer
      death. The prognosis of CRC is closely associated with the tumor stage at diagnosis. Despite
      widespread screening program, the CRC is diagnosed at metastatic stage in approximately 35%
      of cases, while about 20% to 50% of patients diagnosed at earlier stage (stage II and III)
      will develop distant metastasis subsequently. For these patients with metastatic CRC,
      improved surgical techniques, advances in cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens (fluoropyrimidin,
      oxaliplatin and irinotecan) and the progress of targeted therapies (antiangiogenic and
      anti-EGFR therapies) have increased survival and improve the quality of life. These patients
      are usually treated every 2 weeks with these chemotherapy regimens and the tumor response are
      evaluated every 2 months by computed tomography (CT) scan using the RECIST criteria (Therasse
      P, J Natl Cancer Inst 92:205-216, 2000). These morphological criteria determine several tumor
      response: complete remission (CR) is the disappearance of all lesions, partial response (PR)
      is the reduction of at least 30 % of the sum of the largest diameters of all lesions targets,
      progression disease (PD) is increased by at least 20 % of the sum of the largest diameters of
      target lesions or appearance of new lesions, and stable disease (SD) corresponds to the lower
      decrease in 30% or higher than 20 % of the sum of target lesions (P Therasse, J Natl Cancer
      Inst 92:205-216, 2000). Treatment should be changed in case of PD, while is usually continued
      in case of objective tumor response or control disease. Moreover, carcinoembryonic antigen
      (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 are serum biomarkers that are clinically useful to
      evaluate efficacy of treatment in some patients with metastatic CRC but have a sensitivity of
      only 50 to 70%. Therefore, in case of early tumor resistance to treatment, PD will be
      objectified as CT scan only after 2 months of treatment, exposing the patient to unnecessary
      toxicity that could be sometimes severe. Early biomarkers of tumor response are needed for
      better management of treatment for patients with metastatic CRC.

      CRC is characterized by highly specific genetic alterations. Some molecular alterations may
      be predictive (tailoring the protocols of chemotherapy) or prognostic (evaluating the
      severity of the disease) biomarkers useful in the therapeutic management of these patients.
      For example, KRAS tumor mutation was associated with a lack of response to anti-EGFR targeted
      therapies (Lievre A, J Clin Oncol 2008, 26:374-9; Lievre A, Cancer Res 2006,66:3992-5), while
      BRAF mutation are prognostic (Van Cutsem E, J Clin Oncol 2011, 29:2011-19). Specific genetic
      alterations in the tumor can also be detected from the circulating tumor DNA of patients with
      CRC (Lecomte T, Int J Cancer 2002, 100:543-8). Indeed, circulating DNA fragments carrying
      tumor specific sequence alterations (circulating tumor DNA) are found in the fraction of
      blood, representing a variable and generally small fraction of the total circulating DNA.
      Recently, a study showed that circulating tumor DNA was an informative, inherently specific,
      and highly sensitive biomarker of monitoring for metastatic breast cancer treatment (N Engl J
      Med. 2013;368:1199-209). However, to our knowledge, analysis of circulating tumor DNA to
      monitor metastatic CRC was not performed yet. The aim of our study is to determine a
      biomarker evaluating precociously the response to chemotherapy by the monitoring of the
      circulating tumor DNA.

      Patients and Methods Results of CT imaging, levels of CEA and CA 19-9, and serial whole-blood
      samples were collected prospectively from patients undergoing therapy for metastatic CRC. DNA
      extracted from archival tumor tissue samples was analysed to identify somatic genomic
      alterations (KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, TP53, PI3KCA, APC, SMAD4 …). Blood samples were collected in
      EDTA tubes every two weeks before each cycles of chemotherapy. Blood samples were processed
      within 2 hour after collection and were centrifuged to separate the plasma from the
      peripheral-blood cells. DNA was extracted from plasma. To measure the DNA carrying specific
      somatic genomic alterations in plasma, the investigators carried out a microfluidic digital
      polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay (Taly V, Clin Chem 2013).

      The investigators will compare the monitoring of circulating tumor DNA with the results of CT
      scan according the RECIST criteria and the blood level of CEA and CA 19-9.
    
  