
    
      This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), double blind (neither the patient or
      the study doctor will know the name of the assigned treatment), parallel-group, 3-arm
      (patients will be assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups) multicenter study to determine the
      efficacy, safety, and tolerability of 2 different doses of canagliflozin (100 mg and 300 mg)
      compared to placebo (a pill that looks like all the other treatments but has no real
      medicine) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) who have renal impairment (reduced
      kidney function) and who are not achieving an adequate response from current therapy to
      control their diabetes. Canagliflozin (also referred to as JNJ-28431754) is a drug that is
      being tested to see if it may be useful in treating patients diagnosed with T2DM.
      Approximately 240 patients will participate in the study for approximately 63 to 72 weeks,
      depending on the length of the pretreatment phase. The study will consist of a pretreatment
      phase, a 52 week double blind treatment phase, and a posttreatment phase. During the
      pretreatment phase, screening evaluations will be performed to see if patients meet the entry
      criteria for the study. In addition, routine clinical procedures will be performed (physical
      examination, vital signs measurements, and an electrocardiogram [ECG]), a blood and urine
      sample will be collected for routine clinical laboratory tests, and all antihyperglycemic
      therapy taken by patients will be reviewed. Patients who meet entrance criteria for the study
      and who currently take a stable antihyperglycemic agent (AHA) regimen according to the local
      prescribing information will be eligible for inclusion in the study. Patients who meet
      entrance criteria for the study but who are not taking a stable AHA regimen according to the
      local prescribing information will enter an AHA adjustment period that may last for up to 12
      weeks. Patients will receive once daily treatment with study drug in addition to their
      current stable diabetes regimen (eg, diet, exercise, and medication therapy). Patients will
      continue to take their assigned treatment for 52 weeks (includes a 26-week core double-blind
      treatment period and a 26-week extension double-blind treatment period). During the study, if
      a patient's blood sugar remains high despite treatment with study drug in combination with
      their other antidiabetic agents, the study physician will modify the patient's treatment. If
      patients take insulin and experience low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), the dose of insulin may
      be modified. During the study, patients will be monitored for safety by review of adverse
      events, results from safety laboratory tests (including chemistry, hematology, and
      urinalysis), ECGs, vital signs measurements, body weight, physical examinations,
      self-monitored blood glucose, and collection of potential hypoglycemic episodes reported by
      patients on diary cards. The safety of patients in this study will also be monitored by a
      company internal Medical Safety Review Committee (MSRC). An Independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (IDMC) will evaluate cardiovascular (CV) events that are reported across the entire
      clinical development program for canagliflozin. Patients who complete the Week 52 visit or
      who discontinue treatment early and are withdrawn from the study will have end-of-study
      evaluations performed and a follow-up telephone interview conducted by study personnel
      approximately 30 days (but no more than 42 days) after the last dose of study drug to collect
      any serious adverse events that occurred since their last study visit. The primary outcome
      measures in the study are to assess the effect of canagliflozin relative to placebo on
      hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c, a blood test used to measure the control of diabetes) after 26 weeks
      of treatment and to assess the safety and tolerability of canagliflozin from time of signed
      informed consent to study end (includes up to 30 days following the last dose of study drug).
      All patients will take a single-blind placebo capsule once daily for 2 weeks before
      randomization to double-blind study drug. After randomization, patients will take one capsule
      of canagliflozin (either 100 mg or 300 mg) or matching placebo orally (by mouth) with liquid
      once daily for 52 weeks before the first meal each day except on days when fasting or
      pharmacokinetic blood samples are collected in which case study drug will be taken after the
      visit immediately before the patient's next meal.
    
  