
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Obinutuzumab for prevention
      of chronic Graft-vs.-Host Disease (cGVHD), but it has been approved for other uses.

      In this research study, the investigators are aiming to determine the effect of Obinutuzumab
      on the incidence of corticosteroid-requiring cGVHD after allogeneic Hematopoetic Cell
      Transplant (aHCT).

      Chronic GVHD is a medical condition that can occur after bone marrow or stem cells are
      transplanted from one individual to another. After the transplant, the donor immune system
      may recognize the recipient body as foreign and may attempt to 'reject' the body. This
      process is referred to as Graft-vs. -Host Disease and may occur at any time, although
      generally not earlier than one hundred days after transplantation.

      The immune system produces two types of lymphocytes (white blood cells), B cells and T cells.
      B cells are part of the 'memory' for the immune system, and they make antibodies (proteins)
      when bacteria, viruses or other potentially harmful materials enter the body. Obinutuzumab is
      an antibody, a molecule that targets certain cells by binding to specific parts of the target
      cell. In this case, Obinutuzumab will bind to a component of B cells called CD20, resulting
      in the B cell getting killed. It is thought that reducing the number of B cells will reduce
      the chances of developing cGVHD after transplant. Previous studies with another antibody
      targeting CD20 on B cells suggests that there may be a reduced chance of developing cGVHD and
      the need to prescribe Corticosteroids to treat cGVHD when B cells are killed.

      This is a randomized, placebo controlled trial. This means that approximately half of the
      study participants will receive Obinutuzumab, and the other half will receive a placebo
      (saline solution). A computer will decide which participants will receive Obinutuzumab or
      placebo, and neither the participant or the study doctor will know which the participant has
      received until the study is completed. It is important to note that the current standard is
      to receive no therapy specifically to prevent cGVHD.
    
  