
    
      This is the retrospective study of 14 consecutive patients suffering from retinal detachment
      with proliferative vitreoretinopathy who underwent primary PPV at the Department of Retina of
      Centro Oftalmologico Dr Charles, Buenos Aires-Argentina between January 1, 2016 and August 1,
      2020 . This study followed the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki and it was approved by
      the approved by the research ethics committee (www.comitedeeticaceic.com.ar). Written
      informed consent was taken from all subjects. All cases were performed by a single
      experienced vitreoretinal surgeon (MCH)

      The treatment chosen in the study was pars plana vitrectomy with Brilliant Blue G (BBG)
      staining using the Ngenuity 3D Visualization System (Alcon). We spread 0.05% w/v BBG solution
      (OCUBLUE PLUS, Aurolab), approximately 0.3-0.5 ml, on the retinal surface and peeled off the
      ILM from the posterior pole up to the periphery, thus ensuring the total removal of the
      overlying epiretinal membranes responsible for recurrent detachment. Frequent restaining with
      BBG helped revealing new edges and perfluorocarbon liquid was used in others to stabilize the
      retina (Figure1). ).. All patients underwent vitreoretinal surgery due to RD (rhegmatogenous,
      tractional or combined rhegmatogenous and tractional). Exclusion criteria from the study was
      the time of follow-up less than 6 months.

      Average age at the time of the presence of RD was 56 ± 8.7 years (range 23-77 years). Pre-
      and postoperative data were collected. Descriptive statistical analysis included gender, age
      at the presentation, laterality, etiology, duration of presenting symptoms, presences of
      ocular comorbidities, macular status (attached or non-attached), presence of PVR (preretinal,
      subretinal and intraretinal) initial and final best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), number of
      procedures, type of endotamponade during PPV, final lens status, duration of the follow-up,
      anatomical success and complications. Indications for PPV were as follows: presence of
      advanced PVR and/or total RD and/or multiple breaks, giant retinal tears. PVR was graded
      according to the Retina Society Terminology Classification and anatomical location
      (references). Visual acuity was measured by Snellen charts. The anatomical success was
      defined as persistent retinal reattachment at the last follow-up visit (in absence of
      silicone oil tamponade).

      Statistical computations were performed using STATA 16 data analysis and statistical software
      (StataCorp LLC, College Station, Texas, USA)
    
  