
    
      Screening: Potentially eligible participants from the echocardiography laboratory will be
      screened by a member of the research team for inclusion and exclusion criteria and will be
      asked to review and sign a consent form that explains the study.

      Run-in: Participants with elevated Lp(a) and normal liver and renal indices, that meet all
      other inclusion and exclusion criteria will be started on low dose niacin (500 mg/d) for a 6
      week run-in phase prior to randomization to assess tolerability and compliance to the
      intervention. The niacin dose will be increased by 500 mg increments weekly, as tolerated, to
      a maximum of 1500 mg/day (Participants who remain compliant >85% (by pill count and
      self-report) and who tolerate at least 1500 mg/d of niacin for at least 2 weeks will then
      undergo randomization to 1500 mg/d of immediate release niacin or matching placebo.

      Randomization: will be performed via an Internet website where each participant will be given
      a unique identifier that matches the allocated drug kit.Blocking using random blocks of 2 and
      4 will ensure that similar numbers of patients are randomized to the two arms of the study at
      each of the study centers.

      The study will be double blind - neither patients, physicians, nor study personnel will know
      which participants are receiving active treatment.

      After a 6-week run-in phase, participants able to tolerate the intervention will be
      randomized 1:1 to niacin extended release or placebo. After randomization, the treatment
      phase will be for 2 years (104 weeks). Data will be collected during 5 visits: (i)
      Randomization visit; (ii) 6-month follow-up visit; (iii) 12-month follow-up visit; (iv)
      18-month follow-up visit; (v)Final visit (24-month).

      (i) Randomization visit (baseline)

      (1) Data Collected: A. Clinical and Biochemical Data B. Echocardiogram C. Blood Collection D.
      Cardiac CT

      (ii) Follow-up visits (at 6, 12 and 18 months from randomization) Collection of clinical data
      (re: side-effects), compliance to therapy and blood.

      (iii) Final visit (24 months) At the final visit, all usual data collected during the above
      follow-up visits will be obtained (including compliance, side-effects, etc). An
      echocardiogram, cardiac CT and a final blood test will also be obtained

        1. Primary Endpoints

           a) Relative reduction in rates of calcium score progression by cardiac CT in individuals
           randomized to niacin as compared to those randomized to placebo.

        2. Secondary Endpoints

             1. Number needed to screen to identify eligible participants

             2. Difference in mean change in Lp(a) levels between treatment arms

             3. Rates of progression in each arm by echocardiography at 1 and 2 years (Change in
                peak velocity (in m/s); Change in mean gradient (in mm Hg); Change in AVA (in cm2)

        3. Tertiary Endpoints

             1. Compliance (as a proportion of pills taken/pills prescribed) with niacin treatment

             2. Rates of side-effects and other adverse events
    
  