
    
      Musculoskeletal injuries represent one of the leading causes of hospital admissions for
      adults, and often results in long term pain, poor function, and permanent disability.
      Patients afflicted with musculoskeletal injuries contribute to an enormous cost to society in
      terms of direct health care spending, as well as indirect costs related to permanent
      disability, loss of work, and chronic pain contributing to the rising opioid epidemic. This
      is clearly a substantial and costly issue at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC) as
      well as the country at large. From 2011 to 2017, 54% of patients who were admitted for
      fracture at DHMC had either a psychiatric diagnosis and/or a substance abuse diagnosis. It is
      likely that this number vastly underestimates the true amount of emotional distress present
      in this patient population because many patients with these issues do not carry formal
      psychiatric diagnoses. Diagnosis of psychiatric illness or substance abuse was associated
      with significantly higher resource utilization during hospital admission in terms of hospital
      length of stay (LOS, mean difference 3 days), need for ICU stay, number of consulting
      services, disposition to rehab, and rate of unplanned readmissions (21% versus 39%,
      respectively). Furthermore, this patient population had significantly higher mean pain score
      during admission and required 10-fold more opioids prescribed [measured in total morphine
      equivalents (MME)] and number of separate prescriptions needed.

      These data within the investigator's own patient population reinforce the well documented
      reciprocal association between chronic pain and adverse mental health outcomes, such that
      pain triggers depression for example, but depression may as well exacerbate experiences of
      pain. In fact, catastrophic thinking about pain (tendency to assume the worst and believe
      that one will be unable to cope with the outcome), pain anxiety, and symptoms of depression
      are key factors that explain the magnitude of disability and pain intensity after
      musculoskeletal trauma. Resilience, the capacity to adapt to or recover from adversity, has
      been shown to attenuate the association between depression and pain. For this reason, the
      investigators believe it is important for patients to learn effective coping skills in order
      to effectively manage their pain and fear associated with recovering from a traumatic injury.

      Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) is a cognitive behavioral therapy that focuses on the
      balance between change and acceptance. DBT skills include four modules: two that enforce
      acceptance-oriented skills, mindfulness and distress tolerance, and two that promote
      change-oriented skills, interpersonal effectiveness and emotional regulation. This
      psychosocial treatment aims to reduce ineffective action tendencies associated with
      dysregulated emotions. DBT has been studied extensively in adult samples, across a wide range
      of settings. It has been shown to be effective in management of intense emotional states and
      development of coping skills in the most challenging patient populations including patients
      with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), eating disorders, and substance abuse.
      Furthermore, DBT-based interventions have demonstrated preliminary effectiveness in managing
      chronic pain and pain catastrophizing and anxiety. As such, patients with orthopedic trauma
      at high risk for chronic pain and disability would benefit from an evidence-based treatment
      approach that would teach them how to change thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that could
      cause problems in daily living and interfere with recovery from injury.
    
  