
    
      MEDICAL DEVICES:

        -  SoftVue™ (SV) automated whole breast ultrasound system, 510(k) Cleared for B-Mode
           ultrasound breast imaging, manufactured by Delphinus Medical Technologies.

        -  SoftVue™ with device modifications (software, hardware, user-interface), safety-tested
           for human use to complete feasibility, verification, and validation testing as a routine
           part of product development and performed in accordance with FDA 21 CFR 812.2 (b),
           manufactured by Delphinus Medical Technologies.

        -  Full-field digital mammography (FFDM), FDA Approved for breast screening and diagnosis,
           various manufacturers. (If clinically indicated)

        -  Digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT), FDA Approved for breast screening and diagnosis,
           various manufacturers.

        -  Handheld Ultrasound (HHUS), FDA-Cleared for diagnostic breast imaging, various
           manufacturers. (If clinically indicated)

        -  Other diagnostic tests and medical device examinations of the breast, including, but not
           limited to MRI, BSGI, PET, biopsy, and elastography, on the order of a licensed
           physician, when clinically indicated.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Primary: To establish a library of cases for use in future SoftVue™ research studies,
           user training, and marketing.

        -  Secondary: Determine the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs) to further
           evaluate the safety of SoftVue.

      ENDPOINTS:

      From multiple clinical sites whichever comes first:

      • Up to 1,000 total enrolled subjects

      SITES:

      At least six (≥ 6) qualified clinical sites in the United States

        -  MQSA Certified

        -  Digital Breast Tomosynthesis Screening Program Implemented

        -  Academic, Community Hospital, or Private Practice Setting

      PROJECT DESIGN AND PROCEDURES:

        -  Potential participants will be recruited from the group of women presenting for
           diagnostic evaluation or biopsy at multiple clinical sites.

        -  All participants will complete the same standard care diagnostic evaluations that were
           recommended by a physician

        -  Eligible patients will receive a SV scan at the time of their scheduled diagnostic
           appointments, preferably prior to biopsy

        -  Investigators at the sites will compare SV images to the accompanying diagnostic images
           and pathology results

        -  No clinical SV interpretation will be performed and no clinical interventions will be
           made or changed based on SV images

        -  All evaluation results, diagnosis and treatment outcomes will be recorded

        -  Cancer status for all participants will be surveyed from program entry until and
           including the completion of physician recommended diagnostic workup

        -  A case will be determined cancer negative if the participant has non-malignant breast
           biopsy findings or confirmed non-suspicious diagnostic breast imaging findings

        -  A case will be determined cancer positive if a pathological evaluation confirms a breast
           cancer diagnosis (malignancy)

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

        -  Demographic characteristics (age, race, and ethnicity) and other baseline
           characteristics (e.g., project arm, project site, breast density, lesion-specific
           characteristics) will be tabulated for all participants.

        -  A flow diagram or table will illustrate patient disposition ("accountability of patient
           cohort") including reasons for ineligibility and/or unevaluability.

        -  Safety will be summarized for all enrolled women. With the exception of anticipated
           events, adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), occurring from the time
           of enrollment (SoftVue) and for 24 hours following the conclusion of the SoftVue exam,
           will be recorded.

        -  A separate statistical plan will be developed for any future analysis that includes
           justification of sample size and, if applicable to the requirements of FDAAA 801, will
           be registered separately in order to share the results.
    
  