
    
      Objective:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of long-term potentiation (LTP)-like
      cortical plasticity induced by parieto-motor cortico-cortical paired associative stimulation
      (cc-PAS) on the contralateral hemisphere and interhemispheric interactions in normal brain
      using dual-site transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We will explore the ipsilateral and
      contralateral effects of cc-PAS over the left primary motor cortex (M1). We hypothesize that
      the motor evoked potential (MEP) at S50 (the motor evoked potential) will change after cc-PAS
      in the left hemisphere, which stimulates M1 after PPC (effective cc-PAS), not only on the
      right first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle, but also the left FDI muscle.

      In addition, we hypothesize that the MEP at S50 will change after cc-PAS in the left
      hemisphere, which stimulates PPC after M1 (ineffective cc-PAS), on the right FDI muscle but
      not the left FDI muscle.

      Study population

      We intend to study 15 healthy-volunteers to have 12 who complete the study. Subjects will
      complete up to one screening visit and two study visits involving two intervention.

      Design

      Subjects will come for one screening visit and two outpatient study visits. The screening
      visit and the first study visit can be performed the same day. The second study visit will be
      done approximately 1 week after the first one. TMS-induced electromyographic (EMG) activity
      of hand muscles will be recorded as MEPs. Using single TMS measure on both the left and right
      M1, we will measure MEPs and input-out (I-O) curve for the right and left FDI muscle and
      abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscle, respectively. Using a paired-pulse TMS paradigm,
      interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) from the left M1 to the right M1, short-interval
      intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) will be measured on the
      left FDI and ADM muscles. Then, the subjects will undergo two plasticity induction procedures
      of the parieto-motor cc-PAS sessions. One of those is the hypothesized efficacious cc-PAS
      session and the other one is the control, a hypothesized ineffective cc-PAS session. The two
      sessions will be separated by approximately one week. Each session consists of 100 pairs of
      double stimulation to the left PPC and left M1. MEPs, I-O curve on the bilateral M1, IHI from
      the left M1 to the right M1, SICI and ICF will be remeasured during the 60 min after
      receiving cc-PAS.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome:

      The primary outcome measure will be MEP amplitude from the bilateral M1 with respect to time
      (before, immediately and 30-45 min after intervention) after induction of cc-PAS plasticity
      over the left hemisphere in each session. The amplitude of MEPs on each side of M1 will be
      compared between before and after cc-PAS with respect to time, using ANOVA in each session.

      Secondary outcome:

      The degree of IHI from the left M1 to the right M1, SICI and ICF with respect to time
      (before, immediately and 30-45 min after intervention) will be compared by the ANOVA test.
      The degree of IHI and the change of IHI will be correlated with the primary outcome as
      measured with a correlation analysis.
    
  