
    
      Interventions:

      A. Intervention group: Fat injection

      Harvesting fat from the donner site:

        1. Surgical repair is to be done under general anesthesia.

        2. IV infusion of cephalosporine antibiotic as surgical prophylaxis against infection

        3. Tumescent fluid of normal saline and epinephrine 1:500,000 is to be hand infiltrated
           into the donor site (abdomen).

        4. The lipoaspirate is to be harvested from the donor site using manual liposuction through
           a small incision (less than 0.5 cm). Fat is aspirated using a blunt tipped catheter on a
           10-mL syringe.

        5. The fat is emulsified.

      Injecting fat into the lip:

        1. The micro fat is reloaded into a 1-mL syringe and injected with a 1.5 mm blunt-tipped
           grafting needle.

        2. Small aliquots of fat are injected into the philtral column.

        3. Fat is to be injected in the vermilion and any other area of volume insufficiency if
           needed, depending on the contour of the lip.

      B. Comparator group: Surgical revision with orbicularis oris muscle reconstruction.

        1. Surgical repair is to be done under general anesthesia.

        2. IV infusion of cephalosporine antibiotic as surgical prophylaxis against infection

        3. The original scar will be marked on the skin with methylene blue.

        4. The operating area will be injected with 0.5% lidocaine (containing 1:200,000
           epinephrine).

        5. The skin will be incised along the designed line with scar removal.

        6. The orbicularis oris muscle stump is to be dissected medially and laterally.

        7. In the medial segment, the dissection is restricted to within 5 mm medially to avoid
           crossing the center of the philtral dimple and to prevent any disruption of the normal
           philtral dimple. The muscle on the lateral cleft segment is to be freed from skin and
           mucosal by scissor dissection.

        8. The medial and lateral orbicularis oris muscle stumps are approximated by means of 4-0
           inverted horizontal mattress sutures.
    
  