
    
      Prior to opening the nation's largest single family room NICU in 2009, Women & Infants
      Hospital developed TESTPILOT: Transportable Enhanced Simulation Technologies for
      Pre-Implementation Limited Operations Testing. The investigators simulated a functional NICU.
      164 latent safety threats (LST) were identified without exposing a single neonate to risk.
      Practical changes were made to a) verbal and written communication protocols, b) admissions
      workflows, c) rapid team responses, d) family centered care e) scripting, f) facilities, g)
      supplies and equipment, and h) staffing and training issues.

      "Generalizing TESTPILOT" studies how learnable and applicable this simulation-based
      methodology is at other institutions. Six institutions have successfully implemented
      TESTPILOT-NICU as of 2015. The investigators hypothesize implementations will succeed across
      a spectrum of care delivery structures, simulation experience and magnitudes of culture
      change, resulting in a broad blueprint for integrating simulation into transitioning
      healthcare services. Our goals include:

        1. Share lessons learned and support local simulation teams in their preparations;

        2. Quantitatively demonstrate improvement in system readiness and staff preparedness at
           each institution

        3. Assess saturation of latent safety threats over successive TESTPILOT implementations,
           resulting in a blueprint for similar transitions.

      During Phase I the investigators standardized, refined and validated survey instruments with
      NICU staff and process experts. Phase II includes implementation of TESTPILOT at 15
      institutions over three years. The Principal Investigator recruits each institution and
      guides them through the methodology, typically lasting six to eight months. Each
      institution's Co-Investigator and core simulation team recruits local staff for simulation,
      LST discovery and resolution, and survey completion.
    
  