
    
      Marta Fernández Hontoria, physiotherapist at the State Reference Center of Attention to Brain
      Injury (CEADAC), will develop, together with her team formed by Cristina Lirio Romero and
      María Torres Lacomba of the Department of Physiotherapy at the University of Alcalá, a
      cross-cultural adaptation to the Spanish population with Adquired Brain Injury (ABI) and
      psychometric validation of the Mini-BESTest scale. Previously, the author of the scale has
      been asked for consent. The study will take place at the CEADAC. After receiving the approval
      of the Ethics and Clinical Research Committee of the University of Alcalá (Madrid), it is
      proposed to implement the study between September 2019 and May 2020. A minimum of 100 adults,
      aged between 18 and 65, will be recruited subacute or chronic state after suffering brain
      damage. The sample size conforms to COSMIN recommendations.

      After verifying that there are no parallel studies on the subject in progress, the possible
      participants will be informed of the development of the investigation (ANNEX 1), who must
      sign the informed consent (ANNEX 2) before being recruited into the study. In addition, a
      coding sheet (ANNEX 3) of the participants will be filled in so that from now on the data
      related to the proper name does not appear but with a number that ensures the protection of
      their data.

      The participants will be all users of CEADAC and the selection criteria to enter to
      participate in the study will be: adults who had suffered a ABI at least 2 months ago, that
      their disability before suffering it was less than or equal to three on the scale modified by
      Rankin, who have an absence of cognitive impairment according to the Minimental State
      Examination scale, that is, a score in it greater than 24, without previous diseases that
      alter the balance, that were clinically stable and without fever, with the ability to walk
      with help technical or without it, and that they gave their informed consent.

      On the other hand, those people with medical contraindications for physical tests (acute
      musculoskeletal or peripheral nervous system disorders), who did not understand the
      instructions, severe aphasias or with subjects with acute processes of any added pathology
      will be excluded.

      The study was developed in 3 phases:

      Phase 1: Transcultural adaptation process. Phase 2: Pre-Test: collected , as well as the ease
      of interpretation of the results.

      Phase 3: Psychometric validation process.
    
  