
    
      Treatment for certain types of bladder cancer (BC) involves the removal of the bladder and
      construction of a new voiding system and is physically and psychologically profoundly
      challenging for patients and caregivers. Based on investigators' published literature and
      extensive pilot data, patients and caregivers have extensive unmet informational, social,
      psychological, instrumental, and medical needs from the time of diagnosis, through treatment
      and recovery which are not adequately addressed by health care professionals. Investigators
      propose to address these unmet needs through the refinement and evaluation of a
      comprehensive, 2-part (in-person and web-based) intervention, geared towards the patient and
      caregiver. Specifically, during Aim 1, the formative phase, investigators propose to further
      refine the newly developed intervention components with the help of an established
      patient/caregiver advisory board. The intervention, Recovery Support for Bladder Cancer
      (RSBC), consists of a pre-treatment, in-person preparatory instructional session with a
      trained health care professional (Module 1) to equip patients and caregivers with the skills
      to adjust to the upcoming treatment and recovery period. This is followed by a
      post-treatment, interactive web-based program (Module 2) to provide further support for both
      patients and caregivers to enhance quality of life (QOL) and reduce infections and nurse/ER
      visits. The RSBC intervention will be evaluated in a 12-month randomized controlled trial
      (Aim 2) among patients and caregiver dyads (N=330 initial; 230 final sample) against a time
      and attention comparison condition (the Facing Forward brochures). Primary outcomes for both
      patients and caregivers will be improved QOL, which is hypothesized to be significantly
      higher among participants randomized into RSBC. Secondary outcomes will be fewer infections
      and nurse-ER visits for patients randomized into RSBC. Aim 3 proposes moderator (i.e., age,
      gender, surgical diversion type) and mediator (i.e., patient activation, distress) analyses
      of intervention efficacy. Investigators hypothesize that RSBC will be significantly more
      successful among (a) older, (b) female participants, and (c) patients with a conduit
      diversion type. Elevated levels of patient activation (i.e., higher self-care knowledge,
      self-efficacy, lower distress) will mediate the intervention effects. Exploratory Aim 4 will
      examine the costs and potential savings associated with developing and implementing the RSBC
      intervention. Investigators hypothesize that initial development and implementation costs of
      RSBC will be offset by reduced nurse/ER visits. The scientific premise is strong and
      supported by an established theoretical framework, extensive pilot data and a rigorous
      application of clinical research methods. The proposed study is highly innovative, as it
      comprehensively addresses unmet needs of both patients and caregivers from pre- and
      (immediate) post-treatment to recovery. This is achieved through an innovative combination of
      in-person preparation and skill-building and web-based technology. If successful, RSBC has
      the potential to significantly change clinical care for patients and caregivers with BC.
    
  