
    
      1. Stent-in-stent (SIS) placement Following negotiation of both intrahepatic bile ducts
           (IHD) by two guidewires, inserted 1st stent to left IHD side. The central portion of the
           1st stent was crossed over the right-side guide wire to access the contralateral ductal
           system across the central cross-wired portion using the right-side guide wire as a
           target. After deployment of the 1st stent across the hilar stricture, the remaining
           guide wire across the 1st stent was carefully withdrawn using an ERCP catheter without
           pulling it back completely. Then that guidewie was inserted under fluoroscopic guidance
           into the undrained right IHD through the central portion of the 1st stent. The 2nd
           cross-wired stent was then introduced over a guidewire through the central open mesh and
           then was deployed into the right IHD, so that the central portion of the 2nd stent
           overlapped the central portion of the 1st stent, forming a Y-shape. If selective
           insertion of a guide wire into the left IHD was difficult at first, the guidewire and
           the 1st stent were inserted into the right IHD first and then attempts were made to
           insert the guide wire and a stent into the left IHD. If contralateral guide wire
           cannulation failed after the 1st stent placement, the stricture was dilated up to 4 or 6
           mm using a balloon catheter (Hurricane biliary balloon dilatation catheter; Boston
           Scientific) over the guide wire. Alternatively, a second intervention for contralateral
           stent placement was allowed 2-3 days after expansion of the 1st endoscopic stent.

        2. Side-by-side (SBS) placement Bilateral SBS stent placement was performed as follows. The
           stricture was first negotiated by inserting a guidewire into both IHD using the same
           method. Following the introduction of these two guidewires, the first stent was pushed
           and deployed into the left hepatic duct as possible, and then subsequently the second
           stent was pushed and deployed into the right hepatic duct, using the same method. During
           the deployment of the first stent, the second stent was preloaded on a guidewire to
           facilitate the bilateral SBS stent placement. Endoscopic dilatation of stricture before
           deployment of stents has not been routinely performed in primary procedures. In tight
           stricture during a guidewire manipulation, pneumatic biliary balloon dilation prior to
           insertion of first stent was performed. All stents were positioned above the level of
           the papilla, with their distal ends at the same level as possible. The diameter of the
           stent used in each case (8 or 10 mm) depended on the maximum diameter of the common bile
           duct (CBD).
    
  