
    
      FOR PARENT or Legal Guardian:

      Half of the young persons being asked to participate in this study will be donating bone
      marrow or stem cells and will be referred to as "minor donors." The other half will not be
      donating marrow or cells but have a sick family member who will be having a bone marrow or
      stem cell transplant and will be referred to as "non-donors". For each participating young
      person, one parent or legal guardian will need to complete the parent questionnaires as well.

      You are being asked to participate in this study because you have a sick family member who
      will have a bone marrow or stem cell transplant at this hospital and you are a caregiver to a
      healthy child. You will be asked to complete 5 questionnaires shortly before the bone marrow
      or stem cells are collected, shortly after the transplant, and 6 months after the transplant.
      You will be asked about your children, family atmosphere, and parental well-being. Most of
      the questions have a list of possible answers, and you will choose the answer that best
      describes you. Some questions are left blank for you to write in your answer. It will take
      about 45 minutes to complete the questionnaires.

      FOR CHILD:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete 9 questionnaires
      shortly before the bone marrow or stem cells are collected, shortly after the transplant, and
      6 months after the transplant. You would be asked about your feelings, behavior, and how you
      are doing in school. These types of questions do not have wrong answers. Most of the
      questions have a list of possible answers, and you will choose the answer that best describes
      you. Some questions are left blank for you to write in your answer. It will take about 1 hour
      to fill out the questionnaires.

      Length of Study:

      You will participate in the study across a 7 month period. You will begin the study one month
      before donation and complete the study 6 months after the donation.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 30 participants (15 minor donor's parents and 15
      non-donor's parents) will be enrolled on this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  