
    
      Patients undergoing thyroid and/or parathyroid surgery will be included. Both these groups
      are being included as identification of thyroid and/or PGs are a routine part of these
      operations and will provide EI measurements from both normal and abnormal parathyroid and
      thyroid tissues. There is potential for EIS to be useful in all of the above procedures.

      Patients will be identified at Endocrine Surgery outpatient clinics at the Royal Hallamshire
      Hospital, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals. They will be invited to take part in the study during
      their appointment and if interested in taking part will be given more information including a
      participant information sheet. The patient will then be approached again either at their
      preassessment clinic appointment or on the day of surgery to gain written consent.
      Participants will be followed up in outpatient clinic as per routine care. No extra visits to
      hospital are required to take part in the study.

      At any of the above procedures (usually carried out under general anaesthesia), the thyroid
      and/or parathyroid gland(s) in the central compartment of the neck are exposed and mobilised
      prior to excision. During the procedure and prior to devascularisation and excision of the
      glands, the handheld ZedScanTM will be used to take in vivo measurements of thyroid,
      parathyroid, adipose tissue, lymph node and muscle. Each measurement will be performed at 14
      different frequencies (ranging from 76 to 625000 Hz) in around 20 milliseconds. The
      measurement will be repeated soon after excision of the appropriate structures to enable ex
      vivo readings. The temperature of the patient at the time of the in vivo measurements will be
      recorded by the anaesthetist and the temperature of the specimen at the time of the ex vivo
      measurements will also be recorded. Care will be taken to apply the same amount of pressure
      to each tissue type. Any extra readings will be clearly documented in the CRF.

      A photograph of the operating field may be taken for reference when analysing the
      measurements. After taking the measurements, the data is downloaded to a laptop computer and
      transformed into a measure of mean EI and SD at each frequency.

      Histology results of specimens excised will be reviewed along with the patient's
      postoperative calcium levels from the hospital reporting system. The patient's follow up
      outpatient clinic appointment notes will also be reviewed for symptoms and management of
      postoperative low calcium
    
  