
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the overall response rates of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) combined with
      lymphodepletion, TIL and high or low dose aldesleukin (interleukin-2) therapy in patients
      with metastatic melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Comparison of progression free survival between the treatment arms. II. Comparison of
      overall survival between the treatment arms. III. Comparison of deep tumor responses (defined
      as over 60% reduction in tumor burden) between the treatment arms as per Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

      IV. Number of complete responses in both treatment arms. V. Safety evaluations by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identification of biomarkers predictive of treatment response or failure through
      immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, gene expression changes as assessed by NanoString
      codeset, neo-antigen identification and complementary determining region (CDR)3 sequencing
      from blood and tumor samples acquired from baseline and on-treatment samples.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive standard lymphodepleting chemotherapy comprising of cyclophosphamide
      intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days -7 and -6 followed by fludarabine phosphate IV
      piggyback (IVPB) over 15-30 minutes on days -5 to -1. Patients also receive therapeutic tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes IV over 15-60 minutes on day 0 followed by high-dose aldesleukin IV
      over 15 minutes every 8-16 hours for up to 15 doses on days 1-5. Beginning between 21-28 days
      after TIL infusion, patients receive maintenance therapy comprising of pembrolizumab IV over
      30 minutes every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive standard lymphodepleting chemotherapy comprising of
      cyclophosphamide, fludarabine phosphate, and therapeutic tumor infiltrating lymphocytes as in
      Arm I, followed approximately 6 hours later by low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) once
      per day (QD) for 14 days. Patients also receive pembrolizumab as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  