
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of
      nivolumab in combination with azacitidine (5-azacytidine) in patients with
      refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). (Lead-in phase) II. To determine the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of nivolumab with ipilimumab in
      combination with 5-azacytidine in patients with refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML). (Lead-in phase) III. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab in
      combination with 5-azacytidine in patients with refractory/ relapsed AML. (Phase II) IV. To
      determine the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab in combination with 5-azacytidine in
      older patients (> 65 years) with newly diagnosed AML. (Phase II) V. To determine the overall
      response rate (ORR) of nivolumab with ipilimumab in combination with 5-azacytidine in
      patients with refractory/relapsed AML. (Phase II) VI. To determine the overall response rate
      (ORR) of nivolumab with ipilimumab in combination with 5- azacytidine in older patients (65
      years) with newly diagnosed AML. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the number of patients who achieve a > 50% reduction in blasts on therapy
      with either vidaza+nivolumab or vidaza+nivolumab+ipilimumab.

      II. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival
      (OS) of patients with refractory/relapsed AML treated with either vidaza+nivolumab or
      vidaza+nivolumab+ipilimumab.

      III. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival
      (OS) in older patients with newly diagnosed AML treated with this combination with either
      vidaza+nivolumab or vidaza+nivolumab+ipilimumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immunological and molecular changes in the peripheral blood and bone marrow in
      response to nivolumab and 5-azacytidine therapy or nivolumab with ipilimumab and
      5-azacytidine therapy.

      II. To determine induction of hypomethylation and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage during
      therapy with this combination and its correlation with response.

      OUTLINE: This is a lead-in phase, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour or subcutaneously (SC) on
      days 1-7 or days 1-4 and 7-9. Patients also receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1
      and 14 (courses 1-4) or on day 1 (course 5 and all subsequent courses). Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive azacitidine and nivolumab as Arm I. Patients also receive ipilimumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and then every 6 or 12 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3-6
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  