
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the accuracy of planned waferless positioning of lefort
      I multiple piece osteotomy in maxillary deficient patients using CAD-CAM patient-specific
      implants together with virtually designed drilling and fixation guides.

      Interventions

        1. Diagnostic procedures:

           All Patients will be selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria &
           Comprehensive clinical examination and understanding of patients' chief complains and
           needs will be carried out Preoperative patient photographs (Frontal, Profile, 45°,
           smile, and dental occlusion) Alginate Impressions† of upper & lower jaws for acquiring
           diagnostic dental casts Cone Beam Computed Topography (CBCT) for the patients §

        2. Planning procedures:

      Computer-aided planning: All planning will be done using specialized Mimics software** Import
      CBCT into virtual planning software. Segmentation: highlighting and selection of the bony
      anatomy based on bone density (Hounsfield Units).

      3D reconstruction: virtual 3D model. CT scanning of the dental stone casts. Image fusion: to
      combine the virtual casts onto the 3D bony model to obtain a composite artifact-free skull
      model.

      Virtual planning: based on clinical evaluation and 3D cephalometric analysis. Virtual
      osteotomies mimicking segmental Lefort I and a bilateral sagittal split osteotomy.

      Designing the virtual cutting guide. Virtual movement into the desired positions of the
      segmented maxilla and mandible, based on: clinical evaluation, 3D cephalometric analysis and
      the desired occlusion.

      Once the optimal position of the maxilla is achieved, a patient specific implant will be
      virtually designed to fix the segmented maxilla in its new position.

      Fabrication of the cutting guide using additive manufacturing technique from polymer
      material.

      Fabrication of PSI from titanium alloy using additive manufacturing technique.

      3. Intra operative procedures The surgical procedures will be carried out by RT under the
      supervisor of AH in the Oral & Maxillofacial operating floor on the 8th floor of the faculty
      of Oral & Dental Medicine new building.Scrubbing and draping of the patient will be carried
      out in a standard fashion according to Anon 2006.

      Local anesthesia (lidocaine 2%, 1/100000 adrenaline) will be injected intraorally along the
      incision lines for hemostasis.

      Access through a vestibular intraoral incision for maxilla & Sagittal split incision for
      mandible will carried out. Dissection and reflection to reach the bone.

      Bilateral Sagittal Split mandibular osteotomies will carried out. The osteotomy guide 2 parts
      will into fit the left and right side the anterior maxillary walls separately during the
      operation for ease of use.

      Le Fort I Maxillary osteotomies will carried out using the osteotomy guide. Complete
      mobilization of maxillary segments. Reposition and fixation of the maxillary segments into
      the planned position will be done by the Patient Specific Implant (PSI) using the drilling
      site done by the osteotomy guide.

      Reposition and fixation of the mandibular segments using bicortical screws. The incisions
      will be closed with continuous mattress absorbable sutures††. 4. Postoperative care & Follow
      up Post-operative treatment will start immediately postoperative (4 hours) Patients will
      start antibiotics 4 hours after the last intraoperative dose (Amoxicillin / Clavulanic acid
      625 mg every 8 hours) for 5 days Patients will start analgesics (NSAIDs every 6 hours) for 3
      days Mouthwash (Chlorhexidine 0.12%) will be prescribed for 2 more weeks. The patients will
      be scheduled for follow-up visits weekly for a month then on a monthly basis for 5 more
      months.

      At 1 to 3 weeks postoperatively CBCT using same parameters will be ordered to calculate the
      difference between surgical plan and actual outcome will be evaluated.

      Patient will be referred back to the orthodontist to receive his postsurgical orthodontics.
    
  