
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the second most common cause of death in breast cancer
      patients. Certain adjuvant treatments (e.g. anthracyclines, radiotherapy) increase the risk
      of CVD, in particular in patients with pre-existing CVD risk factors. Early identification of
      these patients enables targeted cardioprotective interventions, and switching to less
      cardiotoxic treatments. The strongest independent CVD risk factor is the presence and amount
      of coronary artery calcium (CAC). In clinical practice, CAC is quantified on cardiac CTs.
      Breast cancer patients treated with radiotherapy routinely undergo planning CTs. These
      inferior quality CTs may give the opportunity to routinely assess CAC.

      The BRAGATSTON study is a multicenter retrospective observational cohort study (UMC Utrecht,
      Erasmus Medical Center and Radboudumc). The project is divided into three work packages (WP),
      each WP with a unique aim:

      WP 1: To develop/optimize and validate the UMC Utrecht developed automated software to
      determine the presence and the amount of CAC (CAC score) on radiotherapy planning CT scans of
      breast cancer patients.

      WP 2a: To evaluate the association between CAC score measured automatically on planning CT
      scans and the risk of incident (non-)fatal cardiovascular events in breast cancer patients.

      WP 2b: To evaluate if the association as defined by work package 2a is modified by type of
      adjuvant treatment.

      WP 2c: To evaluate the association between other candidate imaging biomarkers (e.g.
      calcifications in other structures like the aorta or heart valves, the amount and
      distribution of body fat, bone characteristics) measured (automatically) on planning CT scans
      and the risk of incident (non-)fatal (cardiovascular) events in breast cancer patients.

      WP 3: To assess the added value of CAC score measured automatically on planning CT scans over
      classic cardiovascular risk factors and over treatment characteristics to predict (non-)fatal
      cardiovascular events in breast cancer patients.
    
  