
    
      This is an open-label, pilot, phase 1 study to determine the safety profile of anti-CD19
      CAR-T cell infusion in participants with R/R B-cell NHL. The dose-finding cohorts in this
      study will evaluate and define the safe dose of anti-CD19 CAR-T cells. Using a "3+3" design,
      participants will be enrolled sequentially to each dose level. A dose expansion will then
      occur at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose levels that have not exceeded the MTD.

      Up to 36 participants will be enrolled and treated. Each subject will provide consent and be
      evaluated for study eligibility. Eligible subjects will undergo apheresis with collection of
      autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells that will be used to generate CAR-T cells. The
      CAR T cells will be produced using the Miltenyi Prodigy and an FDA compliant Lentigen CD19
      targeted lentiviral vector. After successful generation of the anti-CD19 CAR-T cells (drug
      product (DP)), subjects will undergo lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine and
      cyclophosphamide followed by 2-5 days of rest. A single infusion of anti-CD19 CAR-T cells at
      the starting dose of 5 x 105 cells/kg will be given on Day=0. Following treatment with DP,
      subjects will be followed on this study for 12 months for safety, disease status, and
      survival. For long term follow-up, participants will be followed for 15 years.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To evaluate the safety of administering chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting
           CD-19 to patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ B-cell nonHodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

        2. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for this cellular therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To assess the safety and toxicity of cell collection and infusion of CAR-T cells
           targeting CD19 in patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ B cell NHL.

        2. To describe the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting CD-19 in
           patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ B cell NHL.

        3. To evaluate the feasibility of CD19 CAR T cell manufacturing for patients with relapsed
           or refractory CD19+ B cell NHL of local manufacturing and ability to produce adequate
           quantities of vector positive T-cells
    
  