
    
      Vitamin K has a role in bone health, but little is known about vitamin K metabolism in aging
      and in maintenance of bone mass. The limited understanding of vitamin K metabolism impedes
      the establishment of dietary recommendations for vitamin K, and the interpretation of results
      from clinical trials on vitamin K supplementation and bone health of women in a narrow age
      group. This study is the first to assess the role of dietary and other factors that influence
      the response to vitamin K status and bone turnover to vitamin K depletion and repletion in
      adults. This study also compares the absorption efficiency and body retention of vitamin K
      relative to current vitamin K status. Men and women [21 younger (18-40y) and 21 older (55+y)]
      will participate in a 62-d metabolic study, with a 5d run-in period, followed by a 28d
      dietary vitamin K restriction period (10 ug/d), and ending with a 28d dietary vitamin K
      supplementation period (500 ug/d). Coagulation times will be monitored during the dietary
      restriction period. Serial measurements of vitamin K status markers and of bone turnover
      markers will show the response of vitamin K to dietary manipulation for both age groups under
      identically controlled dietary conditions. Deuterium-labeled vitamin K in collards will be
      used to compare the absorption of vitamin K during a vitamin K-deplete state to that of a
      vitamin K-replete state. Vitamin K is transported in triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, which
      may vary among individuals due to differences in adiposity and lipid homeostasis. Therefore,
      measurement of body composition by Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) and plasma lipids
      will provide insight into the role of lipids in absorption and transport of vitamin K. The
      findings of this study are critical for the interpretation of the epidemiologic and clinical
      data used to determine the protective role vitamin K may have in chronic disease prevention.
    
  