
    
      This is a one-arm, open-label, Phase I, dose-escalation study of Panobinostat administered
      via different dosing schedules. In each schedule, this study is designed to determine the MTD
      (maximum tolerated dose) and DLT (dose limiting toxicities) of panobinostat as a single
      agent, and to characterize the safety and tolerability of panobinostat in adult patients with
      sickle cell disease who have failed to respond to hydroxyurea therapy (clinically or
      hematologically) or are intolerant of or refuse hydroxyurea therapy. The study consists of a
      Screening Phase, Treatment Phase, and Post-Treatment Follow-up.

      Screening Phase:

      Subjects will be screened for eligibility within 28 days of baseline visit (Day 1). Screening
      assessments will include informed consent, physical exam, vital signs (height, weight, blood
      pressure, heart rate, height, weight, and respirations), review of medical history, review of
      concomitant medications, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram, and laboratory
      assessments. Screening laboratory assessments will include the following: CBC with
      differential, reticulocytes, complete chemistry panel, LDH, serum ferritin, thyroid function
      testing, Hb F percentage, F-cells, viral serology, urine albumin/creatinine ratio, and serum
      pregnancy in all females of childbearing potential. Approximately 15 ml (1 tablespoon) of
      blood will be collected at the screening visit.

      Treatment Phase:

      The Treatment Phase is twelve weeks in duration. Each subject will be assigned to a specified
      dose level and dosing schedule and will remain with the assigned regimen, if tolerated,
      throughout the twelve-week period. Patients at a given dosing regimen must complete at least
      4 weeks of treatment before treatment decisions are made for subsequent participants.
      Regardless of specific dosing assignment, all subjects will take study drug thrice weekly
      (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) throughout the duration of the 12-week treatment period.

      The first three patients to enroll in the study will be assigned to a dose level of 15 mg
      panobinostat, with continuous thrice weekly treatment for the entire 12-week treatment
      period. Based on how well this regimen is tolerated, the next group of three subjects will
      either be assigned the same regimen or a reduced, intermittent schedule of three weeks on
      treatment followed by one week off.

      Treatment decisions will continue accordingly, after each group of three subjects is treated
      with a given regimen. Six patients must be treated safely at a given dosing regimen before
      enrollment can advance to the next, higher level. Once the Maximum Tolerated Dose is
      determined, all subsequent patients will be enrolled to that regimen, with a total of up to
      18 subjects enrolled. The four dosing regimens to be explored are:

        1. 15 mg MWF 3 weeks on, 1 week off (only needed if starting regimen requires dose
           de-escalation)

        2. 15 mg MWF every week (starting dose)

        3. 20 mg MWF 3 weeks on, 1 week off

        4. 20 mg MWF every week During the Treatment Phase, safety and efficacy assessments will be
           performed at specified times, and will include: physical examination, vital signs
           (weight, blood pressure, heart rate, height, weight, and respirations), adverse events
           assessment, ECG, quality of life questionnaire (ASCQMe), and laboratory assessments.
           Treatment Phase lab assessments are to be performed at specified visits and include CBC
           with differential, reticulocytes, complete chemistry panel, LDH, serum ferritin, Hb F
           percentage, F-cells, thyroid function testing, urine albumin/creatinine ratio, and urine
           pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential. Approximately 15 ml (3 teaspoons) of
           blood will be collected at each treatment visit. Every four weeks, an additional 5 ml of
           blood will be collected for inflammatory markers and protein biomarkers, for a total of
           20 ml. On Day 1 (pre-treatment) and Day 85 (post-treatment), when additional samples are
           collected for genetic/ mechanistic studies, total volume collected is 25 ml.

      Study drug will initially be dispensed at the baseline visit and every four weeks thereafter.
      Study drug accountability should be assessed at every visit. All baseline assessments will be
      completed prior to the first dose of study drug.

      Follow-Up Phase:

      A follow-up visit will be performed 4 weeks after end of treatment. Follow-up assessments
      will include: physical examination, vital signs, adverse events assessment, ECG, and
      laboratory assessments (CBC with differential, reticulocytes, complete chemistry panel, LDH,
      Hb F percentage, F-cells, and inflammatory markers). Approximately 15 ml (3 teaspoons) of
      blood will be collected at the follow-up visit.
    
  