
    
      Background: Depression frequently occurs in the elderly. In normal aging, and in depression,
      the functioning of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is impaired, as evidenced by an
      increased prevalence of day-night rhythm perturbations, e.g. sleeping disorders. Also, the
      normal inhibition of SCN neurons on corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) producing cells is
      decreased, which could be responsible for the hyperactive hypothalamus-pituitary
      adrenocortical axis (HPA-axis). This raises the question whether elderly patients with
      depression have more impaired SCN activity and whether HPA-activity is enhanced. Using bright
      light therapy (BLT) the SCN can be stimulated. And, the beneficial effects of BLT on seasonal
      depressive disorders are well accepted. Nevertheless, the effects of BLT in aged depressed
      patients have never been studied, as yet.

      Aims: The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that BLT improves sleep, mood,
      concentration and self-efficacy of older people with depression and this improvement is
      accompanied by a normalization of HPA-indices.

      Methods: Randomised double blind placebo controlled trial in 120 subjects of 60 years and
      older with a diagnosis of major depressive disorder (DSM-IV/SCID-I). Subjects are recruited
      through referrals of psychiatric outpatient clinics and from case-finding from databases of
      general practitioners and old-people homes in the Amsterdam region. After inclusion subjects
      are randomly allocated to bright blue light vs. dim red light groups using two Philips Bright
      Light Energy boxes type HF 3304 per subject from which the light bulbs have been covered with
      bright blue or dim red light permitting filters. Criteria for stratification are the use of
      SSRIs. Prior to treatment a 1-week run-in period without treatment will be used as a baseline
      condition. At three time points several endocrinological, psychophysiological,
      psychometrically, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging measures are performed: just before
      start of light therapy (T0), after completion of the three week light therapy period (T1),
      and three weeks thereafter (T2).

      Relevance: This study is designed to show whether light therapy can reduce depressive
      symptoms of elderly patients with a major depressive disorder. If this is the case, then
      additional lightning may easily be installed in the homes of patients to serve as a
      maintenance treatment. Also, if our data support the role of a dysfunctional biological clock
      in depressed elderly subjects, such a finding may guide the further development of drugs that
      inhibit the HPA axis.
    
  