
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients with newly
           diagnosed ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity cancer
           treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel with vs without bevacizumab.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the duration of tumor response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the biological progression-free interval, as measured by increasing CA 125
           levels, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety (e.g., adverse events, laboratory results, and performance status) of
           these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the cost-effectiveness of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to FIGO stage (stage I-III with residual disease ≤ 1 cm vs stage I-III
      with residual disease > 1 cm vs stage IV disease), intended time to start chemotherapy after
      surgery (≤ 4 weeks vs > 4 weeks), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV
           over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes followed by paclitaxel IV
           over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3
           weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients then continue to receive bevacizumab alone every 3 weeks for 12
           courses.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before every course, every 6 weeks for 1 year, every
      3 months until disease progression or for up to 2 years, and then at 3 years. Health economic
      data is assessed periodically, including days of inpatient hospitalization visits, outpatient
      visits, and use of anticancer therapies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months for 5 years and
      then annually thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  