
    
      This study is a retrospective study that only retrospectively collects a variety of patient
      data and does not perform any treatment or examination on the patient. The research design is
      as follows: 1. All patients with HBV-infected pregnant women and non-HBV-infected pregnant
      women who had undergone IVF operation were retrospectively collected from the investigators'
      hospital HIS system. 2.Collecting pregnant women's data from the HIS system (including age,
      maternal history, liver function during pregnancy, HBV DNA in early pregnancy and before
      delivery, complication and complications during pregnancy, antiviral use before and during
      pregnancy, father HBV infection Status), neonatal birth data (including body length, weight,
      Apgar score, feeding status, hepatitis B vaccination, hepatitis B immunoglobulin use, HBsAg
      at birth and 7 months after birth, HBV DNA). 3. Statistical analysis: (1) Compare the body
      length, body weight, Apgar score of newborns born to pregnant women with HBV infection and
      non-HBV infection, and understand the effect of HBV infection on IVF outcomes. (2) Newborns
      born to HBV-infected pregnant women were divided into HBV DNA-negative group, low-viral
      group, and high-viral group according to HBV DNA status. The HBV infection status of these
      newborns was counted in July, and the different viral loads were tested. The impact on
      mother-to-child transmission of HBV. (3) When discussing whether IVF operation increases the
      rate of mother-to-child transmission of HBV, it is more scientific and persuasive to use
      HBV-infected pregnant women who have not been operated with IVF, but the incidence of twins
      in IVF is significantly higher than that of natural pregnancy. Further lead to premature
      birth, postpartum hemorrhage, cesarean section rate, etc., the weight and length of newborns
      are also affected, so it is difficult to match the appropriate population, so this study
      decided to HBV infection rate of different HBV DNA load IVF Compared with the literature, the
      corresponding viral load of HBV infection was compared with the rate of mother-to-child
      transmission of IVF pregnant women.
    
  