
    
      This study was carried out at the Alfa Institute of Gastroenterology, Hospital of Clinics,
      Universidade Federal of Minas Gerais (UFMG). The research protocol was approved by the UFMG
      Ethics Committee. Patients with indication for liver transplantation, aged over 20 years who
      regularly attended the Liver Outpatient Transplant Clinic were included after having agreed
      and signed the informed consent form. Patients on the waiting list for a double or
      re-transplant were excluding conditions.

      Nutritional status was provided by the Subjective Global Assessment (SGA), adapted for
      patients on the waiting list for liver transplantation is based on clinical history and
      physical examination, as well as the presence of existing conditions such as encephalopathy,
      chronic or recurrent infection, varicose veins and renal function.

      Anthropometric evaluation was comprised of weight, height, body mass index (BMI), triceps and
      subscapular skinfold thickness (TSF and SSF respectively, measured with the Lange Skinfold
      Caliper - Cambridge Scientific Industries Inc., Cambridge, MD, USA), and arm muscle area
      (AMA). To minimize practical variability, the average of three consecutive measurements was
      recorded.

      Functional parameters were evaluated by Handgrip strength (HS), 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and
      heart frequency variability (HFV). HS was assessed with the Jamar Handgrip Dynamometer
      (Preston, Jackson, MI, USA) using the non-dominant arm, and the mean of three measurements
      was determined. The 6MWT was performed indoors, in a 30m long, flat corridor with an adequate
      surface and the gait speed during the 6MWT was collected. The HRV was assessed using
      short-term evaluation. The heart rate recording was acquired by RS800 CX (Polar, Finland) and
      a 5-min stable cardiac recording was analyzed to assess the time domain (SD of all
      normal-to-normal interval [SDNN]).

      Bioelectrical impedance analysis (Quantum X - RJL Systems, Inc., Clinton Township, Michigan)
      was used to determine body composition. Measurements were made with patients lying in bed
      with 4 electrodes attached to the dorsum of the right hand and foot. Phase angle (PA), fat
      mass (FM - kg), fat free mass (FFM, kg), total body water (TBW - L), intracellular water (ICW
      - L) and extracellular water (ECW - L), were evaluated.

      Resting Energy Expenditure - REE was measured by indirect calorimetry using Quark RMR®
      (Cosmed, Rome, Italy). The energy balance (EB) was obtained by subtracting the total energy
      expenditure from the total caloric intake (TCI). The total energy expenditure (TEE) was
      obtained by multiplying the 24-hour REE by the calculated activity factor (AF), which was
      based on the description of the patients' daily activities and the corresponding computed
      values of metabolic equivalents (METs). Food intake was assessed by a 3-day food record
      (Avanutri Online® (Avanutri Equipamentos de Avaliação Ltda, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil).

      Clinical and other variables - Age, sex, etiology, severity of liver disease by the Model for
      End Stage Liver Disease score (MELD), complications like presence of fluid retention and
      hepatic encephalopathy; number of medication and diuretics; β-blockers and lactulose use were
      all compiled. The indications for liver transplantation were categorized into alcoholic
      cirrhosis, viral and other diseases.

      In the second part of the study the patients evaluated in the pre-transplant who underwent
      transplantation were assessed in relation to the same parameters evaluated in the
      pre-transplant: nutritional, functional, metabolic, body composition, anthropometric, food
      intake and balance energy. For a description of the evolution of variables comparing the pre-
      and post-transplantation and evaluate the association of the variables evaluated the clinical
      outcomes of patients.

      For the study about the prevalence of metabolic changes after liver transplantation in late
      post-transplant period, another population was evaluated. Patients undergoing liver
      transplantation between the years 2001-2014, which had data in medical records up to at least
      one year after surgery were included. To assess the prevalence and factors associated with
      hyperkalemia, information collected was: sex, age, underlying disease indication for
      transplantation, medication use, potassium, urea, creatinine and sodium values.
      Immunosuppressive drugs were: tacrolimus use and dose prescribed, and the residual dose;
      cyclosporine use and dose; prednisone use and dose. The use of other drugs included:
      furosemide, spironolactone, propranolol, captopril and enalapril.

      To assess the prevalence of hypertension, diabetes and overweight according different doses
      of immunosuppression the presence of these conditions were collected from diagnosis described
      in the medical record of the patient, as well as the use of hypoglycemic agents and insulin
      medications will be evaluated; as well as the use of anti-hypertensive drugs. If the last
      weight registered in the medical record (post-transplant) subtracted from the weight recorded
      in the pre-transplant period will be considered. Those patients record that had water
      retention in the preoperative period, the estimated dry weight is considered. Those patients
      record that had water retention in the preoperative period, the estimated dry weight is
      considered. To do so, it will be contemplated from subtracting the estimated amount of liquid
      ascites and / or edema of the then current weight.
    
  