
    
      There are few clinical practice guidelines for the management of a non-variceal, upper
      gastrointestinal bleed (UGIB). The 2012 guidelines released by the American College of
      Gastroenterology (ACG) indicate that for active bleeding or non-bleeding visible vessels or
      adherent clot, a bolus of 80 mg proton pump inhibitor followed by continuous infusion of 8
      mg/hr infusion is to be used. Following 72 hours of infusion therapy, an oral proton pump
      inhibitor (PPI) may be used. If the clot is a flat pigmented spot or a clean ulcer base, an
      oral proton pump inhibitor may be used for management (without infusion) (Laine 2012). There
      are no recommendations made on once versus twice daily proton pump inhibitor. The 2010
      American College of Physicians guideline recommends following the 72-hour infusion with
      once-daily proton pump inhibitors for duration as dictated by underlying etiology following
      upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB) (Barkun 2012). This recommendation is graded 1C, with
      the decision to support once-daily over twice-daily dosing due to demonstrated effective
      ulcer healing for patients with peptic ulcer disease with once-daily dosing, and insufficient
      data to suggest twice-daily is superior to once-daily. There have been no head-to-head trials
      to evaluate once-daily versus twice-daily proton pump inhibitor following acute management of
      an endoscopic bleed. Additionally, studies suggest about 50% to 60% of proton pump inhibitors
      are being used without appropriate indications or at inappropriate dosages (Ali 2009).Safety
      concerns such as increased risk for Clostridium difficile infection , community acquired
      pneumonia, electrolyte abnormalities (hypomagnesemia), and fractures are becoming more
      prevalent warranting improved risk versus benefit examination of proton pump inhibitors
      including ascertainment of least effective dosing (Ali 2009, Sheen 2011). Despite
      recommendations to discharge patients after acute management of UGIB on once daily PPI
      therapy, clinical practice is to use twice daily proton pump inhibitor therapy. The objective
      of this study will be to examine if once daily pantoprazole is non-inferior to twice daily
      pantoprazole with regards to ulcer healing after acute management of an UGIB. In addition,
      because more evidence is emerging regarding safety concerns with proton pump inhibitors, the
      study will seek to examine if once daily versus twice daily therapy results in difference in
      safety or adverse reactions such as occurrence of rebleed, C. difficile diarrhea, or
      pneumonia.
    
  