
    
      Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a malignant tumor of biliary epithelial cells that
      originates from the branches of the intrahepatic bile duct at the second level and above. Its
      incidence accounts for about 15%-20% of primary liver malignancies, showing a gradual
      increase trend. Surgical resection is currently the main method for the treatment of ICC. The
      data of a large number of ICC cases shows that even radical resection (R0) patients have an
      average survival of only 18.3 months, while for palliative resection patients, the average
      survival is only 6.6 months, and laparotomy patients only 5.6 months. Retrospective studies
      reported that positive resection margins, lymph node metastasis, lymphatic vessel invasion,
      nerve bundle invasion, preoperative CA199>200U/ml, multiple tumor nodules and differentiation
      are the main factors affecting the survival of ICC patients after surgery. How to improve the
      surgical results of ICC patients, especially those with high risk factors for postoperative
      recurrence, is an important way to improve the overall survival of ICC. Neoadjuvant therapy
      refers to some treatments taken before surgery for newly treated tumor patients who have not
      found distant metastasis, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, etc., to
      reduce tumors, reduce tumor stages, and reduce postoperative recurrence rate, prolonging
      survival time. Our previous study using Toripalimab combined with lenvatinib and Gemox
      chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced cholangiocarcinoma
      (NCT03951597,2020ESMO) showed that the ORR was 80% and the DCR reached 93.3%, of which 1 case
      was CR, 23 cases were PR, and 2 cases were successfully treated with radical resection after
      downstage. And the adverse reactions are controllable. These data suggest that Toripalimab
      combined with lenvatinib and Gemox chemotherapy may be an ideal neoadjuvant treatment for
      patients with resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma with high-risk recurrence factors,
      needing more investigation.
    
  