
    
      Background: Poor sleep quality affect students' learning achievement. Several factors may
      cause sleep disturbance among nursing students. Sleep and its several influencing factors are
      both continuous dynamic process. However, changes in students' sleep patterns and related
      characteristics over time remain unclear. Therefore, understanding the issue and examining an
      effective program is important to ameliorate sleep and improve learning. Integrated care
      program has proved to be a nursing students' health promotion intervention. However, research
      related to sleep and related issue in nursing students in a longitudinal manner is limited
      worldwide. Thus, the investigators intend to conduct a 3-year research divided into three
      phases to explore the issue. Objectives: The first phase will adopt longitudinal panel study
      design. Nursing students from two schools will be invited to participate in the first year
      study, which will be about 800 people.The data will be obtained from 4 waves (the interval of
      each wave will be 2 months) of the longitudinal survey of sleep quality of the nursing
      students and how the students' characteristics influence sleep. Distinct patterns of sleep
      over time will help to identify what characteristics of students to target for the
      researchers and to make evidence-based intervention for them. The second phase is to classify
      music appreciated by the students that may be effective and can be used at the third phase.
      The third phase is designed to explore the longitudinal effects of a 3-month social network
      combined with music care program on sleep quality, sleep knowledge, sleep hygiene and daytime
      sleepiness and fatigue. 100 students will be randomized into 2 groups: intervention and
      control groups. Participants in the intervention group will receive a 12-week intervention
      program. The control group will be no intervention. Data will be collected from both groups
      at pretests, and at different time points depending on variables after intervention
      completed. Statistical analysis: Growth curve modeling will be employed in this study for
      longitudinal analyses to identify the trajectory of sleep predicted by the students'
      characteristics. Descriptive analyses will be conducted using SPSS 18. Anticipated results
      and implications: This study will enable us to advance knowledge and research about nursing
      students' longitudinal patterns of sleep and the longitudinal effects of the intervention
      program on their sleep. If the longitudinal effects of the intervention program on their
      sleep are confirmed, the findings will provide evidence for educators and policy makers using
      evidence-based intervention to ameliorate sleep in nursing students.
    
  