
    
      It is now evident that prenatal stage represents a window of susceptibility for early life
      exposure that can have an effect on developing fetus, with potential long-lasting
      consequences for offspring growth and development. Emerging research suggest that the
      environmental modulation of tissue development and function may even occur both before and
      soon after conception but as yet, limited study has been conducted to investigate the
      relationship of preconception and early prenatal life conditions, including nutrition,
      lifestyle and environmental factors, with maternal and offspring health.

      This prospective preconception cohort study recruited 1054 women who plan to get pregnant.
      The investigators will assess the women metabolically, nutritionally and epigenetically, then
      monitor them from their first missed menses with nutritional surveys and assays and repeated
      bio-sampling to birth followed by assessment in the women of lactation and lactational
      nutrition. Biochemical and molecular analyses will be done on the cord and placenta at birth
      and in buccal smears at frequent postnatal intervals. The women's partners will also be
      recruited on consent. Phenotypic measures of body composition and core neurodevelopmental
      measures will be followed in the offspring from birth until 7 years of age. Metabolic and
      mental health of women will also be measured from preconception until 7 years postpartum. At
      delivery phase, there are 373 mother-child pairs with 80% of fathers enrolled in the study as
      well.

      This study allows understanding of the potential triggers during early life environment,
      including nutritional and lifestyle factors, emotional wellbeing, socio-economic status,
      microbiome, pollutants, metabolomics and epigenetics, which can independently or collectively
      influence metabolic and neural phenotypes in the offspring and mother. This will help to
      establish what future directions may hold in terms of possible preventive strategies that may
      lead to decreased prevalence of metabolic diseases and mental/ neurological disorders.
    
  