
    
      Background:

      Public Safety Personnel (PSP) is a term that broadly encompasses personnel who ensure the
      safety and security of Canadians across jurisdictions, including, but not necessarily limited
      to, border services personnel, correctional employees, firefighters (career and volunteer),
      operational and intelligence personnel, paramedics, police officers, public safety
      communications officials (e.g., call centre operators/dispatchers), and search and rescue
      personnel. As a function of their vocations, PSP are frequently exposed to potentially
      psychologically traumatic events (e.g., threatened or actual physical assaults, sexual
      violence, fires, and explosions) and are at risk of posttraumatic stress injuries. Results
      from a recent survey with a large Canadian PSP sample showed 44.5% screened positive for one
      or more mental health disorders, which is much higher than the 10.1% diagnostic rate among
      the Canadian general public. The study showed that 23.2% of Canadian PSP screened positive
      for PTSD, and 25.7% screened positive for two or more mental disorders. For many Canadian
      PSP, access to in-person evidence-based care is impeded for several logistical reasons,
      including distance from services, long waiting lists, difficulty navigating services, and the
      cost of treatment. PSP also face attitudinal barriers, including concerns about stigma,
      discomfort admitting to needing help, distrust of service providers, and lack of awareness of
      their need for help.

      Internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) represents a convenient method for PSP
      to access care for mental health concerns, such as posttraumatic stress. In ICBT, clients
      receive access to standardized lessons that provide the same information and skills as
      traditional face-to-face CBT. In addition to weekly lessons, clients are encouraged to
      complete homework assignments to facilitate learning. Research shows that ICBT is effective
      at reducing symptoms of posttraumatic stress, and there is also evidence that the findings of
      research trials translate into routine clinic settings.

      Research purpose:

      The current research project is designed to compare preference for disorder-specific program
      for PTSD (PSP PTSD Course) versus a transdiagnostic program for depression, anxiety, and PTSD
      (PSP Wellbeing Course); both courses have been adapted to be specific to PSP (e.g., case
      examples are relevant to PSP). The study will also examine engagement and outcomes of the
      courses. The current study outcome variables will include: 1) usage of both courses among PSP
      from Saskatchewan who are informed about the courses (e.g., # enrolling, completion rates,
      use of e-therapist support); 2) symptoms of depression, anxiety, and PTSD, as well as
      secondary outcome measures (e.g., treatment satisfaction, disability) from PSP participants
      measured at 8, 16, 26, and 52 week follow-up; and 3) strengths and challenges of both courses
      when offered to PSP. In order to take part, PSP will first complete an online questionnaire
      and telephone screening to assess whether they meet the following inclusion criteria: 1) 18
      years of age or older; 2) Saskatchewan resident; 3) endorsing symptoms of posttraumatic
      stress, but not high suicide risk or recent suicide attempts in the past year; 4) able to
      access and comfortable using computers and the internet; 5) not seeking help primarily for
      alcohol and or drugs, bipolar disorder, or psychotic symptoms; and 6) willing to provide an
      emergency contact. Eligible participants will be invited to choose either of the two courses.
      Both courses will be delivered by trained providers with graduate training in psychology or
      social work or graduate students under supervision. The programs will first be offered in
      Saskatchewan, and should there be sufficient uptake, materials will be translated to French
      and the program will also be offered to PSP who reside in Quebec. The primary research
      questions to be answered include:

        1. ENGAGEMENT: How many PSP will enroll in and complete each course? How often will PSP
           engage with therapists? How often will PSP extend support beyond 8 weeks?

        2. OUTCOMES: What will be the impact of the each course on symptom improvement and
           functioning at 8, 16, 26, and 52 weeks post-enrollment? What factors will predict
           outcomes (e.g., symptom severity, demographics, engagement)?

        3. IMPLEMENTATION: What are stakeholder experiences, positive and negative, with each
           course? What are the suggested improvements to ICBT to meet the needs of PSP?

      Significance:

      This project will provide information that will inform future use of ICBT to assist PSP with
      symptoms of depression, anxiety, and PTSD.
    
  