
    
      This trial will employ a randomised wait-list control design. The study has been co-designed
      with the research team at University of South Wales, Mind Cymru, the link workers and General
      Practioners working within the study sites.

      The study will assess the effectiveness of services provided through making three sets of
      comparisons (based on a set of individual- and service-level outcomes over time - comparing
      between: - The four Local Mind sites (Merthyr and Valleys, Vale of Clwyd, Brecon and
      District, Ystradgynlais);

        -  Those who complete the intervention immediately, with those who are in the waitlist
           group;

        -  Those who fully complete the social prescribing intervention with those who do not
           complete or partially the full social prescription but receive care as usual (either
           because they do not attend or only partially attend); and Participants will be randomly
           allocated to receive the social prescribing link worker intervention either immediately,
           or after a waiting period of 20 working days. Participants will be recruited through
           consultations with healthcare professionals, either their General Practioner, a practice
           nurse or the Total Nurse Triage system within the doctors surgery. If the healthcare
           professional identifies that the prospective participant meets the eligibility criteria
           of the study (experiencing mild/moderate mental health and/or emotional wellbeing
           disorders, aged 18+ and registered with a General Practioners in Wales), they will
           provide the prospective participant with an information pack, and ask for permission to
           contact. If this permission is given they will be subsequently contacted by the link
           worker at least 2 working days later, to gain verbal consent and for baseline data
           collection and randomisation.

      The study recruitment target is 1,000 participants, randomized into two groups (a control
      group, n = 500 and an intervention group n = 500). The sample collected across the 3 General
      Practice clusters over the 24-month period that the study is open. An attrition rate of 5% is
      expected. Recruitment will end after 18-months, allowing for 6 months to complete the study
      and follow-up on participants. The service may continue independently of the study.

      Data will be collected at a maximum of five time points:

        -  Prior to randomisation to either the immediate or wait-list arm

        -  For wait-list controls: in a reminder telephone call at the end of the 20 day wait

        -  At the end of their intervention with the link worker

        -  Four weeks after the end of their intervention with the link worker

        -  Three months after the end of the previous data collection point Data will be collected
           either over the telephone or during the intervention with the link workers. All link
           workers who are collecting data will have study specific training for receiving consent
           and data collection.

      The study will take place over a 24-month period, with participant recruitment lasting a
      total of 18-months. Data analysis will take place at the end of the 24-month period, although
      transfer of data from the link workers to the research team at University of South Wales will
      be continuous over the 24-month period. A final report will be produced at the end of the
      study for the Welsh Government.
    
  