
    
      Older Latinos comprised 7% of the older adult population in 2002, but are expected to
      constitute 20% by 2050. Physical activity (PA) can influence potential declines in the health
      outcomes of physical and cognitive function that lead to functional limitations
      (self-reported restrictions in performance) and disability (functional limitations placed in
      a social context). Unfortunately, Latinos aged 65-74 are 46% less likely to engage in leisure
      time PA than older non-Latino whites and little is known about PA maintenance among ethnic
      minorities compared to non-Latino whites. In part as a result of low levels of PA, the
      physical and cognitive function of older Latinos is poor relative to older non-Latino whites.

      Participation in PA has substantial potential to help older Latinos maintain both physical
      and cognitive function as they age. Walking and dancing are the two most commonly reported
      forms of PA among older Latinos. However, urban older Latinos cite unsafe neighborhoods and
      extreme weather conditions as significant barriers to walking. Dance is a widely popular form
      of PA among Latinos of all ages, and holds considerable promise as a culturally appropriate
      form of PA that challenges individuals both physically and cognitively. To date, PA programs
      designed for older Latinos are lacking. BAILAMOS© is an innovative dance program that has
      been developed by Dr. Marquez (PI) based on focus group input from older community-dwelling
      Latinos and in collaboration with an accomplished Latin dance instructor.

      Investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of the revised
      4-month BAILAMOS© program for improving lifestyle PA and health outcomes (physical and
      cognitive function, self-reported functional limitations, disability) in sedentary older
      Latinos at risk for disability relative to an attention control group. Investigators will
      also test whether lifestyle PA and health outcomes can be maintained over an additional
      4-months through BAILAMOS© maintenance activities, which include using indigenous dance
      leaders. This study will use an RCT (N=166 Treatment, 166 Control) with a health education
      control group that will allow investigators to examine the adoption of PA and its impact on
      health outcomes (first 4 months), and the short-term maintenance of PA and its impact on
      health outcomes (8 months) among older Latinos.
    
  