
    
      Study Procedures:

      During each white blood cell transfusion, you will receive white blood cells from a volunteer
      donor through a needle in your vein. Each transfusion will take anywhere from 1 hour to
      several hours, depending on how you tolerate the treatment. You will receive a transfusion
      approximately every 3-4 days (2 a week) for up to 6 weeks.

      Before each white blood cell transfusion, your vital signs (temperature, heart rate,
      breathing rate, and blood pressure) will be recorded according to standard evaluation of
      patients with fever to look for underlying infectious causes. During and for 1 hour after the
      transfusion, you will be monitored for side effects. You may be given a drug to help or
      reduce any side effects. Your doctor will tell you more about any drug that may be given for
      side effects.

      If at any point you develop a fever while on study, blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine will
      be collected to check for infection according to standard evaluation of patients with fever
      to look for underlying infectious causes. You may also have a chest x-ray. If it is abnormal
      or if you have symptoms (cough, shortness of breath, nasal congestion), you may need a
      computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and/or sinuses. That will be done within 3 days of
      developing a fever. If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will than have another CT scan 2
      weeks later and at any other point that the doctor thinks it are needed to check for
      infection.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue to have transfusions until the doctor thinks infection has been controlled
      or until your white blood cell counts stay at a certain level for at least 2 days in a row.
      If any point you are discharged from the hospital and your doctor wants you to continue
      receiving white blood cell transfusions, you will be able to receive them as an outpatient.

      You will be monitored for side effects and signs of infection for up to 6 weeks. You will be
      taken off study if you have intolerable side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Radiated white blood cell transfusions are considered to be
      a standard procedure for the treatment of serious infections. It is investigational to give
      unirradiated white blood cell transfusions as a way of preventing infections.

      Up to 50 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  