
    
      Acute gout flares are a major cause of morbidity. Flares lead to substantial reductions in
      health-related quality of life, increased work absenteeism, productivity loss, and
      substantial healthcare costs. Acute gout flares are likely related to more than 174,000
      emergency department visits in the U.S. annually with corresponding charges approaching $166
      million.

      In recent surveys, gout patients and healthcare providers alike identified the reduction of
      gout flares as the highest priority outcome that should be examined in future comparative
      effectiveness studies of urate lowering therapy (ULT) (unpublished results). Despite
      consensus about the importance of capturing flares, clinical trials investigating ULTs or
      anti-inflammatory prophylaxis have used inconsistent flare definitions and methods of flare
      ascertainment. The inconsistency has likely been driven by the absence of a standardized
      definition or ascertainment method. These deficits limit comparisons that can be made across
      investigations.

      Recently, a group supported by the American College of Rheumatology & European League Against
      Rheumatism (ACR & EULAR) has attempted to define a gout flare (8-10). For simplicity, the
      group focused on defining only those flares occurring after a definitive gout diagnosis. Nine
      elements of a flare definition emerged from the first two studies. These nine elements
      included physician reported information, laboratory data and patient self-report. In a third
      study, Gaffo et al. compared the discriminatory ability of the self-reported items against
      the gold standard of a rheumatologist's judgment of flare presence. Self-report of 4 criteria
      had the greatest discriminatory ability with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.931. These
      promising results indicate the important role for a standardized self-report definition of a
      gout flare.

      In addition to variability in gout flare definitions, the optimal method for obtaining
      self-reported flares remains undefined. An early study of febuxostat, for example, assessed
      flares weekly at physician visits Another study counted a flare only when it was treated by a
      healthcare provider. Still other studies assessed flares during physician visits occurring at
      variable time points. These inconsistent methods also pose practical limitations given by
      their time and resource intensive nature. Opportunities to increase efficiency have only
      recently become available with the validation of the self-reported definition for gout flares
      described above. Self-report can now be combined with technological advances in remote data
      collection to develop novel and highly efficient methods to identify gout flares. The
      investigators propose a study to address this pressing need by leveraging technological
      advances that facilitate the remote and real-time collection of patient reported flares and
      outcomes (PROs) in gout.
    
  