
    
      Introduction: Education on pain neurophysiology has beneficial effects on disability and
      psychosocial aspects in patients with non specific chronic low back pain. However, education
      has limited effects in pain. Hypnosis is an approach that has proven efficient in pain
      intensity and psychosocial aspects in some chronic pain conditions, but there is insufficient
      evidence of its contribution in patients with non specific chronic low back pain.

      Objectives: The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy of combining education on
      neurophysiology of pain and hypnosis in patients with non specific chronic low back pain in
      pain and disability outcomes.

      Study design: randomized controlled trial with two arms and blinded evaluator. Local study:
      Interventions will be held at the Universidade Cidade de Sao Paulo (UNICID).

      Participants: One hundred patients with chronic non specific low back pain who are on the
      waiting list for physical therapy care at UNICID physical therapy clinic, interested and
      eligible for the study will be invited to participate.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to the education group about pain neurophysiology
      or to a group that combines education with hypnosis.

      Measurements: Clinical outcomes will be obtained after 2 weeks and 3 months after
      randomization. The primary outcome will be pain intensity (measured by the numerical pain
      scale) and general disability (measured by the Roland-Morris questionnaire). The secondary
      outcome will be catastrophic thoughts (measured by PCS-Brazil), specific disability (measured
      by the Patient-specific function scale) and global perceived effect (measured by the Global
      Perceived Effect scale).

      Limitations: Both the therapist and the patients will not be blinded to the intervention
      provided.

      Hypothesis: This is the first study that will provided results achieved by education about
      pain neurophysiology using hypnosis in patients with chronic non specific low back pain.
    
  