
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is the 3rd cause of hospital admission due to gastrointestinal
      disease. Approximately 20% of the patients will relapse after a first episode of AP. The low
      frequency of relapse in biliary AP is due to the high effectiveness of cholecystectomy but a
      first episode of AP due to alcoholic or other etiologies is associated with relapse in one
      every four patients. Currently, besides counselling for alcohol and tobacco abstinence, there
      is no specific medical treatment that changes the natural history of recurrent AP. Recurrent
      AP is an intermediary stage in the pathogenesis of chronic pancreatitis (CP) and a subset of
      recurrent AP patients during their natural course transition to CP (one every three
      patients). Forty-five percent of patients with CP experience intermittent flares of pain.
      Simvastatin has been associated to a decrease in the incidence of AP in a population-based
      study (Wu et al, Gut. 2015) and in a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (Preiss et
      al, JAMA 2012).

      The main aim of SIMBA (SIMvastatin in the prevention of recurrent pancreatitis, a triple
      Blind rAndomized controlled multicenter trial) is to compare the recurrence rate of
      pancreatitis in patients with established recurrent pancreatitis (acute pancreatitis and
      acute flares in chronic pancreatitis) consuming simvastatin versus placebo.

      The secondary aims are 1) to compare in patients with recurrent AP at the end of follow-up
      period the progression to chronic pancreatitis on imaging (calcifications and/or dilated
      ductal system), as well as endocrine and exocrine pancreatic function; 2) to compare the
      severity of recurrent pancreatitis between both treatment arms.

      Design: SIMBA is a triple-blind randomized placebo-controlled, parallel-group, superiority
      multicenter (27 Spanish centers) trial. This final protocol (version 4) was finished on June
      20th 2018.
    
  