
    
      -  Background:

             -  Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) is the leading cause of non-relapse
                morbidity and mortality in persons after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
                transplantation (SCT).

             -  Approximately 50% of patients with cGVHD have disease refractory to systemic
                corticosteroids; currently, there is no standard second-line therapy.

             -  The JAK-STAT pathway relays the signaling function of several inflammatory
                cytokines that have a role in GVHD (IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-6, IL-12).

             -  Murine models have demonstrated activity of JAK inhibitors in graft-versus-host
                disease.

             -  Baricitinib is a potent and selective inhibitor of JAK1 and JAK2 that has
                demonstrated anti-inflammatory effects and a good safety profile in patients with
                rheumatoid arthritis, but has not been evaluated in GVHD.

        -  Objectives:

             -  To determine the safety and tolerability of baricitinib in patients with cGVHD that
                is refractory to steroids

             -  To determine the efficacy of baricitinib in patients with cGVHD that is refractory
                to steroids

        -  Eligibility:

             -  Inclusion:

                  -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

                  -  Moderate or severe cGVHD per NIH consensus criteria

                  -  Karnofsky performance status greater than or equal to 50%

                  -  cGVHD that did not respond to high-dose corticosteroids (prednisone at 1.0
                     mg/kg/day for at least 1 week or prednisone at 0.5 mg/kg/day or 1 mg/kg every
                     other day for at least 4 weeks), or second-line therapy (any)

                  -  Receiving stable or tapering doses of systemic therapy in the preceding 4
                     weeks if taking systemic therapy for cGVHD

             -  Exclusion:

                  -  Neutrophils <1.0x10^9/L, platelets <50X10^9/L, creatinine greater than or
                     equal to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal or estimated creatinine clearance
                     <50mL/min/1.73m^2 (Cockroft-Gault formula), serum aspartate aminotransferase
                     or alanine aminotransferase concentration >3x ULN or total bilirubin greater
                     than or equal to 1.5x ULN

                  -  Progressive malignancy, uncontrolled infection or any major organ dysfunction
                     as defined by the protocol

        -  Design:

             -  This is a Phase 1/2 trial to determine the safety and efficacy of baricitinib in
                patients with cGVHD that is refractory to steroids.

             -  Patients will initially be treated with baricitinib at 2mg daily for 12 weeks. If
                the response at 12 weeks is a CR and there has not been a DLT, the dose will be
                remain at 2mg daily for an additional 12 weeks, with the primary response
                assessment at 24 weeks of total treatment. If the response is a PR or stable
                disease, the dose will be increased to 4mg daily for an additional 12 weeks, with
                the primary response assessment at 24 weeks of total treatment. If there is
                progression of disease at any time within the first 12 weeks, the dose can be
                increased to 4mg daily at that time, and patients will continue for a total of 24
                weeks of treatment. Patients will have the option to continue baricitinib for an
                additional 6 months as tolerated if they have stable or responding disease.

             -  The co-primary endpoint of safety will be determined by rate, severity, and
                duration of adverse events based on CTCAE v4 criteria. Assessment for DLTs will
                occur every 2 weeks during the first 4 weeks of each dose level. Safety monitoring
                will occur every 4 weeks thereafter.

             -  The co-primary endpoint of efficacy will be defined as rate of overall response at
                24 weeks per NIH consensus criteria (CR or PR).

             -  Peripheral blood samples will be collected prior to treatment, at 2 weeks, at 12
                weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter to evaluate cytokine and cellular profiles,
                STAT phosphorylation, candidate chronic GVHD biomarkers. Pharmacokinetic studies
                will also be performed at each dose level.

             -  In an initial futility analysis, if 0 of the first 7 patients enrolled in cohort 1
                have responded at 12 weeks, then a 2nd cohort of patients will be accrued to start
                treatment at the higher dose (4mg daily). Otherwise, if 1 or more of the first 7
                patients respond in cohort 1, then 21 evaluable patients will be treated in cohort
                1. Similarly, if the second cohort is used, and if 0 of the 7 patients enrolled in
                this second cohort have responded at 12 weeks, then no further patients will be
                accrued. Otherwise, if 1 or more of the first 7 patients respond in cohort 2, then
                21 evaluable patients will be treated in cohort 2.

             -  A total of 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled in either cohort 1 or 2 as
                appropriate, in order to have 80% power to detect a response rate consistent with
                30% and ruling out 10%, with a one-sided significance level of 0.10 for the cohort.
                As an early stopping rule for safety, if 2/3 or greater patients at any given dose
                level experiences a dose limiting toxicity requiring dose reduction or
                discontinuation, that dose will not be subsequently used and no further dose
                escalation will take place.
    
  