
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine survival rates (event-free survival and overall survival [OS]) and the pattern
           of treatment failure in patients with synovial sarcoma or adult-type soft tissue sarcoma
           treated with ifosfamide and doxorubicin hydrochloride, radiotherapy, and/or surgery.

        -  Determine the role of ifosfamide and doxorubicin hydrochloride in improving the response
           rate in patients with unresectable synovial sarcoma or adult-type soft tissue sarcoma.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate clinical/pathological prognostic factors, particularly tumor grade and
           radiological and pathological response to neoadjuvant treatment.

        -  Determine the impact of omitting adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with low-risk
           synovial sarcoma (tumor < 5 cm).

        -  Determine the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in improving the metastases-free survival
           and OS in patients with adult-type soft tissue sarcoma (Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma
           Study [IRS] postsurgical grouping system I-II, tumor grade 3, tumor size > 5 cm).

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, prospective, historically controlled, multicenter study.
      Patients with synovial sarcoma are stratified according to the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma
      Study (IRS) postsurgical grouping system (I vs II vs III) and tumor size ( ≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm).
      Patients with adult-type soft tissue sarcoma are stratified according to the IRS postsurgical
      grouping system (I vs II vs III), tumor size ( ≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm), and tumor grade (G1 vs G2
      vs G3). Patients are assigned to 1 of 9 treatment groups according to disease and
      stratification.

      Synovial sarcoma

        -  Group 1 (IRS group I, tumor ≤ 5 cm): Patients undergo surgical resection of tumor.

        -  Group 2 (IRS group I, tumor > 5 cm): Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days
           1-3 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 4-6 hours on days 1 and 2 (IFO-DOX). Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for 4 courses.

        -  Group 3 (IRS group II, tumor ≤ 5 cm): Patients receive 3 courses of IFO-DOX. After the
           completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks.

        -  Group 4 (IRS group II, tumor > 5 cm): Patients receive 3 courses of IFO-DOX. Patients
           then receive ifosfamide alone IV over 3 hours on days 1-3. Treatment with ifosfamide
           repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients also receive concurrent radiotherapy
           (concurrently with ifosfamide) 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks. After completion of
           radiotherapy, patients receive 1 additional course of IFO-DOX.

        -  Group 5 (IRS group III, N1): Patients receive 3 courses of IFO-DOX. Patients with no
           response to chemotherapy receive 1 of the following local therapies:

             -  Delayed complete resection*

             -  Radiotherapy (as in group 3) followed by surgery*

             -  Delayed complete resection* followed by radiotherapy** (as in group 3)

             -  Delayed incomplete resection* followed by radiotherapy** (as in group 3)

             -  Radiotherapy (as in group 3) Patients with major or minor response to chemotherapy
                receive 2 courses of ifosfamide with concurrent radiotherapy followed by 1
                additional course of IFO-DOX (as in group 4, above).

      NOTE: * Patients undergo surgery 5 weeks after completion of chemotherapy and/or
      radiotherapy.

      NOTE: **Patients undergo radiotherapy beginning < 21 days after surgery.

      Adult-type soft tissue sarcoma

        -  Group 1 (IRS group I, tumor ≤ 5 cm): Patients undergo surgical resection of tumor.

        -  Group 2 (IRS group I, tumor > 5 cm): Patients receive therapy according to tumor grade:

             -  G1 disease: Patients undergo surgical resection.

             -  G2 disease: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks.

             -  G3 disease: Patients receive the following sequential treatment: 3 courses of
                IFO-DOX followed by 2 courses of ifosfamide with concurrent radiotherapy followed
                by 1 course of IFO-DOX.

        -  Group 3 (IRS group II, N0): Patients receive therapy according to tumor grade:

             -  G1 disease: Patients undergo surgical resection.

             -  G2-3 disease (≤ 5 cm) and G2 disease (> 5 cm): Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days
                a week for 5-6 weeks.

             -  G3 disease (> 5 cm): Patients undergo sequential treatment (as in group 2,
                adult-type soft tissue sarcoma).

        -  Group 4 (IRS group III, N1): Patients receive 3 courses of IFO-DOX. Patients with no
           response to chemotherapy receive local therapy (as in group 5 synovial sarcoma).
           Patients with major or minor response to chemotherapy receive 2 courses of ifosfamide
           with concurrent radiotherapy followed by 2 additional courses of IFO-DOX (as in group 4,
           synovial sarcoma).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  