
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Low density lipoprotein cholesterol has been convincingly established as a major coronary
      heart disease risk factor by many epidemiologic studies, clinical trials, and experimental
      studies. A strong inverse association exists between high density lipoprotein cholesterol and
      coronary heart disease. However, the status of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL)
      cholesterol and plasma triglyceride levels as independent risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease is less clear. Case control studies have shown a positive association between
      coronary heart disease and plasma levels of apoprotein B, the major protein on LDL particles,
      and an inverse relationship with apoprotein AI, the primary protein constituent of HDL
      particles. In fact, it has been proposed that plasma levels of the apoproteins may be
      stronger risk factors than lipid levels. Thus, understanding the mechanisms underlying
      variations in both lipoprotein and apoprotein levels among individuals is essential to
      elucidating the etiology of coronary heart disease in the general population.

      Cardiovascular disease is also known to cluster in families, and this may be related to the
      clustering of lipid and lipoprotein levels among family members. A review suggested that the
      familial aggregation of heart disease may be primarily a reflection of the familial
      aggregation of known risk factors, including cholesterol levels. The work of Goldstein and
      Brown on familial hypercholesterolemia demonstrated that genetic control of lipoprotein
      metabolism can play a causative role in the development of atherosclerosis. However, familial
      hypercholesterolemia is a relatively rare disorder: the prevalence of heterozygotes is
      estimated to be 1 in 500, homozygotes 1 in a million. In 1987, little was understood about
      more common genetic contributions to lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities leading to the
      familial aggregation of coronary heart disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The design was that of a cross-sectional family study. The recruitment and screening of
      probands were conducted over a four-year period at the University of Texas at Dallas under
      separate funding. The recruitment and screening of first-degree relatives were carried out at
      Berkeley. Blood samples were obtained from relatives for LDL subclass analysis and for lipid
      and apoprotein determination. An interview was conducted to obtain demographic information
      and information on behavioral and environmental risk factors such as smoking, exercise, and
      diet. The data were used to determine whether LDL subclasses were genetically controlled in
      families with hypercholesterolemia due to overproduction of LDL or defective clearance of LDL
      particles. Segregation analysis of LDL subclasses in these two types of families was
      performed to search for a single major genetic locus and to simultaneously test for the
      influence of polygenes and environmental effects. The relationships between the LDL subclass
      phenotype characterized by a predominance of small, dense LDL and overproduction of
      apoprotein B and LDL clearance defects were investigated in family members. A determination
      was made as to whether an age-of-onset effect existed for the expression of LDL subclass
      phenotypes. Genetic-environmental interactions were also studied.
    
  