
    
      Background Non invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIV) is among first line treatments of
      acute respiratory failure. In patients with new-onset respiratory failure, NIV was showed to
      reduce the rate of complications and the length of ICU stay, as compared to invasive
      mechanical ventilation[1] Several interfaces are available for non-invasive ventilation: full
      face masks, oronasal masks, nasal prongs and helmets[2].

      Despite full face and oronasal masks are more frequently used, some evidence suggests that
      helmets may optimize patients' comfort and NIV tolerability. The helmet allows patients'
      interaction, speech, feeding and does not limit cough. In addition, skin necrosis, gastric
      distension, or eye irritation are seldom observed during helmet NIV, while may be
      consequences of long-term treatments with face masks. [3] On the contrary, helmet NIV hampers
      tidal volume monitoring, is contraindicated in hypercapnic patients and requires specific
      ventilator settings[4]. Lastly, when compared to face masks, helmets may increase the work of
      breathing and worsen patient-ventilator interaction[5][6][7].

      During NIV, humidification strategies (heat and moisture exchangers HME or heated humidifiers
      HH) may significantly affect patient's comfort and work of breathing [8][9].

      Despite physiological data suggested heated humidification as the best strategy during NIV
      with full face masks[8][9], no differences were found in a randomized controlled study
      assessing the effects of HME or HH on a pragmatic clinical outcome[10].

      However, the higher dead space (i.e. 18 L/min) and rebreathing rate observed during helmet
      NIV make such results not applicable to this particular setting.

      One only study assessed the effects of a HH during helmet low-flow continuous positive airway
      pressure on comfort in healthy volunteers[11]. Indeed, patients suffering from acute
      respiratory failure may behave differently, especially in terms of minute ventilation and
      maximum inspiratory flow.

      A recent bench study identified a better patient-ventilator interaction when helmet NIV was
      provided through a double tube circuit, as compared to the Y-piece system [12]. The
      investigators designed a randomized-crossover trial to assess the effect of four
      humidification strategies during helmet NIV on patients with acute respiratory failure, in
      terms of comfort, work of breathing and patient-ventilator interaction.

      Methods Design: monocentric, randomized, cross-over trial. Each enrolled patient will undergo
      helmet NIV with all the following humidification strategies in a random order. Each period
      will last 60 minutes.

        -  Passive humidification, double tube circuit.

        -  Heated humification (MR 730, Fisher & Paykel, Auckland, New Zealand), humidification
           chamber temperature 33°C.

        -  Heated humification (MR 730, Fisher & Paykel, Auckland, New Zealand), humidification
           chamber temperature 37°C.

        -  Passive humidification with HME, Y-piece circuit.

      Ventilatory settings (Draeger Evita xl or Evita infinity ventilators):

      Pressure support ventilation; pressure support=20 cmH20[4]; FiO2 titrated to obtain SpO2
      between 92 and 98%; positive end-expiratory pressure=10 cmH2O[4]; maximum inspiratory time
      0.9 seconds; inspiratory flow trigger = 2 l/min; expiratory trigger: 30% of the maximum
      inspiratory flow; pressurization time=0,00 s.

      Such settings will be kept unchanged during the whole study period. An oesophageal catheter
      will be placed and secured to measure oesophageal pressure (Pes) and gastric pressure (Pga)
      (Nutrivent, Italy): the reliability of the measured pressure will be confirmed with an airway
      occlusion test during NIV with oronasal mask[13]. Work of breathing will be estimated with
      the pressure-time product (PTP) of the pleural pressure[13].

      A pneumotachograph (KleisTek) will record flow, airway pressure, Pes and Pga on a dedicated
      laptop.

      At the end of each cycle, the patient will be asked to rate his/her discomfort on a visual
      analog scale (VAS) modified for ICU patients. The level of dyspnea will be assessed with the
      Borg dyspnea scale[14].

      The following parameters will be record at the end of each cycle:

      Arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, SpO2, pH, PCO2, PaO2, SaO2. Airway and
      esophageal pressure signals will be reviewed offline to detect patient-ventilator
      asynchronies (ineffective efforts, double cycling, premature cycling, delayed cycling) and
      asynchrony index (number of asynchrony events divided by the total respiratory rate computed
      as the sum of the number of ventilator cycles (triggered or not) and of wasted efforts) will
      be computed[15]. The trigger delay will be also measured. The pressurization and
      depressurization velocity will be assessed with the PTP airway index 300 and 500 (inspiratory
      and expiratory), as suggested by Ferrone and coworkers[12]. The work of breathing (WOB) for
      each breath will be estimated by PTPes.

      An hygrometer (Dimar SRL, Italy) will measure and record on a dedicated laptop Helmet
      temperature, relative and absolute humidity.

      End point:

      Primary endpoints: patient's comfort, work of breathing and asynchrony index.

      Sample Sizing:

      Given the physiological design of the study, the investigators did not make an a priori
      sample size and planned to enroll 24 patients.

      Statistical analysis Qualitative data will be expressed as number of events (%) and
      continuous data as mean ± standard deviation or median [Interquartile range]. Comparisons
      concerning qualitative variables will be performed with the Mc-Namar test. Ordinal
      qualitative variables or non normal quantitative variables will be compared with the
      Friedman's Test, the wilcoxon sum of ranks test or the Mann-Whitney test, as appropriate. All
      analysis will be performed applying a bilateral hypothesis. P ≤ 0.05 will be considered
      significant. Statistical analysis will be performed with SPSS 20.0.
    
  