
    
      Participants Twenty people with chronic stroke participated in the study (aged 61 ± 13 years;
      76% male).

      Experimental design In a cross-over design, each participant was pseudo-randomised to
      complete an intervention condition (Treadmill) or control condition (Rest) first, returning
      at least one week later (washout period) to complete the alternate condition. A minimum
      washout period of one week was used to allow for any physiological changes due to exercise to
      return to resting levels, but to minimise any stroke recovery-associated changes to function.
      Participants were asked to refrain from exercising in the 24 hours prior to their visit. At
      each visit, participants completed the sensorimotor adaptation task on two occasions, pre and
      post intervention, resulting in four assessment timepoints (PreControl, PostControl and
      PreTreadmill, PostTreadmill). The post intervention assessment aimed to commence within 15
      minutes of completing the treadmill or rest condition.

      Intervention The intervention condition consisted of a single session of moderate-high
      intensity aerobic exercise (65% of heart rate reserve) for 30 minutes walking on a standard
      treadmill (Landice L7 treadmill), with arms placed comfortably by participants on the rail
      (in front) or swinging freely. Information describing the specific features of the training
      session (e.g. heart rate, blood pressure response, treadmill speed, total distance walked)
      were recorded to monitor the response to exercise and adherence to the exercise protocol. The
      single treadmill session included a progressive increase in intensity (usually increased
      speed, or gradient) to reach the target heart rate (approx. 5 mins) as well as a cooling down
      period (approx. 5 mins) to allow for participants to return towards resting levels for vital
      observations. The warm-up and cool-down were included as part of the total 30 minutes of
      walking exercise. Target heart rates were calculated using the Karvonen method with levels
      adjusted for those taking heart rate lowering medications (i.e. beta blockers), following
      methods previously published in post stroke populations. Heart rate was measured using a
      chest strap monitor (polar-electro) and monitored by a research assistant who facilitated
      changes in treadmill parameters to enable participants to reach their target. Participants
      were asked to self-rate their intensity of exercise every 10 minutes verbally using BORG's
      6-20 scale rating of perceived exertion. Participants were instructed to walk at a pace that
      resulted in a rating between 11 (fairly light) and 14 (somewhat hard) on the scale. The
      control condition involved an equivalent time period (30 minutes) of seated resting where
      participants were provided with an education session about the impact and effects of stroke
      by the same research assistant.

      Sensorimotor adaptation task Apparatus and setup. Participants were seated in front of a desk
      (approximately 50 cm from their coronal plane) and asked to move a digitising pen (15.95 cm
      long, 1.4 cm wide, 17 g) on a digitizing tablet (WACOM Intuos4 PTK 1240, size: 19.2 x 12 in.,
      resolution = 0.25 mm) from an origin to a target point. The pen's position on the tablet (XY
      coordinates) was sampled at 100 Hz and displayed in real time as a circular cursor with a
      5-pixel radius (1.25 mm) on a horizontally placed computer monitor. Direct vision of the hand
      was prevented by placing the tablet and the hand directly beneath an opaque stand, with the
      horizontal monitor placed atop the stand.

      Task instructions. Participants first received task instructions to move an on-screen cursor
      from the start to the target, in a straight line, in a single movement, as quickly and as
      accurately as possible. Further, participants were instructed that the feedback of the
      movement would be changed from time-to-time, and that participants were to change their
      movement in response to this change of feedback, whilst keeping movements as straight as
      possible.

      In each trial, the participants' task was to move from the origin location through the target
      location as quickly and accurately as possible using their dominant upper limb. Targets were
      presented in one of three locations (210, 225 or 240 degrees from the right horizontal plane)
      in random order. These target directions were selected such that target-reaching movements
      involved the horizontal adductors of the shoulder joint. After moving through the target, or
      past the target, a high-pitched tone sounded to indicate trial completion. Following
      completion of a trial the origin location was re-displayed immediately and participant
      directed to repeat task. If the participant did not complete a successful trial, they were
      directed to return to the origin location and repeat the trial.

      First, participants encountered 18 baseline trials under normal (correct) feedback with no
      rotation. Participants then immediately completed 66 adaptation trials, where the visual
      feedback on the display monitor was perturbed by rotating it 30 degrees in a clockwise
      direction (1st testing day) or counter-clockwise direction (2nd testing day). After the
      adaptation block, to notify participants that the perturbation had been removed, a popup
      dialog box appeared with the statement "In the next few trials, the disturbance that the
      computer applied would be removed. Please aim straight to the target." The instructions
      on-screen were read out by the experimenter to ensure it was understood. This was immediately
      followed by 6 no-feedback trials. Finally, participants completed 36 washout trials under
      normal cursor feedback conditions (i.e., no cursor rotation), to return behaviour to an
      unadapted state.

      Data Processing and Analysis Custom scripts written in LabVIEW scored reach directions, which
      were quantified at the 15th data point (150 milliseconds into the reach), as online movement
      corrections typically occur after 150 ms into a reach. Trials with reach direction outside a
      120 degree range of the target (60 degrees on either side of the target) were discarded as
      outliers. Trials were binned into cycles of one visit to each of the three targets. The
      dependent variable was percent adaptation, which quantified reach directions in every cycle
      relative to the ideal reach direction by calculating reach directions as a percentage of
      ideal reach directions resulting from perfect adaptation performance. Ideal reach direction
      was 30 degree clockwise for a 30 degree counter-clockwise rotation, and 30 degrees
      counter-clockwise for a 30 degree clockwise rotation.

      Percent adaptation=100% × (reach direction)/(ideal reach direction)

      As observed previously, there was a rapid error reduction phase of reaching where a majority
      of learning occurred followed by a slower rate of adaptation. Here, as the targets were
      spaced close together, rapid error reduction occurred in trials 1-9 (i.e., the first three
      cycles), similar to recent work. At completion of the fourth cycle, adaptation was greater
      than 70% both before and after the treadmill and control conditions. We thus selected the
      first three cycles to quantify rapid error reduction.

      Individual differences in reach directions at baseline can affect measures of adaptation.
      Previous methods of accounting for this by subtracting pre-perturbation behaviour from
      post-perturbation behaviour is more sensitive to noisy baselines and risk of Type 2 error. To
      account for pre-perturbation baseline biases, we entered percent adaptation averaged from the
      final three cycles before rotation onset (i.e., percent adaptation in the last five baseline
      cycles) as covariates in all of our analysis of covariance analyses.

      After the adaptation trials, there were two cycles where no feedback was provided to the
      participant. That is, unlike all previous trials where participants could follow a tracking
      cursor with their vision, the participants received no real time feedback about where they
      were reaching. The first no-feedback cycle was taken as a measure of implicit learning,
      similar to previous work.

      Our outcome measures of interest were (1) adaptation performance (2) implicit aftereffects,
      quantified as reaches that remained adapted despite notification of perturbation removal in
      the no-feedback block and (3) explicit learning, estimated as the volitional disengagement of
      adapted behaviour after receiving notification of perturbation removal (i.e., the change in
      percent adaptation from the mean of the last three adaptation cycles to the first no-feedback
      cycle after receiving notification that the perturbation was gone), and (4) de-adaptation
      performance. To evaluate these measures, we ran ANCOVAs with the between-subjects factor
      Intervention Order (Control First, Treadmill First) and the within-subjects factors:
      Intervention (Control, Treadmill), Time (Pre-Intervention, Post-Intervention) and (where
      applicable) Cycles (cycles 1..3), with pre-rotation biases as covariates of no interest
      (estimated from mean percent adaptation in the last three baseline cycles). Where
      appropriate, Greenhouse-Geisser corrections were applied. Alpha was set at 0.05. SPSS v24.0
      was used for statistical analyses.
    
  