
    
      The specific aim of this study is to examine the morphologic and functional relationship
      between the draining PLN and synovial inflammation in the knee joints of RA patients before
      and after therapy with TNF antagonists or B cell depletion therapy. The extensive search for
      informative and practical clinical biomarkers of RA has produced several candidates including
      CRP, anti-CCP antibodies and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3), but none of these soluble
      molecules can predict disease progression with a high degree of certainty, and no biomarker
      has been identified that can predict flare. Thus, our findings that PLN collapse precedes
      arthritis flare in the murine model offers a novel biomarker that may be of great value in
      RA, but requires validation in humans. To this end, we propose two clinical pilots that are
      designed to test the validity and feasibility of PLN assessment and quantification in active
      RA by 3T CE-MRI and Doppler US. The second goal of these pilots is to see if there is a
      relationship between the clinical response to either a TNF antagonist or B cell depletion and
      a change in the size or CE pattern of PLN. The pilot studies outlined below are designed to
      test the hypotheses that an effective clinical response to anti-TNF or BCDT is associated
      with an increase in draining LN function. While our overall goal is to determine if Doppler
      US can predict flare, we must first establish the validity and feasibility of this approach
      so that we can design a clinical trial that is properly designed and adequately powered.

      Aim A: To assess the effect of TNF inhibition on volume and CE in the PLN in RA patients by
      MRI, and compare the effectiveness of Doppler US to achieve the same outcome measures.

      Hypothesis: Rheumatoid synovitis in the knee is triggered by TNF over-expression by
      monocytes/macrophages in the synovium and/or the draining PLN, which produces inflammation
      that exceeds PLN draining capacity. This results in decreased inflammatory cell egress from
      the joint and arthritic flare. Effective anti-TNF therapy in RA will result in increased PLN
      function due to decreased cellularity and lymphatic flow from the synovium to the draining
      node.

      Rationale: To address our first hypothesis, we plan to determine the validity and feasibility
      of draining LN function by analyzing the ability of 3T CE-MRI and Doppler US to quantify PLN
      in inflamed RA knees. While CE-MRI (volume x CE) will be the primary outcome measure of PLN
      function based on our pre-clinical studies, this approach is not adaptable to standard
      clinical practice. Furthermore, serial MRIs to monitor flare in RA are not feasible due to
      cost, time, convenience and availability of resources. Thus, parallel US studies will be
      performed to determine if this instrument, which is gaining acceptance in rheumatology
      practice, can generate accurate and quantifiable PLN measurements.

      Aim B. To assess the effect of anti-CD20 therapy on volume and CE in the PLN in RA patients
      who "flare" after a period of effective anti-TNF therapy.

      Hypothesis: RA flare in patients who had been effectively managed by anti-TNF therapy is
      caused by a local insult that triggers B-cell migration and precipitates LN shutdown and
      decreased inflammatory cell egress from the joint. Effective anti-CD20 BCDT therapy in these
      patients will correlate with increased PLN function and decreased inflammation in the
      synovium.

      Rationale: RA is a complex syndrome in which excess TNF production is central to disease
      pathogenesis. While ~70% of these patients can be effectively managed by anti-TNF therapy, an
      additional insult (i.e. local immune response or trauma) results in a flare that cannot be
      adequately suppressed by standard anti-TNF therapy in some patients (80, 81). Many patients
      who flare on one or more anti-TNF therapies do respond to BCDT (26). An explanation for this
      that fits our preliminary findings in the TNF-Tg mice is that a local immune-inflammatory
      response that shares lymphatics with RA synovium can induce CXCL13 expression in
      monocyte/macrophages in the draining LN and these cells and soluble CXCL13 enter the LN via
      the lymphatics and triggers mass migration of B-cells into the paracortical sinuses. This B
      cell translocation results in decreased egress of inflammatory cells, which had been
      maintained by anti-TNF therapy, and manifests as an arthritic flare. To provide a human
      correlate for the murine experiments designed to test this hypothesis outlined in Aim 2, and
      to produce feasibility data for a clinical trial to test this novel mechanism of action, we
      will evaluate PLN radiographic changes following anti-CD20 BCDT in RA patients who flare on
      anti-TNF therapy. We will also assess DAS28 clinical responses.
    
  