
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide when given in combination with
           rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisone in
           patients with newly diagnosed stage II-IV diffuse large cell or grade 3 follicular
           B-cell lymphoma. (Phase I)

        -  To assess the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of event-free survival and response
           rate, in these patients. (Phase II)

        -  To assess the safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To assess the host immune function at baseline and after treatment and correlate these
           parameters with tumor response and event-free survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive rituximab IV, cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride
           IV, and vincristine IV on day 1, oral prednisone on days 1-5, and oral lenalidomide on
           days 1-10. Patients also receive pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on day 2. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive lenalidomide at the maximum tolerated dose determined in
           phase I and rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine,
           prednisone, and pegfilgrastim as in phase I.

      Blood is collected at baseline, before course 3, and after completion of study treatment for
      translational research studies. Research studies include immune function and cytokine
      analysis, T- and B- quantitative lymphocyte analysis, and single nucleotide polymorphism
      analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  