
    
      The use of ceftriaxone for deep-seated Staphylococcal infections requiring prolonged IV
      treatment is a practice that has already evolved both locally and globally despite the
      absence of high-quality clinical data. Retrospective studies that support the use of
      ceftriaxone for this indication, including those that currently inform Infectious Diseases
      Society of America (IDSA) guidelines, unanimously agree that prospective, randomized data is
      urgently needed. Our study is the next natural step in the research process and would greatly
      add to the body of evidence informing this practice by addressing current knowledge gaps. On
      a clinical level, demonstrating non-inferiority of ceftriaxone would allow its use in a
      population of patients currently ineligible for outpatient antibiotic treatment or in cases
      where broader, more expensive agents are currently employed. This would facilitate more rapid
      discharge from hospital, lead to substantial cost savings, and have a considerable impact on
      antimicrobial stewardship. Most importantly, it would improve the quality of life of patients
      by allowing them to be treated at home in cases when multi-dose home IV administration is a
      barrier to discharge. This study would address the need to support and harmonize current
      practice at Island Health, increase the level of evidence in current guidelines and improve
      patient care both locally and globally.

      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, unblinded trial with a pragmatic design. The
      goal is to assess whether the intervention is non-inferior to standard therapies in achieving
      the primary outcome. Patients will be drawn from inpatient populations and patients treated
      through an outpatient antibiotic therapy clinic who are eligible for further IV treatment
      through a home intravenous therapy program. Patients meeting inclusion criteria as described
      will be asked to participate and informed consent obtained. Once informed consent is obtained
      patients will be randomized to receive ceftriaxone or standard therapies (cloxacillin,
      cefazolin, daptomycin) as determined by the treating infectious diseases physician. Patients
      will have deep-seated infections such as:

        -  Osteomyelitis

        -  Native Joint Septic Arthritis

        -  Prosthetic Joint Septic Arthritis

        -  Central Nervous System Infection

        -  Deep Tissue Infection

        -  Diabetic Foot Infection

      Infections will be confirmed to have been caused by methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus
      aureus or a coagulase-negative Staphylococcal species through microbiological testing.
      Susceptibility testing will ensure that the isolate is susceptible to the study drug and at
      least one of the standard therapies.

      Once the patient is randomized all other aspects of care will follow usual home IV therapy
      policies and procedures. Neither the patient nor the clinical team will be blinded to the
      study drug the patient is receiving. Duration of treatment will be decided by the treating
      infectious diseases clinician based on infection site and available guidelines. Baseline data
      will be collected by the study team at the time of randomization.

      The patient will be followed up in the usual manner by their infectious diseases physician.
      Data will be collected in a standardized manner at the pre-specified end of antibiotic
      therapy. Clinical cure (primary outcome) will be determined based on this data.

      Adverse event rates will be collected throughout the study period. At six months
      post-randomization the study team will assess for any markers of treatment failure (see
      secondary outcomes).

      Plan for statistical analysis is pre-specified in the protocol and will be completed with the
      assistance of biostatistics staff at the University of Victoria. Specific information on the
      protection of patient confidentiality and data integrity is outlined in the study protocol.
      Ethics approval has been granted by the Clinical Research Ethics Board at Vancouver Island
      Health Authority.
    
  