
    
      The investigators have completed the intervention development and pilot phases (PEACE and
      PEACEII), and are now aiming to optimize our PP intervention for the target population prior
      to testing it in a randomized, controlled trial.

      The investigators will recruit patients from MGH and Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH)
      inpatient units who are admitted with a primary cardiac diagnosis of ACS. Following the
      completion of baseline outcome measures, participants will be randomized to one of eight
      treatment conditions. All participants will complete PP exercises at least weekly and will
      speak with a study trainer weekly for eight weeks. Those receiving the PP-only intervention
      (conditions 1, 2, 5, 6) will speak to a study trainer for 30 minutes each week. Participants
      in Conditions 3, 4, 7, and 8 will be enrolled in a combined PP plus motivational interviewing
      (MI)/goal setting program. Accordingly, their weekly phone sessions will focus on the PP
      program for 15 minutes, then the MI/goal setting program for an additional 15 minutes. These
      calls will be recorded, and a percentage of calls will be reviewed to ensure that the PP and
      MI/goal setting portions of the intervention are being delivered as described in the protocol
      and trainer manual. Half of the participants (conditions 1, 3, 5, 7) will be instructed to
      perform the PP exercises once per week while the other half (conditions 2, 4, 6, 8) will be
      asked to perform them once daily. Finally, half of the participants (those in conditions 5-8)
      will receive three additional 'booster' phone sessions during weeks 10, 12, and 14. These
      sessions will focus on integrating PP-related skills into daily life. For participants in the
      PP+MI condition, booster sessions also will focus on maintaining the health behavior changes
      that they made during the main portion of the study.

      The PP exercises used in this study were selected based on their superior performance in our
      pre-pilot research and others' work: Gratitude for Positive Events (Week 1), Using personal
      strengths (Week 2), Gratitude letter/Expressions of Gratitude (Week 3), Capitalizing on
      Positive Events (Week 4), Remembering past success/Remembering daily successes (Week 5),
      Enjoyable and meaningful activities (Week 6), Humor in everyday life (Week 7), and Performing
      acts of kindness & Next Steps (Week 8). Participants in conditions 5-8 will have three
      additional bi-weekly "maintaining your gains" sessions (week 10, 12, and 14) in order to
      identify favorite exercises, explore the skills derived from doing the exercises, and learn
      how to integrate the exercises in their daily lives.

      For the MI/goal setting portion of the intervention, each session follows the same structure.
      Study trainers will: (a) ask participants about their health goals, (b) advise them about
      current health guidelines and/or refer them to their treatment team, (c) assess readiness to
      set a goal by identifying how important participants feel the goal is, how confident
      participants are about making a change, and what the participants' pros and cons are for
      making a change, (d) assist participants in clarifying their goals and problem-solving
      barriers to reaching those goals, and (e) arrange for the next session by summarizing the
      participant's plan and scheduling the next session. The structure of the sessions will follow
      the PP structure according to each condition.

      At Weeks 8 and 16, a member of the study staff will call participants to repeat the
      self-report questionnaires that were administered at baseline. Furthermore, at Weeks 8 and
      16, participants will wear an ActiGraph step counter for 10 days as a measure of physical
      activity. At 3 and 6 months post enrollment, a research coordinator will call participants to
      ask some brief questions concerning their health, well-being, adherence to health behaviors,
      and the application of positive psychology and motivational interviewing skills in everyday
      life.
    
  