
    
      The use of immunosuppressive cytotoxic therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus
      (HBV) infection is known to be associated with potentially fatal HBV reactivation.
      Prophylactic nucleoside analogue therapy has been shown to reduce the rates of HBV
      reactivation in hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive subjects, and is now recommended
      in current treatment guidelines.

      Patients who are negative for HBsAg and anti-HBsAg antibody (anti-HBs) may be naïve to HBV.
      Nonetheless in HBV-endemic regions, such patients might have been infected with HBV and
      achieved HBsAg seroclearance. Prior HBV exposure is evidenced by the presence of positive
      antibody to the hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc). Hence although a HBsAg-negative,
      anti-HBc positive state may represent resolved HBV infection, it could also represent occult
      HBV infection with HBV persisting at low replicative levels following HBsAg seroclearance.
      Reactivation of HBV is then possible.

      Rituximab, ofanumumab and obinutuzumab are chimeric monoclonal antibodies against the B-cell
      surface antigen CD20, and are used extensively in B-cell lymphoid malignancies and many
      non-malignant immune-mediated diseases in the fields of rheumatology, dermatology, neurology
      and nephrology.Previous retrospective and prospective studies have found the rates of HBV
      reactivation in HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc positive individuals who undergo anti-CD20 antibody
      containing chemotherapy to vary between 8.9 and 23.8%. This variation can be partially
      explained by the use of different definitions of HBV reactivation, including a combination of
      biochemical hepatitis, HBsAg seroreversion, or HBV DNA levels over a certain threshold.
      Another important factor was the lack of regular monitoring following commencement of
      anti-CD20 antibodies. In view of these discrepancies, our research team conducted a
      prospective study in which HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc positive lymphoma patients were monitored
      at 4-week intervals for up to 2 years following commencement of rituximab. Using a detectable
      serum HBV DNA level as the definition of HBV reactivation, the 2-year cumulative reactivation
      rate was 41.5%. Anti-HBs negativity was significantly associated with a higher risk of HBV
      reactivation.

      Despite previous accurate description of the rate of HBV reactivation, many clinical
      questions remain :

        1. Which is the better strategy for HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc positive patients receiving
           anti-CD20 antibodies - prophylactic antiviral therapy for all patients, or regular
           clinical monitoring and prescription of antiviral therapy when needed? Although
           prophylactic antiviral therapy has been proven effective, one needs to consider the high
           seroprevalence of anti-HBc in the HBV-endemic regions of East Asia that could reach 40%.
           Based on our two studies of rituximab and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the
           seroprevalence of anti-HBc in Hong Kong was between 26.4 and 27.6%. Universal
           prescription of antiviral therapy for all HBsAg-negative, anti-HBc positive individuals
           might not be cost-effective. At the same time, a recent technical review by the American
           Gastroenterological Association stated that based on current evidence, they "had no
           comment" on whether routine clinical monitoring could substitute prophylactic antiviral
           therapy.

        2. If routine clinical monitoring were chosen, what is the optimal interval of monitoring?
           A current recommendation of every 1-3 months was based on expert opinion only. To answer
           this question, a prospective study is needed to observe the serial changes in HBV DNA
           levels over time in patients following the development of detectable HBV DNA, with each
           time epoch assessed for its suitability in monitoring.

        3. Are all HBV reactivations clinically relevant? Our previous study only provided the rate
           of HBV DNA detectability, and did not describe its subsequent clinical progression. Will
           patients continue to have serial increases in HBV DNA level leading to biochemical
           hepatitis and/or HBsAg seroreversion, or do HBV DNA levels remain relatively low? A
           recent study found discrepancies between the rates of HBsAg seroconversion and HBV DNA
           ≥2,000 IU/mL (10.3% and 17.9% respectively), implying not all patients with HBV DNA
           detectability proceed to a progressive increase in HBV DNA levels, HBsAg seroreversion
           or biochemical hepatitis. Serial prospective data on this with respect to the cyclical
           treatment regimen of anti-CD20 antibodies are lacking.

      The investigators propose a prospective observational study to answer these clinical
      questions and provide a concise management strategy for the large number of patients
      prescribed anti-CD20 antibodies containing therapy for both malignant and non-malignant
      diseases
    
  