
    
      Low testosterone affects more than 10% of men worldwide, with high incidence in the elderly).
      While Natesto has been shown to have positive effects on Testosterone while maintaining LH
      and FSH, the impact on sperm count has not yet been proven.

      Study Design and Duration of Treatment: Participants will take Natesto 11g intra nasally
      there times a day (TID) for 16 weeks (120 days) between serum and semen evaluations.

      Subject Population: The study will identify men with confirmed hypogonadism (testosterone (T)
      <350 on 2 consecutive Testosterone samples collected greater than 1.5 hours apart between 6am
      and 10am with demonstrated symptoms of hypogonadism). Subjects with a history of prostate
      cancer, testis cancer, azoospermia, or genetic cause of hypogonadism will be excluded.

      Number of subjects: 40 participants will be enrolled and receive treatment with Natesto.

      Study Duration:Total participation in the study will be approximately 24-28 weeks.

      Study Procedures: Participants will undergo a total of six study visits. At the first visit,
      subjects will undergo screening procedures which will include signing of the consent form,
      physical exam, assessment for inclusion and exclusion criteria, Sexual Health Inventory in
      Men (SHIM) and quality of life questionnaire, blood sample for clinical laboratory
      assessment, and a semen analysis. At visit 2, subjects will undergo a second semen analysis
      and blood analysis for T. After 12 weeks (90 days), Participants will return for a third
      visit for blood sample and semen analysis as well as safety monitoring. The Participants will
      also be given SHIM and quality of life questionnaires. This procedure will be repeated at
      week 24 to get a final blood and semen analysis.

      Study Endpoints: The primary endpoint will be change in FSH, LH, Estradiol, T, and Semen
      Analysis after 12 weeks and 24 weeks of treatment with Natesto. The secondary endpoint will
      be monitoring for adverse events

      Statistical Methods: Analyses will consist of summaries of the values and total change from
      baseline in each value (visit value versus baseline value) using descriptive statistics
      (sample size, mean, median, standard deviation, 95% confidence interval, minimum, and
      maximum). The change from baseline in each endpoint will compared using a two-sample t-test,
      or the Wilcoxon rank sum test if distributional assumptions are violated. The primary time
      point of interest for assessing hormone effects is the week 12 visit.
    
  