
    
      Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the most important microvascular complications of
      diabetes. It is a persistent and refractory disease. There is currently a lack of effective
      clinical treatments for DN. The basic pathological processes of DN are renal tissue cell
      damage, apoptosis and continuous increase of inflammatory cytokines induced by early high
      glucose, which gradually leads to glomerular sclerosis and renal fibrosis.

      Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs), as the "youngest" adult stem cells,
      have powerful anti-inflammatory functions, stronger differentiation potential, and good
      safety. They are ideal seed cells for the treatment of DN. At present, studies on a variety
      of animal models of DN have shown that mesenchymal stem cell transplantation can delay the
      progression of DN and have a certain repair effect on damaged kidney tissue and renal
      function. Our previous preclinical study showed that UC-MSCs effectively improved the renal
      function, inhibited inflammation and fibrosis, and prevented its progression in a rat model
      of diabetes-induced chronic renal injury. Some autologous or allogeneic mesenchymal stem
      cells have been carried out abroad treatment of chronic kidney disease caused by various
      reasons, including clinical trials of DN, phase I/II test results did not show obvious
      adverse reactions related to stem cell therapy, and can improve the patient's renal function
      and quality of life to a certain extent.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate efficiency and safety of UC-MSCs in treating DN
      patients. This trial will recruit 38 patients. 19 patients received the treatment of
      conventional treatment + equal volume normal saline containing 1% human albumin (placebo
      group) were used as control group; conventional treatment + 1*10E6 UC-MSCs/kg body weight
      (experimental group) for intravenous infusion (once a week, 3 times in total) to treat 19
      patients with DN (by unified standard inclusion), and subjects will be followed a total of 48
      weeks from time of initial cell treatment.
    
  