
    
      Graded drug challenges are the gold standard to exclude an immediate hypersensitivity
      reaction in patients with a low likelihood of drug allergy and are considered standard of
      care. Patients who tolerate a graded challenge are deemed to not be allergic to the drug and
      are not at increased risk for future reactions compared with the general population. Prior
      studies of graded challenges in appropriately selected patients have demonstrated low
      reaction rates with symptoms that were mainly mild and subjective in nature. The
      investigators are conducting a prospective study to determine the safety and outcomes of
      placebo-controlled graded drug challenges without prior skin testing in patients with a
      low-risk history of antibiotic hypersensitivity reaction based on history alone. Skin testing
      requires a separate visit and is, therefore, more time-consuming and costly than performing a
      graded challenge without skin testing. The investigators believe that they can determine if
      patients are at low-risk to react to an antibiotic based on a detailed history and,
      therefore, do not require skin testing prior to a challenge. Given the majority of symptoms
      to graded drug challenges reported in prior studies were mild and subjective, the
      investigators hypothesize that the rate of reaction to graded drug challenges without prior
      skin testing in patients with a low-risk history of drug hypersensitivity reaction based on
      history alone will not be meaningfully more than the rate of reaction to placebo. The
      investigators hypothesize that the rate of adverse reactions to drug challenges without prior
      skin testing will be not meaningfully more than the rate of adverse reactions with prior skin
      testing as was observed in the investigators' historical clinic cohort. All patients age 7
      years or older with a history of a non-life-threatening reaction to an antibiotic are
      eligible to participate in a placebo-controlled graded drug challenge. The challenge is
      comprised of placebo followed by 30 minutes of observation, 1/10th of the treatment dose of
      the antibiotic the patient reported a reaction followed by 30 minutes of observation, and the
      full dose of the antibiotic followed by 1 hour of observation. All patients will be contacted
      via telephone within one month of a negative challenge to determine whether they experienced
      a delayed reaction. All patients will also be contacted via telephone within one year of a
      negative challenge to determine if they have safely taken the challenge drug.
    
  