
    
      This is a program to provide early access to TMC114 (a protease inhibitor) for HIV-1 infected
      patients, who have failed multiple antiretroviral (ARV) regimens and who are ineligible for
      participation in any other Tibotec-sponsored HIV trial. Patients need to be at least 3 class
      experienced (PIs, NRTIs, NtRTIs, NNRTIs or FI), to have previously received 2 different
      protease inhibitor-based regimens and to not be virologically suppressed on their current
      regimen. Patients eligible for any other Tibotec sponsored HIV trial but located more than
      100 kilometers away from a study site, will be considered eligible for this early access
      program.

      This program will be conducted as an open-label, non-randomized treatment study. Once
      treatment with TMC114/r in combination with other antiretrovirals (ARVs) has been initiated
      (baseline visit), patients will follow the recommended visit schedule based on routine
      clinical care. No other protease inhibitor combinations other than TMC114/r are to be used in
      this study, except atazanavir (ATV) and indinavir (IDV) may be allowed. Trial medication will
      be dispensed every 8 weeks. Treatment with TMC114/r will be continued until
      treatment-limiting toxicity, loss to follow-up, patient's withdrawal, pregnancy,
      discontinuation of TMC114 development or when TMC114 has become commercially available.

      Selected safety and tolerability data, including adverse events will be collected throughout
      the study. A urine pregnancy test will be repeated at baseline for female patients if more
      than 4 weeks have passed since the test at screening, and urine pregnancy tests will be
      performed at all other visits. In addition, data on CD4 count and viral load will be
      collected over the treatment period according to local standard of care practice, in order to
      ensure that patients continue to benefit from treatment with TMC114/r. A final/withdrawal
      visit as well as a post-trial treatment follow-up contact (4 weeks after the final/withdrawal
      visit) will be performed. Patients will take oral doses of 600 mg of TMC114 twice daily in
      combination with 100 mg of ritonavir twice daily, in combination with other antiretrovirals.
    
  