
    
      The goal of this research is to advance the science of community-level mental health
      interventions that aim to reduce social inequities and health disparities. The proposed study
      will adapt and integrate a successfully implemented multilevel, ecological intervention that
      addresses social-structural determinants of mental health into existing efforts at three
      community partner organizations that focus on mental health, education, legal, and civil
      rights issues for Mexican immigrants in New Mexico. Using a mixed methods longitudinal
      design, the processes and outcomes of the collaborative, community-based intervention
      efforts, including the impact of the quality of the community-based participatory research
      (CBPR) partnerships on individual, organizational, and community-level outcomes, will be
      illuminated.

      Social and structural inequities contribute significantly to increasing health disparities
      globally, with the increasing numbers of migrants throughout the world bearing a
      disproportionate burden. The immigrant share of the U.S. population has risen steadily over
      the past four decades, comprising 13.5% of the total population in 2015, with Mexican-born
      immigrants accounting for 27% of all immigrants. The social, legal, and economic context of
      the migration process, including increasing uncertainty, discrimination, stigma, lack of
      access to resources, and fear of deportation and family separation based on immigration
      policies and public perception of immigrants as a threat all have a critical impact on
      adverse mental health outcomes among Mexican immigrants in the U.S. In addition, Mexican
      immigrants have low utilization rates for mental healthcare, in part because of barriers that
      include lack of health insurance, ineligibility for governmental health programs,
      discrimination, lack of interpretation services and culturally appropriate care, and an
      anti-immigrant political and economic climate. Although evidence points to the need to
      address socio-structural determinants, many mental health interventions offered to Mexican
      immigrants have focused on individual-level predictors of mental health. Also, Mexican
      immigrants' health outcomes are often viewed within the Latino health paradox, and therefore
      are frequently overlooked in mental health research and development of appropriate
      interventions, despite mounting evidence of mental health disparities and disproportionate
      exposure to trauma. Thus, multilevel, transdisciplinary intervention approaches that address
      social-structural determinants of mental health, are culturally appropriate, build upon
      Mexican immigrants' strengths, are cost-effective and scalable, and occur in non-stigmatized
      settings are needed.

      In prior NIH-funded research, the PI and community partners developed and tested a 6-month
      community-based advocacy, learning, and social support intervention, which pairs
      paraprofessional university students with refugee adults to engage in mutual learning and
      social change efforts. The intervention was found to decrease participants' psychological
      distress, improve their quality of life, access to resources, social support, and English
      proficiency, and improve communities' responsiveness to refugees; and also proved to be
      highly acceptable, cost effective, and sustainable. The objective of this study is to: a)
      adapt the intervention for Mexican immigrants (Immigrant Wellbeing Project; IWP); b)
      integrate IWP into existing efforts at three community partner organizations; and c)
      elucidate new understandings of partnership and intervention processes that lead to
      sustainable multilevel changes and the reduction of mental health disparities and related
      social inequities.

      Aim 1. Conduct an in-depth study of the mental health needs, stressors, current
      political/economic/social context, and local solutions as experienced by 24 Mexican recent
      and non-recent immigrants and their families residing in Bernalillo County New Mexico and
      contextualized by staff at three community partner organizations.

      Aim 2. Building on the data from Aim 1, use a CBPR approach to adapt the intervention model
      (IWP) and integrate it within existing service delivery and social change efforts at three
      community partner organizations.

      Aim 3. Using a mixed methods longitudinal design, investigate the feasibility and
      acceptability of the adapted community-based mental health intervention and test the quality
      of the CBPR partnership and impact of the intervention on mental health problems and
      protective factors among 90 Mexican immigrants and on organizational and government changes
      in policies and practices impacting immigrant mental health.

      3.1 The IWP and collaborative adaptation/integration process will be feasible and acceptable
      and will serve as a model for implementing and studying multilevel, community-based
      intervention efforts.

      3.2 IWP participants' psychological distress will decrease significantly over time.

      3.3 IWP participants' protective factors (access to resources, English proficiency,
      environmental mastery, social support) will increase significantly over time.

      3.4 Lower levels of psychological distress will be mediated by the protective factors.

      3.5 Qualitative data will document changes in organizational and governmental policies and
      practices and the context of implementation at each site, explore other impacts, and inform
      interpretation of quantitative data.

      3.6 Quality of CBPR partnership at each site will be related to policy/practice changes and
      health outcomes.

      As one of the core research projects of the Transdisciplinary Research, Equity and Engagement
      Center for Advancing Behavioral Health (TREE), this study will benefit from and contribute to
      collaborative efforts to elucidate and address the impact of social-structural (e.g., racism,
      lack of access to resources) and historical (e.g., violence, trauma, colonization)
      determinants of mental health for immigrant and indigenous populations.
    
  