
    
      Airway pH imbalances cause numerous adverse physiological changes within the airways,
      including hyperreactivity, cough, bronchoconstriction, ciliopathy, decreased response to
      bronchodilators, bacterial growth, nitrosative/oxidative stress, neutrophilic/eosinophilic
      inflammation, and cell death. Airway pH is known to be low (acidic) in chronic and acute
      pulmonary diseases. The gold standard approach to measuring airway pH is to bronchscopically
      obtain epithelial cell lining fluid using protected brush sampling. The expense and invasive
      nature of this approach is a barrier to fully characterizing the role of airway pH in the
      health and disease. In this study, we will evaluate non-invasive clinical methods that can be
      done using equipment standard in clinical pulmonary function laboratories for measuring
      airway pH.

      Our group has previously demonstrated that exhaled breath condensate (EBC) pH and changes in
      fractional exhaled nitric oxide collected at 50mL/sec (FeNO50) after inhalation of an
      alkaline glycine buffer (AGB) indicate low airway pH. While EBC pH is the most common method
      and validated method for estimating airway pH, we believe that the change in FeNO50 is the
      most sensitive test for general airway pH. Specifically, our proposed test makes use of the
      facts that the pH of nitrite/nitrous acid (NO2-/HNO2) is just under 4. Nitrous acid thus
      evolves nitric oxide (NO) when pH is less than 6.5, and NO evolution stops when pH is above
      7. Because endogenous human airway NO2- levels are normally low μM, (32) NO2 protonation can
      be used as a noninvasive test for airway pH. Using the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, we can
      use these changes in NO to calculate pH. We have now done studies with both inhaled phosphate
      buffer and AGB, both of which show that specific patients with asthma have a significant fall
      in FeNO50 following buffer inhalation. While FeNO50 is validated to represent the nitric
      oxide levels of the middle airways, sampling can be done at several different flowrates and
      times to evaluate the nitric oxide levels in different compartments of the lung. This can
      allow for regional airway pH measurement which would be helpful since many airway diseases
      are heterogeneous and regional. We will further characterize the normal range of airway pH in
      health and disease compartmentally within the airways and in subsequent studies will evaluate
      the effects of clinically altering pH when it is abnormal.

      It has been recently discovered that airway pH is integral to airway cell entry and
      replication of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Specifically, one of the pathways by which the virus enters
      cells and replicates is blocked by intracellular alkalinization. We therefore tested to
      determine whether AGB would cause intracellular alkalinization in cultured primary human
      airway epithelial cells. It did; and the drug was well-tolerated by the cells in vitro (as it
      is in vivo).

      We believe that the next step is to determine whether AGB inhibits viral replication and
      viral entry in our primary human airway epithelial cultures. To do this, we are partnering
      with our Indiana University BSL3 virology lab. We have acquired the virus, completed
      preparations of it, and have infected our human airway epithelial cultures with it. We are
      awaiting preliminary results of the effects of AGB on viral entry and replication. If in fact
      AGB inhibits viral cell entry and, thereby, replication, we intend to expand our IND with the
      FDA, allowing a trial in patients at risk for respiratory distress associated with known
      COVID-2 respiratory disease. Ultimately, outcomes of this trial would be proposed to include:
      mortality (primary); as well as ICU length of stay and oxygen saturation index area under the
      curve (secondary). We have submitted grants to the NIH, the DoD, and several other agencies
      for this project.

      The study proposed here will not only provide further insight into the use of AGB in a larger
      population but also will allow for evaluation of airway pH in those receiving it which could
      be used to guide therapy.
    
  