
    
      8 Patients with verified CTD have been included

        -  All patients have performed an incremental load exercise test to exhaustion on a cycle
           ergometer to determine maximal oxygen comsumption rate (VO2 max)

        -  One-hour exercise test: Measurement of the total fat and sugar oxidation rates during
           exercise using stable isotope tracers.

      Subjects arrive at the laboratory after 3-9 hours fasting. One IV-catheter is inserted in the
      cubital vein in one arm and another in a peripheral vein in the other hand. The stable
      isotope tracers will be given in the cubital vein as a constant infusion of solutions of:

        -  [U-13C]-palmitate (0.0026 mg x kg-1 x min-1, after a priming bolus of 0.085 mg x kg-1
           NaH13CO3)

        -  [1,1,2,3,3-2H5]-glycerol (0.0049 mg x kg-1 x min-1 )

        -  [6.6-2H2]-glucose (0.0728 mg x kg-1 x min-1 ) 5 days before the study, subjects must
           avoid eating food containing corn. Corn contains larger amounts of C13, which we use as
           a tracer, and can therefore disturb the measurements.

      For two hours the subjects rest while receiving the infusions until the tracers have
      distributed in the body and reached a steady state. After the rest, the subjects exercise on
      the cycle-ergometer until exhaustion or for a maximum of 1 hour at an intensity that
      corresponds to 60-70% of VO2max.

      Every other minute during exercise, the heart rate is recorded and the subject evaluates
      his/her degree of exertion (Rate of Perceived Exertion, RPE) on a Borg scale.

      Blood and breath samples:

      From 20 minutes before exercise until the end of exercise, blood samples are drawn through
      the IV-catheter in the hand vein (10-12 mL per sample) and samples of the expired breath are
      collected in a Douglas bag (Hans Rudolph inc.) every ten minutes. The breath is transferred
      into Vaccutainer-glas for analysis of 13CO2 -enrichment (10 mL). The plasma samples are
      anayzed for concentrations of hormones, metabolites, carnitine and acyl-carnitines.

      Muscle biopsy:

      On this day a muscle biopsy is taken from the vastus lateralis of the thigh to measure the
      intramuscular concentrations of carnitine and acylcarnitines.

        -  Wash-out period: For 4 days patients were admitted for telemetric cardiac monitoring
           while they pause their daily oral L-carnitine treatment.

        -  After the washout period, patients repeat the one-hour exercise test with the stable
           isotope tracers. Also the muscle biopsy for intramuscular carnitine and acyl-carnitine
           concentrations are repeated-

      TRACERS In this study we will use infusions of stable isotopes incorporated into metabolites
      as tracers of whole body metabolism. We will use small amounts of fat (palmitate and
      glycerol) and sugar (glucose) labelled with stable isotopes of carbon (13C) and hydrogen
      (2H). The palmitate and glycerol tracers (98 % enriched, Cambrigde Isotope Laboratories,
      Andover, MA, USA) will be dissolved in sterile water and infused through a bacterial filter
      into human serum albumin. The glucose tracer (99 % enriched, Cambrigde Isotope Laboratories,
      Andover, MA, USA) will be dissolved and injected into a solution of 0.9% saline (NaCl)
      through a bacterial filter as well.

      These tracers are naturally occurring in food (e.g. in corn) and in the human body. They are
      harmless and will be handled and given to the subjects under sterile conditions.
    
  