
    
      Addressing the social determinants of health of patients has been identified as a key way to
      achieve health system goals. However, few evidence-based interventions exist. This study
      emerges from an ongoing collaboration between family physicians, researchers and a charitable
      financial literacy organization. This study aims to answer the following questions: Is an
      online tool that addresses income security feasible and acceptable to clinicians? Can such a
      tool be integrated into regular clinic workflow? What is the patient perspective on the tool
      and what is the short-term impact? We will recruit six primary care sites in Toronto and
      Winnipeg that serve low-income communities. We will introduce clinicians to screening for
      poverty and increasing access to additional income sources via government benefits. Following
      an initial orientation session, health providers will be encouraged to use the tool with any
      patient seen. The health provider and patient will complete the online tool together,
      generating a tailored list of financial benefits, along with local community resources to
      assist with obtaining these benefits. A brief survey on this experience will be administered
      to patients after they complete the tool, as well as a request to contact them in one month.
      Those who agree to be contacted will be interviewed on whether the intervention impacted
      their knowledge and ability to access benefits. We will administer an online survey to
      providers and conduct provider focus groups at each site at the end of study. An advisory
      group made up of patients living on low incomes and representatives from community agencies
      will support this study. An online tool could help health providers in improving the income
      security of their patients. Strengths of this study include that it involves a diverse set of
      clinics and that the tool has been implemented pragmatically, in the real world of busy
      primary care clinics. Limitations include the convenience sampling method, that the selected
      clinics may not be representative of all primary care providers and the relatively short
      follow-up period. Our findings will provide insight into the potential of electronic tools
      that assist providers address the social determinants of health.
    
  