
    
      OA is the most common form of arthritis in the United States. Symptoms of knee OA include
      pain in and around the knee that typically worsens with weight-bearing activities, morning
      stiffness, and tenderness. A person with OA who experiences a torn meniscus--a cartilage
      structure within the knee that provides stability and proper weight distribution--is
      especially at risk for disability. Past studies have shown that arthroscopic partial
      meniscectomy (APM), a type of knee surgery, usually relieves symptoms and improves function
      in people suffering from a meniscal tear. However, the success of APM is more variable among
      people with already existing OA. Clinicians are also uncertain about the short- and long-term
      benefits, drawbacks, and indications for APM in people with OA and meniscal tears. The
      purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two treatments, APM surgery and
      standard physical therapy, for people with OA and a torn meniscus.

      This study will last 12 years. At the initial study visit, participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two groups.

        -  Group 1 participants will undergo APM surgery at a time that is convenient for the
           participant and surgeon. After surgery, participants will be referred for rehabilitative
           physical therapy to regain strength and flexibility of the knee. For participants who
           choose to do physical therapy, the duration of treatment will depend on individual
           progress.

        -  Group 2 participants will receive standard physical therapy to increase strength and
           flexibility of the knee. This will include one to three weekly exercise sessions over an
           8-week period.

      The study consists of up to 5 visits to the center:

        -  Visit 1, the enrollment visit: sign the consent form, fill out a questionnaire, have a
           physical examination of the knee and find out your treatment group (surgery or physical
           therapy

        -  Visit 2, at 3 months after enrollment: Fill out a questionnaire and have a physical
           examination of the knee

        -  Visit 3, at 18 months: Fill out a questionnaire, have an MRI of the knee (if eligible)
           and xrays of both knees

        -  Visit 4, at 5 years: Fill out a questionnaire, have an MRI of the knee (if eligible) and
           xrays of both knees

        -  Visit 5, at 12 years: Fill out a questionnaire, have a physical examination of the knee,
           have an MRI of the knee (if eligible) and xrays of both knees

      Telephone calls: During the first 3 months of the study, all participants will receive
      check-up phone calls every 2 weeks, followed by quarterly phone calls for the initial 2 years
      in the study

      Questionnaires: Participants will also complete mailed questionnaires at 6 months, and 1, 2,
      2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, and 12 years after enrollment. The questionnaires will include
      questions about knee pain, ability to walk, recreational activities, general health, and
      satisfaction with with treatment.
    
  