
    
      Extracorporeal circulation (ECC) in neonates and infants undergoing cardiac surgery for the
      correction or palliation of cardiac defects is characterized by temperature variation,
      activation of coagulation and inflammatory cascades, hemodilution.

      An excessive dilution of circulating mass determines a variation in colloid-oncotic pressure
      (COP) that, together with hydrostatic pressure, induces liquids exchange between interstitial
      space and plasma. COP variation together with inflammatory response due to extracorporeal
      circulation and temperature variation is the main determinant of interstitial and pulmonary
      edema occurrence. Intravascular albumin is responsible for 80% for the COP. Golab et al.
      randomized a population of neonates and infants undergoing to pediatric cardiac surgery
      procedures in order to reach two different targets of COP through administration of different
      albumin amounts. His results didn't show significant differences for primary and secondary
      endpoints except for postoperative ventilation duration.

      Trials on adult patients undergoing cardiac surgery haven't showed differences in bleeding
      when varying colloid solution employed. Albumin is preferred to artificial colloids due to
      reduced risk of anaphylactic reactions and for its capacity to maintain COP.

      Hemodilution is associated to a reduction in hematocrit, platelet count, fibrinogen and other
      coagulation factor concentration. Solutions employed for ECC (Extracorporeal Circulation)
      circuits priming also contain components that could impair hemostasis.

      In order to reduce the negative effects on the coagulation, many centers for pediatric
      surgery employ fresh frozen plasma (FFP) for priming solution. Oliver et al randomized a
      population of 51 cardiopathic, acyanotic children under 10 kg of weight to receive either
      albumin or FFP as ECC priming. The authors showed a reduction of postoperative bleeding in
      the group receiving FFP. No significant differences were detected in postoperative
      coagulation tests. Other studies with small cohorts weren't able to detect significant
      differences between the two regimens applied by Oliver and colleagues.

      Currently the patients receiving blood priming are treated with either FFP or albumin in
      order to maintain a correct COP. Comparative studies are very limited by small populations
      and haven't yet provided definitive conclusions about eventual superiority of one regimen
      over another.

      This is a randomized controlled trial that compares the employment of 5% Albumin (ALB group)
      versus Fresh Frozen Plasma (FFP group) for priming as per standard protocol of extracorporeal
      circulation procedure. No modifications to the normal clinical management of the patient are
      planned. The primary endpoint is to reduce postoperative bleeding (registered as ml/kg in the
      first 12 postoperative hours). The secondary endpoints are to reduce transfusional
      requirements for all the blood products (packed red cells, fresh frozen plasma and platelets
      registered as ml/kg from the beginning of the extracorporeal circulation for up to 48 hours
      from the termination of the surgery), ventilation support and hospital stay duration. Safety
      endpoint is represented by the percentage of thromboembolic complications (stroke,
      peripheric, pulmonary and mesenteric thromboembolisms). Both the treatments employed in this
      trial are to be considered standard.
    
  