
    
      Term and late preterm neonates with severe hypoxemic respiratory failure [NHRF] receive
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), a modified form of cardiopulmonary bypass, when
      maximal conventional therapy fails. Although ECMO significantly improves survival and
      decreases disability, 15-50% of survivors nevertheless have poor neurodevelopmental [ND]
      outcomes due to hypoxemia and cerebral hypoperfusion occurring prior to and during ECMO.
      Hypothermia [HYP] (33 deg-34 deg C for 48-72 hours) has been shown to improve ND outcomes and
      following neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy [NE]. Whether the addition of hypothermia
      to ECMO for severe NHRF will improve ND outcomes is unknown. Long-term evaluation of ND
      outcomes is the gold standard for determining the full spectrum of developmental disabilities
      as neonatal clinical findings; biochemical and electrophysiological tests; and cranial
      sonography have limited predictive value. Conventional magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] has a
      predictive accuracy of > 0.8 for death and disability following NE. MR abnormalities in
      infants undergoing ECMO for NHRF differ from those seen in NE and there are no systematic
      reports on the ND implications of MR abnormalities seen in NHRF treated with ECMO. Given the
      societal and economic costs associated with poor long-term ND outcomes and the challenges of
      neurologic assessment in critically ill neonates receiving ECMO for NHRF, there is an urgent
      need for (i) neuroprotection pre-/during ECMO to decrease brain injury and (ii) innovative
      diagnostic modalities to enable early diagnosis and intervention.

      Our goal is to improve the treatment and ND outcomes in neonates with NHRF. The overall
      objectives of this proposal are to establish the neuroprotective role of hypothermia during
      ECMO for NHRF as evaluated by ND assessment at 18-22 months [mo] of age and to validate the
      use of conventional and advanced MR techniques as biomarkers of brain injury. The central
      hypotheses are that (i) HYP to 33.5°C during the 1st 72 hours of ECMO in NHRF will reduce the
      extent and severity of brain injury as evaluated by Bayley Scales of Infant Development
      (BSID-III) cognitive scores at 18-22 mo and proportion of normal MRI studies in the neonatal
      period and at 18-22 mo; and (ii) conventional and advanced MR techniques in the neonatal
      period and at 18-22 mo will be biomarkers of brain injury allowing prediction of ND outcomes,
      and monitoring of post-injury brain growth and plasticity.

      The specific aims are to evaluate:

        1. Safety and efficacy of hypothermia combined with ECMO for NHRF in improving
           neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18-22 months of age

        2. MR abnormalities in the neonatal period and at 18-22 months of age and their predictive
           accuracy for neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18-22 months of age following hypothermia
           during ECMO for NHRF

      MRI will be obtained in the neonatal period as part of routine clinical care; MRI will be
      repeated at 18-22 mo of age on an outpatient basis if funding is available to assess
      longitudinal changes in brain structure and metabolite profile following ECMO for NHRF and to
      correlate these with ND outcomes at 18-22 mo of age.
    
  