
    
      Since the development of custom-made fenestrated and branched endografts a novel therapeutic
      option for the management of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms was made accessible. In order
      to achieve complete aneurysm exclusion more than one endovascular graft is usually needed
      according to device characteristics and aneurysm extent. Usually a straight tube graft is
      initially placed in the proximal descending aorta, followed by a custom-made device for the
      visceral abdominal aorta, and completed with a bifurcated infrarenal graft landing at the
      level of the common iliac arteries. Many variations are available according to patient
      anatomy, pathology, and previous aortic surgeries.

      The different components required can be deployed in the patient in one setting (i.e.
      single-stage endovascular repair) or across more than one surgeries (i.e. multi-stage
      endovascular repair), depending on procedural needs and surgeon choice. According to limited
      reported series the latter option seems to be associated to better clinical outcomes both in
      terms of spinal cord ischemia and overall survival.

      In addition to the number, type and order of stages required for patient treatment, primary
      and secondary end-points are the evaluation of the short-term (6 months) and mid-term (5
      years) outcomes as illustrated in the Society for Vascular Surgery reporting standards for
      TEVAR.

      The investigators review a prospectively compiled Microsoft Office Excel database with the
      procedural details of the 47 patients treated at our Institution between October 2013 and
      October 2017 by means of total endovascular thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair and of
      those of the next 50 patients which will be treated until December 2020. All patients will be
      recorded together with their characteristics and number and type of stages required for
      treatment completion.

      All enrolled patients will be contact yearly by phone, in addition to standard follow-up
      imaging, to confirm persistence of technical and clinical success and to evaluate the
      eventual onset of any treatment related complication or disease evolution Possible stage
      types will be differentiated as: proximal thoracic component (TEVAR), visceral component
      (Custom-Made), bifurcated component (EVAR), iliac extensions, iliac branch devices.

      All but the visceral component may or may not be present in each patient depending on the
      aneurysm extension and previous aortic surgery.

      All the assessed variables will be prospectively recorded in a Microsoft Office Excel
      database together with patients' data.

      All patients involved in the retrospective part of the study have already signed informed
      consent for data collection and analysis at hospital admission.

      The 50 patients that will be enrolled until December 2020 will also sign an "ad hoc"
      consents, specific for this study.

      Sensitive patient information will not be available during data analysis. The clinical study
      will be carried out according to the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and
      following the active regulations on observational studies.

      Participation in the study does not involve ethical implications as the patients in the study
      will be subjected to the standard procedures commonly used to treat the pathology from which
      they are affected. The investigators just want to store participant' s data in anonymous
      database.

      Patients characteristics, procedural data, technical and clinical outcomes, and follow-up
      data will be analyzed on Wizard Statistics software to investigate the presence of
      statistically significant correlations among the identified variables.

      The extracted data will be the property of the investigator and San Raffaele Hospital, and
      their relevant clinical and procedural implications will be submitted for publication in
      peer-reviewed scientific journals focused on the field of vascular and endovascular surgery.
      Also in these works the data will be reported anonymously.
    
  