
    
      Synopsis: This three year longitudinal study, based on a gerontological model, was the
      product of an Aphasia Think-Tank established in Toronto in 2007. The original concept and
      design, developed at Queensland Hospital in Australia, has been recently funded by the
      Australian National Health and Medical Research Council.

      Rationale: Aphasia, which occurs in 30% of ischemic first strokes, is known to have a
      negative impact on quality of life, increase the incidence of post-stroke depression, be
      associated with a loss of self identity, and have a widespread effect on partners, children,
      siblings, and friends. Research conducted in Australia and the United Kingdom (UK) provides
      evidence that many persons living successfully with aphasia do not attribute their successes
      to speech-language pathology and rehabilitation services. Inappropriate, irrelevant,
      inaccessible, or non-existent required services have been cited. It has also been reported
      that current speech-language pathology service providers lack an overall understanding of the
      long term goals of aphasia rehabilitation and how these objectives may be achieved.

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that an analysis of parallel qualitative and quantitative data
      is necessary to examine the full experience of living with aphasia; it is also hypothesized
      that there are specific factors that act as barriers or facilitators to successfully living
      with aphasia.

      Methodology: The primary study site of this international research is the Community
      Disability Centre of the School of Health and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of
      Queensland. The Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, New York University (NYU) School of
      Medicine will collaborate by following, to the extent possible, the same protocols as the
      Australian team with respect to subject selection criteria, measures used, and test
      time-points. This is a prospective cohort study which uses parallel qualitative and
      quantitative (mixed) methods in a unique way to quantify the extent of and statistically
      model the relationship of the determinants to self-rated "successfully living with aphasia".
      Furthermore, it will permit an understanding of the underlying reasons (the why and how)
      behind the relationships. A unique aspect of the project is the use of the Assessment for
      Living with Aphasia (ALA), a new, aphasia friendly measure based on the World Health
      Organization International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (WHO ICF). It
      is a specialized tool using a self-rating scale and is focused on specific themes that have
      emerged from previous research. 204 subjects will be recruited who consent to being examined
      at 3, 6, and 12 months post-stroke. Considering an attrition rate of 25%, it is estimated
      that 153 subjects will provide the study data. Each session will be videotaped and consist of
      the administration of a demographic questionnaire, the Assessment for Living with Aphasia
      (ALA), the Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (a standardized measure which investigates
      language understanding and expression), a social-convoy model, the Barthel Index, the Wepman
      Self-Correction Scale, and the Aphasic Depression Rating Scale.

      Anticipated Results: The outcomes of this project will lead to better services for people
      with aphasia via a fully articulated model of the predictive factors of success following
      aphasia. Not only will a statistical model be generated but the meaning of the factors and
      the relationships between them will be explained through the qualitative studies. For
      example, if decreasing social network size and satisfaction is a significant predictor
      variable of successfully living with aphasia, then rehabilitation services must target the
      loss of social networks in the first year through a variety of available but infrequently
      used interventions (e.g. communication partner training. The qualitative data will describe
      how social networks have changed (e.g. less contact with friends or formal groups) and why
      (e.g. communication or mobility issues) so that appropriate interventions are targeted to the
      correct group. This research will lead to substantial changes across the continuum of all
      aphasia rehabilitation services throughout the United States. Specifically, it will improve
      meaningful outcomes for persons with aphasia in terms of how to live successfully with
      aphasia. Results will also streamline aphasia services so that they meet the needs of this
      seriously disabled population who often cannot speak for themselves and rely on costly
      services for many years after their stroke. This international project will lead the way in
      changing speech pathology practices to meet the needs of people with aphasia around the
      world.
    
  