
    
      Phase Ib: The first 12 patients will enter the phase Ib study in 2 cohorts of 6 patients
      each. In the first cohort, six patients will start Ramucirumab followed by Nab-paclitaxel and
      Gemcitabine every 4 weeks for 2 cycles at the specific initial dose level.When the dose is
      determined in the first cohort, then the second cohort will be enrolled to test the safety of
      this dose. The Phase II Recommended dose (RD) for the phase II part of the study will be
      determined when all 6+6 patients will complete a maximum of 2 cycles.

      Phase II: In the phase II part of the trial, new patients will be recruited and start the
      study treatment according to the RD determined at the second cohort of the phase Ib part.
      Phase Ib patients will enter the phase II part by continuing the treatment beyond the second
      cycle at the RD level. All the patients will continue the treatment until disease progression
      or excessive AEs or completion of 8 cycles of Nab-paclitaxel/Gemcitabine/Ramucirumab. In
      patients with no progressive disease, ramucirumab monotherapy will be administered after the
      completion of 8 cycles of chemotherapy.

      The primary endpoint will be Objective Response Rate (ORR) by RECIST criteria. Secondary
      endpoints will be Safety, Progression-free survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS). All the
      phase II endpoints will be assessed during BOTH the phase Ib and the phase II parts of the
      study. Patients enrolled at the phase Ib part will start being assessed for efficacy
      endpoints (response rate, PFS, OS) from the first date of registration to the study and will
      continue being assessed for efficacy also after passing to the phase II part of the study in
      a seamless way. After completion of patient enrollment in the phase Ib part, new patients
      will be enrolled directly to the phase II part. These patients will start being assessed for
      efficacy endpoints again from the first day of registration to the study.
    
  