
    
      Aim: To evaluate the interaction between rs35652124 polymorphism and curcumin supplementation
      on the levels of NFE2L2 gene expression, antioxidant capacity and renal function in patients
      with early diabetic nephropathy (EDN).

      Subjects and Methods. Parallel clinical trial with randomized and triple blind. From a
      database of diabetic patients newly diagnosed with CKD, those with EDN will be identified and
      located by telephone to complete a total of 275 subjects over 18 years of age. Subsequently,
      they will be cited in the office of Biomedical Unit 02, will verify that they meet the
      selection criteria, will be informed about the objectives of the study and invited to
      participate. Those who agree to participate will be given an informed consent letter, they
      will be asked to read it carefully and if they have any doubts, they will be clarified at the
      moment. Once they have signed the written consent they will be cited for the first blood
      sample collecting (5 mL) to be used for genomic DNA extraction and genotyping for the
      rs35652124 polymorphism. All patients entering the study will undergo a physical and dietary
      examination and will record the data on a clinical record card. They will be prescribed a
      meal plan according to ADA recommendations and K/DOQI guidelines two weeks prior (week <2) at
      the start of the clinical trial, which will be maintained throughout the follow-up. They will
      then be scheduled monthly for medical and nutritional assessment. At the visits of weeks 2, 0
      (start of supplementation), 12, and 24, three peripheral blood tubes (5 mL each) will be
      drawn. The first, to extract total mRNA and expression analysis of the NFE2L2 gene, the
      second, to determine the levels of NRF2, SOD, GPx and HO1 and the third, to perform renal
      function tests and control of possible confounding variables (creatinine, glucose,
      glycosylated hemoglobin, lipid profile and uric acid). In addition, they will be asked to
      collect a sample of the first morning urine to quantify albuminuria/creatinuria on the same
      day that blood samples were taken. The time of the study since the first evaluation is 26
      weeks and the total number of medical and nutrition visits will be six, one monthly.
      Genotyping will be performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) coupled to four pairs of
      oligonucleotide primers specific for the alleles of interest. The gene expression assay will
      be performed by real-time PCR, while the determination of the concentrations of NRF2, SOD,
      GPx and HO1 will be carried out by the ELISA method with kits designed for this purpose. The
      analysis of the data includes descriptive statistics expressed in averages and standard or
      median deviations according to the parametric or non-parametric distribution, the nominal
      variables will be presented as numbers or percentages and the comparison between these will
      be by Chi square or Fisher exact. Inferential statistics included U-Mann Whitney or Student t
      tests for independent and paired samples as appropriate to evaluate the NRF2, SOD, GPx and
      HO1 concentrations with the different interventions and the individuals in the control group.
      A covariance analysis will be performed taking into consideration the factor supplementation,
      genetic factor and the interaction of both with the concentrations of NRF2. A value of p<0.05
      and 95% CI will be considered significant.

      Resources and infrastructure. The CIBO and the Medical Research Unit in Renal Diseases have
      the human resources to coordinate and develop the present research. Also, they have the
      necessary infrastructure and equipment to carry out the procedures contemplated in this
      project. The project will be submitted to calls for funding to obtain the necessary resources
      for its development.
    
  