
    
      Surgery to remove the prostate gland is one of the ways of treating prostate cancer. Some
      patients receive radiotherapy after surgery if the cancer may not have been completely
      removed. Radiotherapy to the area where the prostate was can cause side effects, which can
      cause bowel and bladder symptoms as well as reducing sexual function.

      Radiotherapy alone is also a standard treatment for prostate cancer. At the Royal Marsden
      Hospital and Institute of Cancer Research the investigators have designed and patented a
      device called ProSpare to improve the accuracy of radiotherapy. The device has already been
      developed and tested in over 80 patients having prostate radiotherapy and was well tolerated.
      Treatment accuracy was improved and the radiation dose to the rectum was reduced. Patients
      have given very valuable feedback and comments about ProSpare's design and use, which the
      investigators have incorporated in the final design. It is now important to test ProSpare in
      a multi-centre randomised controlled trial. The investigators aim to determine whether
      ProSpare will reduce the side effects reported by patients having radiotherapy after
      prostatectomy.

      The ProSpare device is inserted by the patient into the rectum for each daily radiotherapy
      treatment. The disposable device stays in place for about 15 minutes each day. The curve in
      the device is designed to follow the shape of the rectum and it stays in the correct place by
      securely locating in the anal sphincter. ProSpare contains small "markers" - steel ball
      bearings - which can be "seen" on the standard scans taken before a radiotherapy treatment.
      Treatment is adjusted before each daily treatment to account for patient movement and
      radiotherapy set-up variation. As a result, treatment is more accurate than using the
      standard methods of radiotherapy localisation. This means the radiotherapy "safety margins"
      which are placed around the prostate bed can be reduced. The dose to the rectum and bladder
      as well as the structures that are associated with erectile function will be reduced. This
      may lead to an improvement in the side effects caused by radiotherapy.

      Other ways to identify the treatment target area for such image guided radiotherapy (IGRT)
      includes the insertion of fiducial markers - usually in the form of gold seeds into the
      prostate or prostate bed. This has become standard practice in some radiotherapy centres for
      prostate radiotherapy but is technically complex for prostate bed radiotherapy and not
      routinely used. ProSpare has the additional advantage of being non-invasive and without the
      risk of infection associated with fiducial insertion.

      Patients will be randomly selected to either have standard treatment or use ProSpare daily
      with adjusted set-up margins. During and after treatment, patients will be asked questions
      and given questionnaires to complete, asking about bowel, urinary and sexual function. The
      investigators will look at the results in each group and see if treatment with ProSpare has a
      benefit in improving the side effects from radiotherapy. If a benefit is seen, the aim will
      be for ProSpare guided radiotherapy to become part of the standard treatment for prostate bed
      radiotherapy nationally and internationally.
    
  