
    
      Aims are a) the implementation and outcome evaluation, b) the process evaluation, and c) the
      analysis of the cost-effectiveness of an innovative collaborative and stepped care model for
      patients with depressive, anxiety, somatoform and/or alcohol abuse disorders.

      Its novelty is the integration of these four disorders into one model. This approach is based
      on a) the high comorbidity between these disorders, b) the fact that they share a common
      etiological and diag-nostic basis, c) that similar evidence-based treatment options exist for
      them (e.g., self-help and psychoeducation, psychotherapy, pharmacotherapy), and d) that
      health care providers need to manage them together very often.

      The conceptual basis follows the principles of evidence-based medicine with a specific focus
      on guideline implementation and the principles of patient-centered care including access,
      coordination and continuity of care, patient information, patient involvement and
      empowerment. Based on a multi-professional cooperation of health care providers across
      different care sectors an integrated health care network consisting of general practitioners
      (GPs), mental health specialists (psychiatrists, psychotherapists) and inpatient facilities
      will be established. Evidence-based clinical practice guidelines and pathways of care with
      treatment options of varying intensity form the clinical and procedural basis of the network,
      including low-intensity treatments and e-mental health technologies.

      The study is planned as a randomized controlled effectiveness trial of a consecutive sample
      of patients with depressive and/or anxiety and/or somatoform and/or alcohol abuse disorders
      drawn from primary care (GP practices) and followed with a prospective survey at four time
      points. The study is intended to recruit a total of 570 patients from 38 GP practices. A
      cluster-randomization at the level of participating GP practices divides GPs into the
      intervention group, where patients are treated within a multi-professional collaborative and
      stepped care approach (including low-intensity treatments, direct access to mental health
      specialists, inpatient care etc., COMET), and the control group, where patients receive
      standard care (treatment as usual, TAU). Data collection is carried out with questionnaires
      as well as telephone interviews at four time-standardized measurement points within one year
      (baseline, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months). Additionally, independent research assistants perform
      standardized diagnostic interviews (CIDI) with patients at baseline to allow an assessment of
      diagnostic validity.

      The main research hypothesis is that the COMET model is more effective than TAU. Primary
      outcome is the change in health-related quality of life measured by the SF-36 mental health
      score from baseline to 6-months follow-up. Secondary outcomes include symptom burden of
      depressive, generalized anxiety, panic, somatoform and alcohol abuse syndromes (PHQ-9; GAD-7;
      PHQ-15; PHQ panic and alcohol abuse syndrome module; SSD-12), disorder-specific response and
      remission, functional quality of life (EQ-5D-5L), duration of untreated illness, and other
      clinical and psychosocial variables (outcome evaluation, Work Package 1). Furthermore, direct
      and indirect costs and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will be assessed (economic
      evaluation, Work Package 2). Finally, feasibility and acceptance of the COMET model as well
      as of the different treatment components are assessed, including the implementation process
      (process evaluation, Work Package 3). To this end, semi-structured interviews will be
      conducted at two measurement points, supplemented by standardized surveys among involved
      patients and providers.
    
  