
    
      This is a randomized, controlled study conducted at the university simulation centre in
      healthcare of Lyon, France. The high-fidelity simulation (HFS) will be used as a research
      tool and the topics included will be the HFS residents summoned to critical care situations
      as part of their training curriculum. The study has received prior approval from the UCBL1.
      Ethics Committee. After information (protocol and objective of the study), signature of
      consent, and one minute of relaxing breathing training, the residents as active participants
      in HFS, will be included in the study. They will be equipped with Hexoskin® jackets
      collecting heart rate, heart rate variability, breathing rate continuously and an Empathica®
      connected watch for continuous measurement of electrodermal activity. Then each resident will
      be randomized into one of the three intervention groups that are:

        -  a relaxing breathing exercise coupled with biofeedback

        -  a breathing exercise without biofeedback

        -  a control occupation (observation of normal biological results). Each intervention will
           last five minutes and will be conducted between the briefing and the scenario.

      Main objective :

      The objective of this study is to compare during HFS, the performance of residents during
      critical care scenarios. The performance analysis will be performed by two independent and
      blinded evaluators, based on the video recordings of scenarios. The overall performance will
      be the addition of technical skills (specific rating grid for each scenario on 100 pts) and
      non-technical skills assessed by the OTTAWA GRS grid (adjusted to 100 pts).

      Secondary objectives :

        -  Compare the effects of the three interventions on reducing psychological stress.

        -  Compare the effects of the three interventions on reducing physiological stress.

        -  Compare the effects of the three interventions on increasing cardiac coherence scores.
    
  