
    
      In patients with treatment refractory reflux disease, dysphagia (trouble swallowing) or other
      symptoms possibly attributed to the esophagus, the standard protocol is generally to first do
      an upper endoscopy to evaluate for abnormalities. If this is normal the next step is often to
      do esophageal manometry to measure esophageal muscle contractions, along with a Ph/impedance
      study in certain clinical situations. If these are normal, then the the disorder is thought
      to be functional (no clear biological pathology). However, it is believed that FLIP
      (Functional Luminal Imaging Probe) technology may pick up additional disorders of the
      esophagus missed by standard esophageal manometry, leading to different treatments in certain
      cases. Additionally, FLIP technology offers a different approach to classifying motility
      disorders of the esophagus.

      FLIP is a technology that measures distensibility and diameter of the esophagus during
      endoscopy by inflating a balloon in the esophagus. It has previously been used to aid in the
      diagnosis and provide more information regarding gastroesophageal reflux disease, achalasia,
      and eosinophilic esophagitis. It has also been used pre and post fundoplication and myotomy
      to assess adequacy of these procedure.

      More recently a group at northwestern has developed a modification of this procedure called
      FLIP topography. The basic principles are the same, but this technique measures the reaction
      of the esophagus to distension, providing additional information.

      A recent study of FLIP topography looked at 145 patients referred for dysphagia (trouble
      swallowing). All patients had both standard manometry and FLIP topography. 25% of patients in
      the study had a normal manometry, offering no measurable explanation of their symptoms. Of
      these patients, half had an abnormal FLIP topography, and additional treatments were offered
      in certain situations.

      FLIP topography has also been evaluated in patients with eosinophilic esophagitis, though
      numbers are small.

      Currently, the FLIP topography device has been FDA cleared for esophageal distensibility
      testing. It has never been evaluated specifically in patients with scleroderma.
    
  