
    
      The MyHeart Counts research study was designed by Stanford faculty. MyHeart Counts 3.0 will
      run using the MyStudies Platform, originally commissioned by the FDA, which is currently
      undergoing technical development to be able to run on the Google Cloud. It includes servers
      used to set up the study and collect study data, as well as features that produce both iOS
      and Android study applications using Apple ResearchKit and Android ReserachStack frameworks.

      The subject will be consented through their smartphone. After downloading the app from the
      App Store, the user will be shown a series of screens that ask eligibility questions and
      explain the general nature of the study and require interaction and acknowledgment of the
      subject. These smartphone consent process screens have been adapted from MyHeart Counts,
      which based its design an open source toolkit developed by Sage Bionetworks in collaboration
      with the Electronic Data Methods forum of the AHRQ (Agency for Healthcare Research &
      Quality). The investigators have also reviewed this mobile consent process and screenshots
      with faculty in the Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics. After reviewing the consent
      screens, the user will be shown the consent form and can scroll through and accept prior to
      enrollment. The user will have the option to email themselves the consent form.

      After consent, subjects will be surveyed about their current cardiovascular health and risk
      factors and asked to share their activity data collected by the phone and/or any wearable
      activity device they have. They will then be asked to use their phone and/or wearable to
      monitor their daily activity for 1 week. They will then be asked to do a standard 6- minute
      walk test (with the phone/wearable measuring the distance covered), 3 minute step tests and
      12 minute runs, with included activities that use the phone's camera to assess heart rate and
      heart rate recovery.

      Every 3 months for at least one year, subjects will be asked to repeat the above to assess
      for changes - 1) update surveys/risk factors, 2) monitor activity for 1 week, and 3)
      aforementioned activity tests.

      In addition to the health, activity, and fitness assessment, the investigators will give
      participants the option of joining a randomized controlled trial on physical activity.
      Participants opting to participate will be randomized to either receive personalized activity
      coaching including physical activity recommendations, endurance training sessions and video
      classes or no specific content. All participants will be prompted to conduct periodic
      cardiorespiratory testing via a task within their smartphone application.

      The investigators will also perform a pilot study of up to 50 subjects to test the app prior
      to release to the general public. Given the potential for large numbers of the general public
      to download the app for the main study, it is essential that bugs and usage issues with the
      app be identified and fixed through this larger pilot study. As per the IRB (Institutional
      Review Board) guidelines, this pilot study will only be "exploratory" in order to help
      "refine data collection procedures and instruments or prepare a better, more precise research
      design." Data collected from this pilot study will not be used as research data nor stored
      permanently. The investigators plan to ask colleagues, including Stanford employees, to use
      the app for up to 3 months, with periodic contact by research staff for feedback on bugs and
      other usage issues.

      The study is funded by Stanford Medicine, with staff, content and in-kind software
      development support for the app from Google Inc., including participation of Boston
      Technology Corporation (Marlborough, MA), an app development company that was hired to create
      MyStudies.
    
  