
    
      Breast cancer is the most frequent type of cancer among Swiss women (5'700 cases diagnosed
      every year). Mastectomy is indicated when breast conservative surgery is not possible or by
      patient wish. Axillary lymph nodes dissection (ALND) is indicated primarily for node-positive
      breast cancer.

      Postoperative seroma after mastectomy and axillary clearance is a common complication,
      occurring in 25 to more than 60% of patients with breast cancer. After mastectomy and/or ALND
      conventional wound closure commonly uses suction drain to prevent seroma. However, seroma
      frequently occurs after drain removal. Excessive fluid accumulation in seroma stretches the
      skin, resulting in patient discomfort, impaired ipsilateral shoulder function and higher risk
      of surgical site infection and prolongs the hospitalisation. In rare cases, a fibrous
      encapsulated seroma is resistant to conservative treatment and requires surgical resection.
      Thus, seroma may also impact health care costs requiring longer hospital stay or unplanned
      outpatient visits and may delay adjuvant therapy.

      Recent data suggest that quilting suture through flap fixation reduces the incidence of
      seroma. Therefore, quilting suture has the potential to increase patients' quality of life,
      as well as to shorten the length of hospital stay and to reduce hospital costs The aim of
      this trial is to compare the efficacy of quilting suture of the dead space at the pectoral
      area and/or axilla with that of conventional suture in reducing the total volume of
      post-mastectomy and/or axillary drainage and seroma in female patients after surgical
      treatment of breast cancer.The study seeks primarily to determine if quilting suture compared
      to conventional suture after mastectomy/ALND reduces the total volume of axillary drainage
      until drain removal.

      This single blind randomised phase III controlled superiority trial compares 2 surgical
      techniques: quilting suture and conventional suture. Patients will be assigned to one of 2
      parallel groups: Arm A: quilting suture and Arm B: (no quilting suture): conventional wound
      closure.

      Duration of accrual: 2 years - Duration of trial treatment: 1 day (surgery). Surgery
      procedure: Mastectomies or ALND dissections using a standardized technique, with multiple
      quilting sutures in the site of the mastectomy/in the dissected axilla or conventional
      closure without quilting. In both procedures placement of one drain into the breast and
      axilla or in the axillary cavity.

      All randomised patients will be followed for 12 weeks. Patients will fill in 2 questionnaires
      (Quality of Life: EQ5-D and Brief Pain Inventory: BPI). The Health Economic Analysis form
      (HEA) will be completed by the investigator collecting the patient data.

      At the study visits the following examinations will be performed: physical examination,
      blinded assessment of seroma, axillary drain volume, adverse events and surgical site
      infections.

      The sample size is based on the primary endpoint, the total volume of axillary drainage. We
      assume a reduction in the total volume of axillary drainage of 200 ml in the intervention arm
      (application of quilting sutures) compared to the control arm (no application of sutures),
      which is based on literature and actual measurements in 14 patients. A total of 106 patients
      (53 in each group) will yield a power of 80% to detect this difference at a two-sided
      significance level of 0.05.
    
  