
    
      The bidirectional transmission of influenza A viruses between animals and humans are clearly
      an important part of the complex dynamics of influenza evolution, however a thorough
      understanding of this process remains a mystery. The role of swine in overall human influenza
      evolution is unclear, but a long history of the study of swine origin influenza has revealed
      that influenza evolves in swine populations both in North America and Europe.

      In 2009, a pandemic occurred with the emergence of the H1N1 pandemic (pdm) virus which was
      found to have originated from both a North American and European swine lineage, again
      reinforcing how viruses evolving in swine can lead to important human pathogens.
      Interestingly this virus was transmitted back into swine and birds in North America. In 2011,
      an H3N2 swine origin influenza virus known as the H3N2v and containing the H1N1pdm matrix
      genomic segment was reported causing human infections in multiple parts of the US. In 2012,
      these cases increased, especially during the summer months. Since 2011, 321 confirmed cases
      have been reported from 13 states including 107 cases in Ohio. Almost all of these cases have
      been linked to swine exposure on farms or at agricultural fairs.

      Study of these zoonotic transmission events at agricultural fairs are necessary in order to
      better understand how and why these events occur, how human pathogens emerge, and how to
      potentially prevent events from occurring. These events could lead to new pandemics and
      epidemics so their prevention is crucial. The goal of this study is to examine rates of
      bidirectional zoonotic transmission at Ohio agricultural fairs. Through collection of viruses
      and host samples, we hope to begin to answer questions regarding how viruses cross species
      barriers, adapt to new hosts, and how these events could impact overall influenza virus
      evolution.
    
  