
    
      Methods and Expected Results-In this prospective follow-up study, we will assess the
      predictive power of different assays of platelet function (PFA-100, plasma levels of von
      Willebrand factor, P-selectin, soluble CD40 ligand, and myeloid-related protein-8/14, and
      ADP-induced P-selectin [CD62P] expression on platelets by flow cytometry) before and after
      high-dose (600 mg) clopidogrel loading, at 3-month follow-up, and at study end on the
      occurrence of major cardiovascular events (MACE)(death, myocardial infarction, stroke, and
      coronary revascularization). We will also evaluate the correlations between different assays
      of platelet function. Based on our previous pilot study which demonstrated that a significant
      association between collagen-ADP closure time measured by PFA-100 and the occurrence of major
      cardiovascular events in 130 patients undergoing coronary angioplasty followed up for 6
      months, we plan to include 150-200 patients into the present study. The total inclusion
      period is estimated to be 1 year. Therefore, a total of 2 to 2.5 years will be needed to
      complete this study. In the first year, we will analyze (1) the correlations between various
      platelet parameters and coronary angiographic findings; (2) the correlations among different
      platelet function measurements; and (3) the responsiveness of CADP-CT on high-dose
      clopidogrel loading.

      In the second year, we will (1) analyze the predictability of various platelet parameters, at
      different point of time (baseline, after clopidogrel loading, at study end), on the
      occurrence of MACE and (2) establish a risk-prediction schema for patients undergoing
      coronary angioplasty. A pre-defined threshold value for the collagen-epinephrine closure time
      is set at 190 s, since this value has been recommended by other investigators to
      differentiate the presence or absence of aspirin resistance. A pre-defined threshold value
      for the collagen-ADP closure time is set at 90 s, since we found in our pilot study that this
      value was associated with the best discriminating ability for identifying patients developing
      MACE. In the third year, genetic background determining the PFA-100 closure time and levels
      of plasma markers of platelet activation will be explored by analyzing the relationships
      between various SNP/haplotype patterns and values of different platelet function assessments.

      Clinical Significance-The present study will be the first to explore the clinical role of
      platelet function assessment both at baseline, after high-dose clopidogrel loading, and at
      study end. It may give us great insights regarding how to treat high-risk patients adequately
      with antiplatelet agents.
    
  