
    
      PLEASE NOTE: The grant for this project was approved under the title "Tobacco Treatment for
      Employable Californians," abbreviated "TTEC."

      However, as this study is being run under the principles of community- based participatory
      research, the Stanford team provided the community advisors and representatives of the
      recruitment sites the opportunity to create a name they felt better conveyed the interests
      and goals of the study to potential participants. As such, the term Total IMPACT Study is
      used on all participant-facing materials.

      Dr. Prochaska will oversee study procedures for participant recruitment, informed consent,
      data collection, analysis, and dissemination. IRB approved study flyers and e-communications
      will promote the study with a central study contact phone number and email address held by
      the study coordinator. The study will follow the Dillman method for electronic communications
      inviting and encouraging potential respondents to participate. For systematic data collection
      and storage, all assessments will be conducted using Qualtrics or RedCap for online data
      collection with data encryption for added security protection.

      Face-to-face informed consenting procedures occur onsite at the employment agencies. Some
      participants may call in and get preliminarily screened for eligibility over the phone, but
      will be directed to meet with on-site staff to begin the consent process. Hired and trained
      field research study staff will be recent job-seeking clients from the agencies who will
      complete the informed consenting procedures with participants, obtain collateral contact
      information for follow-up contacts, and provide participants with a study ID code and the
      website URL for completing the online survey. The collateral contact information will be used
      if research staff cannot reach the participant directly. Study staff may ask collateral
      contacts for updated contact information as well as updated smoking and/or employment status
      (e.g., "Has [name] been smoking recently?" "Do you know if [name] is currently working?)

      Study eligibility will be defined as unemployed and job seeking at a participating America's
      Job Centers of California (AJCC) organization and currently smoking 1 or more cigarettes
      daily and at least 100+ cigarettes in one's lifetime with a carbon monoxide (CO) breath
      sample of 10 ppm or greater. The CO sample will be taken prior to consenting potential
      participants. Participants must be 18 years or older, English literate, able to provide at
      least three collateral sources of contact for follow-up assessments, and not immediately
      planning to relocate out of California (though researchers would continue to follow-up with
      participants who move out of area, and the research team has demonstrated success with doing
      so in prior studies). Dual use of e-cigarettes will not be an exclusion criterion.

      If a participant meets all eligibility criteria, the baseline assessment will be completed
      on-site at the employment agency.

      A computer-generated stratified random assignment program will randomize individuals based on
      their recruitment location, heaviness of smoking (> 1 pack/week), and stage of change, the
      last two variables known to be related to outcomes and addressed by the intervention.
      Participants will be given study materials appropriate to their assigned study condition
      directly after completing the baseline survey on-site.

      The online surveys will not collect any personal identifying information. Assessments will be
      conducted at baseline and 3- and 6-months follow-up. The surveys will take about 40 minutes
      to complete. If participants cannot come in person to do the survey, research staff will send
      them the URL link, complete it over the phone, or send a modified version in the mail.

      As part of data collection, participants will be asked to provide a resume or curriculum
      vitae at the baseline interview, either as a hard copy or by email, which will be
      de-identified (participant name and address removed). The resumes will not be shared with
      staff of the employment service facilities. In a more detailed manner than captured by the
      self-report online survey, the resumes will provide useful information on prior employment (#
      of jobs, industry, positions held, length of employment) and education as well as an
      indication of participant communication/organization skills in self-presentation of
      employment strengths. Participants will have the option to opt out of providing the resume.

      The two study conditions are: Tobacco Intervention (n=180) and Usual Care Control group
      (n=180).

      The tobacco treatment includes: (a) a Transtheoretical-model (TTM) tailored,
      computer-assisted web-delivered program focused on increasing intrinsic motivation, (b) a
      stage-tailored treatment manual with goal setting for quitting tobacco, and (c) education on
      proper use of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT, patch plus gum or lozenge) with guidance on
      obtaining low-cost or free NRT through MediCal, private insurance plans, and community
      programs.

      The computer program assesses stage of change and TTM constructs of temptations, decisional
      balance, and processes of change. Repeat intervention contacts occur at baseline, 3- and
      6-months follow-up, providing iterative computerized feedback reflecting prior responses with
      encouragement for quitting smoking and relapse prevention.

      Usual care: Participants complete the study assessments at baseline, 3- and 6-months and will
      receive referrals to tobacco treatment in the community, including the state quitline, in
      line with the public health "Ask, Advise, Refer" model of tobacco cessation intervention.

      Measures:

      Primary Tobacco Outcome: At baseline and follow-ups, past 7-day use of conventional
      cigarettes, alternative tobacco (smokeless, snus), and electronic nicotine devices (ENDS,
      e.g., e-cigarettes) with details on cigarettes/day, frequency, brand, flavor, strength, and
      quit attempts are assessed. For biochemical verification, participants reporting 7-day PPA at
      follow-up will have an expired CO sample evaluated using a Bedfont Smokerlyzer. Participants
      with CO < 8 ppm indicating nonsmoking will provide a saliva sample for testing with of
      cotinine with an Accutest® NicAlertTM test strip at the 3- and 6-month follow-ups. Salivary
      cotinine levels < 15 ng/ml will confirm nonsmoking. Additionally, participants reporting
      being quit will be asked to provide a urine sample to test for the presence of anabasine (if
      they have quit smoking but are still using nicotine replacement or another nicotine
      containing product). Anabasine is an alternative indicator of tobacco exposure that is
      separate from nicotine.

      For participants lost to follow-up or unable to return for biochemical verification, a saliva
      cotinine test will be mailed, along with a prepaid envelope to return their results to study
      staff in.

      Secondary Tobacco Outcomes: 3-mo prolonged abstinence from the 3- to 6-mo assessment,
      applying NHLBI's definition of relapse (i.e., smoking on 7 consecutive days or smoking at
      least once each week over 2 consecutive weeks);42 reduction in cigarettes per week; and given
      the uncertainty in the field with respect to how to treat ENDS, will examine the proportion
      of the sample abstinent from conventional cigarettes and all tobacco, allowing for ENDS use.

      The observational Personal Professional Presence (P3) checklist scale is currently being
      pilot tested, and evaluation in relation to measured CO levels will be analyzed as an
      indicator of treatment compliance and used as an instrumental variable in tobacco outcome
      analyses.

      Employment Outcomes: The primary employment outcome of interest is how quickly participants
      find employment, measured in weeks. Time out of work is assessed at baseline.

      Secondary employment outcomes of interest are: employment status at each follow-up and
      employment secured at any point in time during the study assessed at 3- and 6-month
      follow-up. Additional details are obtained on type of position, pay/salary, fit between the
      secured and desired position, and changes in employment over time. The number of on-phone and
      in-person interviews also are recorded.

      Descriptive Measures. To describe the sample researchers will measure participant gender;
      age; ethnicity/race; education (years); income; subjective social standing in one's
      self-defined community and in the broader US; stability of housing; height/weight (BMI);
      employment history, including days since last regular employment; job search strategies;
      criminal history; home smoking rules; exposure to secondhand smoke; years of smoking;
      Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence; Stage of Change categorized as precontemplation,
      contemplation, preparation, action, and maintenance; and Thoughts about Abstinence assessing
      desire, expectancy of success, anticipated difficulty, and abstinence goal. Assessments of
      co-occurring substance use and abuse include ASI items 30 day substance use, AUDIT, and DAST.
      The staging health risk assessment assesses additional health risks and future behavioral
      targets.

      Lastly, a social network stem question where participants are asked to identify up to 10
      individuals (alters) in their social network who currently support them in their job search,
      indicating the strength of the connection, the frequency of contact, and the individuals' job
      and smoking status. Additional questions about the type of employment (field of employment
      and position within company) each alter has will be included.

      Process Measures. At baseline and each follow-up use of in-study and out-of-study cessation
      methods including dose, duration, and formulation of NRT, varenicline, bupropion, written
      materials, provider advice and counseling, quitlines, and other community cessation programs
      will be assessed. Assessment of study treatment acceptability will be completed by
      participants in both conditions with 5-items tapping relevance, usefulness, feasibility,
      level of engagement, perceived fit measured on 5-point Likert scales.
    
  