
    
      In Phase 1 of the study, the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) assessment period will be 5
      weeks---one-week run-in at each dose level of intravenous GP-2250 monotherapy followed by a
      full cycle of GP-2250 plus gemcitabine (3 weeks on and 1 week off). Single-subject cohorts
      will be enrolled until the occurrence of the first DLT, at which point cohorts will be
      expanded to 3 subjects. If there are no DLTs observed within the first 3 single subject
      cohorts, there will be an expansion to 3 subject cohorts beginning with Cohort#4. Between
      single-subject cohorts, dose escalation increments of GP-2250 will be 100%. Beginning with
      the Cohort#4 further dose escalation increments between cohorts will be 35% to 45%. Subjects
      may continue to receive treatment until disease progression by Response Evaluation Criteria
      In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 criteria, clinical disease progression as assessed by
      the Investigator, development of a DLT (in Phase 1) or unacceptable toxicity, the subject
      requests withdrawal, the subject meets one of the criteria for treatment discontinuation, the
      Investigator determines the risks outweigh the benefits of continuing therapy, withdrawal of
      subject consent, or closure of the trial by the Sponsor.

      In Phase 2, subjects will receive weekly doses of GP-2250 in combination with a standard dose
      of gemcitabine for 3 consecutive weeks (3 weeks on therapy and 1 week off). A Simon Two-Stage
      design will be used. In the first stage, 10 subjects will be enrolled. If at least 2
      responses are observed, an additional 19 subjects will be enrolled. If at the end of the
      Phase 2 stage of the trial at least 6/29 responders are observed, it can be concluded that
      the response rate (RR) with GP 2250+gemcitabine is consistent with that of approximately 30%.
      Subjects may continue to receive treatment until withdrawn by the Investigator, the subject
      requests withdrawal, unacceptable toxicity occurs, the subject meets one of the criteria for
      treatment discontinuation, or disease progression, or closure of the trial by the sponsor.
    
  