
    
      Up to one third of patients with clostridium difficile infection treated with antibiotics
      experience recurrent or relapsing symptoms within a few weeks. Even with subsequent
      antibiotic treatment, multiple recurrences/relapses are frequent. Fecal microbiota
      transplantation (FMT) has been shown to be significantly more effective in curing recurrent
      CDI than repeated antibiotic treatment. In current guidelines, FMT is proposed as a treatment
      option after multiple recurrences/relapses of CDI. The rationale to reserve transplantation
      of donor feces for recurrent and difficult cases of CDI is a possible risk of pathogen
      transmittance and the cumbersome and costly process of finding a donor and screen for
      communicable disease. The effect of FMT for recurrent CDI, however, suggests that this
      therapy may be more effective than antibiotics in inducing a durable cure also for primary
      CDI.

      We aim to use an anaerobically cultivated human intestinal microbiota (ACHIM) that has been
      extensively tested for pathogens, from a donor screened for communicable diseases, to avoid
      the need for a case-by-case donor screening. The term Intestinal Microbiota Therapy (IMT)
      will be used to describe the ACHIM treatment.

      Patients with a first occurrence of CDI defined by diarrhea, as defined by the World Health
      Organization, and a positive stool test for toxigenic Clostridium difficile will be
      randomized 1:1 to either a 10-day course of metronidazole 400 mg t.i.d. or a rectal
      instillation of 60 ml ACHIM suspension.

      Patients will be contacted on day 4 by an unblinded study investigator and on days 35 and 70
      by a blinded study investigator to evaluate the treatment effect. In addition, the patients
      will register the frequency of bowel movements on days 1-4, 7, 14 and 21.

      In the case of clinical deterioration, appropriate measures will be undertaken according to
      current guidelines.

      A second instillation of ACHIM suspension will be considered on day 4 in the absence of
      clinical improvement.

      The primary endpoint is the rate of primary cure from CDI and no sign of relapse/recurrence
      within 70 days, or persistent diarrhea that could be explained by other causes with three
      consecutive negative stool tests for toxigenic Clostridium difficile.

      Treatment failure is defined as persistent diarrhea with a positive stool test for toxigenic
      Clostridium difficile.

      Relapsing or recurrent CDI is defined as diarrhea and a positive stool test for toxigenic
      Clostridium difficile within 70 days of treatment initiation after an initial resolution of
      diarrhea.

      Preliminary sample size is estimated from a hypothesis of a primary cure rate without
      recurrence within 70 days of 75 % with metronidazole vs. 87.5 % with IMT.

      An interim analysis is planned after inclusion of the first 40 patients to guide the final
      sample size estimation.

      Patients will be recruited at six hospitals in South-East Norway.

      Before the start of the pilot phase, an independent data safety and monitoring board (DSMB)
      was established to monitor potential adverse events, and to advise the study team on the
      results of the pilot phase of the trial with regard to benefits and harms of the treatment,
      recruitment, and organization.

      We recognized a slower than anticipated recruitment during the pilot phase of the trial. The
      slow recruitment was due to the current clinical practice of rapid initiation of antibiotic
      therapy by clinicians, before the trial team could ascertain eligible patients for enrolment.

      After the inclusion of 20 eligible patients with concluded follow-up in January 2018, the
      DSMB met with the trial investigators on January 29 (2018), to discuss the results of the
      pilot phase. In light of the results, the DSMB recommended to start preparations for the main
      phase of the trial to validate the magnitude of the effects of FMT in primary CDI. Further,
      due to the nature of the results of the pilot and its potential implications on clinical
      practice, the DSMB recommended publication of the pilot data. This was also deemed necessary
      for adequate recruitment of the main trial.
    
  