
    
      Microalbuminuria and clinical albuminuria were defined as urinary albumin excretion rate 30
      mg/g creatinine and 300 mg/g creatinine, respectively (6).

      CBP was measured once in each clinic visit. HBP was measured every day in the morning within
      10 minutes after awakening in the sitting position, but HBP value assessed for this study
      used the value measured once in the same morning at each clinic visit.

      Clinic hypertension (CH) and morning hypertension (MH) were defined as systolic BP (SBP) 130
      mmHg and/or diastolic BP (DBP) 85 mmHg; clinic normotension (CN) and morning normotension
      (MN) were defined as SBP <130 mmHg and DBP <85 mmHg, respectively. .

      Microvascular complications included nephropathy, neuropathy, and retinopathy. Severity of
      nephropathy was determined based on albuminuria using four categories: normal, 0 points;
      microalbuminuria, 1 point; clinical albuminuria, 2 points; and dialysis, 3 points. Severity
      of neuropathy was categorized as normal, 0 points; chronic sensorimotor distal symmetric
      polyneuropathy and/or cardiac autonomic neuropathy, 1 point. Severity of retinopathy was
      determined using four categories: normal, 0 points; simple, 1 point; pre-proliferative, 2
      points; and proliferative, 3 points. Development of new, worsened, or improved
      microangiopathy was defined according to a change of at least one step from baseline.

      Macrovascular complications included coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and
      peripheral artery obstruction. Severity of macrovascular events was categorized using two
      categories: normal, 0 points; and coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, or
      peripheral artery obstruction, 1 point (3). New, worsened (recurrent), or improved events
      were defined based on clinical manifestations and treatment throughout the study.

      For ethical reasons, patients were treated with various anti-hypertensive, anti-diabetic,
      anti-dyslipidemia, anti-hypercoagulation and other agents during course of the study by their
      own doctors.

      Outcome results considered only the first event in each subject (3). Primary end-point was
      death from any cause (3). Secondary end-points were new, worsened, or improved microvascular
      and macrovascular events (3).

      4) Risk factor assessment for outcomes. Risk factors at end-point in ? participants related
      to each outcome were determined, and therapy which was added to baseline therapy used for
      each disease in patients with MH was recorded at base- and end-points (3). The 6-month
      interval minimizes bias due to the fall or rise in the HBP or CBP measurement (10).

      Statistical analysis.

      1) Baseline. All results are presented as means ± SD. Mean values were compared using the
      paired or unpaired student t test. To compare the prevalence of micro- and macrovascular
      complications or medical treatment in patients with and without HT on basis of HBP or CBP
      (3), Fisher's exact test with two-tailed P values was used, and then hazard ratio and 95%
      confidence intervals were calculatein.

      End-points and outcome measures. Differences in outcomes for each end-point of death, and
      micro- and macrovascular complications between patients with HT and NT on basis of HBP or CBP
      at base- and end-points in the home or in the clinic, respectively, were assessed using
      Kaplan-Meier survival curves and then compared by hazard rate using the log-rank test.

      Risk factor assessment for outcomes. Risk factors determined to be statistically related to
      outcomes were assessed by Cox proportional hazard analysis.

      Analysis was performed using the Prism version software (GraphPad Software, CA, USA) and the
      Statistical Package for the Bioscience (ComWorks Co,Tokyo,Japan). Two-tailed values of P<0.05
      were considered statistically significant.
    
  