
    
      Low health literacy as a barrier to healthcare. Health literacy is defined as "the degree to
      which individuals have the capacity to obtain, process, and understand basic health
      information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions." A vast body of
      research shows that lower health literacy is associated with poorer outcomes, including
      higher hospitalization rates, worse health, and greater mortality. Approximately 75 million
      U.S. adults have low health literacy. Worse yet, racial and ethnic minorities and older
      individuals (age 65+) are more likely to have low health literacy, creating another mechanism
      for health disparities. These data indicate that many people will have difficulties adhering
      to treatment regimens that require health literacy, as well as completing questionnaires for
      public health and health research and care.

      Improving self-report assessment. Health surveys are ubiquitous, but almost no questionnaires
      used across the country have been validated for use with people who have low health literacy.
      This is a glaring shortcoming in current survey validation methodology; inaccurate surveys
      lead to false conclusions and threaten the empirical foundation of everyone's efforts to
      understand and improve public health, healthcare, and health outcomes. Our goal is to rectify
      this shortcoming. This study will 1) determine the effect of health literacy on widely-used
      questionnaires, 2) determine the stability of psychometric properties of questionnaires over
      time, and 3) test various testing formats to determine which ones work best for people with
      low health literacy.

      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the study will implement phone-based assessments in addition to
      the original in-person protocol described above. The phone-based assessments will only be
      available to enrolled or previously enrolled participants. Participants will be asked
      questionnaires over the phone by a research coordinator at 3 time-points over 6 months.
    
  