
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third commonest cancer and second highest cause of cancer death in
      the United Kingdom (UK). Introduction of the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program and
      increasing awareness of symptoms of colorectal cancer will lead to an increase in numbers of
      cancers detected at an early stage of the disease. Standard surgical management, however,
      remains unchanged and that is segmental colectomy with en bloc mesenteric resection of the
      regional lymph nodes as the metastatic status of these nodes remains the most important
      factor for determining adjuvant treatment.

      This of course was appropriate when the majority of the patients diagnosed with colorectal
      cancer presented with symptomatic, locally advanced disease. Our practice, however, needs to
      be reconsidered in the view of the recently published data from screening centres. Pilot
      results demonstrate a significant shift towards an earlier stage of the disease in the
      screened population and suggests that, in future, up to 50% of screen detected-cancers will
      be T1 or T2 (i.e. early stage disease) 1. Less than 15% of patients with T1 and T2 disease
      have nodal involvement 2 but current radiological techniques are not sensitive enough to
      identify these patients pre-operatively. Instead, major surgery is performed in all patients
      with T1 and T2 stage colonic cancer, and in up to 85%, en bloc mesenteric resection provides
      no therapeutic benefit, as they have node negative disease. Major resection also exposes
      patients to a significant risk of morbidity and mortality, along with late side effects.

      The concept of sentinel lymph node mapping (SLNM) in colorectal cancer is not new and
      although it has not had the same impact as in the clinical care of breast cancer, melanoma,
      and more recently gastric cancer 3-6, some expert centres have suggested that it may be
      clinically relevant 7, 8. The technique is based on the principle that the first possible
      sites of metastasis along the lymphatic drainage route from the primary lesion are known as
      sentinel lymph nodes (SLNs) and these can be detected using injection of dyes, radioisotopes
      or a combination of both. Therefore, evaluation of the SLNs can result in an accurate
      assessment of the nodal status in the entire lymphatic basin allowing a tailored surgical
      treatment. Although this technique has transformed surgical care for melanoma and breast
      cancer patients, its application in patients with colorectal cancer has been questioned due
      to discrepancies in the reported results caused by the heterogeneous study designs employed,
      variations in surgical experience and differing patient inclusion criteria 9-11.

      Detailed analysis of studies performed to date shows that tumour and patient characterisation
      as well as surgeons experience are key factors when assessing the utility of the technique 2,
      12 and at least three nodes need to be found in order to maximise this 13. The main research
      focus so far has been on optimising the technique itself. Initial research was performed
      using blue dye, radioactive colloid or both in combination but this failed to achieve the
      95-97% identification rates found in breast cancer and was also accompanied by unacceptable
      false negative rates 14-17. Although many authors noted that their false negatives occurred
      predominantly in patients with advanced disease (T3 and T4 cancers) 18-20, utilisation of
      those identification agents has proven frustrating to date. Radioactive colloids require
      involvement of a nuclear medicine physician, can be difficult to localise with a handheld
      camera and cause signal interference if the SLN(s) is too close to the injection site. Blue
      dyes however are difficult to localise in patients with a high body mass index (BMI), who
      unfortunately comprise the majority of our patient population, thus producing only limited
      (if any) visualisation of afferent lymphatic vessels and SLN(s).

      In order to re-examine extensive research that has been reported on SLNM, a secondary
      intention analysis of the two largest multicentre SLN databases was undertaken. This reported
      that in 225 patients with T1 or T2 disease, accurate detection of SLNs was possible in 95%,
      confirming that this staging technique should be most accurate in patients with early colonic
      cancer 2. This improved with operator experience and when tumour size was smaller than 35 mm
      in diameter. In 196 patients treated by experienced surgeons, 144 (73.4%), would have
      correctly undergone localised full thickness resection if surgery had been based only on
      their SLNs status and 49 (25.0%), would have required conventional resection either because
      the SLNs were not identified, or due to detection of metastases. Only 3 patients (1.5%) would
      have been inappropriately predicted to be node negative.

      To overcome the aforementioned issues, a number of researchers have utilized optical imaging
      using the near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence lymphatic tracer indocyanine green (ICG) which
      enables real-time intraoperative visualisation of lymphatic channels and SLNs. The technique
      performs as well as the combination of a radioactive tracer and blue dye in patients with
      breast cancer 21, and has also been validated in patients with early gastric cancer 4-6.

      ICG was initially recommended as a tattooing agent for colonic and pancreatic lesions to aid
      perioperative localization 22-24, as there were no reports of complications such as focal
      peritonitis, abscess formation, postoperative adhesions and ileus which had been seen with
      the use of India ink 25-27. However, its use as a tattooing agent is limited to patients
      undergoing surgery within 8 days after endoscopic injection, as the dye dissipates through
      lymphatic channels due to its small molecular size 22. More recently, its fluorescence
      properties have been utilised for intraoperative localisation of colorectal neoplasms and
      associated SLNs 28-32 in patients undergoing surgery using either charge-coupled device (CCD)
      or a NIR camera. Nagata et al. demonstrated that observation of ICG dye using a NIR camera
      was far superior to that by conventional laparoscopy with identification of SLNs being five
      times better 29. These results suggest that a SLNM technique using NIR with a fluorescent
      tracer may be useful in patients with a high BMI who have large amounts of mesenteric adipose
      tissue. All authors reporting the NIR technique have noted its success in colorectal
      practice, without adverse effects with a comparable role to its use in early breast or
      gastric cancer.

      The ability to utilise this technique and confidently identify the SLNs has the potential to
      transform the surgical care of patients with colonic neoplasia. The focus, however, must be
      on patients with early disease, thus allowing those who have node negative disease to be
      considered for localised full thickness resection of their primary cancer as definitive
      surgical therapy. Unfortunately, studies published to date have included patients with T3
      disease in their series 29, 31.

      This pilot trial aims to apply a well-described technique using a NIR camera and ICG as the
      tracer in order to clarify whether SLNs can be confidently identified in patients undergoing
      conventional resection (segmental colectomy and en bloc mesenteric resection) for T1 and T2
      colonic cancers. This protocol is based on extensive literature search of studies describing
      the technique in patients with early gastric and colorectal cancers 5, 6, 29-31, 33-36.
      Provided that the pilot trial is successful, and in order to obtain adequate power, a further
      large multicentre trial will be required to determine whether the nodes visualised by NIR
      mapping are representative of the patient's lymphatic basin metastatic status. Proven
      concordance between the pathology of the SLNs and that of the standard nodal resection would
      then justify a more limited surgical intervention, taking just the SLN(s), and allowing a
      more precisely tailored operative intervention.

      All patients in the pilot trial will undergo standard surgical treatment in addition to the
      NIR SLNM technique.
    
  