
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether tumor dose can be escalated to improve the freedom from
      local-regional progression-free (LRPF) rate at 2 years when an individualized adaptive
      radiation treatment (RT) plan is applied by the use of a fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron
      emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan acquired during the course of
      fractionated RT in patients with inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
      (National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project [NSABP], Radiation Therapy Oncology
      Group [RTOG], Gynecologic Oncology Group [GOG] [NRG] Oncology) II. To determine whether the
      relative change in standard uptake value (SUV) peak from the baseline to the during-treatment
      FDG-PET/CT, defined as (during-treatment SUVpeak - baseline SUVpeak)/baseline SUV peak x
      100%, can predict the LRPF rate with a 2-year follow up. (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
      [ECOG]-American College of Radiology Imaging Network [ACRIN])

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether an individualized dose escalation improves overall survival (OS),
      progression-free survival (PFS), lung cancer cause-specific survival, and delays time to
      local-regional progression compared to a conventional RT plan. (NRG Oncology) II. To compare
      the rate of severe (grade 3+ Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE], v. 4)
      radiation-induced lung toxicity (RILT) defined as severe RILT pneumonitis or clinical
      fibrosis. (NRG Oncology) III. To compare other severe adverse events, including grade 3+
      (CTCAE, v. 4) esophagitis or grade 2 pericardial effusions, or any grade cardiac adverse
      events related to chemoradiation between a PET/CT-guided adaptive approach and a conventional
      RT plan. (NRG Oncology) IV. To evaluate the association of baseline 18F-fluoromisonidazole
      (FMISO), a PET/CT imaging agent uptake (tumor-to-blood pool ratio) with LRPF (i.e., the
      assessment of using baseline FMISO-PET uptake as a prognostic marker). (ECOG-ACRIN) V. To
      determine if the relative change in SUVpeak from baseline to during-treatment FDG-PET/CT
      and/or baseline FMISO uptake (tumor-to-blood pool ratio) predicts the differential benefit of
      the adaptive therapy, i.e., the association of uptake parameters with LRPF rate depending on
      the assigned treatment thus, assessing if these uptake parameters can be useful in guiding
      therapies, i.e., predictive markers. (ECOG-ACRIN) VI. To determine if other PET-imaging
      uptake parameters (SUV peak during-treatment for FDG-PET, maximum SUV, or relative change of
      maximum SUVs from pre- to during-treatment FDG-PET/CT, change in metabolic tumor volume,
      FMISO total hypoxic volume, FMISO tumor to mediastinum ratio, EORTC or University of
      Michigan/Kong's response criteria) will predict OS, LRPF rate, and lung cancer cause-specific
      (LCS) survival as well as to explore the optimal threshold for differentiating responders
      from non-responders. (ECOG-ACRIN)

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study whether a model of combining current clinical and/or imaging factors with blood
      markers, including osteopontin (OPN) [for hypoxia marker], carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and
      cytokeratin fragment (CYFRA) 21-1 (for tumor burden), and interleukin (IL)-6 (inflammation)
      will predict the 2-year LRPF rate and survival better than a current model using clinical
      factors and radiation dose as well as imaging factors.

      II. To determine/validate whether a model of combining mean lung dose (MLD), transforming
      growth factor beta1 (TGF beta1) and IL-8 will improve the predictive accuracy for clinical
      significant RILT better comparing to the current model of using MLD alone.

      III. To explore, in a preliminary manner, whether proteomic and genomic markers in the blood
      prior to and during the early course of treatment are associated with tumor response after
      completion of treatment, LRPF rate, PFS, OS, and pattern of failure and treatment-related
      adverse events, such as radiation pneumonitis, esophagitis, and pericardial effusion.
      (exploratory)

      OUTLINE:

      Prior to treatment, patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) positron emission tomography
      (PET) and computed tomography (CT) scans at baseline and periodically during study. A subset
      of patients also undergo 18F-fluoromisonidazole PET/CT scan at baseline. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      ARM I (standard chemoradiotherapy): Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily (QD) 5 days a
      week for 30 fractions. Patients also receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks. Patients undergo FDG-PET/CT imaging
      between fractions 18 and 19.

      ARM II (experimental chemoradiotherapy): Patients undergo an individualized dose of
      image-guided radiotherapy QD 5 days a week for 30 fractions and undergo 18 F FDG-PET/CT
      between fractions 18 and 19. Based on the scan results, patients undergo individualized
      adaptive radiotherapy for the final 9 fractions. Patients also receive paclitaxel and
      carboplatin as in Arm I.

      CONSOLIDATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Beginning 4-6 weeks after chemoradiotherapy, patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for
      1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  