
    
      Among Veterans receiving healthcare from the Veterans Health Administration (VA), there has
      been sharp rise in the number of veterans diagnosed with opioid use disorder (OUD). In 2013,
      25,031 Veterans had OUD and in 2017, Veterans with OUD nearly tripled to 69,142.6 As the
      largest direct provider of addiction treatment nationally, VA has taken steps to increase
      access to medication treatment for OUD, which is recognized as an essential component of
      evidence-based care.

      The treatment of OUD involves several FDA-approved, VA formulary medications including
      naltrexone, methadone, and buprenorphine/naloxone and buprenorphine (hereafter collectively
      termed buprenorphine). Strong evidence supports the treatment of OUD with medications, and
      they are the "gold standard" treatments for OUD. Medications for OUD have been shown to
      substantially decrease risk for all-cause mortality and overdose mortality in people with
      opioid use disorder. Unlike methadone, buprenorphine for OUD can be prescribed in
      office-based settings such as primary care, and buprenorphine delivered in primary care is
      associated with decreased opioid use, higher quality of care, and improved quality of life.
      Medication treatment includes dispensation of methadone and buprenorphine in licensed opioid
      treatment programs (OTPs) and prescriptions of buprenorphine and naltrexone in office-based
      settings. Because there are only 32 licensed OTPs in the VA, buprenorphine and naltrexone
      prescriptions are the means to improve access to medication treatment for Veterans with OUD.
      Uptake of medication treatment, however, has been slow and uneven in the VA. In 2017, 35% of
      Veterans diagnosed with OUD had received OUD medications.

      In VISN19, rates of OUD and OUD treatment are low and heterogeneous across facilities and
      compared with the national average (35%), fewer patients with OUD are on OUD medications
      (21%) in VISN19. Multiple initiatives have been instituted to improve access to medication
      treatment for Veterans with OUD, particularly in non-specialty office-based settings. In
      2007, VA introduced the Buprenorphine in the VA Initiative (BIV; Director Gordon), a national
      consult service, which aimed to improve care processes and patient outcomes associated with
      buprenorphine. In 2010, VA unrolled Academic Detailing program in which pharmacy specialists
      take on high-priority pharmaceutical education campaigns. An Academic Detailing campaign
      specifically targeting the treatment of opioid use disorder was initiated in 2017. Further
      improving access to evidence-based medication treatment of OUD remains a priority for VA and
      VISN19.
    
  