
    
      Statins reduce intracellular cholesterol synthesis by interfering with the limiting enzyme
      HMGCoA reductase. A lower intracellular cholesterol concentration leads to activation of the
      transcription factor SREBP 2 upregulating LDL receptor synthesis. In general, intracellular
      cholesterol homeostasis achieves a new physiological equilibrium at lower cholesterol
      concentrations. Moreover, the effect of cholesterol pathway inhibition has also an effect on
      farnesyl and geranyl molecules formation influencing protein prenylation leading to changes
      on inflammation and immunomodulation in vitro.

      Changes in intracellular cholesterol alter cell membrane composition, particularly the
      structures referred to cholesterol rafts that accommodate a huge number of cell surface
      proteins as receptors. Theoretically, alterations in cholesterol rafts could derange the
      function of some receptors Some preliminary studies on cell models have suggested that
      statins could interfere the activity of some membrane viral receptors blunting its entry to
      cell (Berraondo P et al CIMA nonpublished data). SARS-cov-2 goes into cells through the
      Angiotensin Converser Enzyme 2 (ACE2) which is located in the surface of several cells
      including lung cells. It has been suggested that simvastatin could have a role in SARS-cov-2
      infection by blocking the virus entry to cell. However, atorvastatin has been shown to
      increase ACE2 expression in animal models. Moreover, intracellular cholesterol content seems
      to influence the virus uptake.

      Severe SARS-cov-2 infection is mediated by an inflammatory storm resulting in a deep tissue
      injury, endothelial damage, prothrombotic state and multiorgan failure. As mentioned above,
      statins also have some potent anti-inflammatory effects as modulating TNF, the NFkB
      transcription factor or blocking some members of the Tool Like Receptor family as TLR4-9 and
      its downstream cofactor MYD88. This anti-inflammatory effect has been implicated in a better
      prognosis of some diseases as HBV or HCV chronic infection, limiting the progression of
      hepatic damage to chronic liver disease or hepatocarcinoma. The impact of statin use on
      influenza epidemics has been repetitively assessed but contradictory or non-conclusive
      results have been obtained. The combination of statins and angiotensin receptor blockers have
      shown an important protective effect on other epidemics as Ebola, probably to their action on
      endothelium protection. A protective effect of statins on pulmonary hypertension development
      in a primate HIV model has also been reported. Although, in general all these pleiotropic
      effects of statins have been shown in vitro and its clinical impact is not clear, a clinical
      assay to test the efficacy of simvastatin on SARS-cov-2 is going on. Recently an
      observational study including more than 8000 patients infected by Sars-Cov-2 showed the
      protective effect of being on statins or ACE inhibitors. Taken into account its widespread
      use and putative effects on viral entry, inflammation, immune mechanisms and endothelial
      function, the use of standard therapies as statins have been postulated to target the host
      response to new virus pandemics.
    
  