
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether progression free survival (PFS) is superior after therapy with
      bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride) in combination with rituximab, ibrutinib alone, or
      ibrutinib in combination with rituximab in patients age 65 or older with previously untreated
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine 2-year PFS in each of the three treatment arms. II. To determine which
      treatment arm produces superior overall survival (OS). III. To determine the complete
      response (CR) rate, complete and nodular partial response (CR/nPR) rate, and overall response
      (PR+nPR+CR) rate (ORR) among the three treatment arms and compare these arms.

      IV. To determine the impact of minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative disease at time of CR
      documentation and at 2 years on PFS and OS in each of the treatment arms.

      V. To determine duration of response after each of the three treatments and compare these
      treatment arms.

      VI. To determine toxicity and tolerability of the three treatment regimens.

      OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether baseline cytogenetic markers, zeta-chain (TCR) associated protein
      kinase 70kDa (Zap-70) methylation, immunoglobulin variable region (IgVH) mutational status,
      or select deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations predict outcomes or time to response in these
      three arms.

      II. To determine whether local fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) results for
      del(11q22.3) and del(17p13.1) are consistent with central analysis.

      III. To determine whether baseline micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) and gene expression markers
      are correlated with clinical outcomes of interest (e.g. progression-free and alive at 2 years
      versus not), as well as to explore changes in microRNA expression from baseline to
      post-treatment time points, with a focus on those with persistent lymphocytosis and relapse.

      IV. To determine whether eradication of MRD predicts longer duration of response with
      standard therapy and ibrutinib-based regimens.

      V. To describe the baseline functional status, comorbid medical conditions, and number of
      medications of older CLL patients who meet criteria for therapy.

      VI. To determine how functional status changes with therapy using baseline to 3-month
      evaluation and end-of-study/2-year evaluation; to determine whether this change is different
      among the treatment groups.

      VII. To determine whether geriatric assessment variables known to be associated with
      chemotherapy toxicity in other disease groups can also predict therapy-associated toxicity in
      the CLL population.

      VIII. To assess whether the Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IIIa, receptor (CD16a) (FCGR3A)
      polymorphism (rs396991) is correlated with depth of response (MRD status) to ibrutinib plus
      rituximab after 6 cycles, with secondary endpoints CR rate, rapidity of response, and
      progression-free survival (PFS).

      IX. To assess whether complement component 1, q subcomponent, A chain (C1QA) polymorphism
      (rs172378) is correlated with MRD status, CR rate, rapidity of response, and PFS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 (day 0 course 1) and
      bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      experiencing disease progression may crossover to Arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive ibrutinib as in Arm II. Patients receive rituximab IV on days 1, 8,
      15, and 22 of course 2 and on day 1 of courses 3-6. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 10
      years.
    
  