
    
      This project is a multidisciplinary study, with available technology, which aims are to
      provide more data to consolidate the techniques of central and peripheral neuromodulation in
      the treatment of myofascial pain with a component in the craniofacial complex . This is a
      randomized, double-dummy, factorial, blind, parallel, placebo - sham controlled clinical
      trial. The issues investigated in this study include important public health problem because
      chronic musculoskeletal pain affects 30 % of the world population , according to WHO. Around
      75-80 % of people seeking health care for pain and that 40% of adults suffer from some type
      of chronic pain. According to the severity of the problem , the International Association for
      the Study of Pain has defined the year 2010 as the International Year Against Musculoskeletal
      Pain, facing the increasing prevalence and the limited impact of the classical therapeutic
      interventions ( ~ 30 % ). Possibly, part of this poor response is due to the limitation of
      pathophysiological knowledge, few resources in diagnostic methods and the consequent
      implementation of measures that do not reach the main routes of this disease process. It is
      important to mention that epidemiological studies have greatly contributed to improve the
      understanding of the process of these musculoskeletal diseases, but increase few knowledge
      about the understanding of the pathophysiology, diagnostic and therapeutic developments. It
      is important to highlight that evidence has shown strong association of musculoskeletal
      pathologies conditions and chronic stress. This relationship is cascading and permeated by
      manifestations suggest that the neuro-immune-endocrine axis, such as poor sleep quality,
      anxiety symptoms, depressive symptoms, increased susceptibility to infections and
      manifestations of neuro-vegetative dysfunctions. Thus, this project will examine whether the
      hypothesis that the application of central and peripheral neuromodulatory therapies can have
      a positive impact on possible systems implicated in the pathophysiological course of
      musculoskeletal disorders in the craniofacial complex, and evaluate clinical outcomes
      characterizing the process of rehabilitation of these patients.
    
  