
    
      This project will have both a prospective and retrospective component.

      Retrospective component:

      Primary Objective: To compare recall rates using 3D + 2D- vs. 2D mammogram in New Mexico
      women undergoing screening mammograms between 2013 and 2016. Data abstraction from the PENRAD
      database will be completed by staff in the Department of Radiology. Data abstraction for the
      chart review of the subgroup of State-funded patients will be conducted with HIPAA-compliant
      practices from the University of New Mexico Hospital (UNMH) electronic medical record. Data
      analysis will be performed by study investigators.

      Prospective component:

      Secondary Objective 1: To evaluate knowledge, attitudes, perceived barriers, intentions, and
      decisional influences (conflict, regret, satisfaction), and other psychosocial/cultural
      factors influencing breast cancer screening (including concerns over recall vs. radiation
      exposure) among medically underserved patients and to assess what impact 3D + 2D-mammography
      (with a potentially lower recall rate but higher radiation exposure) might have on those
      perceptions. Patients in Groups A and B will undergo 1:1 interviews. Patients in Group C will
      participate in a one-time focus group (6-8 women per group).

      Secondary Objective 2: To determine primary care providers' knowledge, attitudes, beliefs,
      and preferences regarding 3D + 2D vs. 2D- mammography. Providers will undergo interviews.

      Secondary Objective 3A: To evaluate breast cancer detection rate and biopsy positive
      predictive value in New Mexico women undergoing screening mammogram using 3D + 2D- vs. 2D-
      mammogram using PENRAD data collected from the group as a whole. This objective will be met
      via database query alone. No individual mammographic images will be evaluated.

      Secondary Objective 3B: To evaluate screening outcome, compliance with recall
      recommendations, breast cancer detection rate, positive predictive value, and demographics of
      interest in New Mexico women undergoing screening and offered 3-D mammography using
      retrospective chart review. Demographic variables will include age, self-reported ethnicity,
      city of residence, and health insurance type. This objective will be met via database query
      alone. No individual mammographic images will be evaluated.
    
  