
    
      Physical inactivity contributes greatly to the health care burden of older adults and is
      associated with a high prevalence of functional limitations, morbidity, and disability. Rates
      of physical inactivity are highest among older adults. Older veterans, compared non-veteran
      older adults, are more likely to be physically inactive and report more limitations in
      physical function. Increasing physical activity among older veterans is a promising approach
      to reduce the burden of chronic disease and its associated functional limitations. The
      purpose of this study is to determine whether a 12-month physical activity counseling
      program, compared to usual care, improves physical performance in a sample of older veterans
      The primary physical performance outcome is change in gait speed. Secondary objectives
      include examination of the effect of intervention between the two groups (intervention and
      usual care) on physical activity, self-reported physical function, and health-related quality
      of life. We also will estimate health care costs between the two groups to determine the
      short-term economic impact of the counseling in the VHA. Design. Randomized controlled
      clinical trial. Data collection. All consented patients will receive a baseline computer
      assisted interview and physical performance test to be repeated quarterly for one-year. The
      primary outcome is change in gait speed, which is highly predictive of subsequent
      institutionalization and mortality. Secondary outcome measures include: the SF-36 physical
      function and other relevant subscales, health-related quality of life, physical activity,
      self-efficacy, and personal functional goals. Differences between groups for non-routine
      outpatient clinic use and hospitalization will be explored. The cost of providing an
      intensive intervention (relative to the cost of usual care) will be calculated relative to
      functional changes between groups. Individuals randomized to the intervention group will
      receive a physical activity counseling intervention that includes four components. We will
      measure and assess change at each endpoint (3,6,9, 12, and 24 months) to determine short and
      long-term efficacy. Secondary analyses will include: (a) effect of intervention on
      self-reported physical function, physical activity, personal functional goals, and
      self-efficacy, and (b) comparison of outpatient clinic use and hospitalization costs between
      treatment arms relative to intervention costs. Duration Four years. Relevance to the VA.
      Because approximately 50% of veterans over age 74 have a limiting disability, it is
      imperative to explore strategies that will alter the course of functional decline of our
      aging veterans.
    
  