
    
      It is estimated that 250 million children do not reach their potential due to poverty,
      inadequate stimulation and associated risk factors in low and middle income countries.

      In Bangladesh more than 50% of children under 5 years are at risk of developmental delay.
      Urban population is about 28% and it is expected to rise to more than 40% by 2030. In fact,
      urbanization in Bangladesh is rapidly growing but is not well planned. Poor urban women and
      children are vulnerable in terms of health and education .

      The urban health care facilities are fragmented and patchy and every year rise in population
      is putting more pressure on health system. Moreover, there is huge economic disparity between
      rich and poor in the urban areas and poorer people have little access to health care due to
      both supply and demand barriers. So the situation is rolling more difficult every day.

      Ministry of Women and Children Affairs (MOWCA) has taken initiatives to help urban poor
      mothers through lactating allowance (LA) and limited health education programs. A study
      conducted in Zimbabwe documented that unconditional cash transfer showed an increase in
      receiving children's birth certificate and immunization in the age group of 0-4years and
      school attendance in 6-12 years. Recent systematic review concluded that unconditional cash
      transfer may not improve health services use in children and adult in low and middle income
      countries but may have positive impact on food choices and food security. It is expected that
      this urban lactating allowance will develop economic capacity of people, empower women,
      improve their quality of life and reduce gender gap.

      Very few ECD programs are available for poor urban children especially for the 1st thousand
      days. The idea is to develop a combined package integrating psycho social stimulation with
      the existing urban lactating allowance program and measuring its effects on disadvantaged
      children's development.

      As the urban health system is complex, patchy and fragmented, prior to this intervention an
      analysis will be done on ECD services and its bottleneck in the project area through
      Tanahashi framework. A facility assessment will be done to understand nature of ECD services.
      A meeting will be conducted with relevant experts to finalize the services delivery mechanism
      of the intervention.

      Research Design and Methods:

      This study will follow two sequential stages:

      Stage I: Understand nature and analyse bottleneck of ECD services in selected urban areas of
      Bangladesh through a survey using Tanahasi framework.

      Stage II: Document that adding ECD activities to urban lactating allowance program will
      improve children's cognition, motor, language and behaviour.

      Methodology for stage I:

      First, an analysis will be done on ECD program in urban area through Tanahashi framework. A
      documentation will be done on availability, accessibility, utilization and adequate coverage
      of the ECD activities.

      ECD and related services will be analyzed through:

      a) Household Survey and b) Facility assessment

        1. Household survey A survey will be conducted with 426 mothers having child less than five
           years. On an average 22 respondents will be recruited from each cluster. the total
           clusters will be 20.

           Sample size was calculated assuming 50% effective coverage, 20% error, 95% confidence
           interval and 10% refusal rate the total sample size calculated was 426 in an urban
           setting..

        2. Facility Assessment Moreover, ECD or relevant services will be collected through
           visiting service delivery facilities. government and private hospitals, NGOs and schools
           (kindergarten) will be visited and data will be collected on services available.

      At the end of this stage, a stakeholders meeting with relevant experts will be conducted to
      finalize a service delivery mechanism

      Methodology for stage II:

      The main aim is to document that adding ECD activities to urban lactating allowance program
      improves children's cognition, language and motor and behaviour.

      Study design:

      This is a cluster randomized controlled trial of the effects of adding psycho social
      stimulation to the existing lactating allowance of the country with 2 arms: i) Psycho social
      stimulation+ Urban lactating allowance and ii) Only urban lactating allowance.

      Selection of the study area:

      A municipality will be selected for this study. The Initial plan is to conduct the study in
      Rangpur City Corporation.

      Recruitment:

      There will be 20 clusters (10 interventions & 10 comparisons) and 30 mother child dyads in
      each cluster. In Rangpure City Corporation there are 33 Wards. A Ward will be considered as a
      cluster. Cluster will be assigned randomly to intervention or comparisions group. A buffer
      zone will be made to reduce spill over effect with remaining Wards and or villages.

      As the Government is providing urban lactating allowance to 2000 mothers in Rangpur City
      Corporation, it is expected that there will be approximately at least 50 mother child dyads
      in each cluster. 30 participants will be selected from the list considering mothers lower age
      and/or those with single child (if available).

      Sample Size:

      In total, sample is 600. Previous studies of psycho social stimulation alone achieved an
      effect size of 0.4 SD on children's development. In this study, lactating allowance (cash) as
      an intervention that might have also positive effect on the child development. But to be on
      the safe side, it is assumed that an effect size of 0.35 SD, 80% power, 95% confidence
      interval, 1.58 cluster design effect and 25% drop-out rate the sample size was calculated to
      be 300 in each arm with 30 children in each of the 20 clusters.

      Data Analysis:

      Data will be checked for normality. Appropriate measures will be taken if there are any
      abnormal distributions. Frequency table and percentage will be used to present nature of ECD
      services and its bottleneck. Service availability would be presented in a table through
      facility assessment and the bottlenecks (accessibility, utilization and coverage) will also
      be presented through interviews with mothers. For intervention trial, differences between
      groups in background characteristics will be analyzed using t-test for continuous variables
      and chi-square test for categorical variables.. Effect of the ECD intervention will be
      measured using intention-to-treat analysis controlling for the clustering effect in
      multivariate regression analysis. All covariates will be controlled and effect modifier and
      mulnicolinearity will be checked before regression analysis. Quality of life data will be
      analysed based on WHO guideline for WHOQoL tools.. Similarly, total score of SRQ will be
      calculated and then differences between arms will be analysed.

      Cost-effectiveness Analysis:

      The objective of the study is to estimate the resource use and costs associated with
      interventions. Direct and indirect cost will be measured for all the groups. Average costs
      per participants will be calculated by multiplying the cost of resource items by their
      respective unit costs. Outcomes will be generated from the study after the intervention and
      the differences will be measured before and after the intervention in two groups. Then the
      incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will be used in cost-effectiveness analysis.
    
  