
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Adequate pain management for combat casualties balances the need for emergent, life-saving
      care with the urgency to remove soldiers from harm's way. Control of pain in traumatic
      battlefield situations may be impossible until safe evacuation to a surgical facility is
      achieved and a wounded soldier can receive general anesthesia. Recent evidence suggests that
      neural plasticity in the central nervous system coupled with hyperstimulation of central
      neuronal pathways lead to neuropathological remodeling. This neural rewiring may result in
      chronic pain for patients who have experienced severe, unrelieved acute pain. In addition,
      the stress of combat along with the suffering of prolonged uncontrolled pain may contribute
      to psychological disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and substance
      abuse.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of early and aggressive advanced regional
      anesthesia on the chronic neuropathic pain, health related quality of life, and mental health
      of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) Veterans who have
      suffered a major limb injury in combat. An additional aim of this study is to quantify and
      characterize the short-term and long-term effects of traumatic combat limb injuries on
      post-injury acute pain, chronic pain, health related quality of life, functional status,
      social reintegration, psychological adjustment, and substance abuse behaviors in a population
      of injured military personnel.

      METHOD:

      This study employs a cohort repeated measures study design involving prospective data
      collection at scheduled intervals. Interviews with participants provide data on pain
      outcomes, psychiatric morbidities, and quality of life. Follow up evaluations conclude at the
      two year anniversary of the start of combat injury rehabilitation. Medical records
      information collected retrospectively from armed services treatment facilities provide data
      on the use of pain management therapies as well as individual responses to regional
      anesthesia.

      IMPLICATIONS FOR RESULTS:

      The findings of this study may impact the clinical field by providing information on the
      effectiveness and benefits of early advanced regional anesthesia for chronic pain control.
      This study may also provide data to determine whether regional anesthesia pain treatments
      prevent or reduce the development of psychological maladjustment disorders such as
      post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and substance abuse in a population of military
      personnel with combat limb injuries.
    
  