
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Dysport® (Medicis, Scottsdale, AZ) is the formulation (previously known as 52120 and
      Reloxin®) of Clostridium botulinum type A (BoNT-A) toxin-hemagglutinin complex to be used in
      the United States (US) cosmetic clinical program. It is identical to the Ipsen product
      marketed outside the United States and under clinical studies in the United States for
      cosmetic and non-cosmetic use. Dysport® injections are used to relax the musculature of the
      upper face, reducing the appearance of dynamic rhytids. Previously FDA-approved Botulinum
      type A toxins have been utilized in the upper face to treat glabellar rhytids for nearly two
      decades. Botox® Cosmetic (Allergan, Irvine, CA), is the first FDA-approved Botulinum toxin
      type A to be approved in the United States for the treatment of glabellar rhytids. Its
      efficacy and safety have been proven in multiple studies. However, no comparison to onset of
      action exists amongst the different BoNT-A products. This study seeks to compare the onset of
      action between two BoNT-A products, Dysport® and Botox® Cosmetic.

      BACKGROUND:

      Relaxation of facial musculature is routinely accomplished for cosmetic use by the use of
      Clostridium botulinum type A. Clostridium botulinum type A toxin reduces the recruitment of
      specific muscle groups. Many studies have been published in peer-reviewed medical journals
      regarding the cosmetic use of this biologic.2-11 Clostridium botulinum in the form of Botox®
      Cosmetic is FDA-approved for cosmetic use in the treatment of rhytids in the glabellar
      region. Dysport®, the brand name of the Ipsen product marketed outside the United States and
      under clinical studies in the United States for cosmetic and non-cosmetic use, and the
      current name now used under FDA-approval.

      Many studies have demonstrated the effect of botulinum toxin on facial rhytids produced by
      underlying coordinated muscle groups. Those of the glabellar area, upper forehead, lower
      forehead, periocular and perinasal area are particularly well-documented. Previous reports of
      Dysport® and Botox® Cosmetic medications show effective relaxation of glabellar rhytids after
      injection.12-17

      The most common adverse event (AE) seen following the use of Dysport® or Botox® Cosmetic for
      the treatment of blepharospasm is ptosis. Some patients have reported diplopia or symptoms
      resulting from the spread of effect to mid-facial muscles. Other AEs reported were injection
      site reaction, skin rashes, influenza-like symptoms, dry eyes, tearing, bruising, and eyelid
      swelling. Reversible ophthalmoplegia has been reported after excessive dosing.

      Multiple Phase II and III clinical studies have been conducted in North America to determine
      the optimal dosing of Dysport® for cosmetic use in the glabellar area, and 50 units of
      Dysport® is generally recognized as the optimal dosage for treatment of the glabellar region.
      Dysport® to Botox® Cosmetic dosing is generally a 2.5:1 or 3:1 unit for unit conversion. For
      the crows feet area, 10 units of Botox® Cosmetic at 4 injection points is used in a similar
      fashion, producing comparable results to 25 units of Dysport® at the same four injection
      points. What is not clear is whether one of these BoNT-A provide a quicker onset to action.
      This study intends to compare onset of action of both of these BoNT-A by daily live
      assessments of patients in the week following injection of either Dysport® or Botox®
      Cosmetic.

      INVESTIGATIONAL AGENTS:

      Dysport® is the formulation (previously known as 52120 and Reloxin®) of Clostridium botulinum
      type A toxin-hemagglutinin complex to be used in the United States (US) cosmetic clinical
      program. Reloxin® is identical to Dysport, the brand name of the Ipsen product marketed
      outside the United States and under clinical studies in the United States for cosmetic and
      non-cosmetic use.

      Dysport® will be supplied as a white, lyophilized powder containing 500 units of Clostridium
      botulinum type A toxin-hemagglutinin complex, 125 μg human serum albumin, and 2.5 mg of
      lactose. Study medication will be reconstituted at the investigational center with sterile
      physiological saline for injection without preservative.

      Botox® Cosmetic is supplied as a 100 unit vial of Clostridium botulinum type A exotoxin,
      sterilely prepared and vacuum-dried without preservatives. The vial also contains 0.5mg of
      albumin (human) and 0.9 mg of sodium chloride.

      DOSE RATIONAL AND RISKS/BENEFITS:

      Eligible patients will receive Dysport® (25 units) divided among 4 injection points (0.05 mL
      [6.25 units] per injection point) in the lateral orbital rhytid on one side and Botox®
      Cosmetic (10 units) divided among 4 injection points (0.05mL [2.5 units]) in the lateral
      orbital rhytid region on the contralateral side on Day 0 of the study.

      For Study Purposes:

      • For study purposes, only one injection session will be performed at Day 0 of the study.
      Subsequent follow-up visits will only monitor the effects of the single injection session at
      time 0.

      Packaging, Labeling, and Storage Active drug (Dysport®) vials, bearing a unique lot number,
      will be sent from Ipsen Biopharm Ltd. or Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation. Each vial will
      be labeled with a batch/lot number and unique sequential pack number. Beaufour Ipsen
      Industrie SAS will perform packaging and labeling of study medication vials in compliance
      with all regulatory requirements.

      Unused vials will be returned to Almedical or Medicis for final accounting and destruction.

      Active drug (Botox® Cosmetic) vials, bearing a unique lot number, will be sent from Allergan
      Inc, Irvine CA. Each vial will be labeled with a batch/lot number and unique sequential pack
      number.

      Study medications must be maintained during transit and storage within a temperature range of
      2o to 8oC. Until dispensed to the patients, study medication will be stored refrigerated in a
      secure location, separated from normal hospital/practice stocks, and accessible only to
      authorized personnel.

      Reconstitution Techniques Following the dilution instructions below, the investigator (or
      trained designee) can prepare the individual patient's study dose for injection.

      Each patient's dose will be prepared as an isovolumic (0.2 mL of normal saline) of
      BotoxCosmetic or Dysport injection for administration by the investigator.

      Drug accountability The investigator will be supplied with a sufficient amount of study
      medications and confirm receipt of all batches of study medication in writing.

      The investigator will administer study medication only to patients included in this study and
      following the procedures set out in this study protocol. Each dispensing will be documented
      in the CRFs and the study medication dispensing log.

      Concomitant Medications and Treatments Any medication the patient takes other than the study
      medication specified in the protocol is considered a concomitant medication. This applies to
      prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, and to herbal supplements, whether taken
      systemically or applied topically. In addition, any treatment the patient receives other than
      the study medication is considered a concomitant treatment. This applies to cosmetic
      treatments of the face and neck area. All concomitant medications and concomitant treatments
      must be reco0rded in the CRFs.

      Prohibited medication classes and treatments are described under "Exclusion Criteria". In the
      event that a prohibited treatment (e.g. microdermabrasion, Intense Pulse Light,
      light-emitting diodes, or radio-frequency) is received, it must be documented on the CRFs.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the time to onset of action, efficacy and duration of Dysport® versus Botox®
      Cosmetic in the treatment of lateral orbital rhytids.

      Secondary Objective:

      To determine the safety and presence of any adverse effects of Dysport® (25 units) versus
      Botox® Cosmetic (10 units) in the treatment of lateral orbital rhytids.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Visit 1 (Initial Visit and treatment day 0) This visit will serve as both screening and
      baseline. During this visit, the subject will receive the ICF and be consented in accordance
      to this site's consenting SOP. After consenting, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      obtained. If the subject meets these, then demographic data will be taken as well as clinical
      history and concomitant medications. The P.I. will then decide if the subject is to be
      included or excluded using the inclusion exclusion criteria, clinical history, visual
      examination of the head and neck, and concomitant medications. If the patient has the need
      for a pregnancy test, a urine pregnancy test will be performed in office. Assignment of
      patient # will occur as will randomization to receive Dysport® and Botox® Cosmetic in each
      lateral orbital area. The subject will then be photographed using the Canfield Digital
      photography system. The subject will provide a self-assessment of lateral orbital rhytids at
      rest using a static 5-point categorical scale. The investigator will assess in person lateral
      orbital rhytids at maximal contraction and at rest and lateral orbital rhytids according to a
      static 5-point Photographic scale validated in prior studies. Following the rating scales,
      the patient will be administered Dysport® to the lateral orbital area on one side and Botox®
      Cosmetic to the contralateral lateral orbital area (as described in Appendix 1 and Section
      5.4). The patient is to remain for 30 minutes after injection to monitor for any AEs. A
      follow-up appointment at day 1 will be scheduled.

      Visit 2 (Day 2) This visit will be a follow up at day 2. The subject will complete a form on
      adverse events following Dysport® or Botox® Cosmetic injection as well as the Concomitant
      medications/Procedures/Treatments form. The subject will then be photographed using the
      Canfield Digital photography system. The subject will provide a self-assessment of to the
      lateral orbital rhytids at rest using a static 5-point categorical scale. The investigator
      will assess in person lateral orbital rhytids at maximal contraction and at rest and rate
      lateral orbital rhytids according to a static 5-point Photographic scale. A follow-up
      appointment at day 4 will be scheduled.

      Visit 3 (Day 4) This visit will be a follow up at day 4. The subject will complete a form on
      adverse events following Dysport® or Botox® Cosmetic injection as well as the Concomitant
      medications/Procedures/Treatments form. The subject will then be photographed using the
      Canfield Digital photography system. The subject will provide a self-assessment of lateral
      orbital rhytids at rest using a static 5-point categorical scale. The investigator will
      assess in person lateral orbital rhytids at maximal contraction and at rest and rate lateral
      orbital rhytids according to a static 5-point Photographic scale. A follow-up appointment at
      day 6 will be scheduled.

      Visit 4 (Day 6) This visit will be a follow up at day 6. The subject will complete a form on
      adverse events following Dysport® or Botox® Cosmetic injection as well as the Concomitant
      medications/Procedures/Treatments form. The subject will then be photographed using the
      Canfield Digital photography system. The subject will provide a self-assessment of lateral
      orbital rhytids at rest using a static 5-point categorical scale. The investigator will
      assess in person lateral orbital rhytids at maximal contraction and at rest and rate lateral
      orbital rhytids according to a static 5-point Photographic scale. A follow-up appointment at
      day 30 will be scheduled.

      Visit (Day 30),Visit 6 (Day 90),Visit 7 (Day 120),Visit 8 (Day 150),Visit 9 (Day 180), Visit
      10 (Day 210), Visit 11 (Day 240), and Visit 12 (Day 270):

      This visit will be a follow up at days 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, and 240. The subject
      will complete a form on adverse events following Dysport® or Botox® Cosmetic injection as
      well as the Concomitant medications/Procedures/Treatments form. The subject will then be
      photographed using the Canfield Digital photography system. The subject will provide a
      self-assessment of lateral orbital rhytids at rest using a static 5-point categorical scale.
      The investigator will assess in person lateral orbital rhytids at maximal contraction and at
      rest and rate lateral orbital rhytids according to a static 5-point Photographic scale. A
      follow-up appointment at day 90 will be scheduled.
    
  