
    
      3% of GBM and IDHwt gliomas have a highly oncogenic FGFR-TACC gene fusion that confers high
      sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors to tumor cells, in vitro and in vivo. Preclinical data shows
      that expression of FGFR-TACC fusions confers sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors (including
      AZD4547) to GBM models.AZD4547 (AstraZeneca) is a potent and selective inhibitor of FGFR-1, 2
      and 3 receptor tyrosine kinases. Preclinical data have shown some CNS penetration. Some of
      the important adverse events are hyperphosphatemia, and ocular complications. The primary
      objective and assessment criterion is to assess the efficacy of AZD4547 by measuring the rate
      of Progression Free Survival at 6 months (PFS6) in recurrent malignant glioma patients with
      FGFR-TACC fusion.Secondary objectives and assessment criteria are: - To characterize the
      safety, tolerability and PK of AZD4547 in glioma patients

        -  To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma
           with FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Response Rate for patients with a measurable
           residue.

        -  To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma
           with FGFR-TACC fusion based on the duration of PFS

        -  To further assess the anti-tumor activity of AZD4547 for patients with recurrent glioma
           with a FGFR-TACC fusion based on Overall Survival AZD4547 Exploratory objectives - To
           elucidate the mechanism of response and resistance (primary and secondary) by
           exploratory biomarker analysis Experimental design: This is a phase II study in patients
           diagnosed with a FGFR3-TACC3 or FGFR1-TACC1 fusion positive glioma presenting with a
           recurrence of the disease after chemotherapy and radiotherapy. RNA will be
           systematically screened for the presence of FGFR-TACC in each of the 11 participating
           centers, and IHC for FGFR3 hyperexpression. The investigators also encourage a wide use
           of FGFR3 IHC in non participating centers in order to identify additional potential
           candidates who can be referred to one of the 11 centers for assessment of FGFR-TACC
           expression by RNA analysis..

      Patients will receive AZD4547 at a dose of 80mg bd on a continuous schedule, until disease
      progression. With the following hypothesis: P0: PFS6=15%, P1: PFS6=35%, with alpha=5% and
      power=80%, an initial cohort of 12 patients will be treated. If objective anti-tumor effects
      are observed, the cohort will be expanded to include a total number of 38 subjects. Grade II
      gliomas are also eligible but they will constitute an extra small cohort.
    
  