
    
      The circulation of blood around the body is dependent on effective pumping of the heart.
      Patients with claudication experience pain or discomfort in their legs usually during
      activity such as walking, which goes away at rest. Claudication is a symptom of peripheral
      arterial disease (PAD). If left untreated, patients can develop arterial insufficiency which
      can lead to various complications such as swelling, painful legs, reduced healing of injuries
      and the loss of limbs in extreme conditions.

      PAD can be defined as a narrowing of the arteries reducing blood flow. It is most commonly
      due to atherosclerosis, and has associations with heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. Its
      incidence is estimated at 7-14% in the general population, increasing with age to about 20%
      in the over-seventies. It is associated with effects on mobility, skin condition and quality
      of life. Symptoms include pain in the legs on walking (intermittent claudication), pain at
      rest (particularly at night), gangrene, and limb loss. Management of PAD is based on
      encouraging exercise, and modification of risk factors such as smoking, high blood pressure,
      high cholesterol and diabetes.

      In patients with PAD, exercise tolerance is often limited. Severe symptoms and disease can be
      treated by procedures such as balloon angioplasty, stenting or surgical bypass, but these
      procedures have risks. There also remains a percentage of patients who are not suitable for
      revascularisation, and have few options besides amputation available to them.

      Current NICE guidelines (NICE Clinical Guideline 147: Lower Limb Peripheral Arterial
      Disease:Diagnosis and Management guidance.nice.org.uk/cg147) advise a supervised exercise
      programme should be offered to all patients with IC as well as best medical therapy. Regular
      exercise has shown to significantly improve symptoms of IC in patients, but the effects of
      this benefit quickly revert upon inactivity.

      Some trials have shown that increasing the blood flow in the legs over time using medical
      devices (intermittent pneumatic compression, muscle stimulators), in addition to maximal
      medical and surgical therapy, can increase claudication distance, absolute walking distance,
      decrease rest pain, and reduce amputation rates. In our unit it has become apparent that
      there are an increasing number of medical devices available for circulatory support, either
      for use as an inpatient, out-patient, or a member of the general public. The supporting
      evidence for these is variable in scientific and clinical content or relevance, and requires
      clinical trials to evaluate further.

      The device being used in this study activates the pumping action of the leg muscles by
      providing neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) to cause foot muscle contraction and
      relaxation. This squeezes blood back towards the heart, improving circulation.

      The investigators wish to evaluate whether NMES using this device has the same beneficial
      effects in patients with claudication when used in conjunction with supervised exercise.
    
  