
    
      Skin temperature monitoring as a useful tool to detect tissue at risk for breakdown and
      ulceration first emerged in the 1970s and has been examined by several investigators. For
      neuropathic wounds (excluding acute injury) the hypothesized mechanism is believed to be
      repetitive stress and micro-trauma leading to enzymatic autolysis of tissue, inflammation,
      and a resulting measurable increase in local skin temperature.

      In 1997, a paper was published examining 143 consecutive patients presenting to the
      University of Texas' High Risk Diabetic Foot Clinic. They hypothesized that individuals with
      acute pathology would show an increase in skin temperature when comparing the affected foot
      to the contralateral unaffected foot. Mean delta-temperatures for neuropathic ulcers and
      Charcot arthropathy were found to be 5.6°F (n=44, p<0.0001) and 8.3°F (n=21, p<0.0001),
      respectively. No statistical difference was found in neuropathic participants without acute
      pathology (n=78).

      In a project funded by the National Institute of Health, the same investigators conducted a
      series of studies, published between 2004 and 2007, examining the impact of self-assessed
      dermal thermometry in high-risk diabetic patients In the first randomized controlled trial in
      2004, 85 patients were assigned to one of two groups, Usual Therapy or Enhanced Therapy.

      Participants were eligible if they had either a history of foot ulceration or lower extremity
      amputation, or if they had moderate to severe peripheral sensory neuropathy with a foot
      deformity. Both groups received therapeutic footwear, diabetic education, and regular foot
      evaluation by a podiatrist. Enhanced Therapy participants additionally received a hand-held
      dermal thermometer to self-record dermal temperatures at six sites on each foot, twice per
      day. If a delta-temperature between any two corresponding sites was found to be greater than
      4 F, participants were instructed to reduce activity and contact the study nurse. After six
      months of follow-up, Enhanced Therapy participants experienced significantly fewer foot
      ulcerations and Charcot fractures (2% vs. 20%, p=0.01) than the Usual Therapy group. The
      study was blinded to physician only. A limitation of the study was the difficulty in
      determining whether the Enhanced Therapy group received greater attention by the care team,
      and therefore better monitoring and therapy.

      In their second randomized controlled trial conducted in 2007, 173 participants were enrolled
      between the Texas A&M University Health Science Center and the Rosalind Franklin University
      of Medicine and Science. Participants were eligible if they were diabetic and had a history
      of previous foot ulcer, and were assigned to one of three groups: Standardized Therapy,
      Structured Foot Exam, and Enhanced Therapy. All three groups received standard of care
      (therapeutic footwear, diabetic foot education, and regular foot evaluation by a podiatrist)
      and were instructed to contact the study nurse if they noticed any abnormalities during their
      daily foot inspection. The Structured Foot Exam group, in addition to standard training, were
      instructed to conduct a structured foot inspection twice daily with the assistance of a
      mirror and record any noted changes in color, swelling or warmth in a detailed log book. The
      Enhanced Therapy group, in addition to standard training, were trained to use a hand-held
      dermal thermometer to record daily foot temperatures at the six locations on each foot,
      noting any delta-temperatures between feet. Should a difference between corresponding sites
      be found greater than 4 degF for two consecutive days, participants were instructed to
      contact the study nurse and decrease activity until temperatures normalized. After 15 months
      of follow-up, Enhanced Therapy participants had fewer foot ulcers than Standard Therapy
      participants and Structured Foot Examination participants (Enhanced Therapy 8.5% vs. Standard
      Therapy 29.3%, p=0.0046; and Enhanced Therapy 8.5% vs. Structured Foot Examination 30.4%,
      p=0.0029). No difference was found between Standard Therapy and Structured Foot Exam groups.
      The study was physician blinded as before.

      In the third RCT, 225 patients from the Southern Arizona VA Healthcare System (Tucson, AZ)
      were randomized between the Standard Therapy Group and the Dermal Thermometry Group. Eligible
      participants had either a history of foot ulcer or partial foot amputation or a history of
      neuropathy and structural foot deformity or limited joint mobility. Participants were
      followed for 18 months, blinded to the physician. Both groups received standard of care and
      performed daily structured foot self-examinations. The Dermal Thermometry Group additionally
      received a hand-held dermal thermometer to assess six plantar foot sites twice per day.
      Dermal Thermometry Group patients were instructed to contact the study nurse if
      delta-temperature between corresponding locations on the feet exceeded 4 F for two
      consecutive days and decrease activity until the temperature asymmetry normalized. Dermal
      Thermometry patients were 61% less likely to ulcerate: 12.2% ulceration in the Standard
      Therapy Group vs. 4.7% ulceration in the Dermal Thermometry Group (O.R. 3.0, 95% CI 1.0-8.5,
      p=0.038). Further, proportional hazards regression analysis adjusting for elevated foot ulcer
      classification (International Working Group Risk Factor 3), age, and minority status
      suggested that temperature-guided avoidance therapy was associated with a significantly
      longer time to ulceration (p = 0.04).

      One significant challenge to temperature guided avoidance therapy owe to the manual process
      of collecting and recording temperatures. With current technologies the following steps must
      be taken each day: temperatures measurements are acquired at six different locations on each
      foot, the values are recorded in an organized fashion in a log book, and the history of
      values are interpreted for trends in temperature difference between each foot. This process
      places a significant burden on the patient. Further, as day-to-day usage of the technology
      cannot be tracked, managing adherence becomes challenging.

      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the feasibility of temperature-guided avoidance
      therapy via the a foot temperature monitoring telemedicine mat (Podimetrics SmartMat;
      Podimetrics Inc., Somerville MA) on preventing the occurrence of diabetic foot ulcers and
      associated resource utilization in patients with a recently healed diabetic foot ulcer.
    
  