
    
      Melanoma is a cancer arising from pigment-producing cells, or melanocytes. These cells are
      chiefly located in the skin, but they can also be found in other parts of the body, including
      eyes, ears and GI tract. A diagnosis of stage IV melanoma can create great stress and anxiety
      for an individual and his or her caregivers. Psilocybin (4-phosphoryloxy-
      N,N-dimethyl-tryptamine) is a psychedelic (hallucinogenic) compound found in certain species
      of mushrooms that can produce spiritual or mystical experiences and that has been used in
      psychotherapy prior to being made illegal. This study will be a randomized, active-placebo
      controlled pilot study of the safety and efficacy of psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy as a
      means of managing anxiety in association with stage IV melanoma. This study will examine
      whether two sessions of psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy scheduled seen to 14 days apart
      will reduce anxiety, improve quality of life and be safe in people with stage IV melanoma.

      Subjects in this study will have a 66% chance of receiving the full dose of 25 mg psilocybin
      and a 33% of receiving 4 mg psilocybin. The first dose is expected to change how people feel,
      think and see the world, while the lower dose is expected to have only slight effects. Each
      subject will receive these conditions at random, as if by coin-toss. The researchers,
      including the therapists, and the subject will not know whether they are assigned to get 25
      or 4 mg psilocybin.

      The entire study can last up to three and a half months (14 weeks) but the main part of the
      study lasts six weeks. After the researchers determine that a person with stage IV melanoma
      and anxiety can be in the study, there will be two introductory psychotherapy sessions with
      the therapist-investigators. They will prepare the participant for psilocybin-assisted
      psychotherapy. The subject will have a day-long psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy session
      after introductory sessions, and he or she will remain overnight at the clinic. There will be
      a psychotherapy follow-up scheduled the day after each psilocybin-assisted session to help
      people work with the psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy, and there will be a psychotherapy
      session in between the first and second psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy sessions. Two weeks
      after the second psilocybin-assisted psychotherapy session, subjects will return for another
      follow-up visit. The subjects will answer questions or fill out questionnaires about anxiety,
      depression, quality of life, spirituality and sense of self at the start of the study, two
      weeks after the second psilocybin-assisted session and at least once during the study.
      Subjects will have blood draws to assess liver function before each psilocybin-assisted
      session and they will have a blood draw to assess natural killer (NK) cells the day after
      each psilocybin-assisted session. On the day after each psilocybin-assisted session, subjects
      will also complete a questionnaire about their experiences during the psilocybin-assisted
      session.

      Two weeks after the second experimental psilocybin-assisted session, subjects will learn if
      they got the full or active placebo dose of psilocybin. Any of the three subjects who receive
      the active placebo dose can take part in an "open-label" study phase that will last another
      six weeks. The open-label phase will be nearly identical to those used in the first study
      phase except that there will be one, and not two, introductory psychotherapy sessions, and
      the subject and therapists will know that the subject will be receiving 25 mg psilocybin.
      People who got the full dose of 25 mg psilocybin will not take part in the open-label study
      phase.

      If they are well enough to do so, subjects who received the full dose of psilocybin will have
      anxiety, depression, quality of life and spirituality measured again two months after the
      second experimental session. Subjects who received active placebo psilocybin will have
      anxiety, depression, quality of life and spirituality measured two months after the second
      open-label psilocybin-assisted session.
    
  