
    
      A prospective randomized experimental parallel trial will be carried out on 100 male and
      female patients who have extraction of single molar tooth. Extractions will be performed by
      dental interns or dental students under supervision of surgery instructors in the Colleges'
      Clinics.

      The study has been registered in the College's Research Center, with a registration number of
      FRP/2016/23. It will follow the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki, the
      patients will be informed about the objectives of the study, and informed consent has to be
      signed. All required information was documented in the questionnaire paper regarding name,
      age, gender, mobile number, file number, smoking, medical condition, tooth indicated for
      extraction, pre-operative pain and halitosis.

      Teeth extractions will be done under local anesthesia. Simple extractions will be done by
      elevators and forceps, while root separations will be done using a surgical handpiece and
      burs with normal saline irrigation.

      The patients will be divided randomly into two parallel groups by asking them to choose 1 out
      of 100 playing cards. These cards, which have images of different shapes, have been mixed.
      The first shape includes 50 cards and represents the first study group, while the second
      shape includes 50 cards and represents the second study group.

      Both groups will receive a bottle of 0.2 % Chlorhexidine mouthwash. Group 1: The patients
      will start using Chlorhexidine mouthwash on the second day of extraction twice daily for 7
      days. Group 2: After tooth extraction, Manuka Honey will be applied topically by a cotton
      swab into the extraction socket.

      Follow up:

      The patients will be followed in the third postoperative day. Re-evaluation includes
      tenderness with probing the socket, empty socket, and assessment of pain by (VAS) from (0, 1,
      2,….10). Score 0 representing no pain, 10 representing severe pain. Re-evaluation will be
      repeated in the seventh post-operative day including the same evaluation points of the third
      day.

      Acute alveolar osteitis, (dry socket) is diagnosed if the patient presented between the 2nd
      and 4th days with pain or tenderness in the socket with probing, empty socket.

      Frequencies and percentages are calculated for qualitative data (SPSS software version.22).
      Chi-square test will be applied to compare both subgroups.
    
  