
    
      shoulder pain is a common medical condition, particularly in middle-aged and older adults,
      Shoulder pain makes up about 15% of all musculoskeletal complaints and has an incidence of 25
      cases/1000 patients from 45-64 years old. Most shoulder problems fall into three major
      categories: soft tissue disorders, articular injury or instability, and arthritis. The
      incidence of lesions increases with age as tendon tissue progressively weakens or
      degenerates, but repeated microtrauma or overuse from professional or athletic activity can
      also cause soft tissue problems in all age groups.Patients younger than 30 yrs. old tend to
      have mild inflammatory or biomechanical causes for their pain such as a traumatic
      instability, tendinosis and arthropathy.The major cause of shoulder pain in patients older
      than 40 years is rotator cuff impingement and tears.There are no clear national guidelines
      for the diagnosis of shoulder pain. Several diagnostic tests are used for the diagnosis of
      soft tissue disorders, including clinical assessment, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), CT , X-ray and Arthroscopy. Shoulder pain is common, but the complexity of the
      shoulder joint frequently creates a diagnostic challenge for clinicians trying to identify
      the source of pain. As it is the most mobile joint in the body, the shoulder has a wide
      variety of physical exam maneuvers and tests designed to help the clinician diagnose shoulder
      pathology. So the current challenge from the clinicians is to understand which physical exam
      test(s) can provide sensitive and specific data to diagnose shoulder pathology. Evaluation of
      these exam maneuvers is of moderate to low quality, but still provides valuable information
      on how to interpret these exam results. Ultrasound , In addition to the physical exam,
      point-of care diagnostic musculoskeletal ultrasound has evolved as a useful and powerful tool
      for both diagnosis and treatment of shoulder pain, and it has many advantages like being
      relatively inexpensive, noninvasive and widely available.Ultrasound is increasingly being
      used to image many of the structures that can cause chronic shoulder pain. Ultrasound has
      excellent in-plane and beam-thickness spatial resolution , although the contrast resolution
      of many abnormalities in the shoulder is less than that with MRI, and also it is particularly
      useful in patients with a suspected supraspinatus or infraspinatus tendon tear, but is also
      helpful in the assessment of the subscapularis, acromioclavicular joint capsule and
      osteophytes, biceps tendon, subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, and the spinoglenoid notch.
      Ultrasound also allows dynamic imaging, which can be helpful when looking for biceps tendon
      subluxation, subscapularis tendon tears, and arm-abduction supraspinatus tendon impingement .
    
  