
    
      The overall goal of the study was to reduce CRC morbidity and mortality by increasing African
      American participation in colonoscopy. This was done by development and implementation of a
      training program for Peer Patient Navigation (PPN) to increase participation of African
      Americans in colonoscopy.

      The primary care physician referred all participants and introduced the study to the patient.
      The physician will then introduced the patient to the Research Assistant/Recruiter
      immediately following the medical visit during which a CRC screening colonoscopy was
      recommended. The Research Assistant/Recruiter reviewed the study and asked potential
      participants if they were interested; if so, the candidate's eligibility was determined. If
      these criteria were met and the patient wanted to be in the study, informed consent and HIPAA
      was reviewed and obtained. If the patient wanted to think about his/her decision, informed
      consent was obtained at a later date.

      Patients were referred and scheduled for screening colonoscopy as part of standard of care.
      Both groups received 3 intervention phone calls from their assigned navigators, 1) to
      schedule the colonoscopy, 2) a call 2 weeks before the procedure and, 3) a third call three
      days before the procedure.

      For research purposes, participants were randomized to one of two kinds of patient
      navigation:

        1. Standard patient navigation receiving care that they would normally receive if they were
           not participating in the study with navigation from the GI staff, and three phone calls
           involved scheduling and reminding the participant about their colonoscopy appointment.

        2. Peer Patient Navigation (PPN): Participants were assisted by African American peers who
           have undergone colonoscopy, and were able to discuss, first-hand, their personal
           experience undergoing colonoscopy and describe how they coped effectively with the
           procedure.

      PPN's underwent three months of training supervised by study investigators. Multiple modes of
      training were used (didactic discussion, observation, role-playing, one-on-one sessions,
      ongoing feedback, rehearsal, supervision via review of audio-tape recording or PPNs and a
      take-home training manual).

      A medical chart review was completed after the colonoscopy for all patients to assess
      completion of the examination as well as prep quality and any findings where additional
      clinical follow-up was required. Colonoscopy results were also collected to assess quality of
      care and measure the effectiveness of PPN navigations compared to standard of care,
      particularly potential differences based on study group, i.e., compliance.
    
  