
    
      The objective of this prospective randomized single blinded controlled pilot study for
      patients undergoing unilateral ureteral stent insertion for benign urologic conditions is to
      determine if pain and irritative lower urinary tract symptoms (frequency, urgency, dysuria,
      nocturia) related to ureteral stent placement will improve after the injection of
      intradetrusor Botox (BTX) A.

      The effects of BTX have been used for a number of medicinal purposes, including reducing
      wrinkles, migraine headaches, and excessive sweating. The use of BTX in urology and, more
      specifically, the lower urinary tract, is increasing. Botox is currently actively being used
      as a treatment strategy for use in Urologic conditions including neurogenic and
      non-neurogenic overactive bladder (OAB), detrusor sphincter dyssynergia, interstitial
      cystitis, urinary retention, and prostate disorders.

      BTX serotypes. The seven distinct serotypes of BTX are designated A, B, C1, E, F, and G;
      BTX-A (Botox [Allergan, Inc., Irvine, Calif] and Dysport [Ipsen, Inc., Europe]) and BTX-B
      (Myobloc (Solstice Neurosciences, Inc., Malvern, Pa) are available commercially. Each
      serotype of botulinum toxin works by inhibiting the release of neurotransmitters, most
      notably acetylcholine, from the presynaptic neuromuscular junction (2). The result is
      inhibition of muscular contractions and paralysis.

      In August 2011, the FDA recently approved the use of Botox injections for urinary
      incontinence secondary to neurogenic overactive bladder, a condition defined as unihibited
      bladder contractions causing voiding and creating symptoms of urinary frequency. The cause of
      the neurogenic overactive bladder in the patients studied was spinal cord injury and multiple
      sclerosis. Numerous prospective clinical trials have demonstrated a statistically significant
      difference of symptoms in patients receiving Botox injections into the overactive detrusor
      muscle compared to placebo groups. Botox injections were found to effectively relieve urinary
      incontinence and urinary frequency for a nine-month duration.

      As part of standard clinical care, intravesical injection of Botox is currently used to
      ameliorate voiding symptoms in conditions where patients experience severe irritative
      symptoms and is currently seeking FDA approval for the treatment of overactive bladder in
      patients without a neurologic etiology. As a follow up study, we will evaluate the efficacy
      of combined periureteral and intravesical Botox injection for reduction of pain and
      irritative voiding

      This is a prospective randomized single blinded controlled study for patients undergoing
      unilateral ureteral stent insertion for a benign urologic conditions is to determine if pain
      and irritative lower urinary tract symptoms (frequency, urgency, dysuria, nocturia) related
      to ureteral stent placement will improve after the injection of intradetrusor Botox A.

      Study in detail:

      All patients will be informed regarding the content of the study and informed consent will be
      obtained. Patients who require stent placement will be screened based on their past medical
      history and will be included in the study if they do not fit any of the exclusion criteria.
      The participation in the study will require 3 visits in addition to pre-op visit when the
      consent will be obtained: stent placement, stent removal, and 2 week post-op follow up.
      Patients will only have one pre-operative visit prior to ureteral stent placement. Patients
      will be randomized to one of two groups, experimental and placebo. The experimental group
      will include ureteral stent placement with three peri-ureteral injections of Botox A and
      fourteen site-specific intradetrusor injections of Botox A. The placebo group will involve a
      ureteral stent placement with no injection. Based on a randomization sequence from an
      electronic randomizer, patients will be placed in either Botox injection group or placebo (no
      injection) group. Patients will be consented at the pre-operative visit, which is usually up
      to seven days prior to the procedure. After informed consent is obtained, patients will be
      asked to complete a visual analog pain scale and a ureteral stent symptom questionnaire which
      can either be turned in during the pre-operative visit or alternatively, if the patient
      prefers to review the study prior to deciding to participate, can be turned in during the day
      of stent placement in the pre-operative area at UC Irvine Douglas Hospital before the
      procedure start time, giving the patient ample time to consider study participation. Baseline
      post-void residual will also be taken at the pre-operative visit. All stents will be inserted
      in a retrograde fashion as per standard of care. As standard of care, retrograde contrast
      injection following the procedure will be done to assess ureteral and renal anatomy. Jaime
      Landman, MD., and Gamal Ghoniem, MD., will be administering all Botox injections. Three 1mL
      Botox A injections (10U/mL) will be placed medial, lateral, and inferior to the ureteral
      orifice. Fourteen 1mL injections (5U/mL) will be placed into the detrusor muscle: three
      injections at the trigone avoiding the bladder neck, away from the peri-ureteral injections
      (10U/mL), and eleven injections distributed evenly across the remainder of the bladder. A
      total of 100 units (1 vial) of Botox A will be used per patient. 100 units of Botox A will be
      diluted with 10cc's of 0.9% PFNS, 3 cc's will be drawn for the peri-ureteral injections (30
      units), then 7 ccs of 0.9% PFNS will be added to the vial to bring to 14cc's. The rest of the
      Botox A (70u) will be injected into the detrusor muscle.

      Procedures will be planned for day surgeries and will be given one pre-operative dose of
      Kefzol for urinary tract infection prophylaxis as standard of care to all patients. The
      patient will subsequently be evaluated one hour after the procedure in the recovery room with
      a visual analog pain scale only. Subsequently, two post-operative evaluations will occur: On
      the day of stent removal, usually post-operative days (POD) 3 - 9, and POD 14 follow up, The
      patient will also be assessed during the second follow-up evaluation on POD's 3 - 9 for the
      possibility of urinary tract infection or urinary retention. A post-void residual will be
      taken during the 2 week follow-up to assess for urinary retention. On POD 14 visit, a USSQ,
      medication diary, visual pain analog scale will be collected from the patient. Post-operative
      evaluation will consist of a visual analog pain scale and a ureteral stent symptom
      questionnaire (USSQ) to assess pain, lower urinary tract symptoms, and quality of life. In
      addition, a narcotic diary will be kept by patients to determine the quantity and duration of
      oral narcotic required during the time the stent is in place. The narcotic diary is important
      in the study to assess the pain the patient is experiencing in addition to the visual pain
      analog scale that will be used. A standardized post-operative pain regimen will include
      Percocet (5mg Oxycodone/325mg Acetominophen) 1 - 2 tablets prn every 4 hours. Pain regimen of
      Percocet is standard of care and will not be used specifically for research purposes.
    
  