
    
      This study was designed as a double-blinded and randomized controlled trial.

      Pediatric CP patients from the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Rumah
      Sakit Umum Pusat Nasional Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo (RSCM) are involved in this research.
      Participants were selected using the inclusion criteria as follow: 1) children with spastic
      CP who are 5 - 18 years old, 2) one or two gastrocnemius muscle with an Australian Spasticity
      Assessment Scale (ASAS) of two or more, 3) at least 6 months since the last botulinum
      injection on gastrocnemius, 4) no surgical operation on lower limb within the last 12 months,
      5) absence of severe contracture on gastrocnemius, and 6) ability of legal caregiver to
      provide written informed consent.

      The spasticity of gastrocnemius was evaluated using ASAS (0: no spasticity to 4: severe
      spasticity). Data were collected at nine time points: 1) pre-ESWT, 2-6) immediately after
      each ESWT session, 7) 4 weeks after the last (fifth) ESWT session, 8) 8 weeks after the last
      (fifth) ESWT session, and 9) 12 weeks after the last (fifth) ESWT session. All patients were
      examined by the same physiatrist who was blinded to the protocol (i.e. not informed about the
      study and the group allocation) throughout the whole study.

      The investigators used a BTL-6000 SWT Topline (BTL, Czech Republic) to apply rESWT on
      gastrocnemius muscles. For the procedures, a 1.2 cm probe was used. A total of 1,500 pulses
      were delivered to each gastrocnemius muscle. The energy flux density was constant at 0.1
      mJ/mm2 and the repetition frequency was at 4 Hz, with a pressure of 1.5 bars.

      For double-blinded treatment, 28 different spastic gastrocnemius muscles from 14 CP patients
      were allocated into two groups. Both groups had a true or sham ESWT for five consecutive
      weekly treatments. Group I received five true ESWT sessions. Group II received three true
      ESWT in session 1, 3 and 5 and two sham ESWTs in session 2 and 4. No anesthesia was given.
      Adverse events were closely monitored during and after therapy.

      Intra-group changes in ASAS were evaluated with Friedman analysis of variance from baseline,
      immediately after each ESWT, 4 weeks after last (fifth) ESWT, 8 weeks after last (fifth) ESWT
      and 12 weeks after last (fifth) ESWT; followed by post-hoc Wilcoxon signed-ranked test.
      Inter-group differences in ASAS reduction were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U- test.
      Statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS ver. 23.0 (IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, USA).
      The level of significance was set at <0.05.
    
  