
    
      Staphylococcus aureus is a ubiquitous pathogen, and causes infections of the skin, lung,
      bloodstream, and other body parts. Over the past decade,community-acquired methicillin
      resistant S. aureus (CA-MRSA) infections, which were previously extremely rare, are occurring
      commonly worldwide. CA-MRSA is the most common cause of skin infection in many locales in the
      U.S.

      CA-MRSA strains are notable for their ability to spread in closed settings and cause
      recurrent infections among healthy persons. Management of recurrent CA-MRSA infection is
      challenging and optimal prevention strategies are undefined. Many experts recommend topical
      agents that decontaminate the body and/or anterior nares. However, there are no data that
      quantify the efficacy and safety of this approach.

      We conducted a prospective non-comparative clinical trial to quantify the efficacy and safety
      of body decolonization regimens in the prevention of CA-MRSA infection from an Infectious
      Diseases private practice group in Northern California.

      The study population comprised of persons suffering from recurrent CA-MRSA infection. For
      this clinical trial, all subjects will be given: nasal mupirocin (Bactroban Nasal, twice
      daily), topical 3% hexachlorophene body wash (Phisohex, daily), and an oral anti-MRSA
      antibiotic. The choice of oral antibiotic was based on investigators choice and antibiotic
      susceptibility of prior MRSA isolates in a given patient.

      Patients were interviewed in person baseline and by phone at 2 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months
      using a standardized questionnaire. The baseline survey, based on a previously developed
      instrument used for an epidemiologic investigation of MRSA asked about MRSA risk factors and
      health-related quality of life. Follow up surveys asked about adverse drug effects,
      especially gastrointestinal and dermatologic side effects (2 week visit only) and incident
      skin and MRSA infections.
    
  