
    
      SIS is the most common cause of pain and shoulder dysfunction. The etiology of SIS depends on
      many factors including tightness of the posterior shoulder structures. Posterior shoulder
      tightness (PST) narrows the subacromial space and forces anterior-superior migration of the
      humeral head over the glenoid fossa and, it could cause limitation of the internal rotation
      (IR) and horizontal adduction range of motion (ROM). GIRD is known as loss of IR ROM in the
      glenohumeral joint. In the SIS, limitation IR ROM has been reported. Supraspinatus tendon
      thickness can change, subacromial space may become narrower and joint position sense (JPS)
      could be decreased in SIS patients. The effectiveness of traditional static cross body
      posterior shoulder stretching on various parameters such as shoulder rotational ROM or pain
      was studied and proved in the literature. Traditional static cross body posterior shoulder
      stretching could reduce subacromial symptoms and improve shoulder ROM with some disadvantages
      such as inadequate control of the scapula and glenohumeral rotation. To prevent accessory
      abduction of the scapula, restrict the external rotation ROM of the humerus and provide
      isolated posterior capsule stretching, Wilk et al. (2013) recommend the use of modified
      cross-body stretching for IR ROM increase. In the modified cross-body position, the patient
      is positioned in a more advantageous way. In the literature, although modified cross-body
      posterior stretching seems effective on SIS symptoms there is no research about the
      comparison of the long-term effects of the traditional and modified static cross-body
      posterior shoulder stretching exercises in individuals with SIS having GIRD. Therefore,
      whether modified stretching is superior to traditional stretching is not known. Our study
      aims to investigate and compare the long term effects of the traditional static cross-body
      posterior shoulder stretching exercise and modified static cross-body posterior shoulder
      stretching exercise in individuals with SIS having GIRD on shoulder IR ROM, GIRD, PST, pain,
      external rotation ROM, JPS, subacromial space, supraspinatus tendon thickness, posterior
      capsule thickness, the occupational ratio of the supraspinatus tendon in the subacromial
      space, muscle strength and shoulder function and disability level. Stretching groups will
      receive either traditional or modified static cross-body posterior shoulder stretching
      exercise and standard physiotherapy program. The Control group will receive only sham
      stretching and standard physiotherapy program. Standard physiotherapy program consists of
      electrotherapy, posture, proprioceptive, and strengthening exercises. The treatment program
      will be performed 5 days a week under the physiotherapist's supervision and 2 days a week as
      a home program for 8 weeks.
    
  