
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and feasibility of infusing gene-modified, human immunodeficiency
      virus (HIV)-protected hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) after high-dose chemotherapy for
      treatment of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related lymphoma.

      II. To determine the dose of carmustine (BCNU) in combination with O^6-benzylguanine (O6BG)
      that results in selection in vivo of gene-modified HIV-resistant cells.

      III. To estimate the effect of HIV infection on the presence of HIV-resistant blood cells as
      measured by genetic marking for vector sequences before and after antiviral treatment
      interruption.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the molecular and clonal composition of gene-modified cells after hematopoietic
      cell transplant (HCT).

      II. Evaluate the molecular and clonal composition of gene-modified cells after O6BG/BCNU.

      III. Determine the correlation of the level of O6-methylguanine- methyltransferase (MGMT)
      (P140K) marking with toxicity and response.

      IV. Characterize the toxicity associated with in vivo selection. V. Determine the efficacy of
      the procedure for treatment of lymphoma: defined as time to disease progression,
      progression-free survival, treatment-related mortality, time to neutrophil and platelet
      recovery, and incidence of infections.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Effect of procedure on the latent HIV reservoir. II. Effect of procedure on HIV-specific
      immune reconstitution.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive carmustine intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on day -7,
      cytarabine IV over 2 hours twice daily (BID) and etoposide IV over 2 hours BID on days -6 to
      -3, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients receive an autologous PBSC infusion and/or infusion of autologous
      transduced hematopoietic cells on day 0.

      Beginning 28-120 days later, patients eligible for in vivo selection after detection of
      gene-marked cells receive O6-benzylguanine IV over 1 hour and carmustine IV over 3 hours on
      days 14, 28, and then monthly until completion of therapy. Patients achieving > 10% gene
      marking and CD4 count of >= 500 cells/uL receive up to 2 courses of structured treatment
      interruption without undergoing in vivo selection.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 15 years.
    
  