
    
      Research Questions and Objectives:

      The overall goal of this study is to determine if therapy administered using MyndMove can be
      tolerated by children age 3 to 6 with upper extremity hemiparesis and produce effective
      response without injury or pain.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. To evaluate the tolerability of MyndMove technology to safely provide Functional
           Electrical Stimulation (FES) transdermally as therapy in young children

           From these findings the researchers aim to:

        2. To establish clinical recommendations for the next step of this study, which will
           evaluate the efficacy of MyndMove therapy with this population using a pre-post case
           series model .

      Specifically, this study will answer the following research questions:

      1) Can MyndMove FES stimulation be tolerated by young children ages 3 to 6 with upper
      extremity hemiparesis without pain or discomfort? he following of directions and
      understanding of the nature of the therapy.

      Intervention All participants in this study will receive transcutaneous functional electrical
      stimulation via MyndMove administered by trained occupational therapists (OTs) from the
      Acquired Brain Injury department at Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital. The
      MyndMove system is a neuromodulation device that delivers short electrical pulses to
      stimulate muscle contractions and enhance motor recovery following stroke or spinal cord
      injury. MyndMove delivers therapeutic stimulation sequences called protocols, which are coded
      therapeutic algorithms which assist muscle contractions for arm and hand movement allowing
      the brain and central nervous system to be retrained, restoring voluntary reaching and
      grasping functions lost following neurological injury. The MyndMove system comprises the
      hardware device, stimulation electrodes and cables, hand and foot switches, and integrated
      software. OTs will be trained at a 2-day course that trains users on the MyndMove system. The
      purpose of the workshop is to train users how to safely and effectively use the system,
      screen for contraindications, and identify eligible clients for MyndMove. OTs will receive
      instructions on available training protocol and the application of the protocol. The course
      also includes a practical component, focusing on establishing user's comfort with the
      MyndMove system (see Appendix 9 for the MyndMove Course Training Outline).

      FES will be delivered while participants engage in task-oriented activities that require
      reaching and grasping. Neuromuscular recover in stroke patients typically starts with
      recovery of proximal parts and then recovery of distal parts. Therefore, the research team
      will test tolerability proximally to distally in the protocol. The participant will be asked
      to perform three to five of the following movements: 1) touch nose, 2) touch opposite
      shoulder, 3) touch forehead, 4) move arm forward, 5) lift affected arm up and extend elbow,
      6) hand opening, 7) palmar grasp, 8) pinch grasp, 9) lateral pinch grasp, and 10) lumbrical
      grasp. In long-term therapeutic FES interventions, once participants are able to voluntarily
      control these shoulder and elbow movements, the OT would proceed to focus on the distal parts
      of the arm. However, because this is a tolerability study and FES will only be administered
      in one session, the OTs will test the distal parts of the arm even if the participant has not
      achieved voluntary control of their shoulder and elbow movements. The participants will be
      asked to perform each specific task for an interval of 10 to 20 seconds. Participants will
      repeat each task 10 or more times, or as long as the one hour session allows. This session
      will involve the parent and a child life specialist to increase the child's acceptance during
      the therapy and to assist in the process of detecting and mitigating discomfort during
      sessions. Observations will be recorded by the OT as in Part 1. During and after the session,
      the OT will look for signs and symptoms of discomfort.
    
  