
    
      This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study. After obtaining informed
      consent, healthy overweight adults aged 18 to 75 years (n=76/intervention group with n=228
      total/study) will be randomized to one of three groups: Lactobacillus, a blend of
      Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus, or placebo. Participants will consume 1 capsule per day of
      probiotic or placebo for 12 weeks. Participants will attend weekly behavioral lifestyle
      intervention meetings, which will address dietary and physical activity contributions to
      weight loss, in groups of approximately 20 subjects during the 12 intervention weeks.

      Participants will complete daily questionnaires throughout the week before and during the
      intervention period which address subject compliance and bowel habits. A dual X-ray
      absorptivity scan will be done to measure body composition during the week before the
      intervention and during the 12th week of the intervention period (± 1 week). Blood samples
      will be collected via a finger prick at the baseline and final time points. Blood samples
      will be used to measure cardiovascular and metabolic markers of health. Stool samples will be
      collected from 25 subjects per intervention group during the week before the intervention
      period and the 12th week of the intervention period. Dietary intake will be assessed during
      the week before the intervention period and during the week of the final appointment (± 1
      week). Gastrointestinal symptoms and physical activity questionnaires will be completed upon
      providing consent to the study, being randomized to an intervention, and during the last week
      of the intervention period. Questionnaires regarding income, weight control strategies, and
      quality of life will be completed during randomization and during the last week of the
      intervention period. Stool samples will be collected from a subgroup of participants during
      the week before the intervention period and during the 12th week of the intervention period.
      These samples will be used to detect the presence and/or abundance and/or survival of the
      probiotic microorganisms at the end of the digestive tract.
    
  