
    
      Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) results in progressive immune destruction
      and death. Current therapy for HIV (highly active antiretroviral therapy or HAART) infection
      utilizes combinations of drugs that, under optimum conditions, inhibit HIV replication, halt
      progressive immunodeficiency, and permit a measure of immunological reconstitution. In its
      present form, however, HAART is inadequate. HAART does not cure HIV infection, and has
      significant adverse side effects, which may require drug discontinuation. One of the most
      challenging limitations of HAART is the development of drug resistance, which may occur in
      30-40% of treated patients. The precise mechanisms responsible for drug resistance remain
      uncertain, but explanations include the emergence of HIV variants encoding genetic mutations
      that confer resistance to antiretroviral drugs. Such drug resistant mutations may occur and
      be present at low frequencies prior to drug therapy. Understanding how these mutations arise
      and remain circulating in populations of HIV is uncertain.

      The purpose of the present protocol is to derive a comprehensive description of HIV
      population genetics in a longitudinal, observational study of HIV-infected patients prior to
      initiating antiretroviral therapy. We plan to utilize frequent blood sampling and an
      extensive sequencing strategy to investigate parameters of HIV population genetics,
      including: a) genotypic and phenotypic analyses of HIV drug resistance mutations, b)
      determinations of the rates at which mutations arise, become fixed, lost, or undergo
      recombination, c) linkage analyses, d) estimates of the size of the effective virus
      population. We plan to apply this information to develop models of HIV evolution, predict the
      genetic behavior of HIV populations, including the emergence of resistant genomes. We expect
      that information regarding HIV population genetics may assist in designing appropriate drug
      regimens to salvage control of HIV virus replication after initial regimens have failed.
    
  