
    
      Our overarching aim is to determine, among women with gestational diabetes (GDM), if a
      strategy of (1) a website-based information and motivational resource bank; (2)
      biosensor/ePlatform-based physical activity and gestational weight gain (GWG) tracking;
      and/or (3) a health coach will lead to more favourable outcomes; namely, GWG closer to
      target, higher physical activity levels, better glycemic and blood pressure control, and
      lower incidence of large for gestational age (LGA) in offspring.

      The current project is designed to assess feasibility and usability to inform the development
      of a large randomized controlled trial. The specific aims of this feasibility study are:

        1. To determine the proportion of candidates with GDM who accept to participate in the
           study at each site (recruitment rates); a minimum overall average recruitment rate of
           25/month would favour proceeding to a larger trial.

        2. To evaluate participant use (log ins) and perceived utility (interviews) of the website
           resource that the investigators are developing; a minimum average of 5 log-ins overall
           would favour proceeding to a larger trial

        3. To determine use (number of planned weekly conversations completed) and perceived
           utility (interviews) of the health coaching intervention; a minimum completion of 50% of
           the planned weekly conversations would favour retaining this treatment arm in a larger
           trial

        4. To determine use (data upload of step counts and weight data onto ePlatform) and
           perceived utility (interviews) of the ePlatform intervention ; a minimal upload of 30%
           of days overall of data would favour retaining this treatment arm in a larger trial

        5. To assess the proportion of participants in each intervention arm who complete final
           evaluation procedures (loss to follow-up rates); a minimum retention of 75% of
           participants enrolled would favour execution of a larger clinical trial

      DESIGN Lawson ACTIVE PATIENT has a 2X2 factorial design. All participants will have access to
      the information and motivational resource bank, housed on a dedicated study website. Each
      participant will be randomized (1) to an ePlatform yes/no strategy and (2) to a health coach
      yes/no strategy. Therefore, some participants will have access to the website only, others to
      the website & ePlatform, others to the website & coach, and some to the website, ePlatform &
      coach. By interviewing and surveying participants in each of these groups, the investigators
      will be able to ascertain if there are components that are redundant or synergistic.

      RESOURCE BANK The website sections include (1) 'About' with an overview about GDM, its
      management, and its complications; (2) 'Perspectives' with video and audio clips and
      interviews with mothers with a GDM history, physicians, dietitians, and kinesiologists, all
      describing their experiences living with or managing GDM and highlighting the importance of
      attending to this condition both during pregnancy and thereafter; (3) 'Nutrition' with
      descriptions and discussion of impact of eating on glucose control, illustration of the
      'healthy plate' concepts, grocery shopping tips, links to healthy recipe banks, a
      photographic repository of health snack ideas, healthy lunches, and healthy breakfasts; (4)
      'Activity' with explanations for pedometer use, step count targets, physical activity
      targets, step and physical activity monitoring, links to exercise video clips, precautions
      during pregnancy; and (5) 'Postpartum' which will include future diabetes risk facts relevant
      to mothers, fathers, and children; diabetes prevention approaches; and planning for future
      pregnancies.

      ePLATFORM WITH SENSORS Participants randomized to the ePlatform strategy (i.e., 50% of
      participants) will receive a digital scale, physical activity monitor (pedometer), and
      ePlatform log-in information. They will track daily weights and step counts. They will
      receive prompts to access educational and motivational tools based on the data that they
      enter and whether or not they enter data. The investigators will use the ePlatform developed
      by StepsCount, a Canadian pedometer company with a well-developed ePlatform for pedometer
      data upload, tracking, and automated messaging. The company is permitting us further
      customization for study purposes. Participants randomized to the use of an ePlatform in
      combination with a pedometer and digital scale will have data uploaded onto a secure
      cloud-based platform controlled by the pedometer and digital scale companies.

      HEALTH PROFESSIONAL COACH Participants randomized to the health coach strategy (i.e., 50% of
      participants) will work by telephone and email with a health coach. The coach will be a
      health professional hired through the study (dietitian/kinesiologist/nurse). On a weekly
      basis, She/he will contact the participant to discuss progress and challenges in terms of
      achieving physical activity goals, rate of GWG, and maintaining health eating patterns.
      She/he will respond to specific questions on strategies and interplay between health
      behaviours and parameters such as blood glucose and blood pressure levels. She/he may enquire
      about any problems associated with higher physical activity levels such as contractions or
      lower blood sugar levels, and will advise participants accordingly and consult with the
      treating physician. Participants not randomized to a coaching strategy will be advised to
      consult with their treating healthcare team directly if they develop symptoms of concern.

      Fifty percent of participants will be randomized to a health coach. In turn, half of these
      participants will also be randomized to the ePlatform with sensors strategy. The health
      coaching approach will slightly differ between those randomized to the health coach &
      ePlatform with biosensors strategy vs. those randomized to the health coach without ePlatform
      strategy.

      For those randomized to the health coach & ePlatform with biosensors strategy, the health
      coach will have access to the data on the ePlatform. This data transfer is termed facilitated
      relay, the exchange of patient collected health data between patients and providers outside
      of traditional clinic visits (i.e., electronic and web-based sharing).

      Participants randomized to both the ePlatform and the health coach will receive telephone
      calls from the research assistant/health coach if they are off target despite the platform
      tools and support. They will be encouraged to consult the resource bank and will brainstorm
      with the health coach to decide how to achieve their GWG and step count targets.

      Participants randomized to the health coach without the ePlatform will receive weekly calls
      from the health coach, encouraging them to engage in healthy eating practices and aim to
      achieve the GWG targets recommended by the Institute of Medicine (IOM). They will be
      encouraged to track their weight gain and physical activity (e.g., walks, gym sessions,
      classes, activity lists, etc.) and to share this information with the health coach for
      discussion. However, they will not have access to the study ePlatform and will not be
      provided with pedometers or digital scales.

      At least one coach will be trained for each of the recruitment sites (5). The training will
      consist of completion of 5 30-minute on-line modules supplemented by teleconferences with our
      team of experts in health behaviour change (J Fowles, C Shields, C Chan, A-S Brazeau, D Da
      Costa, K Dasgupta). The on-line training modules for health coaches address motivational
      communication, key content areas (GDM, health behaviours, stress management), review the bank
      of resources, discusses the decision trees/algorithms that will create triggers and alerts,
      and demonstrates navigation of the ePlatform.

      SETTING GDM clinics in Montreal (McGill University Health Centre/MUHC with Dr Sara Meltzer,
      Dr Natasha Garfield, and Dr Rachel Bond; and Centre hospitalier de l'Université de
      Montréal/CHUM with Dr Ariane Godbout and colleagues), Toronto (Sunnybrook Health Sciences
      Centre with Dr Illana Halparin, Dr Baiju Shah, and colleagues), Calgary (Rockyview General
      Hospital with Dr Sonia Butalia and colleagues), Winnipeg (Health Sciences Centre Winnipeg
      with Dr P Katz and colleagues), and Halifax (Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre with
      Dr Tom Ransom and colleagues).

      RECRUITMENT GDM clinic staff will invite potentially eligible patients to consider
      participation. With their permission, contact information will be forwarded to the local
      ACTIVE PATIENT GDM research assistant. She/he will communicate with the participant to review
      study procedures and obtain informed consent through an on-line form and telephone
      conversation. The investigators aim to recruit and enroll at least 5 participants per month
      per site.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA See relevant section

      RUN-IN PHASE AND RANDOMIZATION Participants will receive instructions to log onto an
      electronic platform. This will allow them to view a brief video on GDM-related complications.
      If the participant logs onto the system within a week of baseline assessment, web-based
      randomization will be performed. The participant will be encouraged to call or email the
      research assistant if there is difficulty logging on.

      DATA COLLECTION See outcomes for baseline and final data collected

      SAMPLE SIZE The investigators will recruit 225 participants across 5 cities, resulting in up
      to 45 participants per city over 9 months (to allow for 3 month intervention periods) or 5
      participants per city per month. The present study is not designed to assess for between-arm
      differences in GWG or LGA status of the offspring. The intent is to gather experience with
      logistical procedures, participant perspectives, and estimates of indicators of feasibility.

      INCENTIVES On three occasions (completion of the questionnaire at the beginning of the study,
      completion of the questionnaire and interview before delivery, and completion of the
      questionnaire and interview 12 weeks after delivery), participants will receive a $20 gift
      card.
    
  