
    
      This is a multicenter triple-blind randomized parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial of
      vitamin D3 supplementation. Children aged 1-5 (<6) years with physician-diagnosed asthma
      predominantly triggered by upper respiratory tract infection will be screened for enrolment
      in paediatric asthma, respiratory or allergy clinics and the ED departments and randomized
      between Sept 1 to January 31, annually (4 recruitment years).

      Using a computer-generated random list, stratified by site, children will be allocated (1:1)
      using permuted block randomisation method to enhance concealment.

      Children will be followed for 7 months, with 3 visits every 3.5 months with repeated urine
      (for calcium:creatinine ratio) and blood samples. In addition, ten (10) days after each
      bolus, urine will be sampled for urinary calcium:creatinine ratio. In case of elevated urine
      calcium:creatinine ratio, a blood sample may be needed primarily for markers of calcium
      metabolism and exploratory outcomes. Only patients enrolled at CHU Sainte-Justine and
      Montreal Children's Hospital will receive a systematic home visit 10 days after first bolus
      for both urine and blood samples. There will be 6 follow-up phone calls, at week 1 and then
      monthly, to inquire about exacerbations and URTIs, remind parents to complete questionnaires
      and to collect a nasal swab at each exacerbation and screen for adverse events.

      The main outcome is the number of courses of rescue oral corticosteroids (OCS) per child
      during the study period. Several secondary outcomes will be documented using biological
      samples and validated questionnaires to ascertain laboratory-confirmed respiratory
      infections, intensity and severity of exacerbations, mean number of ED visits, parents'
      functional status during exacerbations, de-intensification of preventive asthma therapy, cost
      effectiveness, and safety profile.

      A sample of 432 children (400+7,5% attrition) per arm will provide 80% power with a
      two-tailed alpha of 5% to detect a 25% relative reduction in the mean number of exacerbations
      requiring OCS per child.

      An intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be carried out with all randomised children.
    
  