
    
      Objectives

      The main objective of this proposal is to evaluate plasticity in patients with cervical
      dystonia. Neither abnormal Hebbian nor non-Hebbian plasticity has been studied for cervical
      dystonia.

      Our specific objectives are to show that:

        1. In patients with cervical dystonia, Hebbian plasticity can be induced by using paired
           associative stimulation (PAS) of the dystonic sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM) muscle
           and will be enhanced compared to that of healthy subjects.

        2. In patients with cervical dystonia, non-Hebbian plasticity can be induced by using
           transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) of the dystonic SCM muscle and will
           be enhanced compared to that of healthy subjects.

        3. In patients with cervical dystonia, Hebbian and non-Hebbian plasticity can be induced by
           dual stimulation (DS) of the dystonic SCM muscle, this effect will be greater than PAS
           or TENS alone, and it will be enhanced compared to that of healthy subjects.

      Study Population

      We will study 22 patients with cervical dystonia and 22 healthy subjects for a total of 44
      subjects.

      Study Design

      Subjects will participate in 4 different sessions:

      Visit 1: clinical screening (1 hour) and sensory evoked potential (SEP) assessment (2 hours,
      total of 3 hours).

      Visit 2: PAS session of the target muscle and monitoring of cortical excitability before
      (T0), immediately after (T1), 45 minutes after (T2) and 90 minutes after T(3) (Total of 4
      hours).

      Visit 3: TENS session of the target muscle and monitoring of cortical excitability before
      (T0), immediately after (T1), 45 minutes after (T2) and 90 minutes after T(3) (Total of 4
      hours).

      Visit 4: DS session of the target and monitoring of cortical excitability before (T0),
      immediately after (T1), 45 minutes after (T2) and 90 minutes after T(3) (Total of 4 hours).

      Outcome Measures

      The electrophysiological effects of the interventions will be assessed by the size of motor
      evoked potentials (MEP), resting and active motor threshold (RMT and AMT), and a transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS) input-output curve. The activity of intracortical interneurons
      mediating long intracortical inhibition (LICI) will be assessed by paired-pulse TMS. The
      effect of afferent input on intracortical processes (long afferent inhibition, LAI) will be
      assessed by stimulating the skin overlying the sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM).
    
  