
    
      5-10% of adult asthmatics have difficult to control asthma or severe asthma (SA), some of
      whom require systemic steroids to control their disease ("steroid dependent asthmatics").
      Very little is understood about this population (Chanez, et al. JACI June 07)

      Networks to study severe asthma have emerged in Europe (ENFUMOSA) and the United States (US
      Severe Asthma Research Program) to understand this small group of patients who account for
      the majority of costs related to asthma care (>50%). We would like to establish a network in
      Canada of well characterized asthmatics with severe asthma (and mild-moderate asthmatics as
      controls).

      Sputum cell counts assist somewhat in improving asthma management in this population but
      outside of eosinophilic inflammation (one subtype) do not predict asthma control (Lemiere C
      et al. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2006;118:1033-9).

      Little is understood regarding the many patients who do not have frequent exacerbations but
      rather have chronic persistent asthma (symptoms multiple times a day) particularly when
      non-eosinophilic. SCCs are not as useful within this group and more detailed analysis of
      sputum (particularly supernatant) and more invasive testing is required as we see more of
      this population, to better treat them.

      Even less is understood about severe asthma in childhood.

      We have been reviewing a few of the patients' biopsies for clues to how we can better manage
      them within clinical setting and note significant differences between individuals in relation
      to muscle mass, neuronal hypertrophy, and inflammation (which more often than not is absent
      in those with severe asthma).

      Bronchoscopies are done routinely in SA patients to assess their airways better and obtain
      bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens and sometimes transbronchial biopsies.

      Our hypotheses and/ or research questions are:

      Immediate:

        1. Natural History:

             1. What is the natural history of SA?

             2. What proportion of patients with SA and MMA have had a prior NFA episode?
                (retrospective)

             3. Do deaths due to asthma occur more commonly in Canadians with SA, as opposed to
                those with MMA? (prospective)

        2. NFA and SA:

             1. What is the regional prevalence of NFA episodes in individuals with SA managed
                within a Canadian Health Care System?

             2. What is the natural history of patients with SA who have experienced an episode of
                NFA?

             3. Does management of SA within SA Centres of Excellence (SA Centres) alter the risk
                of subsequent episodes of NFA?

             4. What genes are related to NFA in individuals with SA and MMA?

        3. What is the burden of co-morbidities in individuals with SA as opposed to individuals
           with MMA?

        4. What is the burden of steroid-related complications in patients with SA?

        5. Immunology:

             1. What is the regional prevalence of atopy in SA?

             2. What is the regional prevalence of non-TH2 mediated immunologic deviances in SA?

           Future Projects once CSAN registry is established (with specific grant funding requests)

        6. Education:

             1. What are the unique educational needs of patients with SA that need to be resolved?

             2. Can we use the same translatable SA action plan in each SA Centre?

        7. Inflammatory monitoring:

             1. What are the barriers to implementing the use of sputum cell counts (SCCs)
                routinely within SA Centres in Canada from a cost-benefit perspective?

             2. What are the barriers to establishing a standard protocol for SCC monitoring
                (frequency every 3 months) in SA Centres?

             3. Is there a role for Exhaled Nitric Oxide (ENO) measurement over and above SCC
                monitoring in SA Centres for individuals with SA?

        8. Symptom perception:

             1. How does the perception of dyspnea vary in patients with NFA and those with SA?

             2. Are there simple ways to identify patients with poor perception of dyspnea in this
                high risk population?

        9. Pathophysiology:

             1. What factors promote fixed airflow obstruction in this population?

             2. What are the features that lead to persistent airway neutrophilia in this
                population?

             3. Do those with SA develop more airway remodelling than those with MMA and when
                present, does airway remodelling progress at a faster rate in the SA group?

       10. Health Service Delivery:

             1. Are there differences in organizational clinic structure of SA Centres that improve
                efficiency of management?

             2. Can we develop further specialized new SA Centres in Canada effectively (knowledge
                transfer for organization)?

             3. Is it cost effective to develop regional SA Centres in Canada?
    
  