
    
      1. Objective(s) Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) has been established as relatively
           common in a significant number of OEF/OIF Veterans (Vasterling & Brailey, 2005; Hoge et
           al., 2008). Attention deficits, which are prominent in PTSD, may be due to difficulty
           sustaining attention over time and encoding or getting information into storage which
           leads to reduced attention and memory scores on neuropsychological measures. Disruptions
           in attention are common in many types of neurological and psychiatric disorders.
           Deficient attentional skills may negatively affect cognitive performance in other areas
           (e.g., memory, planning) and thereby reduce effectiveness navigating daily life tasks as
           well as decrease the Veteran's life satisfaction after returning home.

           The origin of the attention impairment may be amenable to sophisticated remediation
           approaches using a "bottom up, neuroscience based" visual training program (i.e., Posit
           Science, Inc. cognitive rehabilitation program), which has been successful in improving
           neurocognitive function in healthy older adults (e.g., Mahncke et al., 2006) and
           patients with Schizophrenia (e.g., Bell at al., 2008). By engaging Veterans with PTSD in
           targeted remediation, it is expected that both behavioral (seen in neuropsychological
           test gains) and neural activity (e.g., BOLD response through fMRI) will reflect the
           improvement and this may be linked to improved outcomes in daily functioning.

        2. Research Design: The longitudinal research design for this project will be a three
           factor mixed factorial design with between subject factors of PTSD (+PTSD x -PTSD) and
           cognitive remediation [cogrem x video game] and within subject variable of time tested
           (pre-training, post-training, 3 month follow up). There will be 40 participants enrolled
           in the following groups of 10 each: 1) +PTSD/cogrem, 2) +PTSD/video game, 3)
           -PTSD/cogrem, and 4) -PTSD/video game. PTSD status is determined by a diagnosis of PTSD
           identified through a clinical interview for DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for PTSD. The
           active treatment is cognitive training. Veterans in this group will receive the Posit
           Science (Mahncke et al., 2006) visual cognitive remediation paradigm of 40 hours of
           training. The control treatment is a video game designed by Nintendo for the DS handheld
           system, which intended to improve mental functioning called Brain Age (Nintendo, Inc.)
           which will be played for 40 hours. Groups will be compared on the difference scores for
           neuropsychological, neurobehavioral and neuroimaging data to see if there is a benefit
           in cognitive training and if that benefit is greater in the group with PTSD.

        3. Methodology: Forty outpatient Veterans will be enrolled. All individuals will receive a
           neurobehavioral interview, neuropsychological testing and neuroimaging at the baseline
           visit, post training and at follow-up visits. After the baseline visit, each volunteer
           will be randomized to one of two conditions.

        4. Findings: This is a new study and there are no findings to date.

        5. Clinical Relationships: This study will examine the effects of a standard cognitive
           rehabilitation program with OEF/OIF veterans who have cognitive deficits due to PTSD.

        6. This project will impact veterans' healthcare by identifying cognitive problems in PTSD
           and will test the ability of a rehabilitation program to remediate those problems.
    
  