
    
      Introduction:

      The general purpose of preoperative fasting is to allow enough time for the stomach to empty,
      hence reducing the incidence of regurgitation of gastric contents into the trachea which is a
      dangerous complication despite its rare incidence in pediatrics.(1) Most modern fasting
      guidelines consider the balance between the risk of pulmonary aspiration and the harmful
      effects of prolonged preoperative fasting (thirst, dehydration, hypoglycemia and
      hypotension).(2) The American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA), the European Society of
      Anesthesiology (ESA) and the Scandinavian guidelines recommend children to be fasted 2h for
      clear fluids.(3,4,5) However, those guidelines are usually exceeded leading to prolonged
      fasting.(6) Data from volunteer studies indicate that the gastric emptying half-life after
      clear fluid intake is short, with gastric volumes returning to baseline within 1 h after
      drinking.(7) Recent clinical studies indicate that fluid fasting shorter than the recommended
      minimum of 2 h might be feasible.(8,9).however, in both studies gastric aspiration was used
      to assess the residual volume which might underestimate the gastric residual volume.
      Moreover, the studies used to estimate the gastric residual volume with nasogastric tube
      aspiration are largely heterogenous with a very wide range of agreement compared to standard
      gastroscope.(10,11,12) Ultrasound is an emerging tool for assessment of the gastric residual
      volume through measurement of antral cross sectional area which have proved effective with
      fair ability to discriminate an empty antrum in pediatric patients.(13) Many studies have
      used ultrasound for assessment of gastric contents in pediatric following normal fasting
      hours (14,15) but none has compared one versus two hours clear fluids fasting in pediatrics
      scheduled for elective surgery.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess gastric residual volume in pediatrics having clear fluids fasting for one hour
           before elective surgery

        -  To compare gastric residual volume in pediatrics having clear fluids fasting for one
           versus two hours before elective surgery using ultrasound.

        -  To assess the risk of aspiration of gastric contents in both groups.

      Hypothesis:

      the investigator hypothesized that clear fluids fasting for one hour dos not result in larger
      gastric residual volumes compared to two hours fasting for children scheduled for elective
      surgery under general anesthesia.

      2. Study Protocol Following approval from ethics and research committee of anesthesia
      department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, an informed consent will be obtained from
      parent/care giver prior to commencement of the study.

      In the preparation room (or holding area), eligible children weight will be measured prior to
      the examination by a scale in the holding area. children fasting for 6 to 8 hours will be
      allowed to drink 3 mL/kg of apple juice to a maximum of 250 ml one hour before surgery in
      group 1 (G)1 and two hours before surgery in group 2 (G2). Parent/ care giver will be allowed
      to accompany her/his child during the examination period to alleviate anxiety and ensure
      compliance of parents. Child weight will be measured prior to the examination by a scale in
      the holding area. Volume of given "apple juice" will be calculated by a 50 mL scaled clean
      syringe.

      Ultrasound examination will be performed using a high frequency (5-10 MHz) ultrasound probe
      (S-NerveTM; SonoSite Inc., Bothell, WA, USA). Children in both groups will be scanned in two
      positions: supine position and right lateral position (RLP) one and two hours following the
      clear fluid intake and before admission to the operation room in groups 1 and 2 respectively.
      Gastric antrum will be located in the sagittal plane with simultaneous identification of left
      lobe of the liver and the descending abdominal aorta or inferior vena cava.

      According to its shape and contents, the antrum will be considered to be either empty (if it
      was flat with juxtaposed anterior and posterior walls), fluid-containing (if it was
      distended, with thin walls and hypoechoic content), or solid-containing (if it was distended
      with a content of mixed echogenicity).

      The antral cross sectional area will be calculated after measuring the two dimensions of the
      antrum (D1 and D2) according to the following equation: π [D1 × D2] /4, where D1 and D2 are
      the anteroposterior and craniocaudal diameters, respectively. Measurements will always be
      made from the outer layer of the gastric wall, and all images will be obtained between
      peristaltic contractions. Three measurements will be collected and average values will be
      used.

      The gastric residual volume will be calculated using a mathematical model previously
      validated in the pediatric population as follows :(16) Gastric residual volume (ml/kg) =
      [-7.8 + (0.035 ×RLP CSA (mm2) + 0.127 × age (months)]/ body weight (kg)

      For assessment of the risk of aspiration, then the classification previously settled by( Ven
      de Putte and Perlas 2014) (17) will be used as follows:

        1. Low risk of aspiration: children with empty antrum and or children with gastric residual
           volume less than 1.5 mL/Kg.

        2. High risk of aspiration: children with solid contents and or children with gastric
           residual volume more than 1.5 mL/Kg.

      If the child has high risk of aspiration, the surgery will be postponed for one hour and the
      investigator will reassess the antrum and gastric residual volume.
    
  