
    
      The reduction in vision during endoscopic surgery is a common problem for all surgical
      specialties and recurring. Studies of the pathophysiological mechanisms explaining the visual
      impairment by fogging emphasize the role of intraperitoneal temperature and moisture in
      contact with the optical lens. To this can be added two other causes of impaired vision are
      fluid projections and passively encountered tissues during exploration (eg, blood, fat, and
      ascites) and products of reactions of tissue during surgery for example, the outcome of smoke
      using coagulation material or section. In these situations the vision may be impaired in
      critical times during which an optimal view is needed to improve the quality of surgery.

      A report by the World Health Organization was intended to identify the consequences of
      impaired vision during laparoscopic surgery. It is emphasized that impaired vision can
      contribute to surgical errors such as the use of a device incorrectly or displacement of the
      instruments on structures other than those intended. Moreover, it is reported an increase in
      the operative time associated with suboptimal view. Finally, the psychological dimension on
      the disruption of the surgeon is raised with a risk of difficulty of the procedure. To
      minimize these problems anti mist vision solutions combined with condensed water vapor spray
      system are among others marketed in recent years.

      The action mechanism of these systems is to distribute steam droplets condensed on the
      surface of the cold lens to improve the quality of vision. Most, however, require cleaning of
      optics, but with less theoretical frequency. Although their use is reported in the literature
      their use has never been evaluated on the basis of a robust methodology.

      Alternative methods readily available such as povidone iodine act similarly and are
      significantly less expensive (at least 10 times) than the above mentioned materials. No
      comparative study is currently available to support the effectiveness of these materials to
      the reference method inexpensive but partially effective. Their use is based solely on
      experience and expert opinion.

      Vision device "FloShield Air System" was developed. We offer a comparative evaluation of the
      effectiveness of FloShield Air System vision system on the basis of a comparative,
      prospective, randomized against the reference method (sterile water + Betadine) during a
      gynecologic endoscopic surgery.

      We propose to carry out a single-center, randomized, prospective trial comparing the efficacy
      in terms of reducing the number of cleaning FloShield Air System vision system, from a
      prospective, randomized during endoscopic surgery in gynecology.

      After evaluation of the International Register of Clinical Trials Registry
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/about-site) of the National Institutes of Health American no
      ongoing trial or released is interested or not interested at effectiveness of FloShield Air
      System vision device during endoscopic surgery in gynecology specifically on the primary
      endpoint.

      Currently, the only Recruiting trial which concerns the system is entitled "Comparison
      FloShield Air System Versus clearify Visualization System (D-HELP)) (NCT02419911)." This is a
      non-academic comparative prospective trial efficiency.

      The originality of our protocol resides in five points:

        -  His academic nature: the promoter is the University Hospital Tenon Hospital (AP-HP)

        -  It attempts to answer a clinical question frequently in clinical practice

        -  The feasibility: experience and surgical volume recruiting center in the endoscopic
           management should help support the computing power.

        -  Its safety for the patient

        -  The methodological basis helps support a level I evidence for this new material
    
  