
    
      The diagnosis of cancer is a life-altering event which can cause a large amount of distress
      in patients. One of the several factors that impacts a patient's level of distress, is their
      fear of the diagnosis and their lack of information in the beginning their cancer journey.
      Understandably, many patients turn to easily accessible but disreputable resources, such as
      the internet, to learn and mentally prepare themselves for this journey. Friends and family
      members may also provide advice or recommendations which may not always be scientifically
      supported. Disreputable resources often have incorrect information that can scare or mislead
      a patient, which can severely impact their health and fight against cancer. In order to help
      patients fight these fears and become properly equipped for the cancer journey, care teams
      must address the education of patients, especially the education about the chemotherapy
      treatment process and potential side effects.

      The primary purpose of this pilot study is to determine the utility of a brochure to educate
      breast and gastrointestinal cancer patients undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy about the side
      effects of treatment, in addition to providing them with tools and recommendations to lessen
      the impact of these side effects on their quality of life. A questionnaire-based approach and
      the Patient Education Material Assessment Tool (PEMAT) will be employed to evaluate
      participant's responses in a variety of domains, such as understandability, actionability,
      and utility of the brochure. The Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (MSAS) will be used to
      capture the specific chemotherapy side effects that each patient is experiencing throughout
      their treatment. Emotional Thermometer Scales (ETS) will be utilized to assess patients'
      feelings of depression, anxiety, anger, and distress at the beginning and end of their
      treatment. Survey questions will be utilized at interval time points (baseline plus 6 and 12
      weeks) to evaluate the overall impact of the brochure on their quality of life and symptom
      management. All patients will receive the brochure and fill out the associated assessment
      scales and tools. The investigator's hypothesis is that a brochure providing information and
      tools to address the side effects of breast and gastrointestinal cancer cytotoxic
      chemotherapy will have utility in cancer clinics and allow patients to improve their quality
      of life by following the scientifically supported recommendations within the brochure.
    
  