
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose of wee1
      kinase inhibitor AZD1775 (AZD1775) administered orally daily for 5 days in combination with
      FLAG (fludarabine, cytarabine, filgrastim) chemotherapy in children and adolescents with
      recurrent or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. To define and describe the toxicities of AZD1775 in combination with FLAG chemotherapy
      administered on this schedule.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics AZD1775 in combination with FLAG chemotherapy in
      pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory AML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of AZD1775 plus FLAG within the confines of
      a phase 1 study.

      II. To evaluate pharmacodynamic biomarkers of wee1 inhibition with administration of AZD1775
      including cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDC2) phosphorylation at tyrosine 15 (Tyr15) and
      induction of gamma H2AX in pre- and post-treatment leukemic blasts.

      III. To explore mechanisms of apoptosis induction and cell death in leukemic blasts treated
      with AZD1775 plus chemotherapy.

      IV. To identify genomic alterations in leukemic blasts that may correlate with response to
      therapy with AZD1775 plus FLAG chemotherapy.

      OULTINE: This is a phase I dose escalation study of wee1 kinase inhibitor AZD1775.

      Patients receive filgrastim intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC) daily, fludarabine
      intravenously IV over 30 minutes, cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours and wee1 kinase inhibitor
      AZD1775 orally (PO) on days 1-5. Patients who meet criteria for complete remission (CR),
      complete remission with partial recovery of platelet count (CRp) or partial response (PR) may
      receive a second course of therapy. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  