
    
      Cervical dilatation rate and the duration of delivery are key issues in the management of
      labor. Protracted labor is known to be associated with a range of potential maternal and
      neonatal complications, including higher rate of post partum hemorrhage (PPH), cesarean
      sections, instrumental deliveries, maternal or neonatal infections and neonatal pulmonary
      asphyxia [1,2,3]. Thus, there is a rationale for reducing the duration of labor in order to
      reduce adverse pregnancy outcome.

      Active management of labor as was demonstrated by O'driscoll et al. was found to be effective
      in shortening the duration of delivery [1, 4]. There is a variety of mechanical and medical
      methods for labor induction and augmentation. Mechanical methods include artificial rupture
      of membranes (amniotomy), with or without the use of Pitocin [5, 6], manual sweeping of the
      amniotic membranes which promotes the release of prostaglandins [7], and extra-amniotic
      balloon [8]. Medical methods such as prostaglandins and Pitocin are well studied and were
      found to reduce the duration of labor.

      Papaverine and its derivatives have been studied in the nineties of the last century and were
      found to be effective in reducing the duration of the first stage of labor [9, 10, 11].
      Drotaverine hydrochloride is an analog of Papaverine and a selective inhibitor of
      phosphodiesterase 4. It was found to be effective in accelerating cervical dilatation through
      smooth muscle relaxation.

      In a prospective randomized controlled trial that included 146 women in spontaneous vaginal
      delivery, Madhu et al. have shown that women who were treated with Drotaverine through the
      latent phase of labor, had significantly shorter duration of time between the administration
      of the medication and the delivery of the fetus, compared to women that were treated with
      placebo (182 minutes compared to 245 minutes with placebo). Moreover, the cervical dilatation
      rate in the Drotaverine group was significantly higher than this in the placebo group (3
      centimeters per hour (cm\Hr) compared to 1.4 cm\Hr) [9]. These findings are in agreement with
      Shmara et al. that have also demonstrated a significant reduction in the duration of labor
      and a significant acceleration in cervical dilatation rate with Drotaverine administration
      compared to placebo. In this study 100% of women who were treated with Drotaverine in the
      latent phase of labor have delivered in 6 hours from the administration, compared to 46% in
      the placebo group [10].

      Only few previous studies have addressed the influence of Papaverine administration on the
      duration of labor [9-12], and these studies are limited by small sample size, and different
      administration protocols. Moreover, in part of these studies, the use of Papaverine was not
      separate from the use of other methods for labor augmentation such as amniotomy or Pitocin
      administration, what could bias their results.

      In the investigators institution, there is a wide use of Papaverine in delivery room, but
      this use is optional, and is left to the discretion of the physician.

      The aim of the investigators study is to prospectively evaluate the influence of Papaverine
      administration in the latent phase of labor, on the duration of labor.
    
  