
    
      Subgroups of patients with radically operated colorectal cancer can have a better prognosis
      by over six months are treated with chemotherapy. This beneficial effect may be enhanced
      somewhat by providing a combination of chemotherapy and the addition of oxaliplatin. It is
      known that this treatment additions increase the risk of neurotoxic side effects such as
      sensitivity to cold, numbness and tingling in hands or feet, muscle cramps, pain, taste
      disorders and swallowing difficulties. A few studies on patients' experience of the
      neurotoxic symptoms and its impact on daily life.

      The operative treatment of colorectal cancer is surgery. The possibility of curative
      resection is the factor most strongly associated to the patient's survival. High-risk
      patients and metastasis is not a contraindication for surgery of the primary tumor, but the
      individual patient's benefit from surgery must be especially valued. If the primary tumor
      does not cause any troublesome symptoms, and there are metastases in other organs, which can
      be treated with non-surgical methods, the tumor can be left initially and removed later if
      symptoms occur. For rectal cancer radiation therapy can be topical and reduces the risk of
      local recurrence. In locally advanced cancer in which radical resection is not possible,
      radiation therapy, with or without chemotherapy, be current in order to achieve tumor-killing
      effect of the infiltration zone. Radiation therapy can cause acute and chronic complications,
      such as pain, faecal incontinence and sexual dysfunction which may affect patients' quality
      of life.

      At more advanced but radically operated colorectal cancer is commonly advised chemotherapy.
      The goal of giving chemotherapy is that, if possible, prevent micrometastasis that may exist
      in any patient, even though the patient is managed with radical surgery. Colorectal cancer
      spreads primarily to the lymph nodes and liver, but also through the bloodstream to the
      lungs, brain and bone. Choice of chemotherapy is influenced by several factors, including
      tumor extent, time from primary diagnosis, previous treatment given, symptoms, performance
      status, concomitant other diseases, blood tests and patient's own attitude towards such
      readiness to accept some side effects. Treatment intention can be curative, palliative or
      prophylactic (adjuvant). There are mainly three types of chemotherapy used to treat
      colorectal cancers. They can be individual, but is usually provided in combination. They can
      be given in multiple lines, which means that a combination can be administered initially and
      then changed to another combination of poor tolerance or treatment failure. Most patients get
      two or three lines of treatment.

      Intended to provide combination therapy is to increase efficacy against the tumor, reducing
      the risk of resistance developing and spreading side effects. The effect of a particular
      treatment is best the earlier it is given but may be meaningful even at a later stage. A
      cornerstone of treatment for over five decades, 5-fluorouracil (5FU), which in colorectal
      cancer, in combination with folinic acid (leucovorin). This regime is relatively lowtoxic and
      most patients are capable of treatment without severe side effects. Capecitabine (Xeloda) is
      another treatment regimen, which is often preferred by patients because it is given orally
      and usually mild side effects. Another treatment option is to give oxaliplatin in addition to
      5-flurouracil, leucovorin or capecitabine (FOLFOX 4, PHLOX, XELOX). These combinations are
      under trials to prolong survival compared with only 5-flurouracil and leucovorin. Oxaliplatin
      can reduce the risk of relapse by about 25 percent in comparison with 5FU/leukovorin. This
      regimen poses an increased proportion of neurotoxic side effects as a result. Chemotherapy
      can generally provide a number of unpleasant and sometimes life-threatening side effects.
      Side effects that may occur are symptoms of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, skin lesions
      and mouth blown.

      This can result in nutritional difficulties, reduced strength and impaired immune system with
      increased risk of infection.

      The fact that the patient be informed of a cancer diagnosis is a strain on both the patient
      but also for the relatives. This may mean that ordinary life is changing and that the normal
      daily activities can not be performed previously because of hospitalization, surgical and
      oncological treatment. As far as quality of life as it includes the experience of health and
      welfare of the patient based on physical, psychological and social needs. It may also include
      economic, political, and spiritual needs. The concept of health-related quality of life
      suited to the context in which disease symptoms affect the individual's physical function.
      Possible treatments and its side effects can affect individual's ability to function.
      Health-related quality of life is an individual experience and can vary between individuals.
      In the case of the most valuable views on the treatment results so the patient has a very
      important role. Patients who have a disease with a reading experience both advantages and
      disadvantages (side effects) with their treatment. By measuring the patients' health-related
      quality of life it is possible to create a picture of the patient's perspective on their
      illness and treatment.

      Sense Of Coherence (SOC) has been by Antonovsky divided into three key components:
      comprehensibility, manageability and meaningfulness. Antonovsky argues that the degree of SOC
      affects a person's ability to handle stressful situations. Studies show that psychological
      stress has a negative impact on quality of life in patients with various types of cancer, but
      few studies have shown that the same applies to colorectal cancer patients. But the cancer
      patients' personality affects the perceived quality of life is known. Several psychological
      and personality factors play a central role in the disease process. A strong sense of
      coherence is a health-stimulating factor and in studies of cancer patients resulted in
      reduced mortality, disease progression and resignation. The cancer involves the patient an
      extensive psychological stressful situation, and the patient's capacity to adapt themselves
      to be influenced by his defense. The validated instrument SOC (Sense of Coherence) is able to
      measure the patients' sense of coherence.

      Neurotoxic side effects often occur during treatment with oxaliplatin. Oxaliplatin can cause
      acute and delayed neuropathies. Studies have shown that some patients have persistent and
      chronic problems. Acute neurotoxicity is usually a half hour to an hour after start of
      infusion and disappears after a few days, and often arrives at any doses. These symptoms can
      present themselves as paresthesia, cold intolerance, and pain in the eye and jaw, abdominal
      pain, cramps in legs and calves, numbness and tingling of the hands, feet and around his
      mouth and voice and vision changes. Side effects are not reduced within 14 days can be
      permanent nerve damage leading to difficulties to write, walk, swallow and carry out daily
      activities. Permanent damage may occur without acute side effects initial stage. It is
      important that especially during the second half of the treatment period, observe signs of
      neurotoxic symptoms consisting of therapy. Studies show that the neurotoxic effects greatly
      affected how long the treatment lasted. If patients have these side effects should
      oxaliplatin reduced or excluded for fear debilitating and prolonged neuropathy.

      The drug-specific questionnaire Oxaliplatin-Specific Neurotoxicity Scale is the most accurate
      instrument for measuring the neurotoxic symptoms. The instrument is divided into three parts:
      upper extremities, lower extremities and mouth / facial region. Symptoms estimated from the
      preceding cycle of therapy and graded based on whether symptoms exist or not. If the patient
      has symptoms, these should be graded from 1-5. Patients should also rate the extent to which
      symptoms affect their daily lives and activities between 1-5.

      It is important to note early neurotoxic effects and to encourage patients to report symptoms
      that arise. Information before treatment is started if the side effects that might arise and
      how patients can detect early symptoms are significant.

      Patients who had neuropathy in the upper extremities experienced difficulties such as
      fastening buttons, zips close, write, sew and do housework, unlike the patients with lower
      neuropathy who had difficulty driving, walking, train and carry out activities (balance). The
      perceived disability can cause feelings of anxiety, depression, frustration, anger and
      difficulty in adapting to their situation which may also affect the social interaction.

      The aim is to investigate how colorectal cancer patients with oxaliplatin adjuvant
      chemotherapy experience neurotoxic effects and if the experience of the symptoms change over
      time during treatment and how symptoms affect patients' daily lives and quality of life.
    
  