
    
      Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is a multisystem disease with diverse manifestations, including
      progressive neurodegeneration, immunodeficiency, respiratory disease, and genomic
      instability. A-T is caused by biallelic mutations in the ATM gene, a major activator of the
      cellular response to DNA double strand breaks. One of the most important features of A-T is
      the increased predisposition to cancer. Lymphoid malignancies represent the majority of
      cancers. The treatment of cancer in children with A-T is extremely challenging, due to severe
      co-morbidities and a significantly increased risk of cancer therapy-related toxicities.
      Patients with A-T are generally excluded from collaborative clinical trials, their treatment
      outcomes and toxicity profiles have rarely been reported, and little is currently known
      concerning the treatment intensity required to provide a reasonable balance between efficacy
      and toxicity. The optimal treatment approach is controversial; some advocate treatment by
      standard chemotherapeutic protocols, while others advise initial protocol modifications with
      chemotherapy dose reductions. Due to the rarity of this disorder, there is an unmet need for
      an international collaboration for data collection concerning treatment, toxicity and outcome
      in children with cancer and A-T. Data will be collected from patient files, including patient
      characteristics and history, AT manifestations, malignancy characteristics, treatment,
      chemotherapy doses, treatment response, toxicity and outcome.

      The aims of the study are to build a large international de-identified database of children
      with A-T treated for leukemia and lymphoma, to investigate epidemiology and outcome of
      treatment, toxicity profiles and risk factors which impact outcome, in order to eventually
      enable the generation of data-based treatment recommendations for this population.

      This study will not involve the use of specimens or participant contact. All the data
      required have already been collected during the treatment of the participants, and is
      available in patient records.
    
  