
    
      1. Rationale & Objectives

           One main barrier to achieving evidence-informed care by clinicians is lack of quick and
           easy identification, appraisal and synthesis of current best evidence. Clinicians'
           information needs are considerable - but about 3000 articles are published in Medline
           every day. Numerous evidence-based resources have been developed to filter and process
           the evidence, but although increasingly used by clinicians, each offer a fragmented and
           scattered view of information, and none provides comprehensive topic coverage or
           satisfactory updating.

           To address theses problems, McMaster's Health Information Research Unit (Hamilton,
           Ontario, Canada) has developed and implemented "McMaster Premium LiteratUre Service
           Federated Search (MPFS)", an online search engine that provides a unique 1-stop search
           and organized access to current best evidence in daily practice. MPFS provides both
           alerts to users about new research in their chosen disciplines, and a novel federated
           search function, with the particular feature of organizing information according to the
           "pyramid of evidence-based resources", with the most clinically applicable evidence at
           the top. Thus MPFS simultaneously retrieves evidence from Studies ("Medline", both
           filtered and unfiltered, at the bottom), then Systematic reviews; Synopses of studies
           and systematic reviews (selected for methodological rigor and clinical relevance), and,
           at the top level, online widely used Summaries (e.g."Best Practice").

           Combining features of the current best evidence-based resources is not enough to
           increase access and use of current best evidence, as shown by the relatively low
           utilization of searching features among the hundreds of clinicians currently registered
           at McMaster University and using the alerting system. Additional well-known barriers
           that need to be overcome include logistical barriers (time constraints, forgotten
           questions, and simplicity of using one single albeit limited resource), as well as
           educational barriers (eg, lack of awareness of the "architecture" of evidence and limits
           of other single resources, lack of knowledge and experience of what federated searches
           can offer, limited searching skills, and lack of reference standards among peers for
           finding best evidence).

        2. Hypothesis

           This trial seeks to test 3 innovative online interventions among clinicians registered
           to MPFS to overcome these barriers and increase the quantity and quality of searching
           for current best evidence to answer clinical questions. These interventions build on
           effective models for the teaching of clinical skills at the point of care, so that
           clinicians are facilitated in using the search engine as a clinical tool, and perceive
           evidence retrieval skills as true clinical skills.

        3. Methods

             1. Study design: Randomized Factorial Controlled Trial.

             2. Setting and Participants: The trial will be conducted among postgraduate and
                faculty MD registered in MPFS and working in the teaching hospitals and clinics of
                McMaster University (see eligibility criteria below)

             3. Participating clinicians will be randomized to 3 online interventions (see
                description below) in a factorial design (A x B x C), whose permutation results in
                8 allocation arms (A+B+C, A+B, A+C, B+C, A, B, C, no intervention, see details
                below)

             4. Randomization: will be computer-generated, stratified training level (post-graduate
                MD, faculty MD), and baseline frequency of searching for evidence on MPFS.
                Registrants will be randomly allocated to each study arms. Allocation will be
                concealed from research staff.

             5. Blinding and control group: Although participants cannot be blinded to the
                interventions, they will not be told of the different features offered, and all
                will receive usual searching features of MPFS.

             6. Primary and secondary outcomes (see below).
    
  