
    
      Veterans leaving incarceration (henceforth, "reentry Veterans") are among the most
      underserved by the VA and thus are an increasingly high priority population. The Bureau of
      Justice Statistics estimates that 140,000 Veterans are incarcerated in the U.S. at a given
      time, approximately 80% of whom are eligible for VA benefits. Many of these Veterans had
      problems with substance use disorders (SUD)(including alcohol) and/or mental health (MH)
      issues prior to being incarcerated.

      The VA's national Health Care for Reentry Veterans (HCRV) program identifies 10,000-15,000
      incarcerated Veterans annually preparing to transition back to the community. A HCRV outreach
      specialist works with incarcerated VHA-eligible Veterans to establish a post-release plan for
      linkage to VHA services. This program, with 1-2 outreach specialists per state, has improved
      the connection between reentry Veterans and the VHA. However, the investigators' analyses of
      homeless program data linked to VHA administrative data indicate that 43% of eligible HCRV
      Veterans do not have a VHA outpatient contact in the first 4 months post incarceration.
      Reducing this number is critical given the elevated rates of chronic health conditions, as
      well as MH or SUDs in this population.

      To address this gap, the investigators will work with the national HCRV office to implement
      an evidence-based peer support intervention to extend the reach and effectiveness of the HCRV
      program in linking Veterans to VHA. Peers with incarceration experience are likely to better
      understand and connect with Veterans on a personal level than the outreach specialist, and
      thus are more likely to maintain contact and link to VHA during the first months
      post-release. Peers are gaining popularity in forensic settings (called "forensic peer
      specialists") with civilian populations and would likely be beneficial for a Veteran
      population .

      The aims of this project are:

        1. Conduct contextual analysis to identify VHA and community reentry resources, and to
           describe how reentry Veterans use them.

        2. Implement peer-support, in one state, to link reentry veterans to VHA primary, mental
           health, and SUD services. The investigators will use external and internal facilitation
           as the implementation strategy.

        3. Spread the peer-support intervention to another, geographically, and contextually
           different state.
    
  