
    
      Using statins to lower blood cholesterol, and specifically LDL, is well established as a
      long-term strategy to reduce CVs and even death. But the most intensive pharmacologic
      lipid-lowering therapy with statins, though proven superior to standard dose regimens, is
      still associated with an unacceptably high rate of recurrent CV events early after an ACS.
      This study hypothesizes that for ACS patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI), intensive lipid-lowering therapy consisting of statins and LDL-apheresis (ILLT) will
      significantly reduce the total coronary atheroma volume of vulnerable plaque and augment
      mobilization of peripherally circulating EPC colony forming units, compared to guideline
      statin monotherapy (SMT). ILLT will lead to fewer CV events for these patients.

      Patients presenting at four VA sites with ACS will be screened and consented before
      undergoing uncomplicated PCI (balloons or stents) and intravascular ultrasound with virtual
      histology (IVUS-HS). They will then be randomized into the ILLT arm or SMT arm of the study.
      The ILLT group will receive one treatment of LDL-apheresis plus a daily oral 40- 80mg dose of
      Atorvastatin or equivalent statin; the SMT group will only get 40-80mg Atorvastatin or
      equivalent. Patients will again undergo IVUS-HS 12 weeks after enrollment to measure atheroma
      volume; EPC level will also be checked.

      The three-year duration of the study includes 24 months of accrual, six months of follow-up,
      and 12 months of study closure and data analysis. A two-sample t-test of mean difference with
      90% power and 0.65 Cohen's D effect size provides a total sample size estimate of 102.
      Counting 20% drop-out rate, the sample size increases to 128.

      The recent FDA recommendations regarding the design of the study have been included in the
      revised study protocol:

        1. The safety data will be submitted to the FDA.

        2. Patients will be randomized to both LDL-apheresis and an oral daily dose of 40-80mg
           Atorvastatin or equivalent statin (Intensive LDL-lowering therapy/ILLT) or a daily dose
           of 40-80mg of Atorvastatin or equivalent statin without LDL-apheresis (standard statin
           monotherapy/SMT) following an uncomplicated PCI.
    
  