
    
      This study is a 4-arm pilot study involving 248 patients (62 per arm) who are on a once-a-day
      statin who have a medication adherence ratio (MPR) that is less than 80%. Patients in all
      arms would receive a GlowCap, manufactured by Vitality Inc., which records pill-bottle
      openings and be asked to use the GlowCap for that medication for the duration of the study.

      The study arms leverage two strategies that the investigators think will be particularly
      effective at improving adherence and may be even more effective when used in tandem. Patients
      in some arms will be asked to select an adherence partner: another person who can help them
      adhere to their medication regimen. The investigators will contact this adherence partner and
      ask them to officially accept this role and provide guidance of their choosing as to how they
      can help the patient adhere. In addition, patients in some arms will receive an alert
      whenever two full days pass without their GlowCap being opened (i.e. 48 hours of
      non-adherence). This alert will encourage them to begin taking their medication again. The
      design allows for some patients to have both an adherence partner and to receive alerts after
      48 hours of non-adherence. In these arms, the adherence partner would also receive the alert
      after 48 hours of non-adherence. This introduces a two-by-two design.

      Subjects would spend 6 months in their randomly assigned treatment, and the investigators
      will compare adherence of subjects in each of the arms to one another.

      The investigators plan to track daily adherence of patients to a prescribed chronic disease
      drug using a new technology that electronically monitors when a pill bottle has been opened.
      In our control condition, patients will be monitored but not be provided with any reminders,
      adherence information, or inclusion of friend of family member to help them adhere to their
      medication. Our four additional treatments will either: (1) email the patient after 48 hours
      of non-adherence; (2) allow the patient to select friend or family member to encourage
      medication adherence; (3) email the patient, as well as patient-selected friends or family
      members after 48 hours of non-adherence; or (4) provide the patient with a daily email, text
      message, or phone call reminder to take the pill.
    
  