
    
      Background: Chronic diseases failed concerned people, notably elderly which accumulate them.
      Failure of failed organ in oldest old citizens (80 and over) often leads to unplanned
      hospitalization which may have dreadful consequences, such as worsening condition or even
      death. Few studies have sought to identify all individual and environmental risk factors for
      unplanned hospitalization of elderly citizens. The development of a nation-wide shared
      medical record would allow to build an alert system if such factors can be modelled.

      Objective: The aim of this multicenter study is to investigate risk factors for unplanned
      hospitalizations, including individual and environmental factors, notably air pollution.
      Classifying at risk patients might help preventing unplanned hospitalization of oldest old.
      Correlations between medical data and the atmospheric pollution modelling will allow us to
      enhance the forecast system with dose-effect functions. Validation of a multi dimensional
      standardised instrument (InterRAI-MDS) will help in the development of a shared medical
      record.

      Methods : Patient aged 80 and over presenting to the emergency department (ED) for medical
      concern eventually associated with social concern and admitted in a medical or surgical ward.
      Three hospitals, two located in the Paris area and one in Champagne, offering emergency care
      and providing geriatric services will be involved in the study. 1,200 patients will be
      prospectively included in the study during a one-year period.

        1. Individual study

           Data collection involves three steps (before, during and after health event) from
           hospital admission (i.e. study inclusion) and relies on a multi dimensional standardized
           geriatric assessment using well established scales :

           Retrospective data collection includes medical history, health care utilization,
           SOCIO-economic status and functional status the days before hospital admission ; Data
           collection at hospital admission includes functional, mental, nutritional and depression
           status assessed by geriatric physician and nurse (standardized geriatric assessment) ;
           social support and care plan will be recorded at discharge ; SOCIO-economic conditions
           will also be recorded Data collection during follow-up includes health and functional
           status assessed at three, six, nine months and one year after first emergency visit,
           with help of the family and family physician. Hospitalizations and death will be
           recorded.

        2. Environmental and contextual data Meteorological data as well as data on pollution,
           epidemics, strikes in health care system or public transportation and public holiday
           will be gathered during the study period. The use of the atmospheric transport chemistry
           model CHIMERE will give greater spatial (2 to 3 km) and temporal (hour) resolution than
           airborne measurements of pollutants.

        3. Analysis A bidirectional case-crossover design will be used. Cases serve as their own
           controls through the use of information on the study subjects both before and after the
           event (hospitalization). Conditional logistic regression will then be used to
           investigate the short-term health effects of air pollution while taking into account
           individual characteristics.

      Survival analysis with time dependant covariates (environmental factors) will give
      strengthening results.

      A multi dimensional analysis will be performed to determine cluster of patients and patterns
      of environmental parameters.

      Validation of the RAI-MDS instrument will rely on internal coherency, structural validity and
      external validity facing usual geriatric scales (ADL, IADL, MMSE, MNA, GDS).

      Perspectives Identification of individual risk factors as well as evaluation of environmental
      threat for older people, potentialized by the setting of medical shared across caregivers
      could allow to develop individualized alarm and prevention systems.
    
  