
    
      Speech and swallowing abnormalities are important symptoms associated with disorders of the
      central nervous system, motor neuron disease (such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis),
      myasthenia gravis, and primary muscle conditions. In addition to characterizing the evolution
      in muscle architecture that could underlie associated orofacial weakness, identifying new
      ways to measure these abnormalities is critical to the development and testing of novel
      treatment approaches. As painless, non-invasive, portable technologies, quantitative
      ultrasonography (QUS) and electrical impedance myography (EIM) could meet the need for
      objective measures of speech and swallowing dysfunction.

      In QUS, acoustic energy is applied to a muscle of interest; the resultant pictorial data are
      translated into a single value that reflects the health of the imaged muscle. Similarly, in
      EIM, a high-frequency, low-intensity alternating electrical current is applied to individual
      muscles, and the resulting voltages measured. Impedance values reflect changes in muscle
      architecture, including fiber atrophy, inflammation, and the replacement of muscle with fat
      or connective tissue. Both of these user-friendly methods can provide sensitive indicators of
      neuromuscular disease status when applied to the limbs. Although they have also been used to
      evaluate orofacial muscles in healthy volunteers and patients with primary muscle disorders,
      they have not yet been systematically studied in patients with a range of neurological
      conditions.

      When applied to muscles of the face and tongue, such tools could 1. Improve accuracy of early
      diagnosis; 2. Allow monitoring of speech and swallowing dysfunction over time; 3. Help
      individualize care; and 4. Serve as biomarkers in clinical trials. We propose that QUS and
      EIM will provide convenient, reliable, clinically meaningful surrogate markers of orofacial
      dysfunction in a variety of neurologic conditions.
    
  