
    
      Diabetes is now the most common chronic disease since it affects western populations such as
      France almost 6% of the population. This disease is particularly costly for social protection
      systems, not only for the cost of daily care but also by the occurrence of Chronic
      complications that are leading to major co-morbidities. Thus, diabetes is a major
      cardiovascular risk factor. Diabetes also leads to micro-angiopathic complications: Diabetic
      retinopathy eventually ends up in evolved forms to the first cause of young subject blindness
      in developed countries. Nephropathy is one of the first causes of terminal renal failure
      leading to extra renal treatment.

      Diabetic neuropathy seems to be the most common and the most common of the specific
      complications of diabetes. It can of course touch the lower limbs, most often training a
      symmetrical and distal motor polyneuritis, responsible for the term of Neuro arthropathy of
      Charcot. The vegetative nervous system can also be achieved with cardiovascular,
      gastrointestinal, genitourinary, neuro-vascular, metabolic and pupil consequences. The
      injuries of the cranial nerves are also possible and are most frequently characterized by
      facial paralysis or motor eye nerves.

      The association between hearing disorders and diabetes has always aroused controversy on the
      part of contradictory literature data. Are hearing disorders an underestimated complication
      of diabetes? A recent meta-analysis of 2013, examined the scientific literature between 1950
      and 2011 and of the 3158 citations, only 13 articles were selected (with more than 20 000
      participants). This study found that hearing disorders in diabetic patients were 2.1 times
      more prevalent than in non-diabetic paired subjects. In addition, the age/aging factor is
      associated with the prevalence of hearing impairment and diabetes. However, it also appears
      that the link between diabetes and hearing disorder is more pronounced among young people
      than the elderly.

      Nevertheless, it is regrettable that in the majority of the "diabetes-hearing disorders"
      studies were not exhaustive from the point of view of the documentation of the alteration of
      the hearing function. Indeed, the indices of impairment of the hearing are essentially based
      on a review of the audiograms. No more relevant objective test, allowing to evaluate more
      precisely the different functional compartments of the inner ear, has been achieved. Indeed,
      it would be wise to elucidate which (s) are the targets (s) of the diabetes. Classical
      hearing impairment mainly affects cochlear sensory cells and more specifically external hair
      cells. However, it is possible to envisage that the alteration of the micro-vascularization
      of the vascular Streak (ischemic disorders), a selective expectation of the nerve fibers
      (hearing neuropathy), the metabolic disturbances at the mitochondrial level, Oxidative stress
      with free radical production, advanced glycation products (AGE, advanced glycation
      end-products).

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is the assessment of the prevalence of hearing impairment (with or
           without clinical manifestation) in a population of type 1 and type 2 diabetic persons
           treated and followed during a hospitalization or consultation in the Department of
           Endocrinology-Diabetology of the CHU de Clermont-Ferrand.

        -  The second objectives are:

      Identify the proportion of patients with a peripheral explanation for their hearing
      impairment (involvement of the outer ciliated cells, 'classic deafness) Identify the
      proportion of patients who have a neural explanation for their hearing impairment
      (hearing-type neuropathy) And categorize types of hearing impairment by types of diabetes,
      its balance, age, absence or absence of complication, age of patient, sex of patient, noise
      exposure in a professional manner or as a part of recreation, taking ototoxic drugs, smoking.
    
  