
    
      Keratosis in feet or plantar callosity is an injury caused by friction or pressure in certain
      location of the skin. This is a common problem faced by diabetic patients, which usually
      cause subcutaneous tissue maceration, which favors bacterial invasion. It is responsible for
      the development of abscesses and ulcers. Ulcer is the main cause of non-traumatic amputation
      of the feet in diabetic patients. Treatment with medicinal plants is an ancient practice.
      Brazil has one of the richest floras in the world. Brazilian Ministry of Health recommends
      the rational use of medicinal plants and encourage the use of this practice by health
      professionals.

      The medicinal plant used in this study is a keratolytic agent, healing, emollient,
      bactericide and fungicide. The purpose of this study is evaluate the effectiveness of this
      medicinal plant in the treatment of keratosis in diabetic patients. This study will be
      controlled, randomized, comparative with standard drug and double-blind. Will be included in
      the study 90 adult diabetic patients type 1 or 2, with keratosis, both sexes, but do not show
      feet ulcerated lesions. Patients will be randomised controlled trials in three groups, with
      30 people in each, which will receive topical treatment with medicinal plant (treatment
      group, TG), salicylate 10% (salicylate group, SG) and vaseline cream (control group, CG). The
      treatment will be once a day, for 30 consecutive days. Numerical scores will be made of the
      sites with keratosis and individual areas and global measures in the first, 30th days of
      treatment. The results obtained will be submitted to statistical comparison. This research
      will follow the standards set by resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council, the Vale
      do Sapucaí University, for research with human beings and will be conducted in accordance
      with the ethical recommendations of the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  