
    
      Every surgical procedure results in a temporary paralysis of bowel function. This condition
      is named postoperative ileus (POI) and it is characterized by absence of intestine motility,
      accumulation of gas and fluid inside the intestines and absence of flatus and defecation. It
      results in nausea, vomiting, abdominal distension, pain and lowered tolerance towards intake
      of fluid and solid foods. POI is the organism's reaction to the surgical trauma and it is
      most often the single most important factor determining the length of patient admission.
      Prolonged POI can also result in medical complications.

      The length of POI following elective abdominal surgery is most often 3 to 6 days. Gradually
      during this period the intestines regain their normal behavioral pattern. The colon is the
      last segment to regain its motility which decides the patient's wellbeing. Therefore most
      investigations of POI measure time from surgery to first flatus or defecation.

      The cause of POI is found in the surgical trauma. When the abdominal wall and the peritoneum
      are penetrated and the intestines exposed and handled, the immune system is activated. The
      immune system creates an inflammatory response that inhibits the local neural pathways in the
      intestines. The size of the immune response is related to the size of the surgical procedure
      and the length of POI. Together with the overall hormonal surgical stress response the
      inflammatory response creates a shift in the autonomous nervous system towards sympathetic
      domination. This further inhibits bowel activity.

      The intake of food activates parasympathetic activity and promotes bowel activity. Early food
      intake following abdominal surgery, however, is often ill received by the patients hence the
      above mentioned symptoms of POI. The early food intake can also worsen complications
      following surgery such as anastomotic leakage. This is most pronounced with anastomoses on
      the esophagus and stomach. Therefore abstinence from food intake is often recommended in the
      immediate postoperative period.

      Chewing of chewing gum following surgery can be perceived as placebo intake of food because
      it also activates the parasympathetic nervous system and under normal conditions the cephalic
      part of the digestion. Gum chewing does not, however, result in worsening of potential
      surgical complications and it is generally well tolerated by the patients. Postoperative gum
      chewing has been investigated and found effect full in the shape of reduced POI following
      colorectal surgery, abdominal surgery on the aorta, bladder surgery, and caesarian section.

      The effect of gum chewing following surgery on the esophagus and the pancreas has to our
      knowledge not yet been investigated.

      With this study we wish to investigate the effect of gum chewing on POI in a patient
      population undergoing either esophageal resection or pancreaticoduodenectomy (whipples
      procedure) due to cancer in either the esophagus or the pancreas.
    
  