
    
      Benefit(s) for the individual:

      Patients included in the experimental arm of the study will attempt to a strong reduction of
      PTS. In addition, all patients of the study will benefit from a careful follow-up thanks to
      the availability of physicians involved in the study, optimization of quality of compression
      therapy and anticoagulant treatment, and will be strongly encouraged to regular physical
      activity.

      Group(s) Benefits:

      About 100 000 to 150 000 persons develop VTE each year in France, among which about 5% will
      develop severe and disabling PTS. Validation of interventional therapy may provide a major
      clinical improvement for these patients in terms of morbidity and quality of life. The
      economic impact is likely to be improved.

      Risk(s) to the individual(s)

      The first risk is related to interventional treatment, i.e. haemorrhages or early DVT
      recurrence. The use of endovascular approach will reduce the haemorrhagic risk compared to
      open surgery, and the risk of recurrence will be controlled by anticoagulant.

      The second risk is related to antithrombotic treatment, i.e. combination of aspirin plus
      anticoagulant, then anticoagulant alone. The combined therapy will be used during a short
      one-month treatment reducing the risk, and the patients are already trained to anticoagulant
      treatment. Moreover, it is attempted, regarding the characteristics of patients eligible to
      interventional procedure that these patients are at low risk of bleeding.

      2.3.2 Benefit/risk balance

      The benefit/risk balance will be positive.

      Patients included in the experimental arm of the study will attempt to a strong reduction of
      PTS, although the procedure is mastered with limited risk. The fact that investigators
      already practice this procedure in everyday practice contributes to reducing this risk.

      Patients included in the control group will be treated according to the current clinical
      practice and national and international recommendations. In case of non-resolution of
      symptoms, they will be invited to interventional procedure 6 months later.

      In addition, all patients of the study will benefit from a careful follow-up.

      Adverse events will be supervised to control the benefit/risk balance between the two arms.
      Moreover, the choice to propose a delayed endovascular procedure for control group's patients
      is primordial because even if the medical treatment is the current clinical practice and
      national and international recommendations, endovascular procedure has emerged like key
      treatment. So, to avoid the risk that patients refuse study or leave the study if they are
      randomized in medical treatment, we propose a 6 months delayed intervention for these
      patients. This delay of 6 months is reasonable for the adherence of patients to the study.

      With these patients, we will have access to results of endovascular procedure at 6 months
      after delayed intervention, increasing the pool of data on the effect of endovascular
      procedure.

      2.4 Expected Impact

      The project will highlight the potential benefit of endovascular therapy on post thrombotic
      syndrome reduction after proximal iliac DVT. There is actually not real standard of care for
      the treatment of this pathology. A clear evidence of efficacy of endovascular therapy will be
      of great benefit for both the patients and the healthcare system, and will provide new data
      for further international guidelines
    
  