
    
      This is a pilot study to evaluate the impact of MI on self-efficacy and outcomes for chronic
      low back pain.

      Design Prospective randomized, single blind pilot, controlled study. Patients will be
      referred from E10 and the Spine Center by contacting the study coordinator. The Coordinator
      will meet with potential participants, determine if they meet the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, obtain informed consent, assess self-efficacy using the Stanford Self efficacy
      instrument, use en bloc randomization for self-efficacy to the experimental and control
      group. They will then complete the SF-12, a VAS pain scale, and the Roland and Morris
      Disability questionnaire, a few questions about employment status and 1 question about
      satisfaction with care.

      The experimental group(goal n=20) will be treated by physical therapists that have been
      trained in motivational interviewing techniques by a PhD and a sample of these sessions will
      be videotaped for validation purposes. The control group(goal n=20) will receive PT from any
      PT as per the normal standard of care.

      Both the experimental and control group will complete an additional self-efficacy instrument
      prior to leaving. Six weeks after the patients participate in a motivational interview
      session they will be mailed a repeat of all of the previously mentioned instruments including
      the self-efficacy tool. Patients who return the completed instruments will receive forty
      dollars. If effect size is small, this pilot study will be underpowered, if a clinically
      significant trend is observed additional funding will be sought and the experimental and
      control n will be expanded to 64.

      Setting Tertiary academic medical center Participants Referrals from a Spine Center, or a
      large outpatient Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation practice with at least three months of
      chronic low back pain.

      Primary Outcome Measure Self-efficacy for Managing Chronic disease 6-Item scale

      Main Outcome Measures Roland and Morris Disability Questionnaire Pain VAS Satisfaction with
      care question Disability status question SF-12 Exclusion Criteria Medical /legal involvement
      Active workers compensation Infection or tumor in spine Active systemic disease in the lumbar
      spine Multiple other musculoskeletal problems that require Treatment Patients receiving more
      than 2 PT sessions

      Inclusion Criteria Three or more months of low back pain Ability to read, write and speak
      English
    
  