
    
      1. Scientific context

           In post-operative cardiac surgery, invasive ventilation is often necessary, but the
           induced positive intra thoracic pressures can be detrimental to hemodynamics via several
           mechanisms: decrease in venous return, increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and
           increase in the afterload of the right ventricle. This effect is particularly
           problematic in patients with a restrictive right ventricle, who are preload dependent,
           and in patients with cavo pulmonary connections for single ventricle palliation. In
           these patients, decreasing ventilator positive pressure improves cardiac output and
           cerebral oxygenation. However, very early extubation is not always possible or safe, and
           it is therefore essential to optimize mechanical ventilation in order to minimize its
           hemodynamic consequences.

           In adults, ventilation in NAVA (Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist) mode, regardless
           of the level of assistance, allows the preservation of intra thoracic pressure
           variations characteristic of spontaneous ventilation and limits the impact of
           ventilation on right ventricular ejection. In children, inspiratory and mean pressures
           are also lower in NAVA compared to conventional ventilation.

           Assessment of brain oxygenation and perfusion in cardiovascular resuscitation is
           important both as a hemodynamic parameter and as a neurological prognostic factor. An
           innovative non-invasive tool, Diffuse Correlation Spectroscopy coupled with Near
           Infrared Spectroscopy (DCS-NIRS), allows the non-invasive evaluation of both cerebral
           oxygenation and variations in cerebral blood flow.

        2. Hypothesis and objectives

           The hypothesis is that the NAVA ventilation mode, which generates lower intra thoracic
           pressures than conventional ventilation modes, will improve cerebral hemodynamics,
           cardiac output, and oxygen transport of at-risk patients in the post-operative cardiac
           surgery setting compared with conventional ventilation.

           Main objective:

           In pediatric patients following cardiac surgery with risk of right ventricular diastolic
           dysfunction or passive pulmonary venous return (including Glenn, hemi-Fontan, Fontan,
           and Tetralogy of Fallot surgery), investigators will evaluate the impact of NAVA
           ventilation on:

             -  cerebral perfusion: cerebral blood flow (mm2/s) measured by DCS.

             -  cerebral oxygenation: cerebral tissue saturation (%) and regional cerebral O2
                extraction (OEF, measured by NIRS-DCS).

           Secondary objective:

           In pediatric post-operative cardiac surgery patients with risk of restrictive right
           ventricle or passive pulmonary venous return (including Glenn, hemi-Fontan, Fontan, and
           Tetralogy of Fallot type surgery), investigators will compare the impact of conventional
           ventilation to NAVA mode on:

             -  Brain regional O2 consumption extracted from NIRS-DCS measurements

             -  Systemic hemodynamics, including cardiac index, lactate level, central venous
                oxygen saturation (ScvO2), and oxygen transport

             -  Ventilation parameters

             -  Comfort as measured by the COMFORT scale

        3. Methods

      This is a prospective cross-over, single-center, physiological study to be conducted in the
      Pediatric Intensive Care Unit of CHU Sainte Justine (Montreal, Canada).

      Two periods of 60 minutes in each of 2 ventilation modes will be compared: conventional
      ventilation mode (as prescribed by the treating team) and NAVA mode, in random order.

      On admission to the PICU postoperatively, study patients will be fitted with a naso-gastric
      NAVA probe.

      Before performing any study measurements, investigators will wait for patient stabilization,
      which is defined by:

        -  absence of hemodynamically significant bleeding

        -  stabilization of the ventilation parameters

        -  stable inotrope dose The order of the 2 ventilation periods will be randomized according
           to a previously generated random list.

      Study period ventilation will be set as follows:

        -  conventional ventilation: ventilation as prescribed by the treating team will be
           continued. Usually, ventilation is in PRVC (pressure regulated volume control) mode with
           a tidal volume between 5 and 8 mL/kg, a peep between 4 and 5, a respiratory rate to aim
           for normocapnia, and FiO2 to aim for PaO2 between 100 and 150 mmHg.

        -  NAVA Mode: NAVA level setting to target an Edi level between 3 and 20 V, tidal volume
           between 5 and 7 mL/kg, and no respiratory distress on physical examination. The trigger
           will be set at 0.5 V. The maximum pressure will be limited to 30 cmH2O. The PEEP level
           will not be changed from that prescribed by the treating physician.

      To facilitate comparability of brain flow and oxygenation measurements, FiO2, NO
      concentration, inotrope dose, and sedation will be kept as stable as possible during these
      periods, at the discretion of the treating physician. Similarly, if possible, blood
      transfusions will not be administered during the study period.

      During the two periods of ventilation, the following parameters will be recorded
      continuously:

        -  ventilatory parameters: ventilator parameters according to the set mode: peak
           inspiratory pressure, mean airway pressure, PEEP, tidal volume, total and spontaneous
           minute ventilation, Edi level, FiO2, exhaled CO2 via volumetric capnography.

        -  hemodynamic parameters: heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure, systolic, diastolic,
           central venous pressure (CVP), left atrial pressure (LAP), type and dose of vasoactive
           medications received with calculation of the vasoactive-inotropic score.

      In the second half of each period, investigators will perform:

        -  a central arterial and venous blood gas and an arterial lactate measurement.

        -  a measurement of cerebral blood flow by diffuse correlation spectroscopy and a
           measurement of cerebral regional tissue saturation and oxygen extraction. These
           measurements are done non-invasively and painlessly by applying a probe to the child's
           forehead for approximately 20 minutes.

        -  a limited cardiac ultrasound for the calculation of cardiac output (CO).

        -  calculation of urine output during the ventilation period.

      In addition, for each patient, the following information will be collected:

        -  age at the time of surgery

        -  cardiac diagnosis

        -  existence and quantification of aorto-pulmonary collaterals

        -  preoperative medications

        -  operative details: surgical procedure, duration of cardiopulmonary bypass, aortic
           cross-clamp duration, inotropes administered (and maximum dose).

        -  result of the postoperative trans-esophageal cardiac echo (cardiac function, evaluation
           of repair, presence of residual anatomic lesions)

        -  arterial and venous blood gases, lactate and haemoglobin levels prior to study
           ventilation periods

        -  time interval between the end of cardiopulmonary bypass and the start of study
           measurements

      The variables will be expressed in terms of mean standard deviation or median
      (interquartile), depending on the nature of their distribution. Because of the sample size,
      analysis of the differences between t variables during the 2 modes of ventilation will be
      done using the non-parametric Wilcoxon test (all the variables studied are of the continuous
      type). A value of p <0.05 will be considered significant.

      For the calculation of sample size, investigators estimated, using the study by Huang et al
      (4), that the standard deviation of brain saturation would be 6%, and that the expected
      difference between the 2 ventilation modes would be at least 6%. To reach a power of 90% with
      an alpha risk set at 0.05, a minimum of 24 patients is required. Given the risk of loss of
      sight (e.g. technical difficulty in obtaining the main variable) and due to the heterogeneity
      of the patient population, we decided to aim to include 30 patients.

      Note that no power calculation based on the variations in cerebral blood flow measured in
      spectroscopy was performed, because there was no preliminary data on the subject.

      Approval from the Research Ethics Committee of Sainte Justine University Hospital and the
      University Medical Affairs Department was obtained. Written consent will be required from the
      parents.
    
  