
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining
      this study drug for a selected subgroup of patients with AML and MDS whose disease features a
      mutation in the cohesin complex.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Talazoparib as a treatment for
      certain kinds of breast cancer. It is not currently approved for treating your disease.

      Talazoparib is a drug that stops the activity of a protein called poly (adenosine diphosphate
      [ADP]-ribose) polymerase or PARP. PARP is involved in repairing damage to the DNA within your
      cells. DNA is the set of instructions found within all of your cells that tells them how to
      behave. The DNA is damaged all the time by things around in the environment, and is repaired
      by several different methods, one of which uses PARP. When PARP is turned off by Talazoparib
      in the normal cells, other methods can still work to repair damage to DNA. However, in some
      cancer cells these other methods are broken and cannot be used. When PARP is turned off by
      Talazoparib in these cancer cells, DNA damage cannot be repaired and leads to the death of
      the cancer cells. Talazoparib is a drug that is safe and active in breast cancer and
      gynecologic cancers. However, there were no responses among 33 unselected patients with
      hematologic malignancies, including 21 with AML (acute myeloid leukemia) and 4 with MDS
      (myelodysplastic syndrome), when they received treatment with Talazoparib by itself. It is
      not known if there were any patients with cohesin-mutations that were on the clinical trial
      (these mutations are rare).

      In this research study, the investigators are testing if Talazoparib is an effective
      treatment for patients with AML and MDS that have a mutation in the cohesin complex. The
      cohesin complex is made up of a group of proteins that are critical for normal DNA
      replication activity. Mutations in the cohesin complex occur in patients with MDS/AML and may
      represent a new therapeutic target. In a chemical screen experiment in a Dana-Farber Cancer
      Institute laboratory, the investigators found that leukemia cells featuring a mutated cohesin
      complex were sensitive to Talazoparib (meaning the leukemia cells went away after treatment
      with Talazoparib) by a mechanism called synthetic lethality (this means that the lab
      experiments showed that leukemia cells with a mutation in cohesin were dependent on PARP
      activity to survive; when inhibiting PARP with a PARP inhibitor like Talazoparib, the
      leukemia cells died). The investigators thus identified Talazoparib to be a possible
      treatment for actual patients with MDS or AML that have a mutation in cohesin complex.
    
  