
    
      This pilot study will consist of enrolling long-term care (LTC) patients to a 12-week,
      single-patient, open-label, randomized multiple crossover trial consisting of 2 different
      treatment blocks (Block A, Block B) of 3 weeks duration each.

      This study is targeting LTC residents in two Hamilton LTC facilities associated with
      MediSystem pharmacy. Once potential participants have been identified by the clinical
      pharmacist working at these two facilities, a invitation letter with a consent letter will be
      sent to the LTC resident's power of attorney for health care (POA-HC) describing the study
      and inviting them to complete the mail back the consent form. POA-HCs will be provided with
      contact information of the research assistant associated with the study in order to have any
      of their questions answered.

      Once consent is received, the LTC patient will be assigned a randomized 1:1 treatment
      sequence of Block A (denoted by "A") and Block B (denoted by "B"). For example, Patient1 may
      be assigned the treatment sequence AABB, while Patient2 may be assigned the treatment
      sequence BAAB, and so on. The patient will then take a pre-determined dose, DOSE-A, of the
      antipsychotic that has been agreed upon between the physician and the POA-HC at time of
      enrolment during Block A. This pre-determined dose will be less than the current dose the LTC
      patient is taking at the time of enrolment. Similarly, the LTC patient will take DOSE-B, a
      second pre-determined dose of the antipsychotic that is different than the starting dose or
      DOSE-A, will be taken during Block B.

      At the end of the 12-week study, LTC physicians will be given a report which describes and
      summarizes the outcome measures for each participating LTC patient. This report will be
      reviewed together with the POA-HC in order to make a clinical decision together on whether to
      continue using the antipsychotic medication, or whether a decreased or discontinued dose is
      more appropriate. After this decision, a six-month prospective chart review will be done to
      determine whether the clinical decision resulting from the 12-week study persisted. If a
      subsequent change does occur during this six-month prospective time period, the reason and
      rationale for the change will be recorded.
    
  