
    
      Introduction Diabetes mellitus is an epidemic disorder, which in Denmark alone is affecting
      320,000 patients. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most frequent long term complication to
      diabetes mellitus (1) and a feared cause of severe vision loss and blindness (2).

      Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is the major cause of severe visual loss. Lack of
      oxygen to the retina (retinal ischemia) results in up-regulation of, in particular, the
      growth factor vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) (3) followed by compensatory retinal
      proliferations. The neovasculature is fragile and often leads to vitreous hemorrhages or
      retinal detachment which makes the patient at high risk of irreversible vision loss (4).

      In 1976 it was shown that patients with severe PDR can halve the risk of severe vision loss
      by peripheral retinal laser treatment (photocoagulation panretinal, PRP) (5). This treatment
      reduces the retina's oxygen demand, which makes the VEGF concentration decrease and the
      proliferations shrink (5).

      PRP has largely been the same for the last 40 years. The standard treatment is basically the
      same for all patients (4 + 6), which leads to some patients being either over or under
      treated. If treatment is inadequate, patients are in risk of disease progression and thus
      difficult vision loss (7). On the other hand, the treatment may cause side effects in the
      form of loss of visual field (8-9), night vision loss (10) and accumulation of fluid in the
      eye's macula (diabetic macular edema) (11).

      This study is a continuum of the clinical project IMPETUS 2018 - DETECT, which aimed to
      identify the factors that were important for a successful PRP treatment of PDR. In the study
      the investigators prospectively followed 65 patients with newly diagnosed PDR. All patients
      received baseline navigated PRP, as in Scandinavia only offered at Odense University Hospital
      (OUH). Navigated panretinal laser with a Navilas® laser ensures optimized treatment (12),
      shorter treatment (13) and increased patient comfort (12-14). Treatment effect was
      investigated at month three and six, and if necessary, treatment was supplied. All the
      patients venous retinal oxygen saturation was measured to study whether this had any
      therapeutic value.

      The investigators observed that the retinal oxygen saturation was a strong predictor of
      treatment response. Compared to patients whose disease was slowed down after treatment,
      patients with progression three months after PRP had an increase in the venous retinal oxygen
      saturation (+ 4.1% vs. -1.8%, p = 0.02). Patients with an increase of at least 3.0% in venous
      retinal oxygen saturation had 4.0 times greater risk of disease progression than patients who
      were below this threshold (15). This observation is in line with another Danish study, which
      demonstrated that worsening of DR causes increased venous retinal oxygen saturation (16). By
      measuring if this increase in venous retinal oxygen saturation has slowed down, one can
      assess whether PRP treatment is sufficient.

      PDR is traditionally perceived as an ischemic disease, which initially affects the entire
      retina. In our above mentioned study the investigators were able to confirm the results
      regarding the venous retinal oxygen saturation in the affected segment of the retina, in 24
      of the patients in the study, who had only one peripheral proliferation. In these patients
      the oxygen saturation was increased with disease progression (+ 3.9% vs. -1.5%, p = 0.04).
      This indicates that the focal hypoxia are more important than previously thought, and thus
      the local treatment of the diseased area may be a treatment option that reduces the
      processing volume, thereby minimizing potential side effects.

      Retinal proliferations are fragile and often leak contrast fluid. When initiating the study,
      the investigators expected the leakage of fluorescein over time would be the optimal method
      to assess disease activity, but had to realize that this method was difficult to objectify
      (17). As an alternative to this objective evaluation, it is possible to observe the
      structural conditions at the interface between the retina and vitreous body (18), but
      technological limitations have so far prevented the possibility of repeated evaluations of
      the same lesion over time. Optical coherency tomography (OCT)-angiography is, however, a new
      method that can visualize retinal structures and potential development of these in detail
      (19).

      Purpose In a six-month randomized, prospective study of patients with newly diagnosed PDR the
      investigators want to investigate 1) whether individualized PRP compared with standard PRP
      has the same efficacy but less side effects and 2) whether OCT angiography can be used as a
      marker for disease activity in PDR.

      Hypothesis The investigators expect that 1) individualized PDR provides the same effect but
      fewer side effects and better quality of life than traditional PDR, and 2) OCT angiography
      has better sensitivity and specificity than wide field fluorescein angiography (FA) for the
      evaluation of disease activity by PDR.

      Methods

      Setup:

        -  Six-months 1: 1 randomized, prospective study.

        -  58 consecutively recruited patients with newly diagnosed PDR at the Department of
           Ophthalmology, University Hospital, included in the period 1 March 2017 to 28 February
           2018.

        -  Patients will be randomized to either 1) standard PRP with Navilas® (n = 29) or
           individualized PRP with Navilas® (n = 29). To ensure the same degree of ischemic
           disease, the two groups are balanced in relation to the number of retinal quadrants with
           proliferations.

      Intervention:

        -  Standard PRP: localized to all four retinal quadrants.

        -  Individualized PRP: localized to the affected quadrants.

        -  Both treatments are carried out at baseline (BL) and supplemented if there is increasing
           disease activity at month three (M3) and / or month six (M6).

        -  Indications for additional treatment:

        -  Progression of PDR in the form of subjective growing lesion (assessed by ophthalmoscopy
           and wide field fundus photo) or increasing leakage wide field FA (M3 or M6).

        -  Progression of PDR in terms of objectively progressive lesion (≥10% from BL) measured by
           spectral domain (SD) OCT or OCT angiography (M3 or M6).

        -  Increase in venous retinal oxygen saturation of at least + 3,0% between BL and M3.

      Investigations:

        -  Demographics: age, sex, type of diabetes, diabetes duration, smoking, drugs (BL).

        -  Objectively: Blood pressure, height, weight (BL).

        -  Blood samples: HbA1c, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
           triglycerides, P creatinine, eGFR (BL, M3, M6).

        -  Visual acuity (Best Corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study standard) (BL,
           M3, M6).

        -  Intraocular pressure (BL, M3, M6).

        -  SD-OCT (Topcon 3D OCT 2000): macula and area(s) with PDR (BL, M3, M6).

        -  OCT angiography (Topcon DRI OCT Triton): region(s) with PDR (BL, M3, M6).

        -  Wide field fundus photo and FA (Optos) (BL, M3, M6).

        -  Retinal oximetry (Oxymap T1) (BL, M3, M6).

        -  Dark-adaptation (Goldmann-weeker adaptometer) (BL, M6).

        -  Perimetry (Humphrey 30-2) (BL, M6).

        -  Selected components of quality of life questionnaire (Danish translation of Visual
           Function Questionnaire-25) (BL, M6).

      Endpoints

      Primary:

        -  Need for retreatment between the groups (M3 and M6).

        -  Loss of visual fields between the groups (from BL to M6).

        -  Change in dark adaptation between the groups (from BL to M6).

        -  Sensitivity and specificity of OCT angiography as an expression of disease activity in
           PDR (BL, M3 and M6).

      Secondary:

        -  Change in visual acuity between the groups (from BL to M6).

        -  Difference in proportion with the development of vitreous haemorrhage between the groups
           (from BL to M6).

        -  Need for surgical removal of the vitreous between the groups (from BL to M6)

        -  Change in quality of life between the groups (from BL to M6).
    
  