
    
      Respiratory infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality for the tetraplegic
      population. They are often caused by the build up of secretions in the lungs as a result of
      being unable to generate an effective cough. This inability to cough leads to many
      tetraplegic people requiring some type of intervention to aid the removal of secretions.
      Manually assisted coughing or routine suctioning through the patient's tracheostomy tube are
      commonly used. Both of these techniques are associated with problems: (i) Tracheostomy
      suctioning is uncomfortable and often misses the left bronchus, one of the contributing
      factors to 80% of pneumonia occurring in the left lung of the spinal cord injured population.
      (ii) A manually assisted cough is a safe and effective procedure but needs to be provided by
      a trained care giver with associated resource implications for the local health care
      provider. An alternative method to help clear secretions and improve ventilation is
      Mechanical Insufflation-Exsufflation (MI-E) where a combination of positive and negative
      pressure is applied to the user's airway in order to induce a cough. A number of studies have
      shown that MI-E is more effective at removing secretions and reducing respiratory infections
      than conventional suctioning and manually assisted cough techniques, with the advantage that
      secretions are removed from both bronchi. MI-E has also been shown to significantly reduce
      the length of ICU stay and reduce the rates of reintubation.

      Individuals with tetraplegia have reduced exhaled tidal volume (VT) and reduced Cough Peak
      Flow (CPF) (maximum air flow rate during a cough. The CPF value can be used to assess the
      risk of respiratory infection, with a CPF < 160 L/min associated with no functional cough and
      a high risk of infection and a CPF of <270 L/min suggesting that a person will not be able to
      adequately clear secretions from their airway. The use of MI-E is therefore suggested for
      anyone with a CPF of <270 L/min.

      Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) is a technique which can be used to make paralysed
      muscles contract. The most effective contraction is observed when train of electrical pulses
      are applied close to the motor point of a paralysed muscle. When FES is applied to the
      abdominal muscles it is called Abdominal Functional Electrical Stimulation (AFES). AFES has
      previously been used to increase the VT and CPF of tetraplegic patients in a number of
      studies.

      MI-E is routinely combined with manually assisted coughing in order to loosen lung secretions
      and to increase the user's CPF. In the same way as a manually assisted cough, AFES leads to
      increased abdominal movement, resulting in larger CPF. During recent studies the
      investigators have observed that the use of AFES with acute tetraplegic patients appears to
      be associated with an increased need for secretion clearance, indicating that AFES aids the
      loosening of lung secretions. Although the abdominal movement achieved with AFES is typically
      significantly smaller than that achieved with a manually assisted cough, it may have
      beneficial effects in combination with MI-E. In addition, AFES has the advantage that it can
      be applied consistently and requires less involvement of the caregiver.

      The investigators hypothesise that (i) maximal respiratory improvements due to an AFES
      training programme will be achieved after more than 3 weeks of training, and (ii) that the
      combined use of AFES with MI-E may improve the respiratory function and ability to clear
      secretions of tetraplegic patients, resulting in a reduction in the number of respiratory
      infections in this group.

      Methods

      Participants Ten tetraplegic participants will be recruited for this study. All participants
      will be inpatients at the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit, Southern General
      Hospital, Glasgow.

      Experimental Procedures Each participant will undergo a pre study assessment. The study will
      take the form of a random crossover design involving a four week control period and an eight
      week training period which will be followed by a two week follow up period. The order of the
      control and training periods will be randomised for each participant. If the training period
      precedes the control period the follow up period will serve as a two week wash out period to
      avoid any carryover of acute effects from the training intervention. At the pre study
      assessment, and at the end of every second week, the participant will take part in an
      assessment session.

      Pre study assessment Before the study commences each participant will undergo a pre study
      assessment which will also serve as a familiarisation session. Stimulation will be applied to
      the participant's abdominal muscles to test whether they respond to electrical stimulation.
      The optimum stimulation parameters (electrode position/frequency/current and pulsewidth)
      required to induce a strong contraction of the abdominal muscles will then be established.
      These stimulation parameters will be used as a starting point for the following training and
      assessment sessions. An assessment session, as outlined below, will then be conducted at the
      end of the pre study assessment.

      Training sessions Participants will take part in AFES training sessions five times per week
      (Monday-Friday) for a total of 8 weeks. During these sessions participants will receive AFES
      for 40 minutes.

      Assessment sessions Each participant will take part in bi-weekly assessment sessions
      throughout the study. At each assessment session a series of Forced Vital Capacity (FVC)
      tests will be performed with and without abdominal stimulation, which provide a measure of
      the participant's Vital Capacity (VC), Forced Exhaled Volume in one second (FEV1) and Peak
      Expiratory Flow (PEF). Respiratory flow and volume will be measured using a spirometer. To
      perform the FVC manoeuver the participant will be asked to inhale to Total Lung Capacity
      (TLC) and then exhale as quickly and as fully as they can. This will be repeated for each
      condition up to a maximum of 5 times, or until 3 attempts within 0.15L of each other are
      recorded. Many of the participants on this study will have a FVC of <1L. The ATS/ERS
      standards for spirometry suggest that for an FVC of <1L the range of acceptable values should
      be plus or minus 0.1L. All participants will perform the assessment sitting in an upright
      position.

      The participant's cough peak flow (CPF) will also be measured under three conditions: (i)
      unassisted (ii) unassisted mechanical insufflation-exsufflation (MI-E) and (iii) MI-E
      assisted with Abdominal Functional Electrical Stimulation (AFES). To measure the CPF, five
      cycles of MI-E will be applied for both MI-E conditions. The maximum CPF value recorded from
      five attempts will be taken as the participant's CPF in each condition.

      During the pre study assessment and at the end of the training and the control period an
      extended assessment session will be performed. The additional measurements will be (i) MI-E
      with manually assisted cough, and (ii) ultrasound measurement of diaphragm movement with and
      without AFES.

      The CPF achieved using MI-E with a manually assisted cough will be recorded while the
      manually assisted cough is applied by the patient's regular caregiver, with the same
      caregiver applying the manually assisted cough in all three sessions.

      The movement of the diaphragm will be measured during a FVC manoeuvre using an ultrasound
      probe, with and without AFES assistance. This will allow an evaluation of the effect of AFES
      on diaphragm movement.

      Follow up/ Wash out period After the training period the participant will undergo a two week
      follow up period. If the participant has still to complete the control period this follow up
      will also act as a wash out. During this wash out period the participant will undergo no
      training sessions. The aim of this wash out period is to minimise the effect of any acute
      response from the training period to the control period.
    
  