
    
      In 2014, the estimated population who were suffering from drug abuse and drug-related
      disorders reached over 29 million worldwide, making it a global health challenge. Moreover,
      43.5 per million people die annually from associated drug use. According to the United
      Nations Office on Drugs and Crime [UNODC] World Drug Report, the annual prevalence of drug
      use seemed to be stable for the past few years. However, new psychoactive substances (NPS)
      have increased drastically in both supply and demand.

      The term "new psychoactive substances" had been legally defined earlier by the European Union
      as a new narcotic or psychotropic drug, in pure form or in a preparation, that is not
      scheduled under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 or the Convention on
      Psychotropic Substances of 1971, but which may pose a public health threat comparable to that
      posed by substances listed in those conventions. Although the NPS terminology seems to imply
      the creation of novel drugs, many are not new. In fact, most psychoactive drugs (that later
      became abused) have been in use for at least a century. Many NPS were discovered at the same
      time as other drugs, and it was simply, for whatever reasons, these other drugs became
      popular. The majority of these substances are chemicals produced by tweaking or altering the
      molecular structure of previous well-known psychoactive agents such as cannabis, cocaine,
      methylenedioxymeth-amphetamine (or MDMA, commonly known as ecstasy), and lysergic acid
      diethylamide (or LSD), which are being sold as "legal highs," "research chemicals," "herbal
      highs," "party pills," or "plant food" in an attempt to stay ahead of the law prohibiting the
      sale and use of psychoactive drugs.

      On the basis of that definition, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction
      (EMCDDA) identified the following groups of substances covered by its early warning system on
      NPS:

        -  Phenethylamines, which encompass a wide range of substances that may exhibit stimulant,
           entactogenic or hallucinogenic effects.

        -  Tryptamines, which include a number of substances that have predominantly hallucinogenic
           effects.

        -  Piperazines, which are represented, inter alia, by mchlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) and
           BZP, both of which are central nervous system stimulants.

        -  Synthetic cathinones, which have stimulant effects. The main cathinone derivatives are
           the semi-synthetic methcathinone and the synthetic compounds mephedrone, methylone and
           MDPV.

        -  Synthetic cannabinoids are functionally similar to THC, the active compound of cannabis.

        -  Other substances reported to the early warning system include various plant-derived and
           synthetic psychoactive substances (e.g. indanes, benzodifuranyls, narcotic analgesics,
           synthetic cocaine derivatives, ketamine and phencyclidine derivatives), which do not
           strictly belong to any of the above-mentioned drug families. Also included are a number
           of medicinal products and derivatives.

      NPS are formulated in a variety of forms, and when sold in the market, many contain mixtures
      of different substances some including controlled drugs. Smoked, ingested, snorted, or
      injected NPS can produce a variety of psychotropic effects, which can be similar to those
      related to the controlled substances they contain or to the chemical entities that they are
      derived from. Based on their clinical effects, NPS can be classified as stimulants,
      empathogens-entactogens, sedative-hypnotic-anxiolytics, dissociatives, and hallucinogens.
      Alternatively, they can be classified according to their chemical class as phenethylamines,
      piperazines, tryptamines, synthetic cathinones, alkylindoles (synthetic cannabinoids), and
      arylcyclohexylamines.

      Substance abuse rates in Egypt have hit 10%, or double the global average. Tramadol is the
      most abused substance, followed by cannabis and heroin. The ancient culture of Egypt includes
      an equally ancient history of drug and alcohol abuse. Opium and hashish have been used in
      Egypt for centuries, and recent tests have found cocaine in mummified remains-a discovery
      that has confounded historians who considered that the coca plant was purely a South American
      phenomenon until recent times.It was in the 1980s that use of narcotics began to escalate to
      serious levels. Currently, Egypt is one of Africa's top cultivators of cannabis and opium
      poppies. The number of hectares discovered that are dedicated to growing addictive substances
      has been increasing steadily over the last decade. The amount of "bango"-the local name for
      marijuana-seizures have also been increasing from 60,000 kg per year up to 80,000 kg and
      above.

      In the past two years, two new drugs - known as Strox and Voodoo - have hit the Egyptian
      market.Voodoo is a combination of an aromatic plant, like marjoram or incense, which is
      infused with a synthetic cannabinoid that is up to 100 times as powerful as natural
      marijuana. The most common brand is "Mister Nice Guy", which is sold in a small bag decorated
      with a smiley emoticon. The bag has a warning that reads "relaxing incense, not edible".
      Strox is also made with an aromatic plant like marjoram and incense, which is then sprayed
      with active medical substances used as pain relievers in case of cramps or stomach aches,
      like atropine, hyoscine and hyoscyamine. These substances can have psychotropic effects when
      taken in large doses. Usually, these two drugs are mixed with tobacco and then smoked.

      Shabu is another name for methamphetamine hydrochloride, also known as crystal meth. Meth is
      a highly addictive stimulant that causes its user irreversible harm, physically and
      mentally.it is a white, odorless substance. Typically, you will find it in a crystal
      formation or crystalline powder. It tends to be bitter in taste. Sometimes, it's combined
      with caffeine or other chemicals. Furthermore, it can be packaged in the form of a pill for
      easy measurement and distribution.

      Pregabalin is widely used in neurology, psychiatry and primary healthcare. Pregabalin has
      been identified within the 30 most prescribed medications in the USA in 2011. In Europe,
      pregabalin is approved for the treatment of epilepsy (partial seizures), neuropathic pain and
      generalised anxiety disorder. In the USA, although not approved for anxiety, pregabalin is
      further approved for fibromyalgia and post-herpetic neuralgia. The molecule is however also
      often prescribed off-label for a range of clinical conditions, including: bipolar disorder;
      alcohol/narcotic withdrawal states; attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; restless legs'
      syndrome; trigeminal neuralgia and non-neuropathic pain disorders .Pregabalin is increasingly
      being reported as possessing a potential for misuse [10]. In the UK, for example, pregabalin
      prescribing has increased, respectively, by 350 and 150 % in just 5 years. In Norway,
      Persheim et al. analysed changes for the period 2008-2011 in the drug reimbursement system
      relating to expenditures for potentially addictive drugs in patients with
      severe/non-malignant chronic pain, and found that about one-third of the approved
      applications were for pregabalin. In parallel with this, there is an anecdotally growing
      black market, with pregabalin being allegedly available without prescriptions through online
      pharmacies.

      Medications obtained by patients for treatment of common ailments, without a prescription
      from a physician, are known as over-the-counter (OTC) or non-prescription medications. OTC
      medications provide prevention and treatment for a wide range of conditions, including but
      not limited to headaches, common cold, musculoskeletal pain, allergies, tobacco dependence,
      and heartburn. Multiple OTC medications have abuse potential. Commonly abused medications
      include antihistamines, sleep aids, caffeine, ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, antitussives and
      expectorants, dextromethorphan, laxatives, anabolic steroids, and sildenafil. Laxatives are
      abused for weight loss and high antihistamines doses are used for euphoria.

      Tropicamide is an antimuscarinic ophthalmic solution used to produce short-acting mydriasis
      and cycloplegia. Topical abuse of ophthalmic solutions has been reported, but intravenous
      (IV) abuse of tropicamide seems to be a new phenomenon.
    
  