
    
      Rational: Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a frequent infectious disorder in patients
      visiting the ED. CAP is responsible for high morbidity and associated-mortality is increasing
      in Western countries. CAP corresponds to invasion of the lung by pathogens. Diagnosis depends
      on clinical and X-ray assessment. However, these signs and symptoms are poorly specific and
      are often lacking. As prognosis depends on precocious and fitted antimicrobial treatment,
      making CAP diagnosis in a short time span (4-8 hours) is mandatory. Preliminary studies
      suggest that chest CT-scan could over-performed X-ray for diagnosis of CAP. Consensus
      conferences suggest the use of CT-scan in patients with uncertain diagnosis and unusual
      presentation and outcome. Because CT-scan is currently easily available, its use in a first
      intent is questionable for ED patients with suspected CAP.

      Primary objective: to estimate impact of CT-scan on diagnostic for ED patients with suspected
      CAP.

      Secondary objective: to estimate impact of CT-scan on treatment (antimicrobial therapy) and
      site of care for ED patients with suspected CAP.

      Prospective multicenter study to measure chest CT-scan impact. 350 patients visiting the ED
      of 4 inner tertiary teaching hospitals in Paris, France, with suspected CAP.

      Management: Patients will be managed according to current guidelines, including conventional
      chest X-ray.

      Evaluation criteria. Attending ED physicians will implement pre- and post-test proforma for
      diagnosis (CAP) level of certainty, treatment (antimicrobial agents), site of care, before
      and after chest CT-scan. Comparison of ED physician's answers before/after CT-scan. Patients
      will be followed until day 28. An adjudication committee (1 pneumologist, 1 infectiologist, 1
      radiologist)will review patients' data for gold standard diagnosis.

      Statistical considerations: The investigators hypothesize that chest CT-scan wil modify
      diagnosis certainty in 20%. This implies that 300 participants should be enrolled to allow
      assessment of changes in 15 % et 25 %. Undue changes will be calculated a posteriori when
      diagnosis gold standard will be established by adjudication committee.

      Anticipated results: Chest CT-scan should improve diagnosis certainty, treatment and
      site-of-care in patients visiting the ED with suspected CAP. If this is observed in at least
      20%, the investigators will measure impact of chest CT-scan in a prospective randomized
      interventional study.
    
  