
    
      Purpose: Deep bite, an increase from the normal overbite, is a problem that can be caused by
      a dentoalveolar and/or skeletal origin, and it is more common in class II malocclusion
      patients. Among children, the prevalence has been reported to range from 3 to 39%. This large
      variance can be explained by factors such as diagnosis criteria, sex, and ethnic group. Even
      though the stability and relapse of deep bite treatment have been previously discussed on
      permanent dentition, there is a lack of studies investigating their management during mixed
      dentition. Hence the goal of this clinical trial is to assess if any of the currently
      available approaches is more efficient considering factors such as costs, number of
      appointments, complications and patient's experience.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesized that the three active treatment approaches (bonded
      vs. cemented vs. removable) would produce similar dentoalveolar, skeletal and functional
      improvements. Those improvements would be larger than those observed on untreated children.

      Justification: There is a lack of evidence regarding what early treatment approach for the
      deep bite is more effective, produces fewer side effects, and is more comfortable for
      patients. No randomized controlled trial evaluating the effectiveness of deep bite treatment
      during the mixed dentition has been identified. Early intervention may simplify future
      comprehensive orthodontic treatment. Moderate to severe deep bite cases could affect sagittal
      mandibular growth.

      Objectives: This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of two deep bite orthodontic
      treatments among children in the mixed dentition phase. Additionally, treatment duration,
      quality of life changes and complications of the different performed interventions will be
      assessed.

      Research Method/Procedures: This study will be a stratified, parallel randomized controlled,
      single-blinded, with an allocation ratio of 1:1:1. The sample will be composed by children in
      mixed dentition (7-11 year olds), referred or self-referred to the orthodontic clinic at the
      University of Alberta (Edmonton, Alberta, Canada). The inclusion criteria will be: presence
      of moderate to severe deep bite (overbite >5.0 mm), fully erupted maxillary and mandibular
      incisors, as well as first permanent molars, no missing permanent incisors and molars, no
      clinically noticeable craniofacial syndromes and no clear need for immediate intervention to
      manage severe sagittal, transversal or vertical malocclusions. The participants will be
      divided into three groups:

        1. no treatment of deep bite now - deferral to permanent dentition;

        2. treatment with a cemented modified palatal Nance appliance including an anterior
           bite-plane;

        3. treatment with a composite build up in the palatal aspect of the upper central incisors.

      The effectiveness of interventions (elimination of the moderate to severe anterior deep bite)
      will be assessed as a primary outcome. Secondarily, treatment duration, compliance, and
      complications among patients using the appliances will be evaluated. The treatment
      effectiveness will be evaluated according to the following criteria:

        -  The success rate of deep overbite correction (yes or no). The success in overbite
           correction will be defined as the complete dissolution of deep bite, with an overbite
           <3mm. This will be assessed by comparing digital bite models from before (T0) and after
           treatment (T1).

        -  Treatment duration in months: from the beginning until the end of the intervention
           (correction of deep bite up to a maximum of 12 months). The number of appointments will
           also be calculated.

        -  Measurement of overjet and overbite in millimeters; arch length to incisal edge in
           millimeters; maxillary dental arch length total (ALT) in millimeters; transverse
           maxillary molar distance (MD) in millimeters. Obtained from digital bite models.

        -  Cephalometric analysis. Skeletal and vertical sagittal measurements, as well as
           interdental, maxillary and mandibular dentoalveolar measurements, will be collected for
           each participant. Conventional 2-D Lateral cephalograms will be taken from all patients
           before treatment (T0) and at the end of the active intervention (T1).

      The overjet, overbite, and the arch length will be measured electronically. Cephalometric
      measurements will be made with a commercial software. All measurements were made to the
      nearest 0.1 mm by an orthodontist. The analyses will be blinded regarding treatment received
      and time. Changes in the different measures were calculated as the difference between T1 and
      T0. Finally, the duration of treatment (no more than 12 months) will be considered.

      Data on all patients will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis, i.e., if the deep
      bite was not corrected during the 1-year trial period, the outcome will be declared
      unsuccessful. Thus, all patients, successful or not, will be included in the final analysis.
      The dropouts during the trial will be evaluated regarding the reasons and the data collected
      during the study to be considered as effective or ineffective.

      Cephalometric and digital bite models measurements of 10 patients will be repeated by the
      same observer, a trained orthodontist, after four weeks to measure the intraobserver
      reliability. The reliability will be measured using Dahlberg formula for random error
      analysis and intraclass correlation (ICC) for the evaluation of systematic errors.

      As a secondary outcome, the number of breakages, additional appointments for appliance
      repairs, appliance repairs made and emergency appointments will be collected to evaluate the
      complications of each treatment. In the removable appliance group, the compliance will be
      evaluated using a using an incorporated microsensor.

      Quality of life will be assessed using previously validated questionnaires specific to age
      groups. For 8 to 10 year-old the CPQ8-10 which consists of 25 questions distributed among 4
      domains (oral symptoms, functional limitations, emotional well-being and social well-being).
      For 11 to 12-year-old the CPQ11-14 which consists of 37 questions distributed among 4 domains
      (oral symptoms, functional limitations, emotional well-being and social well-being). The
      P-CPQ, a measure of parental/caregiver perceptions of the oral health-related quality of life
      of children will also be used.

      The sample size was calculated based on a power analysis, considering overbite as the primary
      variable. To achieve a power of the study of 0.8, a difference among treatments of 1mm
      (variance of 1.5mm2) at a level of 0.05, each group of patients under investigation had to
      include 24 subjects. Considering a possible dropout rate of 20% in each group, 29 subjects
      will be recruited in each group, resulting in a total initial sample of 87 children. Data
      from Bacetti et al 2012 study comparing deep bite correction between mixed mention and
      permanent dentition used as reference (1.7 mm difference with sd of 1.3 mm).

      A computer-generated list of random numbers will be used to randomly selected sample from a
      large pool of participants (SPSS Inc., Chicago.). This process will be conducted by a person
      not involved in the study. The random allocation process will be performed using opaque
      sealed envelopes which will contain the assigned group for each patient and were not opened
      until the onset of the trial. The enrolment of participants and their assignment will be done
      by an orthodontic staff member not directly involved in the intervention and follow-up. A
      computer-generated list of random numbers will be used to randomly selected sample from a
      large pool of participants (SPSS Inc., Chicago.). This process will be conducted by a person
      not involved in the study. The random allocation process will be performed using opaque
      sealed envelopes which contained the assigned group for each patient and were not opened
      until the onset of the trial.

      Plan for Data Analysis: Data normality will be examined using the Shapiro-Wilk test. A
      multiple analysis of variance (MANOVA) will be used to evaluate repeated-measures data
      between T0 and T1 in each group. Intergroup comparison among different intervention groups
      will be performed using multiple analyses of variance (MANOVA), with Tukey Ìs posthoc test.
      All statistical analyses will be conducted using IBM SPSS Statistics 22 (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      IL, USA) software, with a 0.05 level of significance.
    
  