
    
      TB is the leading cause of death among persons with HIV worldwide, and HIV-infected drinkers
      are at very high risk for TB disease and mortality. Globally, an estimated 25% of persons
      with HIV are heavy drinkers, and the risk of TB disease is 3-fold higher among heavy drinkers
      compared to non-drinkers. Six months of isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy (IPT) reduces TB
      morbidity and mortality by 30-50% above the benefit of antiretroviral therapy (ART). However,
      INH can be toxic to the liver, and as a result in many high TB/HIV prevalence settings, such
      as east Africa, heavy drinkers are not offered IPT. Thus interventions to reduce alcohol use
      are needed to decrease INH toxicity during IPT among HIV/TB infected drinkers. It is also
      well established that heavy drinkers have poorer ART adherence, and there is growing evidence
      of reduced IPT adherence in drinkers. However, interventions to reduce drinking have had
      limited impact on ART adherence, and further interventions to increase IPT adherence among
      HIV/TB infected drinkers are likely needed.

      The use of incentives to promote healthy behavior is a highly effective approach for reducing
      substance use and for improving adherence to HIV and TB regimens in resource-rich settings.
      Economic incentives to reduce alcohol use may create a window for safe and effective IPT use
      over six months by decreasing hepatotoxicity. Decreases in alcohol use may also improve IPT
      adherence, or additional incentives for IPT adherence may be needed. Such strategies to
      reduce alcohol use have not been studied in low-income countries and the effectiveness of
      incentives to optimize IPT in HIV/TB co-infected drinkers is unknown.

      OBJECTIVES

      Aim 1: Alcohol Reduction Intervention: Determine the effectiveness of economic incentives
      contingent on point-of-care (POC) urine ethyl glucuronide (EtG) <300 ng/mL (Arms 2 & 4)
      versus no alcohol incentives (Arms 1 & 3) to reduce heavy drinking over 6 months, among
      HIV/TB co-infected adult drinkers receiving IPT. The investigators will randomize
      participants to low-cost escalating prize incentives for EtG negative urine tests at IPT
      refill visits (Arms 2+4), versus no incentives (Arms 1+3).

      Aim 2: INH Adherence Intervention: Determine the effectiveness of economic incentives
      contingent on POC (IsoScreen) INH urine positive tests (Arms 3 & 4) versus no INH incentives
      (Arms 1 & 2) on INH adherence among HIV/TB co-infected adult drinkers. The investigators will
      randomize participants to low-cost escalating prize incentives for INH positive urine tests
      at IPT refill visits (Arms 3+4), versus no incentives (Arms 1+2).

      Aim 3: Impact Assessment of Intervention: Assess the impact of economic incentives on HIV
      virologic suppression and explore their mechanisms of action, six months after trial
      completion. The investigators will follow all study participants for six months after trial
      completion.

        1. Assess the impact of the 3 separate incentive interventions (Arms 2, 3, 4) vs. no
           incentives (Arm 1) on HIV virologic suppression.

        2. Explore the mechanisms that may drive the economic incentives to increase virologic
           suppression. Potential mediators will be reductions in alcohol use and level of IPT
           adherence.

      This study will leverage new low-cost POC tests for alcohol use and INH pill-taking for the
      first study of incentive-based alcohol and adherence interventions in low-resource settings;
      these interventions may improve the safety and effectiveness of life-saving medications for
      heavy alcohol users in many settings.
    
  