
    
      Aim

      The hypothesis is that an increasing dose of the anti-inflammatory drug recombinant human
      Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra, Kineret) will modulate the inflammatory state of
      the traumatically injured brain, which will attenuate the injurious processes that occur
      following TBI.

      Study Design

      While different doses of Anakinra have been used in trials, there is no knowledge of what
      constitutes an optimized concentration of the drug. To address this limitation, the current
      study will be a dose-response study in a double blind randomised clinical fashion, using
      placebo (n=20), 1.5 g ("intermediate dose") or (n=20) and 3.0 g ("high dose")(n=20) of
      Anakinra provided the first 48 hours (drug/placebo administered initially as 500 mg infusion
      bolus and later as an 1g or 2.5g infusion for 48 hours). Thus, a total of n=60 patients will
      be included. Sample-size analyses have indicated that the number of patients is sufficient to
      detect differences in the inflammatory response as gauged with cytokine measurements using
      cerebral microdialysis.

      As surrogate markers of outcome for these patients, several protein biomarkers of brain
      injury and proteins of the innate immune responses will be quantified using techniques called
      ELISA and multiplex assay technology. The investigators also wish to use radiological
      techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging to study damages in white matter tracts in the
      brain and positron emission tomography to assess the degree of microglial activation. All
      these methods will be used to assess the potential benefit of the treatment vs placebo.

      By this type of study design, it will minimize bias and confounders that may influence the
      study.

      Patient Recruitment

      Patients with a clinical diagnosis of severe and moderate TBI will be identified by the
      research team at the daily departmental neuro-critical care unit meeting. Patients meeting
      the inclusion criteria will be approached for consent/assent if conscious or if next of kin
      is present. If not, consent will be assumed as we know Anakinra to be safe and there is
      likely to be a narrow therapeutic window. With the current patient load at Addenbrooke's
      Hospital, Cambridge, the investigators deem it possible to recruit one patient per week, thus
      estimating that the recruiting phase will take approximately two years to complete.

      Sampling

      All the sampling will be conducted during the acute phase when the patient is unconscious in
      the neuro-critical care unit. Microdialysis probes are sampled hourly. To assess inflammatory
      activity in the brain, positron emission tomography will be performed within the first week
      and after 2-3 weeks. Magnetic resonance imaging will be performed the first 2-3 weeks and
      then after 6 months. To measure the patient's adaptive immune response to brain specific
      proteins, specialised auto-immunisation assays will be performed on patient blood at day 1-3
      following injury as well as after 2-3 weeks.

      During the intensive care phase, blood and cerebrospinal fluid will be sampled twice per day
      (approximately 3mL per sampling time per compartment, volumes that we do not deem harmful to
      the patient) and will be collected together with hourly microdialysate fluid samples the
      first 7 days from admission. Blood will also be sampled at an outpatient clinic follow up at
      6 and 12 months following injury. Patient samples will be anonymised and stored at -80degC in
      the Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge
      before analysis.

      It will not to be possible to measure cytokines, the drug and biomarkers from all
      microdialysis samples due to volume constraints. Moreover, we believe that a temporal
      resolution of 6 hours is probably adequate for the brain concentration of the drug while 12
      hours is sufficient in serum. APP and tau will also be measured every 6 hours. The only
      parameter that will be hourly analysed in microdialysis is cytokine and chemokines through a
      luminex panel.

      Clinical Follow-up

      Patients will be followed up at a clinic visit at 6 and 12 months after trauma by
      questionnaire survey using standardised outcome measures in neurosurgical patients including
      the golden standard extended Glasgow Outcome Score and Short Form 36.
    
  