
    
      Respiratory tract infections are one of the leading causes of consultation in the Hospital
      General Naval de Alta Especialidad, in the emergency department and outpatient. Only in the
      last year (2014) shows that a total of 2690 pediatric consultations were provided in the
      emergency department, 1000 of them were for respiratory tract infections, constituting an
      approximate percentage of 37%. This figure increased over the previous year (2013) in which
      emergency visits corresponding 1130 290 cases consultations with boxes airways getting a
      percentage of 25% is given.

      Due to the high incidence of lower respiratory tract infections among patients in the
      pediatric ward, specifically for infants under two patients; early diagnosis of acute
      bronchiolitis is essential to initiate proper management without falling into the overuse of
      drugs that have not shown adequate results.

      In the last five years it has seen an increase in cases of bronchiolitis treated in both
      outpatient or emergency department of the Naval General Hospital. Given these data, a
      priority for a reason and consensus of treatment for patients with bronchiolitis.

      Faced with these alarming epidemiological data both nationally and globally, it is difficult
      to understand that there is no consensus on the management of this entity. Although mortality
      is low, it represents a high cost for society and especially for health institutions,
      represented by a high rate of income, empirical treatments and other logistical issues.

      This document intends to obtain evidence of better treatment in the population in order to
      establish an optimal management without spilling resources would reduce the rate of hospital
      admissions, first to the Naval General Hospital of High Specialty and then unify all Naval
      Health centers.

      All this, on a solid foundation of knowledge, with the latest revisions in the interest of
      the subject, in order to provide the best care to every patient. Among the treatments given
      in this research the application of adrenaline is included, its usefulness is based on the
      action that causes on alpha receptors causing vasoconstriction, decreased blood flow and
      inflammation, responsible for the obstruction which is part of the pathophysiology of
      bronchiolitis. During the investigation it was decided to use it in its natural form
      (Levogira) because it is less expensive and the investigators can find it in an accessible at
      other institutions. Studies comparing its use in relation to the racemic epinephrine, show no
      difference. In addition to reporting a power 30 times higher in relation to the racemic
      epinephrine.

      The study is feasible because the drugs used in this study are within the basic framework of
      hospital drugs, which do not involve any cost or use of additional staff for the hospital.
    
  