
    
      During the past two decades, there current concept has evolved significantly that
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) may not only impose a direct mechanical stress and
      subsequent injury to the lungs, but may also induce local as well as systemic inflammation
      responses, generally referred as biotrauma.1 Patients with ARDS often die of severe systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and multiorgan dysfunction2 rather than refractory
      hypoxemia. Ranieri et al found that patients with less severe ARDS, i.e., a lung injury score
      of 2.5 or less, receiving ventilation with lung protective strategy involving low tidal
      volume (7.5 mL/kg PBW) and high PEEP could attenuate the pulmonary and systemic cytokine
      response compared with conventional ventilation with high tidal volume.3 Stuber et al found
      an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines in the lung and plasma of patients with ARDS within
      1 hour after switching the patients from a protective to non-protective ventilator strategy.4
      The receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) was recently identified as a marker
      of injury to the alveolar type I epithelial cells5. Clinical studies showed that the plasma
      level of RAGE was associated with severity of lung injury and clinical outcome, and low tidal
      volume strategy ventilation accelerated the decline in plasma RAGE levels. These results
      suggest plasma RAGE level might be a reliable biomarker of alveolar epithelial injury in
      acute lung injury and may associated with ventilator induced lung injury6. Although, current
      approach to mechanical ventilation of a patient with ARDS emphasizes the use of lower tidal
      volumes with lower plateau pressures to avoid causing lung overdistension and ventilator
      associated lung injury (VILI)7; however, in the real world, some studies showed that strictly
      reduction of tidal volume to 6ml/kg PBW was modest in modern time, and was noticed only in
      patients with greater lung injury scores8. The benefit of VT strictly reduction to 6ml/kgPBW
      and its effect on VILI in patients with less severe ARDS whose Pplat are already below 30
      cmH2O are controversy9. One of the possible solutions is to look at the biomarkers of injury
      to alveolar epithelial cells. Of these potentially promising markers, the receptor for
      advanced glycation end-product (RAGE) is of great interest.

      We hypothesize that a strategy with strict low tidal volume in less severe ARDS and ALI
      patients with good compliance may be beneficial to this patient population. Therefore, we
      will to propose a prospective single-center study to investigate the effect of mechanical
      ventilation strategy on the plasma level of RAGE in patients with less severe ARDS and acute
      lung injury.
    
  