
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is an abrupt loss of kidney function and occurs in up to 5-40% of
      patients who undergo cardiac surgery; dialysis being required in approximately 2-15% of all
      patients. AKI is a common problem in critically ill patients and is independently from
      underlying diseases associated with increased morbidity and mortality (to progressive loss of
      kidney function, cardiovascular disease, and death). Unfortunately, chronic kidney disease is
      often overlooked in its earliest, most treatable stages. Implementation of novel biomarkers
      into the clinical practice that reliably identify patients at risk or at an early stage of
      AKI could offer more efficient management strategies may lead to better outcomes in
      critically ill patients.

      Kidney disease usually progresses silently, often destroying most of the kidney function
      before causing any symptoms. AKI was defined using the Kidney Disease Improvement Global
      Outcome (KDIGO) definition. The standard key tests (increase of serum creatinine and urine
      output) are late parameters after significant kidney injury.

      In this study 20 female and 20 male adult patients before and after cardiac surgery should be
      included. From all patients basic demographic data, pre-morbidity, vital parameters, blood
      parameters, urine output, Illness severity scores (APACHE-II, SOFA, GCS), drug levels,
      microbiological results will be recorded. The aim of this study is to evaluate the use of a
      fragment of proencephalin in plasma "penKID", Spingotec GmbH, Berlin, Germany) and other
      biomarkers (ADM: adrenomedulin, CAAP: C-terminal alpha-1 antitrypsin peptide) as specific
      markers for early diagnosis of AKI and the need of renal replacement therapy. Bio-ADM is a
      water-soluble peptide hormone with a molecular weight of about 6kDa released mainly by
      endothelial cells. Its biological function is the control of vasodilation, an important
      regulator of blood pressure and organ perfusion. This biomarker predicts and diagnoses
      endothelial dysfunctions. C-terminal alpha-1 antitrypsin peptide (CAAP) is a novel sepsis and
      renal injury biomarker with immunomodulatory function, especially in human neutrophils, which
      supports its role in the host response and pathophysiology of sepsis.
    
  