
    
      Exposures to heavy metals such arsenic, lead, cadmium have been linked to increased incidence
      of cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, current studies suffer from multiple drawbacks,
      most studies were cross sectional in design, focused on individual metals without
      consideration of the joint effects of multiple metals, and did not examine the possible
      effects of essential metals in CVD. Especially, the relationship between heavy
      metals/essential metal dyshomeostasis and right ventricular (RV) dysfunction/pulmonary
      hypertension (PAH), is less investigated. Investigators hypothesize that increased toxic
      heavy metals and/or essential metal dyshomeostasis impact hypoxia response, endothelial
      dysfunction, perivascular inflammation and vascular remodeling of the pulmonary vasculature,
      and are important pathogenic initiators/stimulators during the progression of PAH and
      associated RV remodeling/dysfunction.

      Investigators plan to recruit 50 PAH patients from UofL PAH Clinic, with various degrees of
      severity (25 intermediate risk patients and 20 high risk patients) and 10 age and gender
      matched controls. PAH patients are evaluated at least every 6 months by the PAH Clinic and
      blood/urine samples will be obtained at each office visit. Blood, plasma and urine samples
      will be used to measure 31 metal levels including heavy metals (cadmium, arsenic, cobalt,
      lead etc.) and essential metals (calcium, copper, iron, zinc, potassium etc.) by the with
      ICP-MS via the service of ITEMFC. Interactions among the 31 metals in PAH patients, metal
      concentration differences between intermediate risk PAH, high risk PAH and control groups,
      the correlation between metal concentrations and the etiology, severity, duration, treatment,
      and progression of PAH/RV dysfunction over 12 months will be analyzed by CIEHS Biostatistics
      and Informatics Facility Core.

      Heavy metals have the potential of generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative
      stress whenever the release of ROS exceeds endogenous antioxidant capacity. Therefore,
      investigators hypothesize that heavy metal/essential metal dyshomeostasis could induce
      oxidative stress responses, activate two key pulmonary vasculature regulators (endothelin 1
      and hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) pathways), and in turn contributes to the PAH pathogenesis
      and RV dysfunction. Oxidative stress, endothelin 1 and HIF pathway markers in the blood will
      be measured with ELISA kits in both PAH and control groups. Investigators will perform
      comprehensive correlation analysis between metal levels, oxidative stress markers, endothelin
      1 and HIF pathway markers, and quantitative clinical biomarkers such as hemodynamic,
      laboratory and functional data in PAH patients. Furthermore, investigators will perform
      correlation analysis between blood levels of oxidative stress, endothelin 1 and HIF pathway
      markers and the patients' dietary intake of antioxidant vegetables.
    
  