
    
      The luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, also referred to as the premenstrual phase, is a
      time of vulnerability for women, during which many suffer from a number of physical and
      psychiatric symptoms. Premenstrual mood symptoms affect a great proportion of women, and can
      affect general wellbeing, self-esteem, occupational and social functioning, and
      relationships. A spectrum of severity exists around the manifestation of these symptoms, and
      a range of terms can be used to refer to women with substantial psychiatric morbidity around
      the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle.

      Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) has been formalized as a psychiatric diagnosis and
      added to the DSM-5. For a diagnosis of PMDD, the diagnostic criteria include the following
      and must be met for most menstrual cycles in the preceding year: A) In the majority of
      cycles, at least five symptoms must be present in the final week before the onset of menses
      and start to improve within a few days of its onset, B) One or more of the following must be
      present: 1) affective lability, 2) irritability/anger or increased interpersonal conflicts,
      3) depressed mood, hopelessness or self-deprecating thoughts, 4) anxiety or tension. Also,
      one or more of the following must be present: 1) decreased interest in usual activities, 2)
      difficulty concentrating, 3) low energy or fatigue, 4) change in appetite or cravings, 5)
      increased or decreased sleep, 6) feeling overwhelmed or out of control, 7) physical symptoms
      (i.e., breast tenderness, bloating, weight gain).

      Several overlapping definitions and terms capture psychiatric distress related to the luteal
      phase of the menstrual cycle. Many women suffer substantially during the premenstrual phase
      but do not have symptoms that fully meet criteria for PMDD. The term menstrual related mood
      disorder (MRMD) has been used to describe conditions that include Premenstrual Dysphoric
      Disorder (PMDD) and also mood dysregulation related to the menstrual cycle that is clinically
      substantial but where the threshold for a PMDD formal diagnosis is not met. Premenstrual
      Syndrome (PMS) refers to recurrent premenstrual symptoms that may include mood symptoms, but
      mood symptoms may not be present in all women with PMS.Therefore, a subset of women with PMS
      with prominent (or marked) mood symptoms would be included under the category of MRMD.
      Therefore, in addition to those who meet full criteria for PMDD, many women suffer from
      premenstrual syndrome (PMS) with prominent mood symptoms. The term menstrual related mood
      disorder (MRMD), applies to women who may or may not meet the threshold for the formal PMDD
      diagnoses and represents a great number of women of reproductive age who suffer on a regular
      basis from luteal phase mood symptoms that compromise quality of life.

      Previous pre-clinical or clinical studies leading up to and supporting the research The
      prevalence of PMDD is between 3-8% of menstruating women; in addition, another 10-11%
      experience PMS with Prominent Mood Symptoms.1 Based on these estimates, 13-19% of
      menstruating women experience MRMD, including those with both PMDD and PMS with prominent
      mood symptoms, on a consistent basis.

      Menstrual related mood disorders (MRMDs) are characterized by prominent symptoms during the
      luteal phase of the cycle, with relief starting with the onset of menses or soon after menses
      start. The follicular phase is generally asymptomatic, and the difference in symptom
      expression between worsening during the luteal phase and improvement during the follicular
      phase is its hallmark. While many women recognize these patterns of cyclic mood worsening and
      the impact upon quality of life, many women do not seek treatment. For women who do seek
      treatment from health care providers, the first line pharmacologic treatments are
      serotonergic antidepressants and oral contraceptive pills. For women who prefer other
      options, such as complementary and alternative medicine treatments or nutritional approaches,
      few treatments have received rigorous study. There is some promising but limited research
      with integrative treatments, such as light therapy, supplements, and herbal treatments.

      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of EnBrace HR when used to treat premenstrual syndromes
      (PMS) with predominant mood symptoms, also referred to as MRMD.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the effect of treatment with EnBrace HR in women with prominent
      mood symptoms in the premenstrual phase of the menstrual cycle. EnBrace will be administered
      in a continuous daily regimen, and the outcome will be the effect on the mean DRSP during the
      luteal phase from baseline to the treatment cycle 1 and 2 assessments.

      Exploratory Aims: To evaluate the effect of EnBrace HR with respect to:

        1. Mean change from baseline to endpoint in CGI-S scores

        2. Tolerability and safety

        3. To assess whether biomarkers can be identified that appear to be associated with
           treatment response to EnBrace HR

      The current study will provide evidence regarding the efficacy, tolerability, feasibility and
      acceptability of a selected non-psychotropic treatment alternative to serotonergic
      antidepressants and oral contraceptive pills. We hypothesize that the prevalence of PMDD,
      MRMD, and PMS in menstruating women may be attenuated if there are other effective treatments
      available to women.
    
  