
    
      DUAL PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in all patients with
      muscle-invasive bladder and upper-tract urothelial carcinoma treated with adjuvant
      pembrolizumab versus (vs.) observation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine DFS and OS in PD-L1 positive and negative patients with muscle-invasive
      bladder and upper-tract urothelial carcinoma treated with adjuvant pembrolizumab vs.
      observation.

      II. To characterize the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab when administered in the
      adjuvant setting in patients with muscle-invasive bladder and upper-tract urothelial
      carcinoma.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the 12 immune gene signatures are associated with OS and DFS.

      II. To determine if tumor molecular subtype is associated with OS and DFS. III. To
      investigate whether the diversity of T-cell receptor (TCR) clonotypes is associated with OS
      and DFS.

      IV. To investigate whether persistence of TCR clonotypes is associated with OS and DFS.

      V. To determine if tumor burden and neoantigen burden are associated with OS and DFS.

      VI. To determine if HLA subtypes are associated with OS and DFS. VII. To conduct exploratory
      analyses regarding the association of plasma HGF and VEGF levels with IL-10 and IL-17 and OS
      and DFS and between treated and untreated patients.

      PHARMACOGENOMIC STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the effect of PDCD1 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs11568821 on
      severe (grade 3 or higher) immune-related toxicity in the pembrolizumab-treated cohort.

      II. To investigate whether other SNPs commonly polymorphic within or near PDCD1 associate
      with development of pembrolizumab toxicity in the treated cohort.

      III. To identify novel germline genetic markers of treatment-related toxicity through
      genome-wide association analysis of pembrolizumab-treated patients.

      IV. To identify novel germline genetic markers that are associated with DFS and OS through
      genome-wide association analysis.

      QUALITY OF LIFE CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare health-related quality of life (HRQL) as assessed by the European Organization
      for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-core (C)30
      between patients randomized to pembrolizumab vs. observation.

      II. To compare urinary symptoms as assessed by EORTC QLQ- muscle-invasive bladder cancer
      module (BLM)30 between patients randomized to pembrolizumab vs. observation.

      III. To compare patient-reported fatigue, diarrhea, and pain between patients randomized to
      pembrolizumab vs. observation.

      IV. To compare health utilities and quality-adjusted life year (QALYs) between patients
      randomized to pembrolizumab vs. observation.

      V. To compare other scale scores of the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-BLM30, and European Quality
      of Life 5 Dimensions 5 Levels (EQ5D-5L) between patients randomized to pembrolizumab vs.
      observation.

      VI. To compare global quality of life, symptoms, health utilities, QALYs, and other scale
      scores of the three questionnaires between patients randomized to pembrolizumab vs.
      observation within subgroups defined by each of the stratification factors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients undergo observation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up 2 years,
      and then annually for 3 years.
    
  