
    
      About 2 to 9% of pregnant women are diagnosed with gestational diabetes. Peripartum
      complications attributed to diabetes include: birth trauma, neonatal hypoglycemia and
      hyperinsulinemia and neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. The incidence of neonatal hypoglycemia is
      about 40%. Strict glycemic control may lower the risk of neonatal complications. There is a
      lack of evidence on how to manage women with diabetes during labor. Previous studies
      recommended the use of intravenous saline solution boosted with 5% glucose and insulin as
      needed, glucose 5% with constant insulin infusion and others recommended the use lactated
      Ringer's solution. Most of these studies are either retrospective or have a small number of
      participants.

      In this study we will examine the effect of 2 different protocols on glycemic control during
      labor and the immediate neonatal period. Women in group 1, will receive intravenous saline
      solution boosted with 5% glucose and constant insulin infusion. Women in group 2, will
      receive intravenous saline solution boosted with 5% glucose alone. The desirable intrapartum
      glucose level will be 70 to 100 mg/dL. Glucose levels will be checked hourly. Women in both
      groups will receive additional insulin infusion in cases of glucose levels above 100 mg/dL.
      Additionally, the 5% glucose solution will be substitute with lactated Ringer's solution in
      cases of glucose levels above 140 mg/dL.

      Intravenous fluid regimens will be assigned according to a computer randomization sequence
      generation program. Women will randomly assigned to the 2 groups in a 1:1 ratio. The
      randomization sequence results will be kept in the delivery ward in a closed study box. Site
      investigators will enroll participants after confirming eligibility. The sequence will be
      concealed until intervention is assigned (and after obtaining a signed informed consent).

      Our hypothesis is that 5% glucose combined with constant insulin infusion will achieve better
      glycemic control and thus will lead to lower rate of neonatal hypoglycemia. In order to
      detect a reduction of neonatal hypoglycemia from 40% to 20%, 182 women will be needed in both
      groups in order to achieve a level of significance of 95% (α, 2-sided = 0.05) and a power of
      80% (β = 0.2).
    
  