
    
      Current options for respiratory care in children with NMDs include numerous devices and
      treatments have been proposed for improving secretion clearance and lung function in very
      weak patients. Unfortunately treatment decisions are still based on little more than personal
      opinion. In particular, there are almost no carefully conducted studies on the best forms of
      respiratory therapy in children with NMDs. Commonly used treatment options are best listed
      under the following headings:

        1. Chest physiotherapy. This broad term covers a range of therapies that includes postural
           drainage, manual percussion and chest vibrations. These treatments are often preceded by
           inhaled medications intended to mobilize secretions (humidification, hypertonic saline,
           Dornase alpha). Chest physiotherapy has been studied extensively in cystic fibrosis(13)
           but there are no prospective studies of its use in children with NMDs. The lack of any
           evidence of clear long-term benefit combined with the need for a trained assistant, has
           limited the application of chest therapy to in-patient treatment of acute exacerbations.

        2. Breath stacking. Inspiratory lung volume can be increased by 'stacking' repeated
           inhalations. This allows a greater cough flow with improved secretion clearance. The
           simplest method is to use a bag, face mask and a one-way valve. Inspiratory volume can
           also be augmented using mechanical or non-invasive ventilators although care must be
           taken to avoid over-inflation and barotrauma(14). The cough phase after insufflation is
           often augmented by external compression of chest or abdomen (manually assisted cough).
           While there is evidence that breath stacking, with or without manually assisted
           coughing, can increase lung volume and peak cough flows(15), there are no prospective
           studies to study long term effects.

        3. Mechanical insufflation-exsufflation. Devices in this group inflate the lung with an
           inspiratory positive pressure phase followed rapidly by a negative pressure exhalation
           phase(16). They are widely used and recommended but prospective research support is
           lacking. As with breath stacking, there is evidence of short term improvement in lung
           volume and cough flows(17) following MI-E treatment. There are also retrospective
           reviews to suggest that the technique is effective and well tolerated in children(18).
           However, there are no prospective controlled studies of MI-E either in adults or
           children.

        4. Airway oscillation. Various devices have been developed to superimpose an oscillatory
           wave flow over normal breathing. The oscillating pressure wave is intended to help
           mobilise secretions and expand atelectatic areas of the lung. This can be achieved by an
           external vibrating vest or delivered directly to the airway through a face mask.
           Prospective study of the vibrating vest showed that it had no benefit(19). However,
           research exists that oscillation via mask is beneficial both in short(20) and longer
           term studies(21).

      The newcomer to this important topic would be forgiven for finding the lack of research
      evidence difficult to believe. Children with NMDs are very complex management problems and
      they consume a lot of hospital resources. The mechanical devices paid for by insurance
      companies, or governments, cost many thousands of dollars each - surely all this money and
      time should be based on some form of evidence? Unfortunately this is not the case. Two large
      reviews of the management of NMDs by both the British(2) and the American(22) thoracic
      societies emphasized this lack of evidence. Both concluded that the major requirement in the
      management of these children is research.

      The principal question in the management of children with NMDs is whether early introduction
      of effective respiratory therapy will slow the decline in lung function and help to keep
      these children out of hospital. That requires long term studies of the use of therapies known
      to be effective, at least in the short term. Such evidence - even short term evidence of
      efficacy, is not available. Our study is not a case of comparing a new treatment to an
      established therapy, it is a case of assessing current widely used treatments in order to
      determine whether they have any measurable benefits. The best of the three techniques studied
      will then form the basis for a long term early intervention study.

      OBJECTIVES.

      The short, medium and long term objectives of the study are as follows:

        1. Short term objective.

           The principal short term aims are to answer the following research questions:

             -  Do positive pressure reparatory physiotherapy devices increase lung volume and peak
                cough flows in children with neuromuscular diseases?

             -  If there is a measurable effect on lung mechanics, which of the three most commonly
                used devices produces the biggest benefit?

        2. Medium term objective. Assuming the investigators can show that one of the three devices
           has a significant beneficial short term effect on lung mechanics, the investigators will
           use that device in a much longer term study. This will investigate the possibility that
           early intervention with effective physiotherapy will slow the decline in lung function
           in children with NMDs. This is one of the main questions in the management of children
           with NMDs and it has never been addressed.

        3. Long term objective. This proposal is the third in our series of planned studies on
           children with NMDs. Our long term objective is to help base the management of patients
           with this group of diseases on a firm research basis.

      RESEARCH METHOD. Patient recruitment. Patients enrolled in the NMD clinic at children's
      hospital will initially be informed about the study by letter signed by the director of the
      NMD clinic, Dr Selby. At their next routine clinic visit, they will be approached by one of
      the two PIs (Dr Seear or Dr Selby). They will be given more information about the study and a
      handout covering the details. Once they have had time to consider the information, they will
      be invited to enroll in the study.

      Patient eligibility. The study is open to children with neuro-muscular diseases of any type,
      who are enrolled in the NMD clinic at children's hospital. The main end points will be lung
      function measurements so children will need to be old enough to perform the testing process.
      For cognitively normal children this is usually 5 to 6 yrs of age. All of the three
      treatments are administered by a face mask so, apart from lack of consent and clinical
      instability, the only other exclusion criteria will be factors that limit the use of a face
      mask. Those children with a poor mask seal due to facial structural abnormalities, or those
      with tracheostomies will be ineligible for the study

      General study design. After enrolment from the NMD clinic, children will be studied in
      batches of 15. Each batch will be studied over three consecutive weekdays so they can all
      receive the three treatments. On each of the study days, the group of fifteen will be
      randomized in groups of five to receive one of the three physiotherapy treatments. Each
      participant will receive all treatments at the end of the study and subsequently are
      considered one group. Randomization removes the chance of seeing an effect that may be due to
      a combination and not an individual treatment. Before and after each of the treatments, lung
      function tests will be measured by study staff blinded to the type of treatment. The
      respiratory function tests made before and after each treatment will be the same for each of
      the devices. By the end of the study period for that batch, every child will have completed
      three treatments.

      Study treatment protocols.

      In the absence of detailed research studies, there are no widely accepted protocols governing
      the three study treatments. After discussion with physiotherapy and respiratory technicians,
      the investigators have designed the three study protocols so they are representative of
      accepted common practice. Each treatment will be administered by a qualified physiotherapist
      who is familiar with the clinical use of the machine. The treatment will also be monitored by
      a physician in each of the three treatment rooms. Each child will receive the following study
      treatments in random order over three consecutive weekdays:

      Measured end points. The effects of the three respiratory treatments will be assessed using
      standard lung function tests. A baseline will be obtained prior to each treatment. Repeat
      tests will be performed immediately after the treatment, then at ½, 1 and 2 hours later.
      Comparative predictive lung function values are based on algorithms that rely on patient
      height. In those children with severe spinal deformity, arm span will be used as a surrogate
      for height. All tests will be made by qualified respiratory technicians using regularly
      maintained and calibrated equipment. The staff measuring, reporting and storing the results
      will be blinded to the child's therapy. Other tests commonly used in the assessment of
      children with NMDs, such as oximetry and capnography, will not be measured since it is
      unlikely they will change over the short duration of the study. The following end points will
      be measured: lung volume, cough expiratory flows, and muscle strength.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS. Measured endpoints. There are 4 measured endpoints: vital capacity (FVC
      in mls), peak expiratory flows (PEF in L/min), plus maximal inspiratory and expiratory
      pressures (MIP and MEP in cm H2O). All are continuous variables so will be expressed as
      mean+/- one standard deviation. Apart from graphical presentation of the results, the only
      statistical test will be a comparison of pre-treatment and post treatment values for each of
      the four variables.

      Sample size. Before undertaking a long term study of early intervention with one of these
      three devices, the investigators would like to be at least 80% sure that they have a device
      that is able to produce a significant improvement in lung mechanics (20% improvement in post
      treatment mechanics). There are over a hundred types of NMD in children and the investigators
      will be testing the treatment effects of three devices. Unfortunately, there is currently no
      reliable evidence for the magnitude (or even existence) of any treatment effect and also the
      standard deviation of any effect. There is also no evidence of treatment variation when used
      in different sub-types of NMD. There is no basic data upon which to base a calculation of
      sample size. The investigators would have to make so many guesses that the calculated number
      would have no reliability. Our only response can be to try to enroll as many children as
      possible. There are over 200 children in the NMD clinic. The investigators hope to be able to
      enroll at least 100 of them.

      Statistical tests. Any treatment effect will be detected by comparing baseline lung function
      tests to the post treatment values measured at 0, 1/2, 1 and 2 hours after the end of
      treatment. Each child's baseline values will serve as their own controls. Multiple
      comparisons of pre and post values will be made using Analysis of Variance with a Tukey
      post-hoc test.
    
  