
    
      The scientific approach is to conduct a retrospective cohort study of patients with a claims
      diagnosis of HIV, AIDS, or ARC (simply referred to as HIV infection) among commercially
      insured people in the U.S. to estimate the IR of acute MI (AMI), AMI including coronary
      revascularization (CR) procedures, and CVD, comparing exposure to HAART treatments. We will
      identify a primary cohort of patients with an initial claims diagnosis of HIV infection
      occurring after at least 6 months of continuous enrollment in the Ingenix National Health
      Informatics (NHI) or Ingenix Impact National Managed Care (Impact) Databases between 01
      January 1998 and 31 December 2007. For each eligible primary cohort member, we will identify
      all HAART dispensings during the baseline and follow-up periods and categorize person-time of
      exposure by any HAART, HAART class, and specific NRTI medications. We will also specifically
      evaluate the risk associated with fosamprenavir and amprenavir use. Study outcome events,
      including AMI, AMI including CR procedures, and CVD, will be identified from the medical
      claims data for all patients during the follow-up period.

      For the primary analysis, we will estimate the absolute IR and 95% confidence intervals (CIs)
      of each study outcome event during periods of recent, past, non-use, and cumulative duration
      (non-use, < 1 year, 1 - 2 years, and > 2 years) of each HAART exposure classification. We
      will also estimate the rate difference (RD) and 95% CI of each study outcome event during
      periods of recent, past, and cumulative duration (< 1 year, 1 - 2 years, and > 2 years) of
      each HAART exposure classification relative to non-use. We will use Poisson regression models
      to estimate the multivariable adjusted rate ratio (RR) and 95% CIs of each study outcome
      event during periods of recent, past, and cumulative duration (non-use, < 1 year, 1 - 2
      years, and > 2 years) of HAART use relative to non-use for each HAART exposure
      classification, adjusting for confounding variables derived from the claims history of each
      person during their 6-month baseline period to account for channeling bias and during the
      follow-up period to account for changing risk factors for CVD. To further account for
      confounding of indication by abacavir use, analyses will be stratified by calendar year 2004,
      during which time there was a significant change in the primary indication for abacavir use
      in HIV. Analyses will be repeated as a secondary analysis on the subgroup of patients in the
      NHI Database with any outpatient laboratory test result; these analyses will account for
      values of cholesterol, cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count, and viral load [HIV-1
      ribonucleic acid (RNA)] laboratory tests.

      Among the primary cohort, we will identify a subcohort of patients with an initial claims
      diagnosis of HIV infection occurring after at least 6 months of continuous enrollment and
      without HAART medication in the 6-month baseline period prior to the cohort entry date. We
      will repeat the primary and secondary analyses among this naïve subcohort of HAART
      initiators.

      ViiV Healthcare is the new sponsor of this study, and GlaxoSmithKline is in the process of
      updating systems to reflect the change in sponsorship.
    
  