
    
      Hospitalization for medical illness is a unique and missed opportunity for intervention for
      alcohol use disorders (AUDs). Referrals can help link patients from hospitals to alcohol
      treatment. But most patients return to heavy drinking after hospital discharge and do not
      follow-up with alcohol treatment, risking hospital readmission. Pharmacotherapy has efficacy
      for AUD, but adherence to these medications is poor. Furthermore, these medications are
      rarely prescribed in general medical settings, during or after hospitalization. Beginning
      treatment for AUD during a hospitalization for medical illness could broaden the reach of
      effective treatment and is likely to be more effective than delaying treatment until a
      specialist visit or treatment program entry. Hospital discharge is a time of both risk (i.e.,
      for drinking and non-adherence to medical care) and opportunity (i.e., to begin alcohol
      treatment and complete medical treatments). Interventions that work quickly and improve
      adherence could improve medical and alcohol-related outcomes.

      Oral naltrexone (PO-NTX), and the more-costly-per-dose long-acting injectable extended
      release naltrexone (XR-NTX) are Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved efficacious
      treatments for AUD. The XR-NTX half-life is 5-10 days and is dosed monthly, whereas the
      PO-NTX half-life is 13 hours and is dosed daily. The longer half-life of XR-NTX translates
      into patients receiving effective pharmacotherapy for a longer time without having to adhere
      to a daily dose. Thus, although more costly per dose, greater effectiveness could mean
      overall reduced costs of care (including alcohol-related health consequences and healthcare
      utilization). Despite potential differences in costs and patient preferences, PO-NTX and
      XR-NTX have not been directly compared in a randomized controlled trial (RCT), they have not
      been studied as treatments at medical hospital discharge, and their effectiveness in real
      world practice settings compared with standard care is unknown.

      This trial is significant because it will address the clinically relevant comparative
      effectiveness question and lead to greater adoption of the most effective and cost-effective
      approach for treating AUD with pharmacotherapy in general hospitals.
    
  