
    
      Sample size: The necessary sample size was calculated taking into account that for the main
      result indicator (level of pain), the investigators expected to find an improvement of at
      least 2 points with the implementation of Vojta. The investigators therefore assumed a
      variability of 2.5 points (standard deviation) on the pain scale, a value previously
      estimated in patients suffering shoulder pain in the same healthcare area. In order to detect
      this difference with a power of 80% (β error=20%) and a 95% confidence interval (α error=5%),
      it was necessary to recruit 25 patients per group. Assuming an attrition rate no higher than
      20%, the final sample size required was 60 patients (30 per group).

      Explanatory variables

        -  Sociodemographic: Gender, age, employment status, and type of work.

        -  Anthropometric: Weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) (kg/m2).

        -  Anamnesis: Dominant upper limb affected, tobacco use, current and/or previously suffered
           illnesses, surgical history of the shoulder, previous treatments of the shoulder and
           diagnostic tests conducted, analgesic use.

        -  Experimental treatment: Standard Therapy (ST) vs. Standard plus Vojta Therapy (SVT).

      Administration and evaluation of therapy

        -  Initial evaluation: First, the evaluating physiotherapist took down the patient's
           medical history on an evaluation sheet; they then proceeded to administer the CMS and
           gave the patient the self-administered VAS and DAS scales, along with the SF-12 survey.
           Finally, a physiotherapist from the health clinic applied the assigned treatment (15
           sessions for 3 weeks, independent of therapy type).

        -  Therapeutic intervention: experimental group vs active compared group.

        -  Second evaluation: After 15 sessions, carried out by the evaluating physiotherapist.
           Identical to the baseline evaluation.

        -  Third evaluation: Three months after the initial evaluation.

      Validated measurement scales to evaluate results:

        -  VAS Scale: A universal method for evaluating pain, with maximum reproducibility among
           observers, a good relation to descriptive scales, and high sensitivity and reliability.
           The patient marks the pain intensity on a scale graded from 0 ("no pain") to 10 cm
           ("unbearable pain").

        -  DASH (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand) Questionnaire: The most commonly used
           questionnaire to globally evaluate the functionality of the upper limbs from the
           patient's perspective. It consists of 30 objective questions, has excellent
           reproducibility, high sensibility, good internal consistency, and a high sensitivity to
           changes. It is graded from 0 to 100 (with a higher score indicating greater disability).

        -  Constant-Murley Scale (CMS): An evaluation system of shoulder functionality more
           commonly used in Europe and the United States. It assesses pain, functionality,
           strength, and joint range of motion. The subjective assessment section evaluates pain,
           daily activities, and sleep disturbances (maximum score=35) while the objective
           assessment section measures joint range of motion (with a goniometer) and shoulder
           strength (with a dynamometer).

        -  SF-12 Health Survey: A shortened version of the SF-36, this survey has a high internal
           consistency, validity, and reliability. It is the most widely used health measurement in
           the medical field. Using 12 categories, it evaluates 8 positive and negative dimensions
           of physical and mental health, and, by extension, of quality of life: physical
           functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning,
           role-emotional, and mental health. The scale goes from 0 to 100 (the higher the score,
           the better the quality of life).

      VAS, DASH, and SF-12 are all self-administered tests. They were given to each patient three
      times: after signing the informed consent form, at the end of the 15 therapy sessions, and 12
      weeks after the start of the therapy. The CMS was likewise administered to each patient three
      times - the day of the initial evaluation, after 15 treatment sessions, and 12 weeks after
      the start of treatment - by 3 evaluating physiotherapists who had no knowledge of the
      assigned groups and who had not been involved with the patients' treatment. The evaluating
      therapists all had previous experience administering the CMS, thus guaranteeing interobserver
      validity.
    
  