
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability around the world; it is the most
      common chronic condition in primary care in the UK. By 2030 it is predicted to be the
      greatest cause of disability in the general population . An effective end-stage treatment for
      knee OA is knee-replacement surgery, which was first done in the 1970s and 1980s.

      In England and Wales, the number of knee-replacement procedures recorded by the National
      Joint Registry in 2013 was 91,703, which represents an increase of 0.9 % over 2012. The data
      analysis by the National Joint Registry and the Office of National Statistics suggests that,
      by 2030, primary Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) will increase by 117% from the 2012 level.
      Subsequently, TKA revision surgeries are expected to increase incrementally by 332%. There is
      a similar estimation of demand for revision TKA surgeries in the United States; by 2030, they
      are expected to rise by 601% from the 2005 level. The United States estimation of primary TKA
      is for growth of 673% from the 2005 level, which is similar to England and Wales's
      upper-limit projections .

      Post-TKA, 75-85% of patients report satisfaction with surgery outcomes, while the remaining
      15-25% are dissatisfied .Total knee arthroplasty's success has traditionally been evaluated
      from the surgeon's perspective, e.g. the presence of surgical complications or implant
      survival. This is gradually changing to involve the patient in measuring health outcomes and
      decision-making processes. Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) have evolved to explore
      patient perspectives by monitoring the quality of care in health organizations and conducting
      clinical trial outcomes.

      More than half of patients' early concerns post-total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are not
      considered in commonly used patient-reported outcome measures . This may support current
      medical outcomes evaluation post-TKA having implications that differ from the patient
      perspective. This may be explained by the dissatisfaction of some patients post-TKA. So,
      being more sensitive to patient experience assessment methods is required, rather than
      profession-driven tools.

      Patients' experiences and their perceptions of current outcome measurements post-TKA are
      poorly understood. In order to explore this area qualitative methods are appropriate, as they
      facilitate the collection of in-depth experiences and perceptions of individuals about a
      specific phenomenon which, in this case, is outcomes post TKA. Specifically, a
      phenomenological approach allows for the collection of diverse and unique patient experiences
      and outcomes post-TKA.

      A focus group is useful for exploring poorly understood areas, such as outcomes and
      experiences post-TKA, in order to generate possible findings or hypotheses. It has advantages
      over one-to-one interviews as the interaction among group members provides an extra dimension
      to gather data and a wider degree of spontaneity in the patient views expressed, in contrast
      to one-to-one interviews where the interaction is limited to that between patients and
      researcher and depends on patient responses. Interaction in a group setting allows patients
      to refine their views in light of others' views and facilitates further spontaneous
      expression. Support for the feelings of other group members with similar experiences
      encourages less verbal individuals to contribute more than in one-to-one interviews.

      Only three previous studies have used focus-group methods to explore patient experiences
      post-TKA. Studies by Westby et al. (2010) and Van Egmond et al. (2015) combined the results
      of patient experiences post-total knee arthroplasty and post-total hip arthroplasty, which
      does not support accuracy as those patient groups encounter different problems. The third
      study, by Zacharia et al. (2016), assessed outcomes at least three years post-TKA in a
      limited age range of 60-65 years for manual labourers of low and medium socioeconomic status.
      An appropriate well-structured methodology is required to explore patient experiences and
      outcomes post-TKA, with clear sampling and population criteria to facilitate the possible
      correlation of findings.

      To the best of our knowledge, no study has explored patient experiences and outcomes post-TKA
      using focus-group discussions one year after surgery to explore whether there are factors
      that might help us to understand why some patient medical outcome measurements were good but
      they were not satisfied, or vice versa. Exploration of potential barriers to functional
      recovery may support future modifications that might improve outcomes post-TKA.

      Project objectives

        -  To gain an in-depth understanding of experiences and perceptions of patients about
           outcomes post-TKA and to explore whether there are factors that might help us understand
           why some patients' medical outcome measurements were good but they were not satisfied,
           or vice versa.

        -  To gain insights into potential barriers to good functional recovery.

        -  To identify what modifications can be made to improve future outcomes post-TKA.
    
  