
    
      SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2) pandemic has affected millions
      of people around the globe. Despite many efforts to find some effective medicines against
      SARS CoV-2, still no established therapeutics available. A year ago, SARS-CoV-2 emerged as a
      novel virus with no available treatment option and caused a serious disaster across the
      world. The disease caused by this virus, "COVID-19", announced a global pandemic on March 11,
      2020. Without any proper treatment and vaccine for COVID-19, people around the world are
      currently experiencing a worldwide emergency affecting all societies, and it has sent
      billions of people into lockdown. Around the world, desperate efforts are underway to curtail
      this pandemic while it has resulted in the collapsing of health systems and has triggered
      lasting geopolitical and economic changes. To date, no approved medical treatment is
      available, which makes social distancing the only best possible solution to stop the spread
      of the virus. It is thought that future outbreaks of CoVs are unavoidable because of changes
      in the climate and ecology and increased interaction of humans with animals. Therefore, there
      is a need to develop effective therapeutics and vaccines against CoVs.

      Poor diagnosis of COVID-19 has also contributed to disease severity due to stress (in case of
      false positive) and disease spread (in case of a false negative). A lack of RT-PCR test
      sampling of lower tract respiratory specimens was the main reason for the misclassification
      of symptomatic patients as either having COVID-19 or not. A prompt diagnosis with serological
      testing shows SARS-CoV-2 IgG/IgM patterns in a better and understandable way of
      seroconversion.

      The IgG/IgM assays to detect the length and origin of humoral responses against SARS-CoV-2 is
      very important, and these antibodies can be detected from a few days after the onset of
      diseases and may remain in the body even after years of infection. In the case of COVID-19,
      IgM and IgG response can be observed from the second week of the disease.

      In Coronaviruses, IgM and IgG levels are found to disappear over time in humans. IgG
      antibodies against SARS-CoV-1 were found to wane approximately two years after infection, and
      the person may become vulnerable to reinfection after the complete reduction of the immune
      response. In MERS- CoV, IgG levels were found gradually reduced after a year of infection
      onset. The length of the protective immunity is very important to avoid reinfection and also
      helps in the prediction of vaccine response in the body. The humoral immune response varies
      among young and elderly people, men and women, healthy and health compromised people. Studies
      on dynamics and the mechanisms of the humoral immune response may help in COVID-19 vaccine
      development and laws implementation, and other public health responses. This study is
      particularly designed to access the IgM and IgG antibodies in various COVID-19 subjects in
      Sargodha, Punjab, Pakistan, where no specific study of this kind has been performed. This
      will help predict the reinfection probabilities among the local population and predict the
      length and efficacy of the vaccine and the requirement of vaccine boosters.
    
  