
    
      Caffeine is a worldwide consumed dietary constituent. It occurs in a variety of beverages
      such as coffee, tea, soft drinks and cocoa beverages, and in chocolate-based food products.
      In the United States there is a reported average intake of caffeine of 200 mg/d in 80 % of
      adults corresponding to the amount in two 5-ounce cups of coffee or four sodas. A new
      interest for caffeine in ophthalmology emerged with the observation that caffeine inhibits
      cataractogenesis.

      Cataract is the leading cause of blindness worldwide and until now there is no approved drug
      to prevent cataract. UVR-B radiation has been identified as one of the major risk factors for
      age related cataract. In vitro, Varma showed that caffeine preserves ATP levels and GSH
      levels in the lens when exposed to UVR-B and further maintains the state of transparency in
      the lens. Varma moreover hypothesized that its protective effect in the lens is due to its
      ability to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) and to suppress elevation of toxic
      microRNAs and consequent gene silencing. In the galactosemic rat model, Varma demonstrated
      that topical caffeine in vivo inhibited the formation of galactose cataract and prevented
      apoptosis of lens epithelial cells.

      A further study presented evidence that topical caffeine also prevents in vivo UVR-B induced
      cataract and inhibits apoptosis of lens epithelial cells. The investigators estimated the
      protection factor (PF) of caffeine to 1.23. The PF is identical to PF for sunscreens; the
      ratio between the threshold dose of the toxic agent and the threshold dose without the toxic
      agent. The PF observed for topically applied caffeine was higher than the PF observed for
      perorally administered vitamin E (PF: 1.14) and vitamin C (PF: 1) , respectively. Only the
      Grx gene provides a higher PF (PF 1.3). This strongly supports that caffeine has an important
      antioxidant capacity in vivo.

      Up to 99 % of caffeine is gastrointestinally absorbed and pharmacokinetics are comparable
      after oral and i.v. administration. In the liver, caffeine is metabolized by hepatic enzymes
      belonging to the cytochrome P-450 family, mainly CYP1A2. Major metabolites like
      1-methylxanthine and 1-methyl uric acid were reported to still have significant antioxidant
      activity. Recently, a study confirmed the protective effect of coffee combined with
      additional antioxidant dietary against age-related cataract. Its hydrophobic properties allow
      caffeine passage over all biological membranes. A further study found that caffeine after
      oral intake accumulates in the lens epithelium.

      The lens epithelium plays a major role in balancing water, ions and the metabolic
      homeostasis. Additionally, the germinative cells in the lens epithelium generate a reservoir
      for lens fiber cell generation. UVR-B radiation is absorbed by proteins and DNA in the lens
      epithelium and underlying lens fibres, causing damage to the cells. When epithelial cells are
      damaged, lens growth and transparency is disturbed. Michael et al. demonstrated the
      appearance of apoptotic lens cells after in vivo exposure to UVR-B with transmission electron
      microscopy. No necrotic cells were found at threshold dose. We found a peak of Apoptosis
      hours after UVR-B exposure.

      The present study aims to investigate if caffeine accumulation in human lens epithelial cells
      after oral caffeine intake is sufficient to prevent from experimental ultraviolet radiation
      induced apoptosis.
    
  