
    
      Peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) is common in advanced gastric cancer, and it carries a poor
      prognosis; the median survival time is 3 to 6 months. Gastric cancer with PC is considered
      incurable and patients are subjected to non-surgical treatment, mainly chemotherapy.
      Currently, there is no established standard treatment for these patients.

      Multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of gastric cancer including chemotherapy,
      radiotherapy and surgery has been developed and survival benefit has been demonstrated in the
      adjuvant setting. Novel chemotherapeutic agents: taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel),
      irinotecan, oxaliplatin, fluoropyrimidine (TS-ONE and capecitabine) have shown activity in
      gastric cancer. Various combination chemotherapy regimens for unresectable and metastatic
      gastric cancer are practised in different parts of the world. Epirubicin, cisplatin and
      5-fluorouracil (ECF) are used in Europe, while TS-ONE and cisplatin are commonly used in
      Asian countries such as Japan and Korea. The median survival time (MST) with these regimens
      was 8.9 and 13 months, respectively. Use of docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (DCF) was
      proposed in the V325 study, MST was 9.2 months but the toxicity (grade 3-4 neutropenia) was
      reported to be significantly higher in DCF group when compared with CF group. However, there
      are few trials to study the specific efficacy of these regimens on PC.

      Systemic chemotherapy is considered to be less effective against PC due to the existence of
      the blood-peritoneal barrier (BPB). The barrier inhibits the movement of drugs from systemic
      circulation to the peritoneal cavity. Intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy has the advantage of
      maintaining a high drug concentration in the peritoneal cavity, and reduces the systemic
      toxicity. Paclitaxel and docetaxel have been shown to have high peritoneal concentration in
      animal studies and are considered ideal drugs for IP administration.

      Neoadjuvant intraperitoneal/systemic chemotherapy (NIPS) is a new bidirectional induction
      chemotherapy for treatment of PC from gastric cancer. The aim of NIPS is to induce a
      reduction of PC volume. Bidirectional means that NIPS could attack PC from both the
      peritoneal cavity and the subperitoneal blood vessels. Patients with good response to NIPS
      may undergo subsequent gastrectomy. The use of TS-ONE and IP taxane (paclitaxel/docetaxel)
      had been studied in phase I and II trials. Ischigami et al. reported 1-year survival rate of
      78% and overall response rate of 56% using weekly intravenous and IP paclitaxel combined with
      TS-ONE. Fujiwara et al. reported 78% patients had negative peritoneal cytology after NIPS and
      16 out of 18 patients (88.9%) underwent subsequent gastrectomy, with a MST of 24.6 months. No
      treatment-related mortality has been reported.

      Systemic DCF is associated with significant toxicity, yet it is superior to CF alone in terms
      of survival (9.2 months vs. 8.6 months, p<0.02). Grade III/IV neutropenia was reported to be
      82%. It is postulated that switching from intravenous docetaxel to IP docetaxel may improve
      its efficacy against PC and reduce the systemic toxicity. TS-ONE contains tegafur,
      5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP) and potassium oxonate (Oxo). Dihydropyrimidine
      dehydrogenase (DPD), which is found in liver, rapidly degrades 5-FU. The presence of CDHP, a
      specific inhibitor of DPD, allows a high intraperitoneal drug concentration after oral
      administration of TS-ONE that has been demonstrated in an experimental model.

      Therefore we propose a modification of the DCF regimen using IP docetaxel, intravenous
      cisplatin and oral TS-ONE in the treatment of gastric cancer patients with PC. We aim to
      study the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended dose (RD) of IP docetaxel while
      using fixed doses of cisplatin and TS-ONE. Data on treatment efficacy will also be recorded.
      By far there is no study on IP chemotherapy in Hong Kong.
    
  