
    
      Background Caregivers of persons with dementia experience tremendous stress Caregivers of
      persons with dementia (PWD) in Hong Kong reported high level of stress due to caregiving
      (Cheung et al., 2015). Caregiver stress was defined as "an unequal distribution of
      responsibilities on the caregiver as a result of caring for someone with a prolonged
      impairment" (Pearlin et al., 1990 cited in Llanque et al., 2016). Providing care to PWD
      persons imposed tremendous stress on caregivers as PWD often performed problematic behaviours
      that might affect others (Kang et al., 2006). PWD's dependency in activities of daily living,
      severity and frequency of behavioural symptoms was found to be significantly associated with
      caregivers' depressive symptoms (Lee et al., 2017). Another source of stress was caregivers'
      feeling of overload, which was considered as subjective stressor (Son et al., 2007).

      Use of mobile applications in stress management Mobile applications (apps) have been
      developed in stress management. Persons suffered from post-traumatic stress disorders have
      been selected as targeted population to assess feasibility and acceptability of apps to
      manage acute stress or stress symptoms (Kuhn et al., 2014). From the users' perspective (as
      stated in focus group interviews), using app was considered as 'acceptable and helpful' tool
      for stress management (Kuhn et al., 2014). Activities could be scheduled by the app and this
      arrangement was welcome by app users (Kuhn et al., 2014). Apps are considered as potentially
      effective self-management tool for persons suffered from stress (Kuhn et al., 2014).

      New feature of the mobile app: e-painting Evidence had shown that intervention of art therapy
      reduced stress symptoms among paediatric patients (Chapman et al., 2001), working adults
      (Karpaviciute & Macijauskiene, 2016), and older adults (Walker et al., 2016). Group
      interactions among participants in art therapy contributed to its effectiveness, thus group
      therapy was recommended as 'best practice' (Spiegel et al., 2006). Painting (or visual art
      production) is recommended because looking at painting (or cognitively evaluated artwork)
      does not show similar effect on stress reduction in adulthood (Bolwerk et al., 2014). Using
      functional MRI (fMRI), Bolwerk and team (2014) found that those who participated in visual
      art production showed greater spatial improvement in functional connectivity of posterior
      cingulated cortex to the frontal and parietal cortices after the intervention than those who
      cognitively evaluated artwork at a museum. This implied that painting, but not viewing art
      work, had effect on psychological resilience in adulthood (Bolwerk and team, 2014). A review
      (Slayton et al., 2010) summarised that a brief period of painting significantly reduced
      anxiety score (Sandmire et al., 2012; Curry & Kasser, 2005), distress (Franks & Whitaker,
      2007), depression (Gussak, 2006) but increased mental alertness and sociability (Rusted,
      Sheppard, & Waller, 2006).

      Based on the knowledge in the production of painting and its possible impacts on caregivers'
      emotion (anxiety, stress, depression) and sociability, we plan to develop a mobile
      application which allows caregivers to create their own e-paintings and share with others.

      Objectives of the study

        1. To identify caregivers' preferred functions of the app and training needed to use the
           app;

        2. To assess the trial process and procedures (estimate the recruitment rate, dropout rate,
           the compliance of emotional assessments in the app);

        3. To collect app users' comments on the use of the app after the 8-week trial;

        4. To examine the consistency of the effects of the app intervention on emotion.

      Methods This study adopts a mixed method (qualitative and quantitative method).

      Qualitative component comprises of six focus group (FG) interviews. FG 1-3 aim to explore the
      caregivers' preferences of the features of the e-painting mobile app. FG 4-6 aim to collect
      the app users' views on the use of the app after the trial period of 8 weeks.

      Guiding questions for Focus Group 1-3:

        1. What functions are preferred by the caregivers in the e-painting app?

        2. What kind of training do caregivers need before they use the e-painting app?

        3. What kind of follow-up do caregivers expect after using this app? Analytical results of
           their paintings in form of a prop-up message? Connection to health professionals who
           could provide help to the caregivers?

      Guiding questions for Focus Group 4-6:

        1. What did the app users (caregivers) think about this app?

        2. What did the app users like or dislike most about the app?

        3. What feature should be added to the app so as to support the app users?

        4. Did the app users enjoy the use of this app to draw their paintings? Why?

      Quantitative component of the study is the trial run of the app over a period of 8 weeks with
      30 caregivers. Participants will be asked to download the app to their mobile phone and use
      the app at least two times per week. They will be asked to go through a set of emotion
      assessments in the app before and after the 8-week trial. The following measures will be
      included in the emotional assessments:

        1. Caregivers' level of stress (measured by a 11-item Zarit Burden Interview, CZBI-Short,
           Tang et al., 2015) (Primary outcome)

        2. Self-rated health status (measured by the 1-item self-rated health likert scale)
           (Secondary outcome)

        3. Depressive symptoms (measured by a 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9, Cheng &
           Cheng, 2007) (Secondary outcome)

        4. Instrumental and emotional social support (measured by a 8-item Modified Medical Outcome
           Study Social Support Survey (mMOS-SS, Moser et al., 2012) (Secondary outcome)

      E-paintings will be analysed by a certified art therapist through discussions with the
      participants. Data about colour hue, saturation and brightness will be analysed. Data will be
      collected in recruitment rate of caregivers who are willing to join the study, the dropout
      rate at the end of the 8-week trial, and the compliance rate of emotional assessments in the
      app. Frequency of the participation in e-painting will be collected. Comparison of the app
      users' stress level, depressive level, self-rated health status and social support before and
      after the trial will be made.

      Subjects. A maximum of 36 caregivers will be involved in the six focus groups. Each focus
      group interview will involve 6 caregivers of persons with dementia. Another 30 caregivers
      will be involved in the 8-week trial of the app.

      Expected deliverables

        1. A e-painting mobile app for caregiver to reduce stress;

        2. A presentation in an international conference (reporting app users' comments on the use
           of the app after the 8-week trial);

        3. A paper in an international peer-refereed journal (reporting caregivers' preferred
           functions of the app, the training needed to use the app, the recruitment rate of
           caregivers to the study, the dropout rate of participation in the 8-week trial, the
           compliance of emotional assessments in the app and the consistency of the effects of the
           app intervention on emotion).
    
  