
    
      The cerebellum plays a major role in integrative processing of higher order cognitive and
      affective functions, but it has not been considered a major treatment target for psychotic
      disorders. The goal of this study is to administer three different conditions of transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS)-- excitatory, inhibitory, and sham TMS-- in a cross-over design in
      psychosis patients (i.e., schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, and bipolar disorder with
      psychotic features) to investigate with causal explanatory power the role of the cerebellum
      as a treatment target for psychotic disorders. More specifically, the investigators will
      measure the effects of cerebellar excitation and inhibition on time perception, executive
      function, and symptomatology. TMS will be administered using a theta-burst stimulation (TBS)
      protocol applied to the posterior cerebellar vermis. Participants will undergo three study
      sessions, one for each of the three TMS conditions. During each session, the investigators
      will administer validated cognitive paradigms and clinical measures immediately before and
      after TMS.

      The specific aims are to:

      1: Investigate the role of the cerebellum in abnormalities of time perception, executive
      function, and mood and psychotic symptoms by evaluating these functions before and
      immediately after excitatory, inhibitory, or sham TMS applied to the cerebellar vermis in
      patients with psychosis.

      (1a) Time perception hypothesis: Patients with psychotic disorders will have impaired timing
      perception, i.e., higher number of errors and/or greater inter-trial variability in an
      interval discrimination task both at baseline and after sham TMS. The investigators predict
      that the abnormalities in patients will improve after excitatory but not inhibitory TMS.

      (1b) Executive function hypothesis: Patients will show a higher number of errors and longer
      reaction times on the N-back working memory task, both at baseline and after sham TMS. The
      investigators predict that these deficits in patients will improve after excitatory but not
      inhibitory TMS.

      (1c) Symptom hypothesis: Symptom ratings using visual analog scales will improve in the
      period immediately after excitatory but not inhibitory TMS, and show no significant change
      after sham TMS.

      2: Investigate the relationship between time perception and (a) executive function and (b)
      symptomatology in patients with psychotic disorders. Hypothesis: The investigators predict
      that performance on the time perception task will correlate with performance on a working
      memory task as well as with mood and psychotic symptoms.

      This study may improve understanding about the role of the cerebellum in the pathophysiology
      of psychotic disorders. Such knowledge can potentially guide the development of cerebellar
      TMS as a therapeutic intervention for psychosis.
    
  