
    
      After completion of the TOF repair and rewarming to normothermia, all the patients will be
      assessed by TEE for adequacy of repair and separated from the cardiopulmonary bypass using
      vasopressors and inotropes. The choice of vasoactive and inotropic agents will be as per the
      requirement to maintain stable hemodynamics of the patients. Post bypass sevoflurane 1% end
      tidal concentration (0.5 MAC) will be used in all the patients. RV pressure and gradients
      across RVOT will be measured directly by placing a 23 gauge needle into the RV and pulmonary
      artery, and also by TEE using Bernoulli's equation by placing continuous Doppler across
      tricuspid regurgitation jet and RVOT, as is being routinely done for patients undergoing TOF
      repair. In addition, velocity time integral (VTI) across left ventricular outflow tract
      (LVOT) will also be recorded along with other hemodynamic parameters such as HR, SBP, DBP,
      MAP and SpO2. Subsequently, these measurements will be repeated again after increasing the
      sevoflurane to 2% end tidal concentration (1 MAC) and allowing the patients to stabilise on
      this new concentration for 5 minutes while maintaining systemic pressure within a range of 5%
      of the previous value. Normocarbia (EtCO2 30-35 mmHg) will be maintained during these
      measurements by adequate minute ventilation.

      Following the surgery, all the patients will be shifted to cardio-surgical ICU and will be
      extubated once they meet the extubation criteria. Post-operative RVOT pressure gradient and
      RV functions will be assessed by trans-thoracic echocardiography at 2 hrs post extubation, at
      discharge from ICU and after 1 month of surgery on first follow-up. RV functions on
      echocardiography will be assessed using TAPSE (Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion)
      and fractional RV area change during systole. The duration of post-operative mechanical
      ventilation, vasoactive inotropic score (VIS), PaO2/FiO2 ratio till discharge from ICU and
      any morbidity or adverse outcome during hospital stay will be noted.
    
  