
    
      Operation and lead placement:

      Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) is performed based on patient's coronary angiography.
      Following the completion of coronary anastomoses, epicardial pacemaker leads are implanted by
      simple stitches in different locations. The right atrial (RA) lead is placed on the right
      atrial appendage. The right ventricle (RV) lead is placed on the RV free wall near the apex.
      The left ventricle (LV) lead is placed on the lateral wall of LV at the border zone between
      diagonal and obtuse marginal branches of coronary artery. All three ground leads are placed
      on the rectus abdominis muscle. All these leads are pulled out of the patient percutaneously.
      Medtronic dual-chamber pacemaker is used for this study. The change of different pacing
      protocol (RV pacing, LV pacing, or biventricular pacing) is through the connection of
      different pacemaker leads.

      Hemodynamic study:

      All patients underwent OPCAB have Swan-Ganz catheter in our institute. Cardiac output
      measurement is obtained by thermodilution method. Hemodynamic variables (systemic blood
      pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, central venous pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and pulmonary vascular resistance, etc) are recorded
      during the measurement.

      ECG and blood pressure monitoring system:

      ECG and radial arterial blood pressure were recorded by an analog to digital converter system
      (National Instrument Inc.). The ananlog signals were digitized in a rate of 500Hz and were
      stored in a hard disk. The data were then analyzed by a program written with MATLAB language
      (version 5.2, Mathwork Co.). QRS complexes were automatically classified and manually
      verified as normal sinus rhythm, arterial or ventricular premature beats, or noise by
      comparison of the adjacent QRS morphologic features. The N-N interval time series were then
      transferred to a personal computer and post-processed.

      Baroreflex sensitivity analysis:

      The analysis of BRS was conducted by both the sequence method (19, 20) and the spectral
      (α-index) method. Sequence method: In brief, the beat-by-beat time series of systolic
      arterial blood pressure and ECG R-R intervals were scanned to identify sequences of over
      three consecutive beats in which the systolic blood pressure (SBP) and R-R intervals of the
      next beat changed concomitantly in increasing or decreasing sequence. Such beat-to-beat
      sequences were identified as baroreflex sequences. A linear regression was applied to the
      individual sequence and only r2 values >0.85 were accepted. The measure of each type of the
      integrated spontaneous BRS was obtained by averaging all accepted slopes of the same type
      during a 5-minute recording. Spectral (α-index) method: The α-index (α) was obtained by means
      of the simultaneous spectral analysis of the R-R intervals and the SBP variabilities, with
      the calculation being made from the square root of the ratio between the R-R intervals and
      the SBP variability in low frequency (LF) band (αLF, 0.04 to 0.15 Hz). The coherence between
      the R-R intervals and SBP was assessed by a cross-spectral analysis. The α-index was
      calculated only when the magnitude of squared coherence (K2) between the RR and the SBP
      signals exceed 0.5 in LF band.

      Heart rate variability analysis:

      The missing intervals of the raw N-N data were linearly interpolated and resampled at 4 Hz by
      the Ron-Berger method. Each 5-minute segment of N-N intervals was taken for HRV analysis. The
      time domain measurements of HRV included SDNN, r-MSSD. The frequency-domain measurements of
      HRV included LF and HF, which were calculated by Welch's averaged periodogram of the N-N
      intervals.
    
  