
    
      The study is a Phase I, single centre, open-label, non-randomized, single dose study
      performed in 6 healthy male subjects aged 18 to 65 years, inclusive. The study will assess
      the absolute bioavailability of a single oral dose of AZD0284 and the pharmacokinetics (PK)
      of a single intravenous (IV) microdose of [14C]AZD0284 in healthy male and female subjects.
      Oral AZD0284 and [14C] AZD0284 intravenous solution are referred to as the investigational
      products in this study.

      A screening visit to assess the eligibility of the healthy male and female subjects will
      occur within 28 days of the administration of the investigational product. Screening
      assessments will include medical history, inclusion/exclusion criteria, demographic data,
      weight and height, vein assessment, physical examination, blood samples for haematology,
      clinical chemistry and virology, blood test to confirm post-menopausal status (if female and
      of non-childbearing potential), blood test to confirm no history of tuberculosis, urine
      sample for urinalysis, urine test for pregnancy (if female and of childbearing potential)
      drug screen, alcohol breath test, carbon monoxide (CO) breath test, heart monitoring using
      ECG, vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate) Study related procedures will only be performed
      after signing of the Informed Consent Form.

      The healthy male and female subjects will be admitted to the study centre the day before
      administration of the investigational product (Day -1). On Day 1, subjects will be dosed with
      a single oral dose of 4 to 120 mg AZD0284 oral suspension (Regimen A) followed by 20 μg
      [14C]AZD0284 solution for IV infusion (Regimen B) beginning 3 hours after the oral dose has
      been administered. The IV microdose will be infused over 15 minutes and the end of the
      infusion is expected to be around the predicted tmax of Regimen A.

      The subjects will remain in the study centre until the 48 hour post dose PK blood sample is
      obtained. A follow up visit will occur 5 to 7 days after dosing and will include PK and
      routine safety assessments.
    
  