
    
      Recent evidence suggest that ovarian suppression in combination with exemestane compared with
      tamoxifen alone has been associated with significant reduction in risk of breast cancer
      recurrence in premenopausal women with high risk estrogen or progesterone receptor positive
      breast cancer. However, combination therapy has been associated with more adverse effects,
      poor treatment adherence, and decline in quality of life (QOL). Various behavioral and
      complementary interventions such as exercise, yoga, acupuncture, and massage therapy can be
      effective to reduce treatment-related side effects and thereby to improve QOL. Nevertheless,
      there is a paucity of evidence about effect of individualized behavioral and complementary
      interventions in younger women who are treated with combination endocrine therapy. The study
      aims to evaluate if younger women with early stage breast cancer treated with combination
      endocrine therapy could benefit from individualized behavioral and complementary intervention
      (s) during their treatment. This benefit will be assessed primarily by change in QoL and
      cognitive function from the baseline measurement and secondarily by adherence to adjuvant
      endocrine treatment. Furthermore, the study will explore correlation between selection of
      intervention(s) and various socio-demographic and clinical factors. Forty premenopausal women
      with early stage breast cancer treated with combination endocrine therapy will be recruited
      over a two year period in Saskatchewan with a median follow up period of about two years. All
      participants will be provided a list of interventions that alone or in combination could be
      helpful to improve treatment tolerance to hormonal therapy. A participant will be able to
      select one or more intervention based on her preferences. The QOL and cognitive function will
      be assessed every three months using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Symptom
      Index (FACT-B), FACT - Endocrine System (FACT-ES), and FACT-Cognitive Function scales.
      Treatment adherence will be monitored monthly basis. Individually-tailored behavioral and
      complementary interventions could promote self-management and empower the women with early
      stage breast cancer to manage treatment related side effects.
    
  