
    
      The investigators propose a pragmatic trial of the comparative effectiveness of two levels of
      remote internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (eCBT) to treat major depressive disorder
      (MDD) with and without comorbidities. The investigators intend to recruit 3,360 patients
      receiving primary care MDD treatment in a rural integrated network of Federally Qualified
      Health Centers (FQHCs) throughout West Virginia (WV). The investigators two main aims will be
      to use experimental methods to evaluate the aggregate effects of these interventions on
      patient-centered outcomes and to investigate predictors of heterogeneity of treatment
      effects. MDD treatment in WV is far from optimal, with rural patients especially underserved.
      WV is the 2nd most rural state in the US, has the 2nd lowest per capita income and has the
      highest proportion of residents covered by Medicaid. Need for services is high, as indicated
      by WV having the highest suicide rate of any state east of the Mississippi River and the
      highest opioid death rate in the country. Yet WV ranks only 42nd in overall mental health
      care. The vast majority of MDD treatment in WV is in primary care and consists largely of
      antidepressant medication (ADM). Electronic medical records (EMRs) show that 88% of primary
      care MDD patients in WV's FQHCs are treated exclusively with ADM and that the other 12% are
      treated with ADM plus psychotherapy. The limited number of patients who can access
      psychotherapy usually must go on a waiting list (often 3+ months) and travel long distances
      for treatment once available. Access to telephone or videoconference psychotherapy is
      limited. Yet 75% of depressed primary care patients express a desire for psychotherapy either
      alone (40%) or in combination with ADM (35%).

      This mismatch between treatment availability and preference is important because MDD
      remission increases substantially when patients are treated with their preferred type. There
      is thus good reason to believe that providing access to eCBT will improve MDD treatment
      outcomes in our trial. Indeed, prior controlled trials show that both types of eCBT the
      investigators will randomize yield significantly better outcomes than waiting list controls.
      Controlled trials also show that guided eCBT yields equivalent outcomes to telephone and
      face-to-face CBT, but at much lower cost. Other controlled trials show that combined CBT-ADM
      yield significantly better outcomes than either CBT-alone or ADM-alone, although these
      comparisons have been made only for face-to-face CBT. These results provide good reason to
      believe that offering eCBT in rural FQHCs throughout WV could improve MDD outcomes. Existing
      research on eCBT in rural areas, while promising, has been limited, making the research the
      investigators propose important to provide actionable information for patients and other
      stakeholders. Results intend to inform decisions about whether to offer/use eCBT, with what
      level of guidance, and for whom.

      Unguided eCBT is web-based CBT completed with computerized feedback but no clinician
      involvement after an initial orientation meeting. Guided eCBT is web-based CBT completed with
      a remote eCoach who communicates with the patient via email, text, and telephone. eCoaches
      also provide elements of remote collaborative care case management, such as encouraging ADM
      adherence, monitoring ADM side effects and treatment response, coordinating with the primary
      care physician (PCP), and facilitating specialty referral. Collaborative care is known to be
      highly effective in promoting MDD symptomatic remission. In addition, a study in Arkansas
      FQHCs found that remote collaborative care case management out-performed on-site case
      management in rural clinics too small to justify having a dedicated mental health case
      manager on staff. However, remote collaborative care case management often involves
      delivering telephone CBT. A major constraint on expanding the collaborative care model for
      primary care MDD treatment, which has been used in urban but not rural WV clinics, is lack of
      case managers who can deliver telephone CBT. Thus, expanding eCBT in rural WV would allow
      offering a strongly evidence-based form of patients' preferred treatment (psychotherapy) and
      a form of a well-validated rural MDD care model (collaborative care case management with
      guided eCBT) that cannot be offered currently because of limited clinical resources.

      Given its documented efficacy and rapid spread, the investigators expect eCBT to become
      widely available in rural WV as a result of our trial. But two real-life decisional dilemmas
      will arise in that context. Primary care clinicians will be faced with the decision about
      when to recommend eCBT and at what level of intensity. Patients will be faced with the
      decision of whether to accept guided or unguided eCBT as part of their treatment plan. These
      are non-trivial decisions, as eCBT incurs a time cost, and guided eCBT incurs a financial
      cost and requires interactions with an eCoach for patients who desire independence and
      privacy. Further, eCBT has the potential to harm, as when lack of engagement leads the
      patient to drop out of all treatment, including ADM, whereas that patient would have remitted
      with ADM. Our heterogeneity of treatment effects (HTE) analyses will examine which patients
      profit from guided eCBT, which do equally well or better with unguided than guided eCBT, and
      which do as well or better with ADM in the absence of eCBT. A good deal of research has been
      carried out on eCBT HTE, although not in conjunction with ADM. This research suggests that
      the value of eCBT for MDD varies considerably depending on diverse patient characteristics
      the investigators plan to study. As with the comparative effectiveness evidence for eCBT vs
      other MDD therapies, though, research on MDD HTE up to now has focused on narrowly-defined
      symptom outcomes. In addition, although more than two dozen consistently significant baseline
      patient-reported predictors of MDD HTE have been documented, no single study ever considered
      more than a handful of these predictors. In addition, past MDD HTE studies have been
      underpowered. Our analysis will be based on a sample of 3,360 patients powered to detect HTE
      in the entire sample. Our patient and provider partners have indicated that evidence about
      the prescriptive predictors of these differences will be of great value in their treatment
      selection decisions. The causal model underlying the design is drawn from previous studies
      reviewed here: that MDD remission of primary care patients can be increased by adding eCBT to
      treatment-as-usual (TAU) via mechanisms that include influencing cognitions and behaviors to
      promote psychological recovery and encouraging increased ADM compliance. This model underlies
      all aspects of our design (selection of population, interventions, measures, analytic
      methods, procedures for handling confounding, time frame).
    
  