
    
      This is a two-part, non randomized, open label, single site Phase 1 study. The purpose of
      this research study is to obtain information on the safety and effectiveness of this
      combination of study drugs to treat advanced head and neck. The experimental combination
      therapy in this study involves CIML NK cells from a haploidentical donor (meaning cells from
      another person with similar immune proteins), IL-15, and participants in cohort 2 will also
      receive ipilimumab. CIML NK cells are an allogeneic cell product derived from qualified donor
      natural killer (NK) cells that have been bathed in special proteins to help to identify and
      treat certain advanced cancers.

      - Participants who fulfill eligibility criteria will be entered into the trial CTLA-4
      Inhibition in Combination with Memory-like Natural Killer (NK) Cell Immune Cell Therapy in
      Advanced Head & Neck Cancer.

      The study consists of 2 parts:

        -  Cohort 1 CIML NK cells without ipilimumab

        -  The investigators are looking the highest dose of the study intervention that can be
           administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that
           have advanced head and neck cancer, not everyone who participates in this research study
           will receive the same dose of the study intervention. The dose given will depend on the
           number of participants who have been enrolled prior and how well the dose was tolerated

        -  Cohort 2 participants will be treated at the respective dose (at or below the Maximum
           Tolerated Dose), as determined during Cohort plus a lead-in dose of ipilimumab

        -  It is expected that about 12 people will take part in this research study.

      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of investigational
      drugs and tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for
      further studies.

      "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) has not approved CIML NK cells as treatment for any disease.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved IL-15 as a treatment for any
      disease.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ipilimumab for your specific
      disease but it has been approved for other uses.
    
  