
    
      Endoscopic procedures are performed on a daily basis to visualise the gastrointestinal tract
      for diagnosis and intervention. The demand for procedures is growing, consequently increasing
      the number of additional investigations; for example, biopsies. Image enhancement techniques
      can be performed during procedures either digitally or through the use of dye. These
      techniques alter the qualities of the image e.g. colour, contrast and magnification. We
      believe these techniques have several potential benefits: (i) improve diagnostic accuracy
      (ii) filter appropriate selection of additional investigations to maximise diagnostic yield
      (iii) the potential to replace existing investigations which are costly and intricate.

      Participants included in the study will have an endoscopic procedure as indicated for routine
      clinical care. On the day of the procedure (or before), a baseline assessment will be
      performed - symptom questionnaires, medical history and recording any relevant investigation
      results performed as part of routine care. Participants will have the endoscopic procedure as
      normal, with additional images and video obtained using different image enhancement
      techniques. Select patients will have follow-up for up to one year to determine relapse. The
      image enhancement technique findings will be compared to the gold standard investigation
      currently available as part of routine care for the condition of interest.

      The study will look at a range of different image enhancement techniques: dye
      chromoendoscopy, blue laser imaging (BLI), linked colour imaging (LCI), narrow band imaging
      (NBI), image magnification and endocytoscopy. This will involve a range of gastrointestinal
      conditions.

      Ethics Approval: favourable opinion was provided by the East Midlands - Derby research and
      ethics committee, reference: 19/EM/0167.
    
  