
    
      Management of Pelvic Floor Disorders (PFDs) is individualized according to a patient's
      symptomatology and quality of life. Although conservative measures exist, patients may elect
      for surgical management. The decision making process for surgery is complex. It is well
      documented that patient's lack understanding prior to their surgical procedures. Preparedness
      for MUS surgery is related to a patient's comprehension of the purpose, risks, benefits, and
      complications. Patients who are more prepared prior to surgery have been proven to have
      greater postoperative satisfaction. Therefore, it is essential to improve patients'
      preparedness and enhance patients' understanding of realistic expectations of post-operative
      outcomes.

      The investigators long-term goal is to improve patient-centered preparedness and satisfaction
      when considering surgery. Previous studies by the Preliminary Study of Peer Support Groups
      and Pelvic Floor Disorders have demonstrated trends in improvement for preparedness and
      decision conflict with the use of peer focus groups. However, peer support groups are a
      costly process and there may be many barriers to participation.

      A key gap in the literature is how to improve patient preparedness for surgery and improve
      satisfaction through the use of peer counseling in a manner that is convenient for patients,
      reproducible and low cost. Technological advances with multimedia may assist in bridging this
      gap. With ease-of-access to mobile electronic devices, videos are effective tools to prepare
      patients for surgery. The purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to
      determine if a patient-centered video improves satisfaction and preparedness compared to a
      physician-centered video.

      The first objective of this research is to develop two videos to counsel patients who have
      elected to undergo a MUS procedure. One video will be created from a physician-centered
      approach. The second video will be a patient-centered perspective. The second objective of
      this research is to compare the impact of video counseling between women randomized to a
      physician-centered versus a patient-centered video. The central hypothesis is that women
      randomized to a patient-centered video will report higher scores of satisfaction and
      preparedness than women randomized to the physician-centered video.

      Specifically, our aims for this study are:

        1. To create two videos to be used to counsel patients who have elected to undergo a MUS
           procedure. One video will present the risks, benefits and alternatives to MUS surgery by
           a physician, mimicking traditional counseling prior to surgery. The second video will
           explain the risks, benefits and alternatives to the MUS surgery utilizing a patient
           mentor who has undergone the MUS procedure and will describe the patients' perception of
           the information. The patient-centered video will also include topics that have
           previously been identified by focus groups as important patient-centered aspects of
           pre-surgical counseling.

        2. To compare the impact of video counseling between women randomized to a
           physician-centered video and a patient-centered video. Hypothesis: Women randomized to a
           patient centered-video will report higher satisfaction and preparedness as measured by
           validated scales. They will have higher scores on the Post-operative preparedness
           questionnaire (PPQ), Preparedness Scale and the Surgical Decision Satisfaction (SDS-PFD)
           questionnaire; and lower scores on the Decision Regret Scale (DRS-PFD) questionnaire
           than women randomized to view the physician-centered video prior to undergoing
           mid-urethral sling surgery.

        3. To compare a women's decisional conflict post-operatively in women randomized to the
           physician-centered video and the patient-centered video. Hypothesis: There is a
           reduction of decisional conflict in women randomized to the patient-centered video.

        4. To determine if there are differences in anxiety scores in women who watch the
           patient-centered video versus the physician centered video. Hypothesis: Anxiety scores
           measured by the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI: Y-6 Item) questionnaire are
           decreased by a pre-operative patient-centered counseling video.
    
  