
    
      Drug-resistant focal epilepsy is a debilitating disease as it is often accompanied by
      learning disabilities and behavioral disorders, that can be present at the disease onset and
      have ample repercussions on the child's quality of life.

      Despite a focal onset of seizures, the dysfunction of the cerebral networks is diffuse.
      Structural brain connectivity can be measured with diffusion tractography, which has shown
      evidence of widespread network pathology in focal epilepsy, probably explaining the
      associated learning disabilities. Whether ongoing seizure activity further modifies network
      wiring and possibly generates abnormal pathways along the routes of seizure propagation is a
      matter of debate.

      The study intends to probe the effect of seizures on cerebral connectivity, both on a local
      and on a global level. Children who undergo presurgical evaluation to probe whether their
      epilepsy can be cured by surgery are recorded with implanted intracerebral electrodes for
      clinical purposes. A diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging will be performed prior to
      implantation in order to relate tractography measures to seizure recordings. On the local
      level, intracerebral electroencephalogram (EEG) will be analysed to quantify the intensity of
      epileptic discharge (the epileptogenicity index) on each electrode contact. Loss of
      connectivity (or disconnections) is determined with diffusion tractography for each brain
      region. Then correlation between the degree of epileptogenicity and with the number of
      disconnections will be studied.

      On a global level, the study will quantify all white matter fibers within the language area
      (Broca's) in the left and the corresponding area in the right hemisphere. The difference
      between hemispheres yields us the lateralization index. The secondary outcome probes whether
      children with focal epilepsy have atypical language organization, as a measure of diffuse
      changes in brain wiring.
    
  