
    
      Despite that musculoskeletal diseases/conditions are the leading cause of disability and
      frailty/mortality in aging individuals, the musculoskeletal health is given little
      consideration. Exercise is essential and effective publicly-available medicine for
      management/prevention of obesity, lack of physical activity, chronic disease, frailty, and
      mental stress/anxiety/depression without any side-effects from drug use/abuse.

      More recently, multimodal interventions with physical, postural, mindfulness, and power
      exercises have shown to be effective improving both physical and mental health. To expand the
      recent trend in multimodal intervention, the current proposal will examine effects of
      community-based multimodal intervention on physical, psychological, cognitive, social, and
      environmental characteristics in aging individuals. Simultaneously, a cross-sectional study
      will establish normative values and inter-relationships.

      One simple (15 minutes a day /2-3 times a week) yet comprehensive multimodal (balance,
      posture/thoracic spine, hopping, and mindfulness) intervention could provide a practical
      solution for aging individuals. Such a program could be implemented individually or by
      community staff, which would allow for a large-scale community implementation.

      Therefore, the overall objective of the project is to explore effects of a community-based,
      simple, multimodal intervention program (MayoP4) for aging individuals. A small group
      intervention with friends and club/family members will help peer-to-peer support/team spirit
      and improve positive engagement.

      The secondary objective of this project is to establish normative values and examine
      interrelations among various frailty/mortality risk factors. In addition to physical
      activity, musculoskeletal, balance/posture, and psychological/wellness factors, there are
      many additional elements associated with frailty/mortality risk. These include, but are not
      limited to, positive thinking/behavior (optimism), sufficient sleep, and
      cognitive/social/environmental considerations. Physical frailty plays an important role and
      positively influences all other domains; however, this relationship among aging individuals
      in our communities remains to be established.
    
  