
    
      The purpose of this Phase I study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of two
      chemotherapies drugs, Cetuximab and Pemetrexed (Alimta), when given in combination with
      radiation therapy. Currently Pemetrexed is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      for two other types of cancer, mesothelioma and lung cancer, but it is considered
      investigational and is not approved by the FDA for head and neck cancer. Cetuximab is
      approved by the FDA for the treatment of colorectal cancer; however, it is not yet approved
      for head and neck cancer.

      Pemetrexed is a drug that kills tumor cells by stopping cells from functioning normally. It
      has been studied in thousands of subjects and has been shown to be effective at killing tumor
      cells in many cancers, including head and neck cancer. In preclinical studies, Pemetrexed
      showed such promising activity against a wide range of tumor types including those mentioned
      above as well as breast, colon, and bladder cancers.

      Cetuximab (also known as "C225" and "Erbitux") can increase the effectiveness of our standard
      treatment with chemotherapy and radiation. Cetuximab is a type of drug known as a monoclonal
      antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are used to try to destroy some types of cancer cells while
      causing little harm to normal cells. They are designed to recognize specific molecules that
      are on the surface of particular cancer cells. The monoclonal antibody recognizes the protein
      and locks onto it. This may trigger the body's immune system to attack the cancer cells and
      can sometimes make the cells destroy themselves. Cetuximab targets the epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR), an important molecule for the growth of cancer cells. The use of
      radiation therapy and Cetuximab has also been studied with good results. We will find what
      effects (good and bad) Cetuximab has on you and your head and neck cancer.

      Both Cetuximab and Pemetrexed have been studied intensively to determine their effectiveness.

      In this study, we will find what effects (good and bad) Cetuximab and Pemetrexed, with
      radiation; have on you and on your head and neck cancer. We will find out if the combination
      of Cetuximab, Pemetrexed and radiation has better results than what we ordinarily expect with
      radiation and chemotherapy. We will also find out if the side effects are worse than those we
      usually see. In addition, we will test both blood and tumor tissue and determine what effects
      Cetuximab has on these specimens. Finally, we will look for "markers," or cancer identifiers,
      in your tumor cells and blood that may help to predict what the best treatment is for head
      and neck cancer patients in the future.
    
  