
    
      In this study the investigators wish to proof the concept of free fat grafting into urethral
      stricture via urethroscope. The investigators will recruit twenty male patients suffering
      from (endoscopy proven) benign stricture of spongy urethra. All recruited patients have
      undergone at least one direct visual internal urethrotomy (DVIU) before recruitment.
      IPSS-score and uroflowmetry are recorded upon recruitment. The IPSS-score is repeated one day
      preoperatively. Urine sample is gathered for bacterial and cytological analysis. Prophylactic
      single dose levofloxacin antibiotic is orally administered before operation.

      The operation is performed in the operation room by one urologist and one surgeon under
      general anesthesia. First abdominal liposuction (roughly 20 ml) and fat graft preparation is
      performed. The fat graft is processed into nano-fat using Tulip GEMS Single-Use NanoTransfer
      Set. Then urethroscopy is performed, urethral stricture is visually graded (location, length,
      lumen), photographed, DVIU performed and nano fat graft (0,1-0,5ml) injected to stricture
      site beneath the mucosal layer at three locations. Urinary Foley ch 18 catheter is inserted.
      Patients are discharged the next day. Urinary catheter is removed after 20 hours.

      Patients are contacted by phone 1 week after the operation. Post-operative symptoms are
      recorded and the patients are requested to contact the researcher if needed. Patient records
      are screened for pre- and postoperative symptoms, medication, long term illnesses and
      possible postoperative contacts to the hospital.

      Three months later uroflowmetry, urethroscopy and IPSS-questionnaire are repeated. Stricture
      site is photographed and visually graded. In case of symptomatic re-stricture, the DVIU and
      fat grafting is repeated once. After 12 months uroflowmetry and IPSS-questionnaire are
      repeated. In case of suspected re-stricture the urethroscopy is repeated. Follow-up time is
      12 months from the last fat graft injection.

      Trial starts in fall 2019. The clinical studies have been completed and the data analysis and
      writing of the manuscript will be finalized in 2022.
    
  