
    
      This is a longitudinal intervention study among female sex workers affiliated with the APHIA
      II program, who have harmful or hazardous alcohol use patterns. The purpose of the study is
      to obtain initial estimates of the impact of the intervention on alcohol use and STI
      acquisition, to help determine if this is a program that should be implemented more fully.
      Female sex workers will be recruited from three APHIA drop-in centers in Mombasa district,
      Kenya who serve more than 15,000 FSWs. Approximately 800 FSWs with harmful or hazardous
      alcohol use will be enrolled in the study over a six-month accrual period with a follow-up of
      12 months for each participant. FSWs will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or
      "active" control arm. The intervention arm will receive the Brief Intervention for Alcohol
      Use (BI), which is designed for individuals with harmful or hazardous alcohol use, in
      addition to information about nutrition. The control arm will receive only non-alcohol
      related information about nutrition during the study period. A peer educator from the APHIA
      II project will inform potential participants about the study. A trained nurse counselor or
      research assistant will then screen interested volunteers for harmful alcohol use with the
      validated AUDIT questionnaire (WHO, 2001) and obtain informed consent from eligible
      participants. Arm assignment using random allocation will be made after volunteers are
      screened for eligibility, provide consent for participation, and complete baseline data
      collection procedures. Follow-up data collection will occur at six and twelve months
      post-randomization. Data collection procedures at all three time points will include the
      AUDIT questionnaire, a behavioral interview, a gynecological exam including STI diagnosis and
      treatment, and a HIV rapid test and counseling.
    
  