
    
      Malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum continues to be a global problem with devastating
      consequences. Pregnancy malaria is associated with low birth weight (LBW), maternal anemia,
      and gestational hypertension; and both inflammation and the fetal response to infection may
      contribute to these poor outcomes. Pregnancy malaria (PM) is caused by P. falciparum-infected
      erythrocytes that bind to the placental receptor chondroitin sulfate A (CSA) and sequester in
      the placenta, where they cause disease and death for the mother and her offspring. Women
      become resistant to pregnancy malaria as they acquire antibodies that target surface proteins
      of placental parasites. Malaria vaccine candidates targeting the parasite s liver stage or
      blood stage may not protect pregnant women and their unborn children. The primary hypothesis
      in this study is that antibodies raised in animals against recombinant pregnancy malaria
      vaccine candidates will have a similar functional activity as naturally acquired antibodies.
      Up to 1597 malaria-infected pregnant women will be recruited into a cross sectional study
      that will be conducted in Ouelessebougou and neighboring districts, Mali. Women presenting
      for antenatal visit at the health centers in Ouelessebougou District will be enrolled.
      Samples collected from the women will be used in in-vitro assays to assess the functional
      activity of immunoglobulin G (IgG) raised against pregnancy malaria vaccine candidates as the
      primary outcome of this study. For our secondary outcomes, we will examine functional
      activity of naturally acquired antibodies specific to the vaccine candidates. Functional
      activity by IgG to vaccine candidates will be compared to the activity obtained with control
      proteins using appropriate statistical methods, including adjustment for possible confounders
      such as parasite density in the assay, to determine if the candidates elicit the type of
      immune response observed in naturally exposed population.
    
  