
    
      Endometrial carcinoma is the most common gynecological malignancy in the western world, and
      with a current incidence of 18/100.000 women per year in the European Union, it affects
      around 65,000 new women each year. Due to the increased life expectancy and obesity, the
      incidence of endometrial cancer has increased in the last years, and is expected to rise in
      the coming years. Most patients present with early stage disease and have a favorable
      outcome. However, patients with metastatic disease have few treatment options with a poor
      prognosis.

      Surgery is the primary treatment modality in endometrial cancer and defines the final
      surgicopathological stage according to the International Federation of Gynecology and
      Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system. Adjuvant treatment is based on final tumor grade and FIGO
      stage and consists of radiotherapy and-or chemotherapy. Hormonal therapy is considered as
      alternative treatment modality for: 1. patients who are not suitable for surgery, 2. patients
      who wish to maintain fertility, and 3. patients with metastatic disease. A recent review
      summarizes the available evidence on the effect of hormonal therapy in patients with advanced
      and recurrent endometrial cancer. The overall response rate based on a single biopsy taken
      prior to treatment, was 22%. In ER positive tumors, the response rate was 27% compared to 9%
      in ER negative tumors. In PR positive tumors 36% of patients responded, compared to 12% in PR
      negative tumors. Thus, the presence of ER and PR receptors on the tumor cell seems to be
      relevant for prediction of response to hormonal treatment. Yet, data concerning the
      percentage of ER and PR expression are lacking, and might underestimate the response to
      hormonal treatment in individual cases.

      Analysis of the genomic landscape of endometrial cancer has shown marked genetic
      heterogeneity between biopsies of primary tumors and their corresponding metastases,
      suggesting that only a part of tumor cells in the primary tumor is involved in metastases.
      Also, loss of ER and PR expression is frequently observed in metastases from ER/PR positive
      primary tumors. These findings underline the relevance of obtaining a new biopsy to determine
      ER and PR expression in recurrent disease. This can be challenging since recurrences can be
      hard to reach by biopsies due to its location and multiplicity.

      18F-FES PET CT (FES PET) is a novel imaging method based on positron emission tomography
      using a specific tracer targeting ER allowing the visualization of ER expression in tissue.
      FES PET allows non-invasive depiction and quantification of ER expression in all tumor
      lesions in a patient.

      FES PET has been evaluated in breast cancer with a reported sensitivity of 69% to 100%, and a
      specificity of 80-100% for identifying ER positive tumor when compared to immunohistochemical
      expression of ER. In endometrial cancer, FES PET has been evaluated in only two studies. The
      first study included 19 patients with endometrial cancer with different FIGO stages that
      underwent FES PET prior to surgical resection. In this study a significant correlation
      between ER uptake on FES PET and ER immunohistochemical expression was observed. In the
      second study 22 patients were analyzed and classified into high risk (FIGO stage ≥Ic or grade
      ≥2) and low risk (FIGO stage ≤1b and grade 1) endometrioid type endometrial carcinoma. In the
      high risk group a significantly lower FES uptake was observed when compared to the low risk
      group, suggesting that FES PET could assist in identifying patients with high risk
      endometrial cancer. As shown by van Kruchten et al., FES PET could also be of value in the
      evaluation of response to hormonal therapy. In this study the results of serial FES PET scans
      are described in 16 patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with fulvestrant, a
      selective estrogen downregulator. Response to hormonal therapy was associated with reduced
      uptake on subsequent FES PET scans. So far, FES PET data are limited in endometrial cancer to
      one case report in which a decrease of estrogen uptake was observed upon medroxyprogesterone
      therapy in early stage endometrial cancer consistent with histological and clinical
      follow-up. Based on previous findings the aim of the current study is to explore the
      feasibility of FES PET scan in patients with endometrial cancer.
    
  