
    
      The National Comorbidity Survey Replication (NCS-R), conducted between 2001 and 2003,
      reported U.S. lifetime prevalence estimates for anxiety disorders (28.8%), mood disorders
      (20.8%), impulse-control disorders (24.8%), substance use disorders (14.6%), and any
      disorders (46.4%). Some of these mental conditions start as early as 11 years of age.
      According to the NCS-R, about half of Americans met or will meet the criteria for a DSM-IV
      disorder sometime in their life.

      The rates for illicit drug use have also been reported. The highest rate of illicit drug use
      in the U.S. was among 18 to 20 year-olds (23.9%), while the next highest rate occurred among
      21-25 year-old adults (19.7%). Males were more likely than females to be users of illicit
      drugs. As compared to whites (9.2%), rates for illicit drug use were higher among Blacks
      (11.3%), Native Americans (12.7%) and among persons of two or more ethnic backgrounds
      (14.8%). Marijuana is the most used drug (18.9 million) followed by pain relievers (6.8
      million) and cocaine (1.6 million).

      Mental illness surveys have shown that mental disorders are often associated with the risk
      for substance abuse. The National Survey on Drug Use and Health indicated that, in 2002,
      approximately 23% (4 million) of adults with serious mental illness were also dependent on or
      abused alcohol or an illicit drug. However, more than half of the adults (2 million) with
      co-occurring serious mental illnesses and substance abuse (i.e., comorbidity) received
      neither mental health nor substance abuse treatment during the previous year.

      While the prevalence estimates for specific mental disorders and illicit drugs have been
      separately reported in U.S. government surveys, less is known about the rates for specific
      comorbid conditions, e.g., schizophrenia and substance abuse, major depression and substance
      abuse, bipolar disorder and substance abuse, and anxiety disorder and substance abuse. The
      effects that different demographic characteristics (ethnic background, family medical
      history, age, living conditions [e.g., living with a single parent]) have on the prevalence
      of comorbid mental illness and substance abuse have not been considered in detail.
      Additionally, more should be known about the duration of substance abuse in different mental
      illnesses among those undergoing treatment, and whether specific types of drugs are
      associated with specific mental illnesses.

      In this study, Advanced Clinical Laboratory Solutions, Inc. will investigate the prevalence
      rates for the specific comorbid conditions and demographic relationships described above.
      This multi-site, proof-of-concept cohort study will analyze urine or oral fluid samples from
      1,000 subjects diagnosed with one of four mental illnesses (schizophrenia, major depression,
      bipolar disorder, or anxiety disorder) as determined by DSM-IV. The samples will be analyzed
      for both prescription drug compliance and illicit substance abuse. Urine or oral fluid
      samples will be collected at three time points: 1) immediately after enrollment and obtaining
      informed consent, 2) randomly within 2 to 4 months of the study, and 3) at the end of the
      study (6 months).

      The results of this study will provide new detailed information about the comorbid
      relationship between specific mental illnesses and substance abuse. Oral fluid and urinalysis
      screening will provide compliance information (for drugs prescribed for mental illness
      treatment) and may reveal illicit drug use by their patients.
    
  