
    
      This study is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, end-point blinded, parallel positive
      controlled, non-inferiority clinical trial. Patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) who
      meet inclusion criteria would be enrolled in this study. Led by Beijing Tiantan Hospital
      affiliated to Capital Medical University, this study is planned to be carried out in 15-20
      clinical trial institutions in China. There will be 102 patients enrolled in each group.
      Patients in the experimental group will be treated with the intracranial thrombus aspiration
      catheter, product of Hemo Jirui. Patients in the control group will be treated with stent
      retriever (Solitaire FR).

      In this trial, relevant examinations of safety and efficacy assessments were performed
      immediately after the procedure, at 24 hours, 7 days, 30 days, and 90 days. Primary efficacy
      endpoint will be the immediate recanalization rate (mTICI 2b-3) of target vessel after the
      procedure. Secondary efficacy endpoints will include: (1) Proportion of functional
      independence (mRS 0-2) at 90 days; (2) ordinal shift analysis of mRS at 90 days; (3)
      immediate recanalization rate (mTICI 2b-3) of the first pass of thrombectomy device; (4)
      immediate recanalization rate (mTICI 2b-3) of the last pass of thrombectomy device;
      (5)procedure time (randomization to recanalization); (6) Change in NIHSS score at 24hours;
      (7) Change in NIHSS score at 7 days or discharge (whichever comes first); (8) mTICI grading
      of target vessel revealed by CTA or MRA at 22-36 hours; (9) The extent of anterior
      circulation infarction at 22-36 hours, as measured by ASPECTS on CT or MRI. Safety endpoints
      will include: (1) All-cause mortality at 90 days; (2) stroke-related mortality at 90 days;
      (3) stroke recurrence rate within 90 days; (4) any type of intracranial hemorrhagic
      transformation within 22-36 hours, including parenchymal, subarachnoid or ventricular
      hemorrhage; (5) symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) within 22-36 hours, as confirmed
      by any intracranial hemorrhage on CT or MRI associated with ≥ 4 points of worsening on NIHSS
      or even contributing to death; (5) procedural complications or serious adverse events
      procedural complications or serious adverse events (SAEs) within 90 days.

      The trial is anticipated to last from November 2018 to May 2019, all the related
      investigative organization and individuals will obey the Declaration of Helsinki and Chinese
      Good Clinical Practice standard. The trial has been approved by Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) and Ethics Committee(EC) in Being Tiantan hospital, Capital Medical University.
    
  