
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity and tolerability of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation after a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen comprising anti-thymocyte
           globulin, high-dose melphalan, and fludarabine in women with chemotherapy-refractory or
           poor-prognosis metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast.

        -  Determine the ability of this preparative regimen to facilitate long-term engraftment of
           allogeneic stem cells and lymphocytes in these patients.

        -  Determine the response in measurable/evaluable disease and its temporal relationship to
           the preparative chemotherapy used and to the onset of clinical graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the tumor response and its temporal relationship to administration of
           high-dose chemotherapy and to the onset of GVHD in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the frequency and durability of the induction of full donor chimerism of
           lymphocytes in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, pilot study.

        -  Nonmyeloablative preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on
           days -8 to -4, anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4 hours on days -7 to -4, and high-dose
           melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -3 and -2.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV (and then
           orally when tolerated) every 12 hours beginning on day -4 and tapered after day 42 (if
           no GVHD occurs) or after day 90 (if grade I acute GVHD occurs). Patients also receive
           methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients undergo
           allogeneic PBSCT on day 0. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously
           beginning on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI): Patients who show disease progression or fail to
           achieve full donor type T-cell chimerism (at least 90% donor derived T-cells) by the
           90-day assessment posttransplantation, and have no evidence of active GVHD may receive
           DLI. Patients who have unresponsive disease with no active GVHD receive subsequent DLIs
           every 6-8 weeks.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  