
    
      The open abdomen can occur as a result of various diseases. After infections of the abdomen,
      compartment syndromes or traumata, it is essential for survival (1). This condition of the
      open abdomen lasts from days to months. Within a very short time, the fasciae and abdominal
      wall structures retract in such a way that direct abdominal closure is often impossible. In
      addition, there is a pronounced intraabdominal oedema, which additionally increases the space
      required by the abdominal organs. Therefore, it is clinically indispensable to increase the
      space of the intraabdominal organs in this life-threatening situation. After the laparotomy
      (opening of the abdomen) has been performed, it is therefore not closed. However, the natural
      traction on the abdominal wall, in particular on the fascia, the attached musculature as well
      as skin and subcutis, no longer exists in this situation. As a result, these structures
      retract over the period of the existing laparostoma.

      The current state of the art is the treatment of the open abdomen using low-pressure therapy
      or other temporary abdominal wall closure. The most common method is pure vacuum dressing on
      the abdominal wall wound and the abdominal organs (2, 3). However, traction to the edges of
      the fascia is only possible after the intraabominal increase in volume and pressure has
      decreased. All previously described methods for temporary abdominal wall closure cannot
      counteract abdominal wall retraction and can only begin with a pull on the already retracted
      fascia after normalization of the abdominal volume.

      The later abdominal closure then often requires alloplastic materials or results in a defect
      healing as abdominal wall hernia (4, 5). The temporal extension of the open abdomen is also
      associated with intestinal adhesions, formation of intestinal fistula and loss of abdominal
      volume (6-12). Mortality of the open abdomen is 12-40%, with septic genesis associated with
      higher mortality (1). In addition, reocclusion should be sought at an early stage. Trauma
      patients with a re-closure within 48 hours show a more favourable course of disease, a lower
      complication rate and lower mortality (13-15). The retraction of the abdominal wall and the
      later often impossible abdominal closure are the main problems in the treatment of these
      seriously ill patients. This problem, which has not yet been solved, is the reason for the
      development of this new technique.

      In the present study, the CE-certified medical device Fasciotens Abdomen will be used to
      prove the functionality of this device and the user feasibilty.

      The basic principle of Fasciotens Abdomen is the ventrally directed pulling force on the two
      fascial edges via an external device with support on the thorax and pelvis. A commercially
      available resorbable surgical mesh is sewn into the fascia margin, which would also have been
      used without the Fasciotens system. Commercial surgical sutures attached to this net are then
      attached to a height-adjustable suspension, which is connected to an external support on the
      thorax and pelvis. This ensures continuous traction to the two fascial edges. This
      counteracts the natural muscle pull of the abdominal muscles and thus the retraction of the
      abdominal wall to both sides laterally. At the same time the abdomen is still open preventing
      necrosis of the abdominal organs. The remaining wound surface can then be treated with
      conventional dressing material.

      The possibility to apply a traction to the fascia from the moment of opening the abdomen
      without reducing the intraabdominal space is absolutely new and the rationale of this
      technique. The objective of this study is to prove the obvious prevention of fascial
      retraction through the Fasciotens Abdomen device.
    
  