
    
      1. BACKGROUND Noncommunicables diseases (NCDs) are on the rise globally as well as in
           Malawi, alongside their behavioral modifiable risk factors. Behavioral intervention such
           as brief behavior change counseling using 5A's and a guiding style (BBCC + 5As +GS) has
           shown an effect on reducing these lifestyles risk factors. Their effectiveness varies
           between the behavioral technique used. But So far, available evidences of this effect
           are from western countries. Even implementation of these techniques has been done in
           some countries, but so far there is no information about their implementation in
           noncommunicable diseases field in Mangochi, even Malawi. Therefore, a really need to
           conduct this study in Mangochi, Southern Malawi.

        2. OBJECTIVES

             1. Overall objective: The primary objective of the study is to test the feasibility of
                the brief behavior change counseling using 5 A's and a guiding style from
                motivational interviewing which will be used for NCDs 'patients and assess its
                efficacy in improving lifestyle risk factors in NCDs' patients.

             2. Specific objectives for this study are

      1. to evaluate the feasibility of participating in a future quasi-experimental study of BBCC
      + 5A's + GS ; 2. to estimate the efficacy of BBCC + 5A's + GS from MI on lifestyle risk
      factors, theory constructs, quality of life domains; 3. to provide data on which to estimate
      the sample size required to detect a statistically significant difference between
      experimental and control groups; 4. and to explore experience of participants and care
      providers during the brief behaviour change counseling sessions to NCDs' patients in Mangochi

      4. Methodology:

        1. Design: mixed methods (pilot quasi-experimental and qualitative study)

        2. Settings: The study will take place at two sites: Mangochi District Hospital and Monkey
           Bay Community Hospital; Malawi.

        3. sample size: Purposeful sampling and successive eligible patients. Sample size: Efficacy
           study will be conducted on 50 patients.

        4. Intervention: brief behaviour change using 5A's and a Guiding style from motivational
           interviewing will be administered to participants in the intervention group by trained
           counsellors (nurses).
    
  