
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      I. Background

      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) represents a major problem for public health, and is a severe
      disease affecting hundreds of millions of people in the world and increasing rapidly. It
      brings about complex implications to social and economic structures of every nation. Renal
      replacement therapy (RRT) is a standard choice of treatment in patients suffering from ESRD
      which include hemodialysis (HD), peritoneal dialysis (PD) and transplant. The National Center
      for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion estimated that in 2014, more than 20
      million people in the US may have different levels of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). According
      to Fresenius Medical Care, information gathered from 150 countries worldwide showed number of
      patients being treated globally for ESRD was estimated to be 3,200,000 at the end of 2013
      and, with approximately 6% growth rate, continues to increase at a significantly higher rate
      than the world population.

      Among these patients, 2,522,000 were undergoing dialysis treatment HD or PD and around
      678,000 people were living with kidney transplants. The annual growth rate of HD, PD and
      transplant were estimated around 6-7%, 8% and 4-5% respectively. Reported incidence of ESRD
      across the globe showed an important trend ranging from under 100 to over 2,000 patients per
      million populations (pmp) in 2013. Taiwan, Japan and the USA continue to have some of the
      highest rates with 3170 pmp, 2,620 pmp and 2,080 pmp respectively. It averages about 1,090
      p.m.p. in the 28 countries that make up the European Union (EU). From a global view, most
      dialysis patients can be allocated to three major geographical regions: the USA, the EU and
      Japan. Around 44% of all dialysis patients are treated in these 30 countries. Estimates on
      the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) for years 2000-2012, conducted by the World Health
      Organization (WHO), indicated that kidney diseases were responsible for 864,226 deaths (1.5%
      of the total number of global deaths) and 29,685,826 disability adjusted life years (DALYs)
      lost, corresponding to 1.1% of all global DALYs lost in 2012. In Malaysia, according to the
      22nd Report of the Malaysian Dialysis and Transplant Registry (MDTR) 2014, 6107 new HD cases
      were reported representing an acceptance rate of 203 pmp while new peritoneal dialysis cases
      totaled 948, representing an acceptance rate of 31 pmp in 2014. Overall, the total number of
      HD and PD patients increased to 31,497 and 3270 respectively, giving a prevalence rate of
      1046 pmp and 109pmp respectively from 2004 to 2014. A total of 3521 patients of HD and 494 of
      PD were reported died in 2014. In addition, the number of dialysis centres for the whole of
      Malaysia increased from 205 in 2000 to 758 in 2014 giving a rate of 13 pmp in 2004 and 25 pmp
      in 2014. The increase in dialysis centres was mainly contributed by the private dialysis
      centres which had tripled from 6 pmp in 2005 to 14 pmp in 2014.

      The 22nd MDTR report also stated the number of new transplant patients was 172 in 2005 and
      this decreased to 81 (3 pmp) in 2014. The reduction in the number of new transplants was
      mainly due to reduction in commercial transplantation performed overseas. The number of
      functioning renal transplants increased from 1716 in 2005 to 1907 in 2011 but declined to
      1844 in 2014. The Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2010 conducted by Institute of Health
      Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) revealed that among the total number of years of life lost
      (YLLs) due to premature death in Malaysia, kidney disease ranked 14th from 25 causes of death
      with 62 YLL per thousand population which accounted for 1.1% of the total premature death.
      Ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and lower respiratory infections were the
      highest ranking causes in 2010. Besides, the figures also show the Malaysia ranked 13th
      relative to the same comparator countries for the leading causes of DALYs for kidney disease
      in 2010 with 1 as the best performance and 15 as the worst.

      ESRD imposes significant economic consequences in terms of direct loss of gross domestic
      product as a result for the management of patients with ESRD. The expenditure for the
      management of patients with ESRD in developed countries accounted for 2-3% of total
      healthcare expenditure, while ESRD patients represent only 0.02-0.03% of the total
      population. The United States Renal Data System reported for 2013 $30.9 billion medicare
      expenditure for ESRD (+1.6% versus previous year) (USRDS 2015). In the National Health
      Service (NHS) in England, annual spending on kidney care was estimated at £445 million in
      2002 (∼£566 million in 2009-2010 prices) and programme budgeting analysis by the Department
      of Health estimated the total NHS expenditure on kidney care, including CKD, at £1.64 billion
      in 2009-2010. In Australia, kidney disease contributes substantially to health care
      expenditure in Australia and is increasing much faster than expenditure on total health care.
      In 2004-2005 it accounted for 1.7% of total expenditure ($898.7 million), an increase of 33%
      since 2000-2001 ($573.6 million).

      In Malaysia, according to the report by Malaysia National Health Accounts (MNHA), Ministry of
      Health, total health expenditure was 4.49% per of GDP (RM 42,256 mil) with 6.22% of General
      Government Health Expenditure (GGHE) as percent General Government Expenditure (GGE) in 2012.
      Although limited data available of ESRD or CKD expenditure in Malaysia, the estimated cost of
      dialysis in 2005 reported to be RM379.1 mil. NHMA (2013) report stated that, in 2005, total
      health expenditure was 3.58% per of GDP (RM 19,447 mil).

      II. Statement of Problem

      The observed World Kidney Day annually beginning in March 2006 sends a clear message to the
      public, government health officials, physicians, allied health professionals, patients, and
      families that 'CKD is common, harmful, and treatable'. Renal replacement therapy is available
      in three different modalities which include haemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis and kidney
      transplantation from either a living donor or deceased donors.

      Kidney transplantation offers a nearly normal life in both, quality of life and survival, and
      is considered the optimum treatment for eligible patients. Despite renal transplants from
      live donors, organ shortage remains a worldwide problem producing increasing waiting lists
      for transplantation and an inevitable necessity for dialysis treatments. According to
      Electronic Malaysian Organ Sharing System (eMOSS), there are around 19,500 people on the
      waiting list for kidney transplants in Malaysia as of 31st May 2016. New transplant rate in
      Malaysia is very low at 3 pmp in 2014. Hence, most of the patients require dialysis therapy.
      There are close to 35,000 are on dialysis (PD and HD). As compared to renal transplantation,
      dialysis is less effective in terms of 'survival' and 'quality of life'. In spite of a
      notable growth in dialysis provision rates by more than 10-fold between 1993 and 2014,
      Malaysia is still incapable to provide universal access to RRT.

      The increased of dialysis centres are driven by the private dialysis centres which had almost
      tripled from 6 pmp in 2005 to 14 pmp in 2014. Nongovernmental organization (NGO) centres had
      only increased from 4 pmp in 2005 to 5 pmp in 2014. In contrast, the rate of growth was
      stagnant in the public sector, 5 pmp in 2005 and 2014. Most of the increases in the private
      dialysis centres occurred in the more economically developed west coast states of Malaysian
      Peninsula. Public sectors still provides most of the dialysis centres in the economically
      disadvantage states. Moreover, prevalence of ESRD is expected to rise significantly in the
      foreseeable future. Thus, the sustainability of dialysis therapy (HD and PD) in the future is
      uncertain.

      III. Justification

      ESRD is a chronic and serious illness with significant health consequences and high-cost
      treatment options. Despite rising economic pressure on the collective health care system,
      cost effectiveness studies of managing ESRD treatment are scarce in this country. An economic
      evaluation of HD and CAPD in MOH hospitals, Malaysia was conducted in 2005 which only
      included cost per life saved. This study was expanded in 2007 by incorporating utility
      measures to obtain the cost utility for both HD and PD. The measurement of improvement in
      quality of life was only associated with haemoglobin.

      In addition, it is worth to note that both studies were performed based on 2001 costs data.
      Obviously, the cost of treatments in medical settings has changed tremendously according to
      current economic situation. For example, the cost of erythropoietin (EPO) was not adapted in
      2007 study from the earlier study as there had been large reductions in the price of EPO, an
      Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agent (ESA) following the in introduction of EPO-β to the MOH in
      early 2004. As a result, the utilization rate of ESAs increased to 91% of patients on HD and
      80% of patients on PD in 2013 as compared to 74% of patients on HD and 63% of patients on PD
      in 2004. In regards to the utility score, they also found that the quality of life of HD and
      CAPD patients were high by international standards (UK value set). Hence, a Malaysian EQ-5D
      questionnaire value sets was produced that can be used in cost utility studies.

      Given the low organ donation rate and continual global growth in ESRD population, it is
      necessary and important to carry out effectiveness evaluation of HD and PD in terms of cost
      utility analysis so that the expenditure of its management can be justified without
      compromising outcomes. In economic evaluation studies, the choice of perspective (societal or
      provider) has an important effect on the cost-outcome components assessed and used in the
      evaluation. This study will be conducted from Malaysia Ministry of Health perspective. The
      information obtained may facilitate financial planning and health policy decisions by
      Ministry of Health regarding health care allocations for a more sustainable dialysis
      treatment program in the future.

      IV. Objective (s)

      General Objective

      This study aimed to compare the cost-utility between HD and CAPD from a Malaysian Ministry of
      Health perspective by estimating cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY).

      Specific Objectives

        1. To determine the socio-demographic characteristics of patients on HD and CAPD.

        2. To evaluate the mean cost of HD and CAPD treatments.

        3. To determine life expectancies of HD and CAPD patients.

        4. To assess predicted and measured quality of life (QoL) values in HD and CAPD patients
           using EQ-5D-3L questionnaire.

        5. To evaluate the cost utility as cost per QALY gained in HD and CAPD patients.

        6. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of varying levels of PD use versus current practice
           using a hypothetical cohort Markov model.

      METHODOLOGY

      I. Study design

      This study is commencing in two phases. Phase 1 is a prospective multicentre study to
      determine the cost utility of HD and CAPD from MOH perspective using activity based costing
      (ABC) and step-down approach. Costs of interventions (HD and CAPD) are obtained from the
      participating dialysis centres and dialysis patients' medical records. Health related quality
      of life (HRQoL) or utility score is evaluated using EQ-5D-3L questionnaire. Data from
      National Renal Registry (NRR) will used to estimate of participating dialysis patients. The
      data collection period is from 1st October 2016 to 30th September 2017. Phase 2 involves the
      development of a hypothetical cohort Markov model using TreeAge software with inputs from the
      earlier phase and other secondary data including transition probabilities and incident
      dialysis patients to evaluate the cost utility by varying levels of CAPD use versus current
      practice.

      Phase 1 Cost utility analysis of sampled data

      Stage 1: Selection of participating centres Stage 2: Patient recruitment Stage 3: Cost
      analysis Stage 4: Measurement of quality of life Stage 5: Measurement of patient survival
      (based on secondary data from NRR) Stage 6: Cost utility analysis Stage 7: Sensitivity
      analysis

      Phase 2 Cohort Simulation Markov model Stage 1: Development of Markov Model using TreeAge Pro
      Software Stage 2: Inputs of cost and health utilities Stage 3: Transition probabilities Stage
      4: Scenario analysis Stage 5: Sensitivity analysis

      The sampling frame of a participating centre is all MOH state hospitals with HD and PD units
      that submit their patients' data to the Malaysian National Dialysis and Transplant Registry
      (MDTR) via National Renal registry (NRR). The MDTR was set up in 1992 to collect data for
      patients on RRT. The registry functions to describe the natural history of ESRD, describe the
      characteristics of patients with ESRD, its management, patients' survival and treatment
      outcomes (NRR). Following are the inclusion and exclusion criteria for selection:

      I. Inclusion criteria

        -  Centres that commenced operations before 2011.

        -  Awarded compliance certificate and contribute >80% annual treatment return according to
           the MDTR.

        -  Possesses adequate clinical and administrative data.

      ii. Exclusion criteria

        -  Private and NGO dialysis centres.

        -  Centres with less than 50 CAPD and 50 HD patients.

        -  State hospitals from Sabah and Sarawak due to logistic reasons.

      Following the inclusion and exclusion criteria, five state hospitals have been selected to
      participate in this study using purposive sampling including Hospital Kuala Lumpur and
      Hospital Tengku Ampuan Rahimah (Central), Hospital Tengku Ampuan Afzan (East), Hospital
      Sultanah Aminah (South) and Hospital Pulau Pinang (North). A purposive sampling was used
      after considering logistics problem, availability of a senior nephrologist to become
      principal site investigator at each sites, availability of medical assistants and nurses to
      assist on data collections and approval from the respective site's head of department and
      director. However, selected hospitals can be considered to represent MOH dialysis centres
      since they are distributed across various geographical regions except Sabah and Sarawak (Far
      East).

      III. Patient recruitment

      180 dialysis patients (90 HD and 90 CAPD) are included in the study. Patients are sampled
      using a multistage random sampling. Firstly, a latest master list of patient from the
      selected participating centres is obtained from NRR (registered from 2011 to 2015) according
      to the inclusion and exclusion criteria mentioned above. Secondly, the list is separated
      according to HD and CAPD for each centre and sorted in ascending order based on the patients
      registered identification number in the database. Next, a simple random sampling is applied
      to select participating patients. Selected patients who agreed to participate in this study
      are be asked to read the information sheet before signing the consent form. They can withdraw
      in any point of the study.

      IV. Study tools

      The following forms are designed and being used to elicit information on patient's
      sociodemographic characteristics, commodities, baseline lab test, quality of life/utility
      index, and costs (capital + recurrent) :

      Form 1: Patient Particulars and resource utilization

      This form is designed to collect patient's sociodemographic characteristics such as age,
      gender, ethnicity, highest education level and average annual income and commodities such as
      hypertension, cardiovascular disease and anemia. Data related to vascular access surgeries,
      medications, imaging, laboratory tests, hospitalization, referral to non-nephrology clinics
      and patient status (alive/dead/transplanted/withdrawn) is collected via this form.

      Form 2: Centre Costing Form

      This form is designed to collect data on capital cost of dialysis centre including building
      cost, equipment/instrument used for dialysis and . Recurrent cost of dialysis related
      consumables, staff salaries and other consumables such as office stationery and utilities
      including water, electricity and telephone usage will be collected via this form.

      Form 3: EQ-5D-3L

      The quality of life of HD and CAPD patients will be assessed using EQ-5D-3L instrument. .
      EQ-5D is an instrument which evaluates the generic quality of life developed in Europe and
      widely used. In general, the EQ-5D questionnaire, descriptive system measures health status
      in five dimensions of morbidity, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and
      anxiety/depression. Each dimension has three level of severity, namely 1) no problem, 2) some
      problem and 3) extreme problem. The descriptive system contains a total of 243 theoretically
      possible combinations of EQ-5D questionnaire domains and problem levels, referred to as
      health states. It is also recommended that to comply with the Malaysian tariff to convert to
      utility scores using the "N3 Re-scaled VAS" scoring algorithm.

      TreeAge Pro Software

      TreeAge Pro Software will be used to construct the Markov model.
    
  