
    
      The purpose of the study is to compare the breast-feeding outcome following three different
      teaching interventions: written or verbal/direct or visual/videos among participants whose
      infants are admitted in Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Brookdale Hospital

        1. Breast-feeding outcome among participants who are feeding expressed breast milk will be
           measured quantitatively as amount of milk production per day on an average during NICU
           stay.

        2. Breast-feeding outcome among participants who are directly feeding the infants at breast
           will be measured qualitatively in terms of frequency, duration, exclusive breast feeding
           at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks of infant's life.

      CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE Investigators are including participants whose infants are admitted to
      the Brookdale NICU This also include very preterm [<32 weeks] infants, the period when
      breastfeeding incidence has been lesser compared to participants who give birth at later
      gestation and those who don't require admission to NICU. By including participants who give
      birth <32 weeks and newborns admitted to NICU, investigators will be able to document the
      quantity of breast milk production by logging the milk brought to our NICU storage freezer by
      participants and effectively measure the outcome objectively of the three different
      interventions [written, verbal and visual methods].

      Previous studies have found that breast feeding is lower among African American population.
      Since most of population at Brookdale hospital is African American, this study will also give
      an opportunity to find the result of education intervention among this population
      Investigators propose that this study will be useful to find the most effective mode to
      educate participants whose neonates admitted to NICU about breast-feeding and may enhance the
      culture of breastmilk feeding in this population and therefore increase breast feeding among
      newborns admitted to the NICU.

      METHODOLOGY This is a prospective randomized study on breast-feeding teaching intervention on
      participants who give birth to newborns that are admitted to NICU at Brookdale Hospital
      during one-year period 1/2018-1/2019.

      All participants who deliver at Brookdale hospital receive regular breast-feeding education
      on benefit of exclusive breastfeeding, latching, pumping provided by the nurses or physicians
      during postpartum period while they are admitted in the hospital. The participants also
      receive education on breastfeeding through public health assistant/volunteer through New York
      City (NYC) Family and Child Health Bureau of Maternal Infant and Reproductive Health either
      at the hospital and or during home visit following discharge.

      Any education provided as a part of research is the additional education participant will
      receive on top of the regular education all participants receive irrespective of their
      participation and the group they belong to in the study. Participant decision to participate
      or not in the study will not affect the regular health care and education participant or
      participant's infant will receive in the hospital.

      The aim of the study is to obtain at-least 25 participants per group for a total sample size
      of 100 participants and 100 participants' infants.

      Once investigators identify the participants fulfilling the inclusion criteria, one of the
      two trained investigators will take an informed consent that include permission to contact
      participants over the phone or by email/mail at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks for providing
      the appropriate method of teaching intervention and/ or measurement of breast feeding
      outcome.

      Randomization will be done by picking up one of the random numbers representing each group
      such as 1 for Group 1, 2 for Group 2, 3 for Group 3 and 4 for Group 4:

      Group 1: Participants in this group will not receive additional teaching interventions
      included in the research. Participants will be contacted at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks
      postpartum to evaluate amount, duration, exclusive breast feeding.

      Group 2: Participants in this group will receive the written breast-feeding education in the
      form of booklet (included with this protocol). Booklet will be distributed 2 times: 1st time
      in the hospital within 4 days of birth of the infant before the participant is discharged and
      at 2 weeks from the time of birth of the infant utilizing the time when participant visits to
      the NICU. If the participant is not able to visit NICU or the infant is discharged from the
      hospital before 2 weeks from the time of birth, booklet will be provided to the participant
      by post or as an attachment in an email. Participants will be contacted at 2 weeks, 4 weeks
      and 6 weeks postpartum to evaluate amount, duration, exclusive breast feeding Group 3:
      Participants in this group will receive breast-feeding education verbally (please find the
      content of verbal education in following page). Verbal education will be provided 2 times:
      1st time in the hospital within 4 days of birth of the infant before the participant is
      discharged. Subsequent breast-feeding trouble shooting verbal education will be provided at 2
      weeks from the time of birth of the infant utilizing the time when participant visits to the
      NICU. If the participant is not able to visit NICU or the infant is discharged from the
      hospital before 2 weeks from the time of birth, verbal education will be provided to the
      participant over the phone. Participants will be contacted at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks
      postpartum to evaluate amount, duration, exclusive breast feeding Group 4: Participants in
      this group will receive breast-feeding education through the video format. (links for the
      video is provided in the following page). Video education will be provided 2 times: 1st time
      in the hospital within 4 days of birth of the infant before the participant is discharged.
      Subsequent breast-feeding video education will be provided at 2 weeks from the time of birth
      of the infant by sending a link for the video in participant's email. Participants will be
      contacted at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks postpartum to evaluate amount, duration, exclusive
      breast feeding All three forms of education will include similar information that include
      advantages of breast-feeding, optimization of pumping using hand pump or electric pump,
      storage of milk and such other troubleshooting during breastfeeding

      Written education method:

      Written education will be provided in the form of booklet. Investigators have received 100
      booklets 'your guide to breastfeeding' from The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
      Office on Women's Health (OWH) for free. Investigators will provide the booklet to the
      participants that belong to group 2 as written education within 4 days of the birth of the
      infant and at 2 weeks from the time of birth of the infant.

      This standard booklet can be found free at the government website below:
      https://www.womenshealth.gov/files/documents/your-guide-to-breastfeeding.pdf

      Verbal education method:

      Verbal education will be provided by one of the two investigators who will use the checklist
      to provide the information. Both investigators have successfully completed online "Supporting
      and Promoting Breastfeeding in Health Care Settings modules' from School of Public Health,
      University of Albany, State University of New York. Both investigators will be trained by a
      neonatologist so that the verbal education method provided by two different investigators is
      similar. The checklist in verbal education is derived from the above standard booklet so that
      the information provided is same as the booklet.

      Video education method:

      There is standard you-tube video link for free at the following government website:

      https://www.womenshealth.gov/printables-and-shareables/resource/videos Participants will be
      provided you-tube video links included in the following table within 4 days and at 2 weeks
      from the time of birth of the infant.
    
  