
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is defined as presence of reduced glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR) < 60 ml/min/ 1.73 m2 and/or evidence of kidney damage (usually indicated by albuminuria
      or proteinuria) for > 3 months or more irrespective of cause . CKD stages are classified
      according to the National Kidney Foundation in to five stages according to estimated GFR .

      The prevalence of CKD is continuously rising in concert with the rising epidemic of its risk
      factors including ageing, diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, smoking, and hypertension .

      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common chronic liver diseases in
      Western countries. It encompasses a spectrum of conditions with lipid deposition in
      hepatocytes, ranging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).

      It is defined as fatty liver with inflammation and hepatocelullar injury with or without
      fibrosis, advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. Metabolic syndrome with its clinical traits is
      highly prevalent in patients with NAFLD .

      Preliminary data suggest an association between CKD and NAFLD .reported that the prevalence
      of CKD was significantly higher in patients with NASH compared to patients without NASH.

      Moreover, Yassui k documented the presence of moderately decreased eGFR and high frequency of
      micro-albuminuria in patients with biopsy proven NASH.

      The diagnosis of NAFLD/NASH is based on the gold standard of liver biopsy or less reliably on
      serum liver enzymes or ultrasound imaging. However, liver biopsy has its limitations: apart
      from being an invasive procedure, connected with serious complications .

      Many non-invasive procedures have been intensively applied to detect hepatic steatosis and
      fibrosis. The Controlled Attenuation Parameter (CAP) can using transient elastography (TE)
      (Fibroscan速) permits to efficiently separate different grades of severity of steatosis. CAP
      is based on the properties of ultrasonic signals acquired by the Fibroscan速. It allows to
      simultaneously measure liver stiffness and CAP in the same liver volume.

      The volume used for the measurement by the Fibroscan速 is 200 times larger than that of a
      liver biopsy specimen. Therefore the Fibroscan速 is used more and more in clinical practice .

      Many biochemical markers can be used for diagnosis of NAFLD such as tissue inhibitor of
      metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP1), aminoterminal peptide of procollagen III (P3NP) .

      Up till now, the relationship between NAFLD and CKD is still poorly understood and under
      discussed.
    
  