
    
      Women in Group (A) acted as a control group and only received medical treatment in the form
      of 10 mg domperidone 3 times a day after meals) and advice about lactation, nutrition and
      fluid intake all through the treatment period (4 weeks) Each woman in group (B) lied in
      supine lying position on the treatment plinth wearing the protective eyewear as precautionary
      measures for her safety and exposing her breast out of her clothes then the breast was
      cleaned by alcohol. The laser apparatus was directed perpendicularly over the treated breast
      at a distance 50 cm from it, all metal objects must be removed from the range of action of
      laser (i.e. necklaces). The laser scan beam was adjusted to the size of the treated breast
      for 10 minutes with wave length 632.8 nm and power output 25 mw after the end of treatment
      session the machine switched off automatically then, it was adjusted again to start
      irradiation by the same procedures for the other breast. The mother had one session every
      other day, three sessions weekly for four weeks. (Total 12 sessions). He-Ne laser (Bravo
      TrezaSerie) device was used. The equipment was designed in compliance with international
      technical standards UNI EN ISO 9002 and En 46002 and complies with the safety requirements.

      Group (B) had received 12 sessions of irradiation by low power He-Ne laser beam on both sides
      of the breasts 10 minutes on each side. One session every other day, three sessions weekly
      for four weeks beside the medical treatment (10 mg domperidone 3 times a day after meals) and
      advice about lactation, nutrition and fluid intake all through the treatment period Group (C)
      women were treated by faradic stimulation (Body shaping System, model B-333, made in China) ,
      at the following acupuncture points on both sides: Spleen 6 (Sanyinjiao), Liver 3 (Taichong)
      and Small Intestine 1 (Shaoze) using surface electrodes in addition to medical treatment (10
      mg domperidone 3 times a day after meals) and advice about lactation, nutrition and fluid
      intake allthrough the treatment period

      SP-6 Acupuncture Point lies on the inner leg aspect about 3 cm higher than the medial
      malleolus, along the posterior tibial border. Fig. (2)

      LIV-3 Acupuncture Point is the one that lies in the depressed area between the 1st 2
      metatarsal bones proximal to the metatarsophalangeal joints on the dorsal foot aspect Fig.
      (2)

      SI.1 Acupuncture point is located on the little finger, ulnar to the distal phalanx, at the
      intersection of the vertical line of ulnar border of the nail and the horizontal line of the
      base of the little fingernail. Fig. (2)

      Each woman in group (C) was asked to be in a long sitting or half lying position, When the
      points were located, the electrodes were fastened securely with an adhesive tape or an
      elastic band to ensure good contact between the skin and the electrode over the acupuncture
      points. The intensity control of the stimulator was slowly increased until the patient could
      just feel the stimulation. The session lasted for 30 minutes. One session every other day, 3
      sessions weekly for 4 weeks. (Total 12 sessions).
    
  