
    
      The long-term goal of this proposal is to improve alcohol use outcomes by targeting emotion
      regulation (ER), impulsivity (IMP), and executive functioning (EF) constructs among racially
      and ethnically diverse (primarily Hispanic and Black) at risk young adults. With a similar
      population, the investigators pilot tested a novel Mindfulness-Based Intervention (MBI),
      Mindfulness-Based Substance Abuse Treatment for Adolescents (MBRP) with with marginalized
      young adults. Findings from adolescent samples have found support for the intervention's
      effect on problem behaviors, decision making, and self-esteem. However, extent research in
      this area has not assessed substance use or self-regulation. In a sample of marginalized
      young adults receiving treatment at a residential treatment facility, MBRP was found to
      significantly decrease stress and substance use outcomes. In addition, only one study has
      investigated the effect of a MBI on neurocognitive functioning with justice-involved youth.
      Unfortunately, this was not a clinical intervention and did not assess EF as a mechanism of
      change. The current study proposes to recruit 70-80 young adults (aged 18-26) referred to one
      clinic in Los Angeles, CA. The study site has a wide range of referral sources ranging from
      self-referral to referrals from the justice system.

      Some young adults are referred to treatment by schools in lieu of engaging law enforcement or
      in lieu of expulsion, with many being self-referred.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive MBRP or attention control (CTL).
      Participants will engage in both self-report and task-based ER, IMP, and EF measures pre- and
      post-intervention. Participants will be followed for 3 months post-intervention to assess
      effects on alcohol use and behavioral health outcomes, and putative mechanisms of change.

      The central hypothesis is that MBRP, compared to CTL, will prompt change in ER, IMP, and EF.
      Further, it is hypothesized that these changes will be associated with better alcohol use
      outcomes 3 months post-intervention. The rationale for using a MBI with marginalized youth is
      that prior research has shown significantly worse self-regulation compared to community
      youth, and MBRP is specifically designed to aid in regulating emotions, decision making, and
      attention control. The unique strengths of this proposal are its use of an MBI; focus on a
      disadvantaged population of diverse racial and ethnic groups; focus on putative targets
      essential to behavioral health outcomes; and use of multiple neurocognitive tasks addressing
      important self-regulation components. The study objective is to test following three aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Determine feasibility and acceptability of abbreviated MBRP. An adapted MBRP
      protocol will be beta-tested with 15 transition age youth/young adults. Focus groups will be
      conducted to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of an intervention focused on
      enhancing self-regulation, refine content based on feedback, and addressing issues that might
      affect the successful completion of pilot testing in Aim 2.

      Specific Aim 2: Pilot test MBRP intervention on putative targets by randomly assigning young
      adults who screen for past-month alcohol use/problems to MBRP or CTL. Determine the effect of
      the program on secondary outcomes of interest and putative targets for ER, IMP, and EF.

      Specific Aim 3: Assess MBRP mechanisms by exploring whether effects of the intervention on
      our substance use outcomes can be partially explained by changes in target mechanisms: ER,
      IMP, and EF.
    
  