
    
      Description of the Study Tests:

      The exercise stress test is commonly used for predicting possible complications that may
      occur after lung surgery. The 6-minute walk test is a simpler test that does not require as
      much equipment.

      6-Minute Walk Test: If you agree to take part in this research study, you will be asked to
      perform two 6-minute walk tests along with your routine exercise stress test. Both 6-minute
      walk tests will be done within 15 Days of the already scheduled exercise stress test if your
      clinical condition does not change during that time period. The 6-minute walk tests should be
      done at least 2 hours before or 1 hour after the exercise stress test. The second 6-minute
      walk test may be done 20 minutes after the first one. If you had a 6-minute walk test done
      within 15 Days before enrolling in the study, it can be used for the study.

      To perform the 6-minute walk tests, you will walk as far as possible around cones on a flat
      indoor course that is about 40 yards long. You will walk at your own pace and can take breaks
      at any time if necessary. After the 6 minutes, the study staff will tell you the total
      distance you have walked.

      Researchers will compare the distances you walked for the two 6-minute walk tests with the
      results of the exercise stress test. The walk test results will not affect your treatment
      plan.

      Other Study Procedures:

      Before and after the walk tests, the following procedures will be performed. Your blood
      pressure will be measured. You will be asked about any shortness of breath and/or fatigue you
      may have.

      Before, during, and for about 1 minute after the walk tests, your heart rate will be
      measured. A device that looks like a clothespin will be placed on your finger to wear during
      this time, and it will measure the amount of oxygen in your blood.

      Length of Study:

      You will be considered off-study after the second walk test.

      If you do have lung surgery, researchers will monitor your health status by checking your
      medical records until you are discharged from the hospital or for 30 days after the lung
      surgery, whichever comes first.

      This is an investigational study. Using the 6-minute walk test for this study's purpose is
      considered experimental. Up to 101 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  