
    
      1. Rationale:

           Profound angiogenesis is an important characteristic of neuroendocrine tumors.
           Antiangiogenic drugs including sunitinib, bevacizumab and everolimus have shown
           antitumor activity in neuroendocrine tumors. The investigators participated in the
           RAD001 studies for neuroendocrine tumors. From preclinical studies including studies
           performed in our own lab the investigators know that everolimus downregulates VEGF.

           Currently it is not possible to predict which individual patient will benefit from
           treatment with an mTOR inhibitor. A predictive biomarker for efficacy of mTOR inhibitors
           is urgently needed and would be helpful, as a predictive biomarker may facilitate the
           development of combination therapies, of individual titration of the dose, and it may
           facilitate early clinical studies. Furthermore, it may spare the patients unnecessary
           side effects. mTOR inhibitors may fail in individual patients because angiogenesis is
           not sufficiently inhibited. Non-invasive imaging of VEGF before and early after start of
           treatment may have predictive value for treatment efficacy.

           Within the UMCG the investigators have an active ongoing research line on molecular
           imaging. The investigators have developed as part of this the 89Zr-bevacizumab PET label
           for non-invasive measurement of VEGF levels in the tumor and its surrounding
           microenvironment. This tracer can give insight in the tumors' dependency on angiogenesis
           as the investigators have already proven for a VEGF-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
           Currently this tracer is used in clinical trials. The investigators would like to
           examine whether all neuroendocrine tumors produce VEGF and whether they differ in their
           response to inhibition of VEGF by mTOR.

        2. Objectives:

      The primary objective is to evaluate the feasibility of 89Zr-bevacizumab-PET imaging as
      predictive biomarker before and during treatment with everolimus in patients with
      neuroendocrine tumors.

      The secondary Objectives are the following:

        -  To explore if 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging can differentiate patients with progressive
           neuroendocrine tumors from patients with non-progressive disease early during treatment
           with everolimus.

        -  To explore relationships between VEGF pathway related blood biomarkers and changes in
           89Zr-bevacizumab tumor uptake.
    
  