
    
      Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) represents a major cause for morbidity and mortality in
      patients who underwent haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) [1]. In the
      gastrointestinal tract as one of the main target organs of GvHD diagnosis may be difficult
      because of many similar presenting differential diagnoses, most notable, infections by
      cytomegalovirus [2]. Experts disagree about the best diagnostic approach for patients
      suspected of acute gastrointestinal GvHD (aGI-GvHD). There have been many studies supporting
      the endoscopic evaluation of either the lower [3, 4, 5], the upper [6, 7] or both parts of
      the GI-tract [8, 9]. In either case, the histological evaluation of biopsy samples serves as
      standard tool to establish the final diagnosis [10].

      Considering the rather bad general condition of patients after HSCT as a limiting factor for
      endoscopic and histological evaluation, some new approaches have been introduced into the
      diagnostic manual of aGI-GvHD in order to reduce the amount of invasive examinations.
      Conventional imaging techniques like magnetic resonance imaging [11], computer tomography
      [12] and high-resolution ultrasonography with Doppler Imaging [13] reported bowel wall
      thickening in GvHD patients. But as such findings are only unspecific signs of
      gastrointestinal pathology, conventional imaging techniques cannot replace endoscopy with
      biopsies [14]. The same holds for video capsule endoscopy which was indeed found to have a
      high negative predictive value for the detection of aGI-GvHD, but shares the important
      shortcoming of missing biopsy samples for histological evaluation [15, 16, 17].

      At least this method shifted the focus of interest onto the small bowel. Biopsies deriving
      from this former neglected GI part had shown a high sensitivity for GvHD-related changes in
      previous studies [18]. As similar results were seen at the study site, the investigators
      prospectively compared enteroscopy with biopsies to the present gold standard in the
      diagnostic aGI-GvHD management, colonoscopy with biopsies. In the context of this
      investigation the large intestine showed much stronger affection by aGI-GvHD than all other
      locations, although there was no pair of examinations, in which colonoscopy revealed aGI-GvHD
      without the presence of such findings at enteroscopy. Quite the opposite, enteroscopy even
      revealed GvHD related pathologies in one case where the respective colonoscopy remained
      inconspicuous. Consequently, they postulated that enteroscopic findings may replace the need
      for colonoscopy [19], wherefore post-HSCT patients could remain without stressful bowel
      preparation, often limited by their rather bad general condition.

      One of the latest developments in the endoscopic management of the gastrointestinal tract is
      the so called confocal laser endomicroscope (CLE). Confocal microscopy was developed by
      Marvin Minsky in the late 1950s. Its principle is the microscopic scanning of focal points
      below the surface of an object. In comparison to conventional light microscopy it uses a
      special filter system to avoid image overlapping by surrounding tissue. In detail, a light
      source (normally a laser) is focused by a microscope objective lens to a diffraction limited
      spot on or inside the object. Light that is scattered, or fluorescence excited (achieved
      through fluorescein staining, for example) and emitted, at the focus in the sample will
      partially return back through the optics along the path from which it arrived. A
      beam-splitter placed into the path reflects the return light towards a detector. The optics
      will focus the light from the focal point in the specimen to its conjugate focus near the
      detector (hence the technology is termed "con-focal"). Here a spatial filter ("pinhole") is
      used to extinguish all light deriving from areas outside the focal point. Light reflections
      from the focal point itself will be forwarded to the detector which is connected to a
      computer system that digitalises the optical signal and creates the in vivo histological
      image [20].

      Focusing on its clinical impact, confocal microscopy is the first technique to allow in vivo
      evaluation of tissue structures beneath their surface. Because of many breakthroughs in
      miniaturisation (mostly in the 1990s) this technology could be applied for intraluminal use
      in gastroenterology, integrated into a otherwise standard endoscope. It allows the in vivo
      histological visualisation of the upper 250 micrometers of all walls within the
      gastrointestinal tract, additionally to the normal function of white light endoscopy
      (provided by two separate screens on top of the workstation) [20].

      The first clinical use of CLE in a prospective pilot trial including 35 patients after HSCT
      was reported by Bojarski et al. in 2009. CLE of the colonic mucosa could predict the positive
      diagnosis of aGI-GvHD in 14 of 19 patients, later confirmed by histological evaluation. The
      in vivo findings of aGI-GvHD, varying from single crypt apoptosis to complete crypt loss,
      were clearly distinguishable from pathologies of other origin like infectious colitis or
      ulcerative colitis, both used as comparative control [21].

      Study Aims

      In this clinical investigation the investigators intend to continue the diagnostic approach
      for acute Gastrointestinal Graft-versus-Host Disease (aGI-GvHD). Based on the recent results
      at the study institution (explained above, [19]) that showed a remarkable diagnostic yield
      for aGI-GvHD associated pathologies in the small intestine the investigators intend to
      evaluate confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) of the small intestine as primary diagnostic
      procedure in patients with suspected aGI-GvHD after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (HSCT).

        -  The investigators aim to examine whether early diagnosis of aGI-GvHD in the duodenum and
           jejunum can be achieved by evaluating endomicroscopic features.

        -  In comparison with conventional biopsies from the mentioned GI-parts as gold standard
           the investigators want to test whether the markers described by Bojarski et al. for the
           colon also hold true for the small intestine.

        -  Including endomicroscopic results of patients with celiac disease, enteral infections,
           inflammatory bowel disease and healthy subjects as controls the investigators aim to
           establish aGI-GvHD specific markers that can be used for a "biopsy-free" in vivo
           diagnosis of aGI-GvHD.

      Study Design

      Prospective clinical pilot trial without randomisation or blinding

      Study Population

      Patients after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) who are referred to the study
      site for clarification of one of the following symptoms:

        -  anorexia

        -  nausea

        -  vomiting

        -  abdominal pain

        -  diarrhea

        -  intestinal bleeding

      To exclude possible side effects of the conditioning therapy, GI symptoms must have occurred
      or persisted 20 days after the respective transplantation date [22].

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  infection with CMV or HSV

        -  bacterial infection of the GI tract

        -  medication related symptoms

        -  patients allergic to one of the drug components (including drugs used for conscious
           sedation like propofol or midazolam as well as fluorescein, the fluorescent dye used for
           CLE )

        -  refusal to participate in the study

        -  patient's age below 18 years.

      Methods

      This investigation will be performed at the Medical University of Vienna, Department of
      Internal Medicine III, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Patient recruitment will
      be achieved in close cooperation with the Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of
      Oncology, Bone Marrow Transplantation Unit.

      As this study has been planned as a pilot trial, it mainly focuses on the qualitative
      endomicroscopic features of the small intestine in GvHD-patients to yield reference
      pathologies for accurate diagnosis in the future. Nevertheless, a quantitative analysis will
      be performed by comparing CLE-derived diagnoses with histological results to calculate
      sensitivity and specificity of CLE-based aGI-GvHD diagnosis in the small intestine.
      Considering the current diagnostic yield of 62% for the detection of aGI-GvHD in symptomatic
      post-HSCT-patients by conventional histology [19], the investigators estimated to include 40
      patients with suspected aGI-GvHD in order to discover a meaningful sample of patients
      affected by aGI-GvHD for qualitative and quantitative analysis. In comparison, Bojarski et al
      included 35 patients of whom 19 finally turned out to suffer from aGI-GvHD by conventional
      histology. They could then calculate a sensitivity of 74% and specificity of 100% for the
      prediction of the histological diagnosis by CLE [21]. On the basis of the current frequency
      of post-HSCT-patients at the study site the investigators estimate to include the aimed
      amount of 40 patients within a time period of 2 years.

      All patients who fulfill the listed inclusion criteria, will receive the patient information
      form of this study together with the usual informed consent form of the respective endoscopic
      examination they are about to undergo. Patient information will be done at least 24 hours
      before the intervention, as practiced at our unit. If the patient agrees to participate in
      the study he/she will be prepared for endoscopy by administration of intravenous propofol
      and/or midazolam as routinely used for conscious sedation during endoscopic procedures at our
      department. Additionally, 5-10 ml of a 10% solution of fluorescein sodium will be
      administered intravenously to enhance tissue fluorescence during endomicroscopy. As so far no
      specific CLE-enteroscope is available, we will use the CLE-colonoscope (Pentax EC-3870 CIFK
      with the ISC-1000 confocal endomicroscopy processor - Pentax, Tokyo, Japan and Optiscan Pty
      Ltd, Notting Hill, Victoria, Australia) to reach the small intestine, comparable to an
      enteroscopic procedure (oral access).

      All drugs will be administered by medical specialists, assistant doctors or registered
      nurses, as routinely practiced at our institution.

      CLE picture capturing will start at the deepest point reachable in the jejunum. During
      withdrawal of the scope CLE pictures will be taken every 10 centimetres in the small bowel,
      then from the antrum and body of the stomach and from the esophagus. Furthermore, CLE will be
      applied for distinct looking areas, suspicious of pathologic origin. Wherever CLE pictures
      are obtained, a conventional biopsy will be taken from the same localisation.

      CLE pictures will be captured and stored routinely using our standard data management system.
      They will be evaluated immediately after the endoscopic procedure together with a board
      certified GI-pathologist, who will establish an initial diagnosis.

      Conventional biopsies will be stained with Haematoxylin & Eosin, as well as PAS stain.
      In-situ hybridization for CMV and HSV will be performed to exclude viral infection.
      Classification of GvHD will be done according to McDonald and Sale in 4 grades, appropriately
      modified for the small intestine [23]:

        -  Grade I: individual cell necrosis

        -  Grade II: crypt abscess

        -  Grade III: drop out of one ore more whole crypts in a biopsy

        -  Grade IV: total denudation of epithelium

      Endomicroscopic controls (patients with celiac disease, enteral infections, inflammatory
      bowel disease and healthy subjects) will be collected from present data of endomicroscopic
      procedures already performed within routine examinations.

      At the end of the study all CLE pictures and histological cuts will be evaluated separately
      by two blinded board certified pathologists. In case of discordant diagnoses they will
      analyse the respective cases together to reach an agreement on the final diagnosis. All cases
      where the initial and the final diagnosis are deviating from each other will be re-evaluated
      together by all specialists involved.

      Risk/Benefit assessment

      GvHD represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic HSCT. Approximately
      10-40% of patients who undergo HSCT develop significant GvHD, and about half of these
      patients die from this disease or from therapy resulting complications [1].

      Endoscopic procedures in patients with suspected aGI-GvHD are well established. Until now the
      histological evaluation of GI deriving biopsies is the gold standard tool to set an accurate
      aGI-GvHD diagnosis. Endoscopy of the upper GI-tract is more comfortable than the endoscopic
      assessment of the lower GI-tract as there is no need for bowel preparation. Therefore it is
      the primary technique to assess post HSCT patients at our department. Supported by recent
      results at the study institution [19] these upper GI endoscopies are routinely performed as
      enteroscopies instead of gastroscopies in order to include the small intestine in the
      diagnostic evaluation. The safety of enteroscopy has not been studied systematically but
      reported experience is substantial and complications have been rare [24].

      Confocal laser endomicroscopy is a safe new technique that has already been studied in
      clinical trials [25, 26]. Its safety is being guaranteed by the use of low intensity laser
      light that can at worst cause local bleaching of fluorescein containing cells, which is
      harmless, reversible and even used as diagnostic sign in experimental conditions [20].

      Ethical implications

      This study protocol was approved by the ethics commission of the Medical University of
      Vienna.

      All procedures in the context of this study will be performed in accordance to the
      Declaration of Helsinki as well as to the guidelines for Good Scientific Practice (GSP) of
      the Medical University of Vienna.

      Expected impact and Outlook

      If the investigators find aGI-GvHD specific markers that can be used for a "biopsy-free" in
      vivo diagnosis of aGI-GvHD this could lead to another reduction of invasive procedures for
      patients after HSCT. This would have a big clinical impact, as biopsy assessment is often
      limited by the bad coagulation status of this patient group.

      In case they cannot clearly determine specific markers of aGI-GvHD, CLE should at least
      reduce the amount of conventional biopsies needed for diagnosis by taking them under CLE
      guidance.

      Despite from the expected reduction of invasive procedures, aGI-GvHD diagnosis in vivo could
      lead to immediate initiation of immunosuppressive treatment in order to reduce progression
      and site spreading of the disease.

      In case the study aims will be supported by the results of this pilot trial, a randomized
      controlled trial comparing in vivo diagnosis to conventional histological assessment in
      matters of hospitalisation and survival will be performed.
    
  