
    
      Over one million people in the United States have a leg amputation and this number continues
      to grow due to the prevalence of diabetes and recent military conflicts. Because of the
      functional impairment caused by an amputation, it is extremely important to advance
      rehabilitation that optimizes the use of prostheses so that Veterans with amputations can
      regain the greatest possible level of health, function, and physical activity. Low-impact
      exercise such as bicycling could facilitate return to work/duty after amputation by improving
      cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength, endurance, and quality of life for Veterans with
      transtibial amputations (TTAs). Bicycling as exercise could also prevent the deleterious
      effects of vascular disease and diabetes by improving cardiovascular function, controlling
      body weight, decreasing the rate of re-amputation, and improving quality of life for Veterans
      with TTAs. However, it is likely that discomfort and the increased potential for secondary
      musculoskeletal injury due to the lack of a proper prosthetic/bike fit discourages Veterans
      with TTAs from using bicycling for rehabilitation and exercise. Moreover, it is unclear how
      prosthetic and bicycle components, such as pylon length (PL), pedal attachment position (PAP)
      beneath the prosthetic forefoot versus the pylon, and crank arm length (CAL) affect the
      biomechanics, metabolic costs, and comfort/ satisfaction of Veterans with TTAs. Thus, the
      investigators' goal is to challenge the state-of-the-science by developing evidence-based
      prosthetic and bicycle fit guidelines that optimize the biomechanics, metabolic costs,
      efficiency (mechanical power/metabolic power) and comfort/satisfaction for Veterans with
      TTAs. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Defense (DoD) Rehabilitation
      Directive has put forth an initiative that aims to dramatically improve and restore function
      in wounded Veterans and Service members so that they have the choice to return to active duty
      or productive civilian employment. The proposed research will establish optimal
      prosthetic/bicycle fit guidelines, which would enhance function by improving cardiovascular
      health, controlling body weight, decreasing re-amputation rates, and enhancing quality of
      life of Veterans with TTAs, thus helping to fulfill this initiative and having high potential
      impact. Specifically, the investigators aim to: 1) Study 15 Veterans with unilateral TTAs to
      determine the effects of systematically varying PL, PAP beneath the prosthetic forefoot
      versus the pylon, and CAL for the affected leg on bicycling biomechanics, metabolic costs,
      and comfort/satisfaction. 2) Synthesize and disseminate the investigators' findings into
      practical, evidence-based quantitative prosthetic/bicycle fit guidelines for Veterans with
      TTAs. The investigators hypothesize that a longer PL and shorter CAL for the affected
      compared to the unaffected leg along with a PAP beneath the pylon compared to beneath the
      forefoot will maximize mechanical power symmetry and reduce metabolic cost and muscle
      activity, and thus maximize efficiency and comfort/satisfaction during bicycling in Veterans
      with unilateral TTAs. The utilization of evidence-based prosthetic/bicycle fit guidelines
      that increase symmetry, improve comfort, reduce the risk of injury, decrease metabolic costs,
      and improve efficiency will directly benefit Veterans with TTAs by increasing their physical
      activity and function. Optimized prosthetic/bicycle fit guidelines will allow Veterans TTAs
      who were previously unable to comfortably ride a bicycle, as well as those currently riding a
      bicycle, to ride longer with less effort and discomfort, potentially leading to an improved
      quality of life. Moreover, the prosthetic/bicycle fit guidelines generated by this research
      will ensure that clinicians are able to fit Veterans with TTAs to bicycles more effectively,
      leading to shorter appointment times and fewer revisits due to enhanced function and reduced
      comorbidities.
    
  