
    
      This topic is a prospective - retrospective observational study including two parts,
      retrospective and prospective: in a retrospective study, 200 patients with non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease, fatty liver hepatitis, and fatty liver fibrosis have been identified for
      pathological diagnosis of liver histology and exclusion of other liver diseases. The liver
      biopsy performed in the enrolled patients included liver function, coagulation function,
      renal function, blood glucose, blood lipids, liver elasticity measurement and imaging
      indicators and results, and demographic data. To evaluate the diagnostic ability of the
      current non-invasive diagnostic model of NAFLD fibrosis and the adaptability of model
      indicators to the diagnosis of enrolled patients, and to correct the indicators, including
      discarding unsuitable indicators and incorporating new indicators, and adjusting the
      diagnostic score. Establish a non-invasive diagnostic model for liver fibrosis in Beijing
      based on NAFLD. In a prospective observational study, 100 patients without other liver
      diseases and ultrasound-tested fatty liver were enrolled, and histopathological diagnosis of
      liver were included in the study, and liver function, coagulation function, renal function,
      blood glucose, and non-invasive model analysis were included. Blood lipids, liver elasticity
      measurements, and imaging indicators were examined and demographic data were collected. The
      non-invasive diagnostic model established by retrospective study was used to diagnose
      fibrosis and its staging, compared with histopathological diagnosis, and adjusted the index
      of non-invasive diagnostic model to further improve and improve the diagnostic efficacy of
      the diagnostic model. Long-term follow-up observations were performed on the prospective
      observation cohort. The liver function, coagulation function, renal function, blood glucose,
      blood lipids, liver elasticity and imaging examination were performed during the observation
      period, and the treatment events and the progress of the patients were recorded. To explore
      the correlation and predictive ability of noninvasive diagnostic models for long-term
      outcomes of disease. Finally, a model for predicting the outcome of progression of liver
      fibrosis in NAFLD was established.
    
  