
    
      Patient-centered care is a type of customized mental health care that is based on each
      individual's needs, values, and preferences. This type of care has become increasingly
      important, especially for members of ethnic minorities. However, although this type of care
      is, in theory, more effective than standard, less personalized care in treating psychotic
      disorders, there is a significant gap between theory and practice. Research has shown that
      this gap is particularly evident in the treatment of psychotic disorders in individuals of
      ethnic backgrounds. This study will address these disparities by comparing the effectiveness
      of standard individualized care versus person-centered care and community-integrating care in
      treating psychosis in adults of Hispanic and African descents.

      This open-label study will consist of two phases. In Phase I, interview data on
      self-management of mental illness and treatment seeking behaviors will be collected and
      analyzed. In Phase II, participants from two urban mental health centers will be randomly
      assigned to receive one of three treatment combinations: standard care incorporating illness
      management recovery (IMR); IMR plus person-centered planning (PCP); or IMR plus PCP and
      community integration (CI). IMR will focus on nine topic areas: recovery strategies; facts
      about psychosis; a stress-vulnerability model; building social support; reducing relapses;
      effective use of medications; coping with stress; coping with problems or symptoms; and
      meeting health care needs. PCP will aid participants in discovering a vision of a desirable
      future and developing a plan for achieving that goal. Techniques will include providing
      direction in the planning process, involving significant others, generating focus on assets
      and capacities, identifying and providing access to integrated community settings, and
      promoting acceptance of setbacks as part of the path to success. CI will include recovery
      group sessions and community integration activities. Recovery groups will consist of 10 to 12
      people per group, and will aid participants in asserting the skills they learned in IMR and
      PCP. Community integration activities will entail a variety of excursions and social and
      recreational activities in the community to promote community involvement and acquisition of
      social roles. All treatments will last a total of 6 months. Assessments of psychiatric
      symptoms, social functioning, quality of life, and community integration will occur at Month
      6 and at a follow-up visit at Month 18.
    
  