
    
      This was a randomized, monocentric; open-label pilot clinical study conducted at the Dr. José
      Frota Institute's Burn Treatment Center, located in Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil, from October
      2016 to September 2017.

      The study participants were recruited from the population of patients attending the Burning
      Treatment Center of the Dr. José Frota Institute. Were included female and male participants,
      age range greater than or equal to 18 and greater than or equal to 50 years old and who met
      the following criteria: presence of a dermatological wound caused by superficial
      second-degree burn with up to 20% of the body surface or deep second degree with area of 5 to
      15% of the body surface; absence of previous treatment for the current burn and without other
      significant diseases that could impact their participation in the study. No study
      participants were known to have hypersensitivity to materials used in the study or to related
      compounds; history of serious adverse reactions; addiction to drugs, including alcohol;
      pregnancy and labor or miscarriage in the 12 weeks prior to the scheduled start of treatment.

      The study was divided according to the depth and burned body surface area of the research
      participant:

      Study A: Burning of 2nd Surface Degree with <10% of body surface area - Patients in
      outpatient care, within this group, the research participants were randomly assigned to the
      following treatment groups: active comparator (sulfadiazine, Silver) or experimental (skin of
      Nile tilapia).

      Study B: 2nd Degree Burn with 10 to 20% body surface area - Inpatient, within this group, the
      research participants were randomly assigned to the following treatment groups: active
      comparator (sulfadiazine, Silver) or experimental (skin of Nile tilapia).

      Study C: Deep 2nd Degree Burn with 5 to 15% body surface area - Inpatient, within this group,
      the research participants were randomly assigned to the following treatment groups: active
      comparator (sulfadiazine, Silver) or experimental (skin of Nile tilapia).

      Interventions:

      Participants were randomly assigned to the following treatments:

        -  Experimental intervention: use of the skin of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus), as a
           biological occlusive dressing;

        -  Active comparator intervention: Conventional treatment with silver sulfadiazine.
    
  