
    
      Abnormal uterine bleeding is the most common gynecologic complaint in reproductive aged
      women. Medical treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding has high failure rates and surgical
      management remains the primary, definitive therapy. Most women undergoing hysterectomy for
      abnormal bleeding failed a therapeutic trial of medical management. Consequently, development
      of an efficacious, new medical treatment for abnormal uterine bleeding is urgently needed.
      Many of these reproductive aged women also need contraception. Ulipristal acetate (UPA), a
      novel progesterone receptor modulator developed at the NIH, has promise as an effective
      medical treatment for abnormal uterine bleeding and as a contraceptive agent. In women with
      symptomatic fibroids, UPA significantly reduced fibroid size, stopped menstrual bleeding and
      led to an increase in red blood cell hemoglobin. It also inhibited release of an egg from the
      ovaries (ovulation) without reducing estrogen levels or causing hot flashes, making
      contraception a potential future use.

      This study will evaluate UPA effects on estrogen production and ovulation, and will determine
      whether it reduces bleeding in women who have abnormal uterine bleeding as assessed by the
      Menorrhagia Impact Questionnaire (MIQ) and menstrual calendars. Women with an anatomic
      abnormality of the uterus are not eligible to participate. Participants will take UPA (10 mg
      daily by mouth) or a similar-appearing inactive pill (placebo) for approximately 90 days.
      Women will be randomly assigned to receive daily UPA 10 mg, or a daily placebo tablet, during
      the initial three-month period. The participants and the investigators will not be informed
      of the treatment group. To understand the effects of UPA on the uterus and its lining
      (endometrium), women will have studies before and at the end of UPA treatment, including
      ultrasound imaging of the uterus after injection of a small amount of sterile saline into the
      uterine cavity, and a biopsy of the endometrium to examine the tissue under the microscope.
      Before and while taking study agent, women will record daily bleeding and complete the MIQ
      monthly. During the treatment period, blood will be taken weekly to measure hormone levels
      (to evaluate ovulation blockage), and monthly to evaluate safety. At the end of the
      randomized study period, the research team will offer participants additional options of UPA
      or surgical therapy. Women may choose surgical therapy at the NIH or may elect other
      treatment options elsewhere.
    
  