
    
      Stroke remains a major global healthcare problem. Recent data compiled by the American Heart
      Association (AHA) for 2008 show that the annual incidence of new or recurrent stroke in the
      United States is about 780,000, with approximately 600,000 of these strokes being first
      attacks. Among adults age 20 and older, the estimated prevalence of stroke in 2005 was 5.8
      million in the United States, resulting in >150,000 deaths annually, with 4.8 million stroke
      survivors alive today. Stroke ranks as the country's third leading cause of death, behind
      only cancer and heart disease. The only approved treatments of acute ischemic stroke involve
      restoring blood flow to the affected region by using thrombolytics or mechanical devices that
      physically remove clots. However, the use of thrombolytics is limited due to the therapeutic
      window of < 3-6 hours post onset of stroke symptoms such that only a small fraction of stroke
      patients receive this therapy. Following the completion of a stroke, there is little therapy
      to offer patients to promote recovery other than physical, occupational, and speech therapy.

      Allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells have been used in a number of clinical trials for different
      indications demonstrated the safety of allogeneic mesenchymal stem cell treatment. In
      addition to their ability to differentiate into multiple different cell types that would be
      contributory to the recovery and repair of the brain by replacing destroyed cells,
      mesenchymal stem cells also secrete angiogenins, cytokines and trophic factors that can
      support and stimulate multiple other cell types. The cascade of cellular events following the
      release of these cytokines and trophic factors would also potentially lead to beneficial
      effects by restoring blood supply, by rescuing cells at risk, and by stimulating the
      remaining cell populations to repair and propagate new cells and synaptic connections.
    
  