
    
      The cardiac catheterization laboratory is a very dynamic work environment. The physical and
      psychosocial demands of the work environment place a significant amount of stress on the
      physical well being of the employee. The nature of the work involved includes that of
      responding to rapidly changing patient clinical conditions which are often urgent, and
      require repetitive actions in an ergonomically challenging environment. In addition,
      employees who are directly exposed to the radiation required to perform diagnostic and
      interventional procedures wear lead aprons weighing on average 10-15 pounds.

      A constant build-up of tension in the muscles from regular, repetitive activity may lead to
      stresses on the muscles, joints, ligaments and tendons. Adding to this, working while wearing
      lead aprons, with elements of repetitive use and non-optimal ergonomic situations, Cardiac
      Cath Lab employees are at higher risk for muscle imbalances. The accumulation of tension and
      imbalance leads to joint wearing and muscle fatigue that result in injuries. Massage therapy,
      applied skillfully, is one of the most effective forms of therapy for releasing muscle
      tension, restoring balance to the musculoskeletal system, while creating awareness of
      musculoskeletal balance in the employee. Massage provided regularly may help employees
      prevent injuries caused by overuse.

      As muscle imbalances develop they often go undiagnosed until they are serious enough to cause
      the employee discomfort or impede performance. Frequently the discomfort is masked with pain
      medications and ultimately leads to injuries. A skilled massage therapist will detect
      variations in the soft tissues and by using the correct techniques, help the employee
      maintain a much healthier physical state and prevent injury.

      Massage therapy is purported to affect both the structure and function of the musculoskeletal
      system by promoting the relaxation response and reducing muscle tension and fatigue while
      improving posture. Given the potential benefits of massage therapy, many work environments
      are implementing massage therapy programs to improve the health and well being of their
      employees.
    
  