
    
      Type 2 Diabetes in youth is an emerging public health concern that disproportionately affects
      minority children. Among minority youth, African-Americans have the highest complication
      rates, yet the reasons underlying this health disparity are not fully understood.
      Furthermore, current treatment options are limited and African-American youth have high
      treatment failure rates. Metformin therapy is the only oral diabetes drug approved for use in
      youth with type 2 diabetes. However, metformin works less than 50% of the time in
      African-American youth and there is marked variability among individuals. Improving outcomes
      in youth requires understanding the way that drugs such as metformin work in youth and why it
      does not work in some individuals. New evidence suggests that the ability of metformin to
      work effectively may be influenced by certain genes or differences in gut bacteria. However,
      little is known about how genes or gut bacteria may affect youth, especially
      African-Americans.

      To treat this aggressive disease, it is also necessary to simultaneously evaluate new
      therapeutic options, such as combination therapy of metformin with liraglutide in youth at
      highest risk for complications. Liraglutide is approved to treat type 2 diabetes in patients
      10 years and older as an adjunct to diet and exercise. Liraglutide may be a useful early
      treatment in youth with type 2 diabetes because it may decrease glucose produced by the liver
      (an early prominent feature of type 2 diabetes in youth). This study is designed to examine
      the mechanism of action in the liver of these 2 agents and explore how genetic and gut
      factors may influence this action.

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to compare the ability of two anti-diabetic
      regimens (metformin and liraglutide versus metformin alone) to lower gluconeogenesis (glucose
      produced by the liver) in African-American youth with type 2 diabetes. The secondary
      objectives are to evaluate the effect of these regimens on the following: (1) hepatic glucose
      production, and insulin sensitivity and (2) insulin and gut hormones concentrations (e.g.
      incretins). In addition, we will examine the relationship of known differences in genes
      associated with metformin transport and action with changes in gluconeogenesis and begin to
      explore the role of gut bacteria to metformin s glucose-lowering effect.

      The study design is a parallel-randomized intervention trial of African-American youth with
      type 2 diabetes who are not on insulin therapy and who are within 5 years of diagnosis.
      Patients aged 12-25 years with type 2 diabetes will be enrolled. Participants will be
      randomized into two intervention arms (16 in each group): metformin and liraglutide versus
      metformin alone. The study will consist of 5 visits. At Visit 1, a medical history, physical
      examination and screening labs will be done. Then the eligible participants will undergo a
      one-week drug-free run-in. At Visit 2 there will be an overnight inpatient stay to perform
      metabolic testing prior to starting the study drug(s). Participants will start the study
      drug(s) immediately after Visit 2 and remain on the study drug(s) for 12 weeks. Follow-up
      monitoring will be performed at 4 week intervals (Visit 3 and 4). The final visit (Visit 5)
      will occur after 12 weeks.

      The ultimate goal of this multi-site project is to begin to address diabetes disparities in
      African-American youth by understanding the mechanism of action of these diabetes agents to
      inform precision medicine initiatives. This project brings together the skills and expertise
      of investigators within the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive Disorders and Kidney
      Diseases (NIDDK), the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), Pennington Biomedical
      Research Center (PBRC), and the Children s National Medical Center (CNMC). Patient
      recruitment and data collection will occur at NIH Clinical Center and Pennington Biomedical
      Research Center (PBRC). Eligible patients may be identified through CNMC but no enrollment,
      informed consent or study visits will occur at CNMC.
    
  