
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Increase the remission induction rate to greater than 85% in children with untreated acute
      myelogenous leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) by replacing daunorubicin (DNR)
      with idarubicin (IDA) in intensively timed DCTER chemotherapy (dexamethasone, cytarabine
      (ARA-C), thioguanine, etoposide, and daunorubicin) in the first 4 days of each course.

      Increase the remission rate further by comparing the efficacy of consolidation chemotherapy
      with intensively timed IDA DCTER/DCTER vs fludarabine (FAMP), ARA-C, and IDA in maintaining
      remission and in achieving remission in patients with M2 disease (5%-29% blasts in marrow) at
      the end of induction chemotherapy.

      Compare overall survival, event-free survival, and disease-free survival in patients who
      receive consolidation with IDA DCTER/DCTER vs FAMP, ARA-C, and IDA.

      Compare overall survival, event-free survival, and disease-free survival in patients
      receiving intensification with the Capizzi II regimen (high-dose ARA-C and asparaginase) vs
      those receiving a matched-related allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.

      Compare overall survival, event-free survival, and disease-free survival in patients treated
      with interleukin-2 (IL-2) vs standard follow up care after Capizzi II intensification.

      Determine whether multichannel flow cytometry detection of residual AML on a companion
      biologic study protocol CCG-B942 predicts outcome, and determine whether any of these
      treatment regimens eliminates minimal residual disease more effectively than another.

      Register all patients with MDS treated or followed at CCG institutions and capture their
      biologic, historical and outcome data.

      Determine, on a companion biologic study protocol CCG-B972, whether levels of IL-2 soluble
      receptor (sIL-2R) and absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) before, during, and after therapy
      correlates with outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center, diagnosis (acute myelogenous leukemia vs other), and response to induction (partial
      vs complete remission). After induction, patients with M1/M2 marrow are randomized to arm I
      or II. Patients in complete remission after consolidation who have an HLA-identical or
      1-antigen mismatched sibling or parent donor are randomly assigned to the allogeneic bone
      marrow transplantation (AlBMT) regimen; all others in complete remission are nonrandomly
      assigned to the Capizzi II regimen, then are randomly assigned to arms III or IV. Patients
      with refractory anemia (RA) or RA with ringed sideroblasts with indolent disease may be
      registered and followed. Other patients with myelodysplastic syndromes may receive 2961
      chemotherapy or go directly to AlBMT. Patients with chloromas (granulocytic sarcomas) receive
      optional radiotherapy on arm V.

      Induction: Patients receive idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 0-3, cytarabine and
      etoposide IV continuously on days 0-3, and oral thioguanine twice a day and oral
      dexamethasone 3 times a day on days 0-3. Patients then begin course 2, which consists of
      cytarabine, etoposide, thioguanine, and dexamethasone on days 10-13, daunorubicin IV
      continuously on days 10-13, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 16
      and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients also receive CNS prophylaxis/therapy
      consisting of cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on days 0 and 14 (if no CNS disease at entry) or
      on days 0, 5, and 7 (if CNS disease present at entry). Disease is reassessed on day 28-42.
      Patients with M1 or M2 marrow proceed to consolidation while those with M3 marrow or
      progressive disease go off study.

      Consolidation:

      Arm I: Patients receive treatment as in induction therapy, plus G-CSF SC beginning on day 16
      and continuing until blood counts recover. If CSF is clear by day 10 of induction, patients
      receive cytarabine IT on days 0, 10, and 35. If CSF is not clear, patients receive triple
      intrathecal therapy (TIT; cytarabine, hydrocortisone, methotrexate) on days 0 and 10.

      Arm II: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 24 hours on days 0 and 1, cytarabine IV over 72
      hours on days 2-4, and idarubicin IV over 15 minutes on days 0-2. G-CSF begins on day 6 and
      continues until blood counts recover. Patients also receive TIT on days -1 and 7, if CSF is
      not clear on day 10 of induction. Patients on both arms are reassessed on day 35. Those
      patients with M1 marrow proceed to intensification; all others are removed from the study.

      Intensification:

      Capizzi II regimen: Course 1: Patients receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on
      days 0, 1, 7, and 8 and asparaginase IM on days 1 and 8. Course 2: Patients also receive
      cytarabine IT or TIT on days 0, 7, and 14.AlBMT regimen: Therapy begins within 2-8 weeks of
      hematologic recovery. Patients may receive interim therapy consisting of oral thioguanine for
      about 2 weeks. Patients then receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -9 to -6 and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2. AlBMT is infused over 4 hours beginning
      36-48 hours after the last dose of cyclophosphamide. Patients in complete remission after
      completing the Capizzi II regimen proceed to maintenance therapy on arm III.

      Arm III: Patients receive interleukin-2 IV continuously on days 1-4 and 9-18.

      Arm IV: No further treatment.

      Arm V: Patients undergo radiotherapy to the chloroma 5 days a week for 2 weeks.

      Patients are followed monthly for 18 months, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6
      months until 5 years from diagnosis.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 880 patients with de novo acute myelogenous leukemia will be
      accrued for this study within 4 years. It is expected that 178 patients per year will be
      randomly assigned for consolidation, that 39 patients per year will undergo allogeneic bone
      marrow transplantation while 120 patients per year will receive chemotherapy as
      intensification, and that 102 patients per year will be randomly assigned for
      polychemotherapy immunomodulation. An additional 80 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes
      will be accrued for this study.
    
  