
    
      The investigators have employed an experimental therapeutic paradigm to develop knowledge and
      inform a mechanistic-based approach for personalized smoking cessation for
      affective-vulnerable smokers.

      AS (Target Identification). Anxiety sensitivity (AS) is a relatively stable individual
      difference factor that predisposes individuals to the development of anxiety/depressive
      problems9 by amplifying negative mood states (e.g., anxiety)10,11. Importantly, AS is related
      to, yet distinct from negative affectivity, distress intolerance, and experiential
      avoidance12, 13. To illustrate, when a person with high AS experiences physiological
      sensations (e.g., due to smoking abstinence), she/he is likely to misinterpret the symptoms
      as signs of impending personal threat (e.g., "I'm going crazy") and experience them as
      emotionally toxic (e.g., "I can't stand this discomfort anymore") 9. Thus, AS is an
      'amplifying factor,' enhancing the aversiveness and need to escape/avoid negative affective
      or somatic experiences9, 14. There is strong evidence of the AS model in terms of the latent
      structure and stability of the construct, including samples of smokers15-19. AS also is
      unique from, and demonstrates incremental validity to, trait anxiety20 and negative affect18;
      thus, AS is distinguishable from frequency of anxiety and negative mood symptoms21. That is,
      the predictive power of AS relies on the fact that it is not just negative affect/sensations
      that drives maladaptive or impulsive behavior, but the relative sensitivity of these
      experiences. Notably, high AS is observed in 20-33% of smokers27-29 (or, from
      9,200,0000-15,000,000 smokers in the U.S. alone), and therefore, is highly significant from a
      public health perspective.

      AS-Mental Health Relation. AS is an optimal candidate for personalized medicine. First,
      research has found that AS levels are elevated among individuals with anxiety and related
      disorders compared to those without such disorders22. Second, longitudinal studies with
      healthy adults23, 24 and adolescents25 indicate elevated AS predicts the future occurrence of
      anxiety and depressive symptoms and emotional disorders26. Third, laboratory studies indicate
      that AS is a significant predictor of fear responses to bodily sensations and stressors more
      generally27-29; these effects are evident above and beyond the variance accounted for by
      trait anxiety30. Fourth, AS significantly relates to avoidance-based response styles for
      coping with aversive events31 and is reliably correlated with smoking and other substance use
      to reduce negative affect32, 33. Collectively, AS is a transdiagnostic vulnerability factor
      for negative affect symptoms/syndromes. Such information is relevant to the present proposal
      because theoretically-driven cognitive-behavioral therapies (CBT) that reduce AS have proven
      to be effective therapeutic tactics for the prevention and treatment of emotional
      disorders34-36.

      AS-Smoking Relation. AS is a prominent and unique individual difference factor that is
      relevant to better understanding smoking maintenance and relapse processes37,38. There are
      numerous interrelated, but distinct, lines of independently replicated studies that document
      the role of AS in a multitude of smoking maintenance and relapse processes14, 38. This work
      is unique because the effects of AS for smoking processes is not explained by severity of
      tobacco dependence, gender, trait-like tendencies to experience negative affect states, or
      other types of substance use problems (e.g., alcohol)38. For example, prior work has found
      that AS is related to negative affect reduction motives and expectancies, and to a lesser
      extent, addictive as well as habitual motives39-43. These subjective expectations and motives
      may be linked to actual smoking effects, as high AS smokers also report greater
      smoking-induced reductions in subjective anxiety after stressful laboratory situations44, 45
      and more positive subjective benefits of smoking46, 47. More recent work suggests that AS is
      related to the tendency to smoke in an inflexible manner when one is confronted with
      interoceptive stress (e.g., bodily tension)48. Other work has shown that AS is associated
      with the tendency to perceive quitting as more difficult49, 50 and to expect periods of
      smoking deprivation to be personally threatening51, 52. In fact, AS is related to greater
      negative affect, craving, and nicotine withdrawal symptoms53, 54, shorter time to
      lapse/relapse, and lower overall abstinence; findings that have been found during aided
      (i.e., pharmacological and psychosocial treatment) and unaided quit attempts (i.e.,
      self-guided quit attempt)55. The effects of AS on lapse/relapse behavior operate through
      negative affect states and craving/withdrawal. Other studies demonstrate that AS mediates the
      relation between emotional disorders and severity of smoking behavior56-58. Overall, AS is an
      explanatory mechanism in smoking maintenance and relapse, thereby representing a therapeutic
      target for personalized medicine in the context of smoking cessation.

      Tobacco Use among African Americans. African American smokers smoke fewer cigarettes per day7
      and tend to begin smoking later in life compared to non-Hispanic Whites.24,25 Yet, African
      Americans evince greater levels of nicotine dependence26 and serum cotinine.26-28 Although
      smoking fewer cigarettes per day should theoretically be associated with greater quit
      success,29 African American smoking prevalence continues to exceed that of non-Hispanic
      Whites24 regardless of socioeconomic status.10 African Americans suffer disproportionately
      from tobacco-related disease and death and have a higher incidence and mortality rate from
      lung cancer compared to non-Hispanic Whites.30,31 This issue is alarming, as the current
      prevalence rate of smoking among African Americans is 14.6%,32 which reflects approximately
      6,421,678 million persons. Notably, up to 90% of African American adult smokers use menthol
      cigarettes, compared to 26% of White smokers,33 and as few as 5% of African American smokers
      ever switch from menthol to non-menthol cigarettes.34 There are harmful effects of menthol in
      cigarette smoking, including increased absorption and potential for dependence.35 Further,
      menthol smokers experience more difficulty quitting36 and less cessation success,37 including
      among African American menthol smokers compared to non-menthol smokers.38

      Interoceptive Stress and Smoking among African Americans. African Americans are a health
      disparity group for interoceptive problems, including somatic symptoms, anxiety, stress, and
      pain,39-44 and evince stronger relations between negative emotional states and somatic
      experiences compared to non-Hispanic Whites.45 African Americans diagnosed with anxiety
      disorders experience higher rates of hypertension, a condition for which African Americans
      are almost twice as likely to be diagnosed relative to European Americans.46 African
      Americans' increased awareness of the negative outcomes of physical illnesses may amplify
      somatic anxiety and interoceptive distress.47,48 Given that nicotine produces acute
      anxiolytic effects,49 smokers with interoceptive distress often cope with such distress by
      smoking.50 Smokers with greater interoceptive stress, including African Americans, who
      experience negative affect during a quit attempt may return to smoking, in part, to alleviate
      increased physical and cognitive-affective manifestations of the interoceptive stress
      experience.51 Among the most prominent, cross-cultural constructs related to interoceptive
      distress is anxiety sensitivity (AS). AS is a malleable, cognitive-affective factor
      reflecting the tendency to respond to interoceptive distress with anxiety.52,53 AS is related
      to, yet distinct from, negative affectivity and trait anxiety.54,55-59,60 AS has demonstrated
      racial/ethnic, gender, age, and time invariance.59,61-64

      Malleability of AS (Target Engagement). Controlled trials have documented the efficacy of
      interventions targeting AS, and by extension, improved clinical outcomes resulting from
      modifying fears of arousal sensations associated with high AS59. Meta-analytic evidence
      suggests the pooled effect sizes are large for CBT in reducing AS34-36; and these effects are
      maintained over time34-36. Moreover, reduction in AS during CBT for anxiety psychopathology
      accounts for 31% of the variance in symptom reduction60. As a point of reference, trait
      anxiety accounts for only 1.5% of variance60. Changes in AS temporally precede and predict
      changes in anxiety disorder symptoms, even when controlling for other well-established
      mechanisms of change (e.g., self-efficacy61). The most robust evidence suggest AS is best
      reduced via interoceptive exposure (eliciting feared [internal] stimuli), which is evident in
      the emphasis on targeting the construct in recently developed transdiagnostic treatments for
      emotional disorders62,63. Targeting AS via interoceptive exposure and anxiety-related
      psychoeducation (in-person or mobile delivered formats) also can be an efficacious prevention
      strategy for affective symptoms compared to active control conditions (e.g., health
      information) among both nonclinical and high-risk individuals64-66.

      AS can be reduced via interoceptive exposure to improve substance use behavior67,68. Here,
      the investigators have found a reduction in AS prior to quit day decreases the severity of
      craving and withdrawal symptoms during the first week of a quit attempt and enhances odds of
      abstinence for high AS smokers69, 70. The investigators have developed a theoretically-driven
      treatment for smoking cessation interventions that incorporates AS reduction methods71-73.
      Research suggests these treatments for high AS smokers increase the odds of quit success,
      reduce the amount smoked per day, and decrease time to relapse compared to standard smoking
      cessation treatments (pooled effect sizes being 2-5 times that of standard treatments)37,
      74-78. The investigators recently tested AS-reduction in a RCT that evaluated an aerobic
      exercise augmentation to standard group-based CBT for smoking cessation78. Exercise is a
      'community friendly' tactic for delivering interoceptive exposure79-81 because it elicits
      sensations of physiological arousal, and thereby, reduces AS82. Results indicated that at
      each of the major end points (1 week to 6-month follow-up), point prevalence abstinence (PPA)
      and prolonged abstinence (PA) rates were significantly higher for EX than for CTRL among high
      AS smokers. Our AS reduction model for smoking has been independently replicated to reduce
      the severity of substance use disorders83. Moreover, AS reduction in smoking cessation
      treatment mediates improvements in anxiety and depression when compared to nicotine
      replacement therapy and CBT relapse prevention84.

      Next Steps in Treatment Development Enhancing Dissemination Potential. Portable, adaptable,
      and easy to implement mobile interventions, delivered via smartphone app, may offer a more
      cost-effective and less time-intensive approach, ensure high fidelity, and enable the rapid
      diffusion and widespread adoption of science-based interventions85. Mobile interventions also
      offer a dynamic and visually-engaging design, video and audio features, text messaging,
      access without internet connection, and the ability to track progress and receive feedback in
      'real time'85, 86. Given these features, smartphone apps have high potential to boost user
      engagement, which is a consistently robust predictor of successful smoking cessation87-90.
      Notably, more than 77% of US adults currently own smartphones 91, and ownership is projected
      to reach 90% by 202092, 93. Smartphones are used by adults from all socioeconomic strata,
      including 64% of low income adults 91. Such data highlight smartphone apps as a novel and
      highly accessible platform to deliver personalized smoking cessation treatment.

      Promise of mHealth. Smartphone-based smoking cessation apps could have a significant position
      in helping current and future generations of smokers quit smoking. Approximately 779,000
      individuals download smoking cessation apps onto personal smartphones each month worldwide86.
      Versatile, fully automated, and always available smartphone apps could offer highly tailored,
      intensive, and low-burden treatments at a fraction of the cost of traditional smoking
      cessation counseling; thereby, overcoming many of the barriers that have hampered use of
      traditional empirically-supported smoking cessation treatments94, 95. However, such apps have
      not been evaluated among affective-vulnerable smokers.

      Mechanisms of Action. A strategic next step is to better understand the mechanisms of such
      interventions. Indeed, mechanistic research will provide guidance on how to best optimize the
      intervention for affectively vulnerable smokers and guide smoking cessation research overall.
      In our integrative theoretical model, the investigators posit that AS exacerbates
      anxiety/depression, withdrawal/craving, and the desire to smoke to reduce aversive internal
      states (i.e., smoking-specific experiential avoidance).38 Accordingly, AS may be a primary
      mechanism in improvements in smoking cessation outcome for interventions that target this
      risk factor. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that the efficacy of the intervention on
      quit success will be mediated by: reductions in the primary mechanism (AS), and thereafter,
      secondary mechanisms (anxiety and depression symptoms, nicotine withdrawal/craving, and
      smoking-specific experiential avoidance).
    
  