
    
      Background/rationale

      There is growing national and international evidence for the negative health impact of
      sedentary behaviour at work. A strategy being increasingly adopted to reduce prolonged
      sitting is to spend some of the work day in standing. However, for some adults, prolonged
      standing is associated with the development of musculoskeletal pain. We are investigating
      which factors are associated with developing of musculoskeletal pain during standing when
      using a height-adjustable desk. Previous studies have used an induced-pain paradigm to
      understand risk factors for developing musculoskeletal pain during a prolonged standing task
      that simulates the work environment (standing paradigm). Identifying those office workers who
      are at risk of developing musculoskeletal pain during standing will provide information to
      guide health professionals and individuals in making decisions about optimal workstation
      design.

      Objectives and hypothesis

        -  Cross-sectional study: Identify which factors are associated (demographic, physical,
           psychological and work-related factors) with standing-induced musculoskeletal pain in
           office workers during a standing paradigm.

        -  Prospective cohort study: Identify incidence/prevalence and risk factors of low back
           pain, and disability associated with low back pain in office workers in a 1-year
           prospective cohort.

      Methods

        -  Setting, locations and relevant dates: testing is conducted in the University of
           Queensland (Brisbane, Australia). Data collection commenced in May of 2018 until 30th of
           April of 2019 (cross-sectional study); and follow-up is from June of 2018 until 30th of
           April of 2020 (prospective cohort study).

        -  Participants: recruitment is through posting flyers on campus of The University of
           Queensland; through the weekly electronic university staff newsletter at this
           University; and through Facebook announcements. Interested participants were directed to
           an online questionnaire (hosted by Survey Monkey) to determine eligibility. Participants
           meeting the eligibility criteria were contacted via email to schedule an appointment.

        -  Variables: see "outcomes measures".

        -  Study size: a convenience sample of 40 office workers will be recruited. Based on
           previous studies that have compared developers and non-developers of standing-induced
           low back pain, this sample size was considered sufficient to detect a significant
           difference in some of the physical outcome measures such as lumbar lordosis (Sorensen et
           al. 2015a); trunk muscle activation (Ringheim et al. 2015) and active hip abduction
           (Nelson-Wong et al. 2008).

        -  Statistical analysis: subjects will be separated into Pain Developers (PDs) and Non-Pain
           Developers (NPDs). A Chi-square analysis or a Fisher's Exact test will be conducted to
           test for differences in the distribution of qualitative and proportional variables in
           PDs and NPDs. Independent groups t-tests, will be conducted to test for differences in
           quantitative variables between PDs and NPDs. A Pearson correlation coefficient and
           one-way analysis of variance test will be conducted to test for differences for average
           Visual Analogue Score (VAS). A simple linear regression analysis will be performed to
           examine the degree to which biopsychosocial variables predict PDs. Statistical analyses
           will be performed in SPSS version 24 (IBM, Armonk, NY).Statistical significance for all
           tests will be set at p ≤ 0.05.
    
  