
    
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common cause of cancer mortality in men and
      women in Singapore.Chemotherapy and biologically targeted agents can extend survival only
      modestly for these patients; therefore, discovery of novel ways to prolong the disease course
      is a top research priority.

      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway plays a central role in the
      neoplastic transformation of NSCLC and promotes cancer cell survival, metastasis, and
      angiogenesis. The predominance of EGFR signaling in NSCLC makes the pathway an attractive
      candidate for the development of targeted therapeutics. Over the last three years, the FDA
      has approved two drugs for salvage treatment of NSCLC, gefitinib (Iressa ®, formerly known as
      ZD1839) and erlotinib (Tarceva ®, formerly known as OSI-774). Both are small molecule
      orally-bioavailable tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) of the EGFR TK domain, and have been
      shown to improve survival compared to placebo in asian patients when administered after
      failure of first or second line chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC.

      Recently, it was found that somatic mutations in the EGFR gene sensitize NSCLC tumors to
      TKIs. These mutations are present in approximately 50 % of asian patients with NSCLC.
      Retrospective studies suggest that patients harboring a mutation may derive greater clinical
      benefit from treatment with TKIs than patients without a mutation.

      Nevertheless, all patients that benefit from TKI treatment ultimately develop resistance to
      therapy manifesting as progression of their cancer, after which there remains few, if any
      treatment options. Hence, there would be vast clinical utility in understanding the
      mechanisms of TKI resistance and developing strategies to reverse or prevent it.

      We have preliminary data which shows that the combination of hydroxychloroquine and gefitinib
      results in delayed acquired resistance to gefitinib in cell lines that harbour the EGFR
      mutation. In addition, the addition of hydroxychloroquine to gefitinib can result in reversal
      of acquired resistance to gefitinib. Much parallel has been observed in resistance mechanisms
      between NSCLC cell lines and molecular changes observed in patients thus far.

      The long term aim therefore is to examine the efficacy of this combination in delaying
      acquired resistance to gefitinib in NSCLC patients.

      First, however, the MTD and DLT of each drug when used in combination therapy will be
      examined in this study. The other aim is to examine the pharmacokinetic effect and
      interactions of hydroxychloroquine on gefitinib, and vice versa. Gefitinib is usually well
      tolerated, with main toxicities of rash and diarrhoea. Hydroxychloroquine is also FDA
      approved and widely used and generally well-tolerated for rheumatological conditions.
    
  