
    
      Design

      The investigators propose a randomized double blind controlled clinical trial. It would
      include two comparison groups each with 25 participants with medical diagnosis of hip
      osteoarthritis classified severity II and III and inclusion criteria of the American College
      of Rheumatology for the classification and reporting of osteoarthritis of the hip.

      All qualified participants will attend a pre-training (baseline) data collection session.
      During the data collection session, each participant will complete the Western Ontario and
      MacMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). All participants will perform visual analog scale and
      six minutes walk test for assessing pain and functionality, respectively. They will be
      assessed their hip muscle strength using manual muscle dynamometer. Their biomechanics gait
      will be assessed through using an infrared motion capture system, force platforms and motion
      analysis software (120 Hz, BTS Smart DX100, Italy). All participants in both groups will be
      asked not to alter their regular physical activity or pain medications during the 15-sessions
      training program.

      Each participant will be assessed pain, strength, gait biomechanics and functionality before
      and after 16 sessions of intervention. Pain and functionality will be further evaluated in
      sessions 5th and 10th. The first group will receive 16 sessions of a functional task training
      program and therapeutic ultrasound versus the second group who will only receive 16 sessions
      of the same functional task-training program.

      Functional task-training program includes warm up, followed by a functional circuit with
      muscle strengthening exercises for the major groups of hip oriented to daily life activities
      and ends with stretching. Therapeutic ultrasound will be applied prior to functional
      task-training with an intensity of 2.2 W/cm2, frequency of 1 MHz and application time of 4
      minutes. Temporal average intensity area corresponds to 0.44 W/cm2, the treatment area will
      be equal to 2 times the effective radiating area on the anterior, medial and lateral hip
      area.

      The hypothesis of this study is the functional-task training program combined with
      therapeutic ultrasound will decrease the pain, improve the muscle hip strength the gait
      biomechanics and the functionality of the people with hip osteoarthritis.

      In the statistical analysis of the results, the differences will be assessed in the three
      pain and functionality assessments with a repeated measures using ANOVA; the differences
      between initial and final measurement of strength, biomechanical gait variables and
      functionality will be evaluated with a paired Student t-test and Wilcoxon. The differences
      between groups will be assessed with a t-test for independent samples. Significant
      differences in the outcomes will be adjusted for covariates with binomial regressions,
      considering a significance level of p <0.05.

      For patient registries:

      The Mederi Hospital has an integrated system for collecting, storing, monitoring, reviewing,
      and reporting on registry data of the participants of the study. It also has a Manual
      documentation of procedures for each registry, includes protocols and data collection
      instrument. The manual explains how the investigators should create or assign the patient
      identification numbers and how duplicate records should be prevented and how to report
      adverse events.

      The hospital takes plans for monitoring or auditing the screening practices trough the
      auditing department and training to educate data collectors.

      Additionally, the investigators will make a Pilot Testing to assess understanding, acceptance
      and feasibility the patient registry processes.

      In the other hand, all staffs involved in data collection will be identified, and their roles
      and job will be described in data collection and processing.

      All data collection will be registered in the integrated system of the Mederi Hospital. The
      gait biomechanics data will be recorded first in the database of the Smart DX100 system of
      the Laboratory of Biomechanics if the University of Rosario. The investigators will have an
      external research (Fulbright Scholar) that will audit the register of the biomechanics data.
      Then, every participant of the study will have an electronic medical record (EMR) of
      health-related information.

      The Mederi Hospital has a system security plan that includes the policies, standard operating
      procedures, administrative procedures, electronic signatures and it also has a technical
      security support.

      The plan for missing data where variables are reported as missing,unavailable,
      "non-reported," uninterpretable, or considered missing because of data inconsistency or
      out-of-range results the investigators will quantify the extent of missingness, identifying
      which individuals have missing data and at which assessment then, the investigators will
      treat the missing data across a statistical analysis.
    
  