
    
      Study Design The study was designed as a double-blind, prospective, randomized controlled
      clinical trial.

      First of all patients who meet the International Headache Society (IHS CLASSIFICATION ICHD-3)
      migraine with or without aura criteria will be included to the study (7). Secondary it is
      mandatory to meet our inclusion criteria, and not to include exclusion criteria, with written
      informed consent to be in the study. The study will be carried out with 160 patients.

      Patients who meet these conditions will be randomly divided into 4 groups. First group
      bilateral GON blockade and bilateral isotonic injection into the SON region,second group
      bilateral SON blockade and bilateral isotonic injection into the GON region,Group 3 bilateral
      GON blockade and bilateral SON blockade and last investigators planned to give bilateral GON
      and SON region saline injection to group 4.

      While performing these procedures, 1 ml of 2% lidocaine and 1 ml of saline will be used for 2
      ml of 1% lidocaine for nerve block. Also 2 ml of saline will be used for placebo effect. For
      blocking the GON region 0.75 ml of 1% lidocaine will be applied and 0.75 ml of saline for
      placebo effect(8). During applying to the SON region 0.25 ml of 1% lidocaine for blockage and
      0.25 ml of saline for placebo effect will be used(8). The GON injection site was planned to
      be 2 cm lateral and 2 cm below the occipital protrusion and the SON injection site was
      planned as the area with frontal incisor in the orbital arch (8).

      Patients will be followed up in the emergency room for 120 minutes. In the study, 1 large box
      will be used to ensure double blindness and randomization. There will be 2 more small boxes
      in it. Small boxes will be named as '' G '' and '' S '' containing the names of the nerve
      regions. There will be 8 injectors in each small box. There will be 8 syringes in each small
      box, 4 of them containing saline and 4 contains 1% lidocaine. The injectors will be numbered
      with the name of the box in which they are located (such as G1, G2… G8 or S1, S2… S8). In the
      study, 8 patients will be treated daily. In the following days, injector numbers will be
      written as numbers in progress (such as G9, G10..G16 and S9, S10… S16). The contents of these
      injectors prepared by the pharmacist will also be recorded by the pharmacist. Envelopes with
      random number injector combinations will be offered to patients. The combination in the
      envelope chosen by the patient will be applied. Injector numbers will be recorded to the data
      form. When the study is finished, these numbers will be checked and it will be determined
      which patient is given which treatment.
    
  