
    
      Rationale: In COPD, hospital-based pulmonary rehabilitation can improve symptoms, functional
      status, and quality of life and decrease unscheduled physician visits, emergency room visits,
      hospitalizations, and possibly, mortality. Despite the well documented efficacy,
      hospital-based rehab remains inadequate due to insufficient access, acceptance and
      sustainability. This has triggered a growing interest in home-based rehab programs. Patients
      enrolled in home-based programs, however, may exercise at low intensities to avoid
      dyspnea/fatigue, limiting the potential benefits of exercise training. Accordingly, it is
      essential to develop innovative home-based programs that decrease exercise-induced dyspnea
      and fatigue while ensuring sufficient exercise intensity to produce sustainable physiologic
      benefit. Recent data suggest that rhythmically auditory stimulation (RAS) using music may
      constitute such an innovative strategy. Music can diminish exercise-induced dyspnea/fatigue
      allowing patients to tolerate more challenging physical activity and obtain a greater benefit
      from rehab. Music also can induce entrainment of motor responses such as walking. The
      investigators thus plan to capitalize on both the sensorimotor coupling of gait with
      RAS-enhanced music and the mitigating effect of music over exercise-induced dyspnea/fatigue.
      Specifically, the investigators propose to compare the efficacy of a 12-week, home-based
      exercise program augmented by patient-tailored, RAS-enhanced music to a 12-week traditional
      home-based exercise program in patients with COPD. Hypothesis: (H1) Compared to patients
      randomized to a home-based, exercise program without music (control group), patients
      randomized to a home-based, exercise program augmented with RAS-enhanced music (intervention
      group) will demonstrate (H1a, primary hypothesis) greater increase in 6-minute walk distance,
      (H1b) greater increase in walking time on a constant-load treadmill test protocol, (H1c)
      reduced dyspnea during a constant-load treadmill test protocol, and (H1d) greater increases
      in health-related quality of life. In addition (H2), they will accumulate greater volume of
      physical activity (actigraphy) and (H3) will better sustain these benefits over time. Lastly
      (Explorative Objective), the investigators will assess the mechanistic impact physiological
      and psychological phenotype and clinical factors on responsiveness to rehabilitation
      (duration constant-load treadmill test) achieved with and without concurrent use of
      RAS-music. Methods: The proposed study is a randomized, controlled clinical trial in which
      170 patients will be randomized into a home-based, exercise program without music or a
      home-based exercise program augmented with RAS-enhanced music. Patients will receive 12-weeks
      of home-based training per group assignment (at least three times weekly) followed by
      12-weeks of follow-up to assess the sustainability of the investigators' novel intervention.
      Testing will be carried out at baseline and at 6, 12 and 24 weeks. Testing will include
      pulmonary function test, 6-minute walk tests, constant-load treadmill test, physical activity
      quantification, measurements of dyspnea, quality of life, and objective quantification of
      quadriceps dimensions (ultrasonography) and strength/fatigue (magnetic stimulation of the
      femoral nerve). Analysis: In the principal analysis of the primary outcome measure (6-minute
      walk distance) the investigators will use a mixed-model analysis that includes, treatment,
      time and treatment-by-time interaction terms. This model will automatically account for
      missing data-where missing at random is assumed. The investigators will conduct a sensitivity
      analysis based on the results of the mixed model analysis to determine which other
      assumptions regarding missing data might produce different results. One component of the
      sensitivity analysis will include adjustment for baseline demographic and health covariates.
      A linear regression model and a mixed model ANOVA will be used to assess the impact of
      clinical confounders (Explorative Objective). Scientific contribution: These data will
      provide a solid foundation to determine the physiologic impact of the rehab strategy. This
      innovative, practical and economical pulmonary rehabilitation strategy has the potential to
      create a paradigm shift in the care of the many Veterans with COPD who have no access to
      pulmonary rehabilitation
    
  