
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess toxicity and survival in patients with advanced or metastatic (stage IIIB
      pleural effusion/IV), nonsquamous histology non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with
      carboplatin plus paclitaxel +/- bevacizumab. (Phase II) II. To assess response rates and time
      to progression in patients with advanced or metastatic (stage IIIB-pleural effusion/IV),
      nonsquamous histology NSCLC treated with carboplatin plus paclitaxel +/- bevacizumab. (Phase
      II) III. To assess overall survival in patients with advanced or metastatic (stage
      IIIB-pleural effusion/IV), nonsquamous histology NSCLC treated with carboplatin plus
      paclitaxel +/- bevacizumab. (Phase III) IV. To assess response rates, time to progression,
      and toxicity in patients with advanced or metastatic (stage IIIB-pleural effusion/IV),
      non-squamous histology NSCLC treated with carboplatin plus paclitaxel +/- bevacizumab. (Phase
      III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if pre-treatment levels of plasma VEGF predict response to chemotherapy with
      carboplatin-Taxol with or without anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody (MAb).

      II. To determine if pre-treatment plasma VEGF is of prognostic value in advanced NSCLC.

      III. To determine whether elevated plasma levels of endothelial cell-specific proteins (VCAM,
      E-selectin), reflective of chemotherapy or anti-VEGF induced endothelial damage, are useful
      markers in assessing response to carboplatin/Taxol +/- anti-VEGF therapy.

      IV. To determine whether pre- and post-treatment plasma levels of basic fibroblast growth
      factor (bFGF) is of prognostic value or predictive of response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to measurable disease
      (yes vs no), prior radiotherapy (yes vs no), weight loss (less than 5% vs 5% or more), and
      disease stage (IIIB vs IV vs recurrent). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV over 15-30
      minutes on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I followed by bevacizumab IV
      over 30-90 minutes on day 1.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of 6 courses, patients in arm II with stable or responding disease continue
      to receive bevacizumab only. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 842 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  