
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In the past several decades, relationships between various lifestyle behaviors and the
      development of cardiovascular risk factors have been identified. Nutritional status/eating
      behaviors and physical activity patterns both directly and indirectly are related to the
      development of coronary heart disease. For example, obesity, which may be a result of both
      eating and physical activity behaviors, greatly increases the risk of hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, and diabetes mellitus, placing the individuals at greater risk for coronary
      heart disease. Dietary factors such as composition in fatty acids and cholesterol,
      composition in vegetable protein and complex carbohydrates, caloric excess and a high intake
      of salt also are related to the development of risk of coronary heart disease.

      Physical activity in adults has also been correlated with coronary heart disease.
      Epidemiological research has demonstrated that increased physical activity is associated with
      reduced risk of myocardial infarctions. Regular physical exercise has been shown to have
      beneficial effects on relative weight and obesity and may act indirectly to beneficially
      affect hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia and glucose intolerance and raise HDL cholesterol
      levels. However, in 1985 when SCAN was initiated, little information was available concerning
      the development of nutritional status/eating behaviors and routine physical activity patterns
      in children.

      Various psychosocial factors have been associated with increased risk of coronary heart
      disease. Among these factors are behavioral characteristics such as type A behaviors and
      coping styles to stressors. However, relatively little was known in 1985 concerning the
      development of such characteristics in children and when these characteristics became
      associated with risk of cardiovascular disease.

      SCAN initiated on the recommendations of the Preventive Cardiology Branch Task Force Group in
      the Five Year Forward Plan 1982-1987, the Conference on School Health Education Research in
      the Heart, Lung, and Blood Areas, and the Clinical Applications and Prevention Advisory
      Committee of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. A Request for Applications was
      released in October 1984. In 1985, six grants were awarded as part of the Study of Children's
      Activity and Nutrition (SCAN).

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were six projects supported by the SCAN program. They did not follow a common protocol
      but were basically similar.

      Medical College of Georgia: Five hundred and one Black and white children were followed over
      a four year period for food intake behavior, physical activity and fitness, anthropometric
      measurements, blood lipids and lipoproteins, heart rate and blood pressure, and psychologic
      characteristics associated with coronary heart disease.

      West Virginia University: Two hundred and eight predominantly white children of adults
      followed since adolescence in the Bourbon County Study were members of this cohort. Children
      participated in cardiovascular fitness tests, and underwent blood pressure measurements, and
      serum lipid determinations. The effects of television-viewing, child-rearing patterns,
      exercise, and nutrition-related knowledge and attitudes were assessed over a four year
      period.

      Columbia University: Seven hundred and ninety-four primarily Hispanic children and their
      parents were followed for four years to determine the extent to which diet and physical
      activity predict coronary heart disease risk. Cross sectional and longitudinal analyses were
      performed.

      Georgetown University: Five hundred and seventy Black children were followed for the
      influence of the risk status of an older sibling and day care versus home care on nutrient
      intake and physical activity. Eating events were videotaped, activity levels were recorded,
      and measurements were obtained on height, weight, cholesterol, blood pressure, and skinfold
      thickness. Dietary recalls and nutrition knowledge surveys were obtained.

      University of Massachusetts: In the Framingham Children's Study, one hundred children who
      were direct descendents of Framingham Heart Study participants were followed for four years.
      Measurements included height, weight, skinfold thickness, lipid profiles, heart rate and
      activity monitoring, and assessment of dietary intake four times per year.

      Memphis State University: Six hundred and sixty-three children and their parents were
      assessed for food intake, physical activity, and parent-child interactions related to food
      intake and exercise. Anthropometric and cardiovascular data were also collected every four
      months for four years.

      Two of the studies were renewed in FY 1992 and again in FY 1996. See the Framingham
      Children's Study and the Children's Activity and Nutrition III.
    
  