
    
      The modern lifestyle has led to the development and propagation of obesity and type 2
      diabetes (T2DM) pandemics. Obesity is associated with increased morbidity and mortality due
      to its associated diseases such as T2DM; certain cancers; cardiovascular diseases including
      hypertension, coronary artery disease and stroke; as well as mental disorders. T2DM is
      currently the main contributor to growing healthcare costs of obesity. One in three
      Singaporeans is at risk of developing T2DM, and by 2050, this is estimated to cost Singapore
      about $1.8 billion in medical expenses and productivity lost. With a global population trend
      towards increased obesity, the prevalence of T2DM will also be increased, thus creating
      burgeoning health and socioeconomic consequences. An effective interventional strategy
      against these chronic diseases would not only positively impact human health, but also
      relieve growing socioeconomic burden.

      All guidelines recommend hypocaloric diet and lifestyle interventions (e.g. exercise) to
      manage T2DM in overweight or obese patients. The goal is to achieve and maintain 5-10%, and
      15-20% weight loss in patients with BMI 25-35 kg/m2 and BMI>35 kg/m2, respectively. This goal
      requires limitation of daily calorie intake to 800-1200 and up to 275 minutes of exercise per
      week for a moderately obese person. Anti-obesity drugs can also be prescribed for T2DM
      patients with BMI > 27 kg/m2. When glycaemic control is not achieved, different progressive
      stages of T2DM are managed by monotherapy, dual therapy and finally triple therapy of Glucose
      Lowering Drugs (GLDs) without or with insulin program. Invasive bariatric surgeries are also
      recommended for T2DM patients with BMI >35 kg/m2 (32.5 kg/m2 in Asian populations), as well
      as lower BMI of 30 - 35 kg/m2 (equivalent to 27.5 - 32.5 kg/m2 in Asian populations) when the
      metabolic response to regular treatment plans has been poor.

      Patient compliance with diet and lifestyle intervention regime can often be challenging, and
      yet those who faithfully comply may still fail to achieve the necessary weight loss within a
      limited time-frame. Pharmacotherapy with GLDs also carries some risks for side effects such
      as hypoglycaemia, weight gain, gastrointestinal problems, infections, bone fracture,
      pancreatitis, etc. The most effective approach for long term weight loss of >15% and T2DM
      remission has been bariatric surgery. Hypertension remission rates and metabolic control are
      also higher with bariatric surgery versus medical treatment. However, surgically treated
      patients also had significantly higher risk for additional surgical procedures and other
      complications including abdominal pain, gastroduodenal ulcers, long-term nutrition and
      micronutrient deficiency, etc. There is a global urgency for patient-friendly yet effective
      treatment options with minimal side effects for obesity and T2DM.

      T2DM remission in bariatric surgery patients has been intricately linked to weight loss.
      Perhaps most intriguing is the observation that glycaemic control is re-established prior to
      weight loss and improvement in muscle insulin sensitivity, thus suggesting that there is an
      earlier mechanistic juncture, potentially amenable to interventional regulation. In the Twin
      Cycle Hypothesis, fat accumulation in the liver and secondarily in the pancreas, leads to
      vicious cycles that result in the development of T2DM. Decreasing liver fat content may
      potentially be the tunable interventional juncture in promoting remission of T2DM in
      overweight and obese patients. The PROMISE pilot trial will investigate whether metabolic
      activation of muscle with a novel, non-invasive technology will further improve metabolic
      outcomes in overweight/obese patients with early T2DM who are currently given diet and/ or
      lifestyle (DL) interventions.

      Better glycaemic control at the early stages of T2DM would

        1. improve the management of this progressive disease,

        2. reduce reliance on multi-GLDs therapy, and

        3. potentially reduce reliance on bariatric surgeries solely for treatment of T2DM.

      The Investigators of this study previously developed pulsed electromagnetic field stimulation
      therapy (PEMF) for the metabolic activation of muscle and adipose tissues. In vitro and in
      vivo preliminary data from rodents demonstrate that PEMF-t induced changes reminiscent of
      beneficial exercise adaptations, in response to enhanced metabolic fuel utilisation. These
      exercise mimetic effects were achieved in the absence of exercise and its associated
      mechanical stresses as the rodents were sedentary. A human pilot study conducted with this
      platform demonstrated improved muscle function after only 5 weeks. This study will
      investigate the use of PEMFs as a non-invasive modality to supplement current clinical
      standards in enhancing rehabilitation management and improving metabolic outcomes in this
      clinical base.
    
  