
    
      Rationale and objectives:

      Contrast agents continue to cause concern among patients and doctors because of their
      widespread use and the rare but potentially important adverse reactions associated with them.
      Intravenous (into a vein) contrast agents are used daily for both Computed Tomography (CT)
      and Magnetic Resonance (MR) examinations as an aid for detection and characterization of
      diseases. Despite their use for millions of examinations each year, the contrast agents are
      not entirely free of serious and potentially life-threatening adverse reactions. Therefore,
      the application of both iodine-containing and gadolinium-based contrast agents, respectively
      for CT and MR- examinations has raised some safety concerns, especially in patients in
      certain risk groups, e.g. patients with previous allergic reactions to gadolinium and
      iodine-containing contrast agents, patients with pre-existing renal impairment and diabetes
      patients. Adverse reactions of contrast agents can be divided into non-renal and renal
      adverse reactions. The non-renal adverse reactions may be acute or delayed. The acute adverse
      reactions occur within one hour after the contrast agent is administered to the patient,
      while the delayed adverse reactions occur after one hour and within a week.Some reactions
      such as Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis (NSF) may occur even later and is classified as a very
      late adverse reaction. Patients at high risk group should be identified before contrast agent
      administration to avoid these adverse reactions. Adverse reactions using iodine-containing
      contrast agents have been known for over 20 years. They are mostly mild or moderate skin
      reactions that occur during the period 1 hour to 7 days after contrast agent administration,
      and usually disappear within 3-7 days. Nevertheless, serious and life-threatening adverse
      reactions occur, and one of the most serious effects is Contrast Induced Nephropathy (CIN),
      which is a renal adverse reaction. CIN refers to a reduction in the renal function induced by
      contrast agent. This implies a deterioration in renal function (an increase in serum
      creatinine by more than 25% or 44μmol / L) occurring within three days after intravascular
      administration of iodine-containing contrast agent. CIN is a well known complication when it
      comes to radiological studies using iodine-containing contrast agents. The rapid development
      and frequent use of CT- examination with simultaneous administration of relatively large
      doses of iodine-containing contrast agents have contributed to a growing number of cases of
      CIN during recent years. For many years, gadolinium-based contrast agents have been
      considered as safe, but in 2006 the first reporting of patients who had developed a new rare
      potentially fatal disease called NSF in the weeks after exposure to gadolinium-based contrast
      agents began. However, it was not until 2006 that the NSF was linked to gadolinium contrast
      agents and it was proposed that the free gadolinium from the contrast agent could be a
      trigger for NSF. NSF is a connective tissue disease which usually manifests itself as a skin
      disease with swelling in arms and legs, but can also affect internal organs. NSF occurs in
      combination with chronic kidney disease and has only recently been particularly investigated.

      Therefore, it is essential to clarify if these reactions are actually directly related to the
      application of contrast agents or to MR/CT-examinations. Most major studies conducted on
      gadolinium-based and iodine-containing contrast agents have been retrospective, and so far no
      similar large scale study has been performed independently from pharmaceutical companies.
      Thus, there is a lack of independent studies, which investigate the severity of adverse
      reactions as well as delayed adverse reactions one month after the patients have been exposed
      to the contrast agent.The study aim is to investigate the safety profile for respectively
      iodine-containing and gadolinium-based contrast agents to CT and MR- examinations in a
      prospective design. A control group examined without the use of contrast agent will be
      included, so that the study can illuminate reported adverse reactions related to contrast
      agents and CT/MR-examinations. This applies to renal, non-renal, and late adverse reactions.

      This project will ultimately illuminate any significant and life-threatening late effects and
      therefore, these will be detected earlier, and it will become more likely to treat the
      patients in good time for these events. The following series of hypotheses will be
      investigated in this study:

        1. Renal as well as non-renal adverse reactions occurring are related to the use of
           contrast agent in MR-/CT-examination.

        2. CIN occurs in patients undergoing a MR-/CT-examination with contrast agent.

      Methods:

      Approvals from The Copenhagen County Committee on Biomedical Research Ethics and The Danish
      Data Protection Agency are obtained. The study will be conducted as a prospective study at
      Herlev Hospital, Department of Radiology. Patients referred to an MR/CT-examination will be
      offered participation in the study. Since the patients are referred to a MR-/CT-examination
      as part of their patient diagnostic evaluation, the distribution into different groups will
      be without any influence from the study officials.The study includes a total of 1600 patients
      in a period of approximately 2 years. The patients will be distributed in four groups (a, b,
      c and d) with 400 patients in each group. Group a and c (case group) undergo respectively MR-
      and CT- examinations with respectively gadolinium-based contrast agent and iodine-containing
      contrast agent. Group b and d (control groups) will undergo MR/CT-examination without any use
      of contrast agent. Informed consent will be obtained from all patients. Data will be
      collected continuously. For each participating patient the following will be registered: risk
      factors (patients allergic to gadolinium-based and iodine-containing contrast agents,
      patients with renal impairment and diabetes), estimated kidney function (eGFR) with a finger
      stick blood test immediately before and 72 hours after the MR/CT-examination. The blood test
      is quick, easy and requires no more than a small stick on the side of the finger tip with a
      finger stick. The blood drop is placed on a test strip and into a renal function meter,
      whereupon eGFR is read. The test strip will be destroyed immediately after completion of the
      test/ measurement. To detect the occurrence of acute adverse reactions after administration
      of contrast agents, the patients are observed for 30 min. Patients in the control groups will
      also be observed for 30 minutes after start of MR/CT-examination. All patients are supplied
      with two questionnaires regarding the occurrence of adverse reactions and possible delayed
      reactions, which they must complete 72 hours and one month after MR/CT-examination. Results
      from group a will be compared with results from group b, while the results from group c will
      be compared with results from group d. This study will not be statistically randomized, since
      it is an observational study. Furthermore, it is necessary to have a major control group.

      Adverse reactions, risks and disadvantages:There are no known adverse reactions in this
      study, when the exclusion criteria are met. Patients will already be referred for an MR/CT-
      examination, and contrast agents that are already approved by health authorities will be used
      as tools for MR/CT-examinations. Therefore, this study does not pose a greater risk or
      inconvenience to the participants. Moreover, there are no adverse reactions associated with
      the blood tests measurement.

      Economic conditions:

      Study officials have no financial ties to private firms or pharmaceutical companies with
      interest in this study. Since the majority of researches on contrast agents are made by
      pharmaceutical companies, this project is important and of great interest since it is
      independent from the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, the project's conclusions will not
      be influenced by strategic and economic interests.

      Ethical considerations:

      This study is unique in the sense that it so far is, the only major prospective study that
      follows patients one month after completion of MR/CT-examination. The study is primarily
      intended as a method to clarify the extent of late adverse reactions that may occur after the
      patient has left the examination room. For precisely these contrast agents, it is
      advantageous to have a study which provides a comprehensive systematic overview of acute and
      late adverse reactions, because many severe and life-threatening late adverse reactions occur
      days and even weeks after the contrast agent administration. We hope that this study will
      result in an improved documentation of whether the incidences of acute and delayed severe
      adverse reactions are directly related to the use of contrast agents for MR/CT-examinations.
      This will increase patient safety because; it will help clarifying whether adverse reactions
      are related to contrast agents or MR/CT-examination. For the individual participant the
      benefit of participation in this study means that, in future any significant delayed adverse
      reaction will be discovered in time. Furthermore, a detection of the presence of mild or/and
      moderate adverse reactions will lead to, an earlier treatment of these adverse reactions.
    
  