
    
      Background

      Endoscopic modalities have been reported to be effective in definitive treatment of early
      stage esophageal cancer. A study comparing endoscopic treatment to surgery in early
      esophageal cancer using the SEER (Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results) database showed
      no difference in the relative hazard of death from esophageal cancer between the two groups.
      The primary endoscopic therapies used in this study were endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR)
      and photodynamic therapy (PDT). Estimated 1 and 3 year survival in this study were 92% and
      75% in the endoscopic arm and 92% and 82% in the surgical arm. EMR, endoscopic excision of
      superficial cancer, has also been shown to be highly effective in mucosal tumors in single
      center studies. "Low-risk" lesions, defined as flat or raised mucosal tumors 2 cm or less
      that are well-or moderately-differentiated without lymphovascular invasion, demonstrate
      complete response was seen in 96.6% of patients with 5 year survival of 84%. However,
      "high-risk lesions," defined as greater than 2 cm, poorly-differentiated, flat-ulcerated, or
      invading into the submucosa, have a complete remission rate of only 59%.

      Endoscopic resection is not possible in all mucosal cancers. Some cancers are not visible
      endoscopically but detected only by endoscopic biopsy. In other cases, the EMR cannot be done
      due to scarring from previous resection or other therapy, especially external beam radiation.
      Management of these cases is problematic. PDT using porfimer sodium has been extensively
      studied for Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia, however studies of PDT for early
      stage esophageal cancer are limited. In a recent single site study using PDT and EMR for
      mucosal cancers, overall survival was comparable to a group treated with esophagectomy at the
      same center, with estimated 1 and 3 year survival of 98% and 95%. PDT was used in 43% in
      combination with EMR in the endoscopic treatment group. Recurrent carcinoma was detected in
      16% of endoscopically treated patients. All recurrences were intramucosal cancers, with all
      but one managed by EMR. Overall, endoscopic treatment was well-tolerated. However, side
      effects of PDT are common and include photosensitivity, esophageal stricture, chest pain,
      nausea, vomiting, and fever. In the U.S., PDT is no longer commonly used in the esophagus due
      to availability of alternative treatment modalities with less cost and side effects.

      Endoscopic spray cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen has emerged as an alternative treatment in
      stage I esophageal cancer in those not suitable for other therapies. A recent retrospective
      review at 10 U.S. centers assessed outcomes in seventy-nine patients. Patients included those
      with esophageal carcinoma who failed, refused, or were ineligible for conventional therapy
      including chemotherapy, radiation, combination chemotherapy and radiation, esophagectomy, and
      endoscopic mucosal resection. The majority of patients (76%) had tumor stage T1N0M0 with mean
      tumor length of 4 cm. All patients were treated with liquid nitrogen spray cryotherapy, and
      forty-nine patients completed treatment. Complete response of luminal disease occurred in
      61.2%, including 18 of 24 (75%) with mucosal cancer. Follow-up averaged 10.6 to 11.5 months,
      and no serious adverse events were reported. Longer term follow-up was reported recently in
      abstract form. Complete response was seen in 92% of patients with mucosal cancer with median
      follow-up of 28 months and overall estimated survival at 1 and 3 years of 98% and 92%
      respectively.

      Published studies have demonstrated spray cryotherapy to be safe and well-tolerated, with low
      overall complication rates. Tolerance of the procedure is very good. All procedures are
      performed on an outpatient basis. Primary side effects include chest pain, dysphagia, and
      odynophagia, reported in about half of all procedures. Mean duration of symptoms was 3.6
      days, and many patients had no side effects after treatment. Serious adverse events were
      rare. Gastric perforation occurred in one patient with Marfan's syndrome. Benign esophageal
      stricture was reported in 13% of patients treated for cancer, with previous esophageal
      narrowing noted in 9/10. In combination with its relative cost-effectiveness and minimal
      invasiveness, endoscopic spray cryotherapy is an appealing option for those with stage I
      esophageal cancer who are ineligible or refuse conventional therapies.

      Study Device: truFreezeTM System, CSA Medical Inc., Baltimore, MD

      Study Objective: The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      endoscopic spray cryotherapy using the CSA Medical, Inc. truFreeze™ System for patients with
      early-stage esophageal cancer (T1a, N0, M0) who are ineligible or refuse conventional therapy
      including surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and endoscopic resection.

      Study Design: Multi-center phase II study.

      Study Population: Patients with early-stage esophageal cancer (stage T1aN0M0)

      Study Duration: It is estimated that enrollment will take approximately two years. Each
      subject will remain in the study for up to one-year of treatment and for three years
      post-treatment. It is expected to take five years to collect all required data for this
      study.

      Sample size: 40

      Treatment

      Participant receives liquid nitrogen spray cryotherapy every 4 - 8 weeks x no more than 8
      cycles. Those with complete response to therapy will proceed to surveillance. Those with
      stable or responding disease will continue with cryotherapy. Those with progression of
      disease will discontinue protocol. For responding or stable disease after 8 cycles, continue
      treatment beyond 8 cycles until tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity. Discontinue
      protocol therapy for disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Follow-Up Evaluations and Data Collection

      Patients will return for surveillance EGD (esophagogastroduodenoscopy) procedures with
      biopsies at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months (± 4 weeks) after the last cryotherapy
      treatment. An estimate of tumor size and response compared to baseline will be made at each
      endoscopy. Biopsies will be performed using large capacity forceps. In the area where tumor
      was present, biopsies will be taken every 1 cm in each quadrant. Directed biopsies will be
      performed in any areas that appear suspicious for cancer.

      CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (with oral and intravenous contrast if possible)
      will be performed every 6 months during the follow-up period. Full body PET/CT may also be
      performed instead of CT scanning.

      Endoscopic ultrasound will be performed 6 months after treatment completion to assess for
      lymphadenopathy.

      At the conclusion of this protocol, regardless of the outcome, patients will continue to
      require periodic surveillance endoscopies for re-emergence of esophageal cancer consistent
      with the standard surveillance guidelines. This monitoring will be performed at the
      investigator's site unless otherwise desired by the patient.
    
  