
    
      Medication therapy management (MTM) has been described as a set of procedures that include:
      medication review, assembly of a personal medication record, development of action plans,
      intervention when necessary, and follow-up. However, evidence showing the effectiveness of
      general MTM interventions is scant. MTM has often been performed separately from patients'
      usual sources of care (i.e., at pharmacies). This could limit its effectiveness since
      medication-related concerns would be discussed by clinicians who are not aware of the regimen
      intended by patients' prescribers. Cost is another barrier to widespread use of MTM.

      Health information technology in primary care could be leveraged to assist with MTM tasks.
      The investigators have field tested low literacy MTM tools embedded within an EHR to 1)
      activate patients to review medications, 2) automate the provision of plain language,
      medication information, and 3) provide print tools to help patients engage providers, and
      consolidate their regime. These tools were developed with patient, physician, and pharmacist
      feedback.

      For this study, the investigators combine tools to address the range of MTM tasks. In
      aggregate, the study refers to this as an Electronic health record-based Health literacy
      Medication therapy management Intervention, or 'EHMI'. The investigators will evaluate the
      effects of this approach among patients with uncontrolled hypertension treated in federally
      qualified health centers (FQHCs). This may be a relatively low-cost strategy ideal for safety
      net practices that use EHRs and whose patients may be at greater risk for limited literacy.
      It is also possible that the EHMI strategy may not result in a significant change. Therefore,
      the investigators will also evaluate using a nurse educator to help patients utilize EHMI
      tools, provide brief counseling, and track progress.

      This three-arm, clinic-randomized, controlled trial conducted within a network of FQHCs will
      evaluate the EHMI and EHMI + Nurse Educator interventions compared to usual care. Recruited
      patients will be followed for 12 months. The investigators will test the impact of these two
      strategies on blood pressure levels, with an anticipated power to detect a 4 mm Hg difference
      in systolic blood pressure as the primary outcome. The investigators will also assess the
      impact on diastolic blood pressure, as well as HbA1c and LDL cholesterol control in the
      subgroup with diabetes. The investigators will determine the interventions' effects on: 1)
      medication understanding, 2) discrepancies, and 3) adherence. The investigators will
      specifically examine intervention effects among groups with different literacy levels. The
      investigators will also assess the fidelity and cost of the interventions to guide future
      dissemination efforts.
    
  