
    
      Recent developments in the treatment of articular cartilage defects have resulted in several
      techniques that involve the stimulation of native cellular components for the purpose of
      differentiation and proliferation in the cartilage defect. Techniques of interest for this
      study are the use of microfracture combined with platelet rich plasma (PRP), and a recently
      developed augmentation of the microfracture procedure-BioCartilage.

      The microfracture procedure is performed with PowerPick. During the procedure, a patient with
      focal cartilage defect undergoes arthroscopic debridement of the defect before microfracture
      is used to create holes in the subchondral plate in order to provide access to mesenchymal
      stem cells (MSCs). To complete this marrow stimulating procedure (MSP), the microfractured
      region is filled with PRP harvested intraoperatively from the patient. A fibrin glue is then
      used to cover the defect and hold the PRP repair in place.

      This basic MSP has been shown to regenerate cartilage tissue and improve joint function.
      Microfracture treatments using PRP are "shown to have good to excellent short-term outcomes
      in appropriately indicated patients" (Abrams, Mall, Fortier, Roller, & Cole, 2013), however
      successful long-term outcomes have not been demonstrated in the literature.

      BioCartilage, a novel therapy developed by Arthrex Inc, is implemented as an augmentation of
      the basic approach of using microfracture and PRP. All aspects of the procedure, as well as
      indications for the procedure, are the same as the basic MSP described above, except the PRP
      is combined with BioCartilage powder, which acts as a scaffolding for cellular growth.
      BioCartilage is an FDA approved augmentation of microfracture treatment with PRP, and the
      powder itself contains no living cells.

      Animal models using BioCartilage have provided data that supports the assertion that the
      BioCartilage augmentation may improve outcomes for patients who receive it; however there is
      currently no published human clinical outcomes data available for using BioCartilage (Abrams
      et al., 2013).
    
  