
    
      Primary objective (phase II trial):

      Evaluate the efficacy of an administration of fentanyl citrate to alleviate breakthrough pain
      caused by positional requirements of a diagnostic or therapeutic intervention/examination in
      cancer patients who do not meet the prescription criteria for fentanyl citrate's marketing
      authorisation, as follows:

        -  Patients having received less than 60 mg of slow-release/extended-release morphine.

        -  Patients having received slow-release/extended-release morphine for less than 7 days.

        -  Patients who have not received any opioid treatment.

      Primary objective (cohort):

      Evaluate the efficacy of an administration of fentanyl citrate to alleviate breakthrough pain
      caused by positional requirements of a diagnostic or therapeutic intervention/examination in
      cancer patients when used within the marketing authorisation, as follows:

        -  Patients having at least 60 mg of slow-release/extended-release morphine.

        -  Patients having received slow-release/extended-release morphine for at least 7 days.

        -  Patients who have already received an opioid treatment (at least equivalent to 60 mg
           /day of oral morphine) for chronic cancer-related pain for at least 7 days.

      Secondary objectives (phase II and cohort):

        -  Evaluate the tolerance of the administration of fentanyl citrate when used to alleviate
           breakthrough pain caused by positional requirements of a diagnostic or therapeutic
           intervention/examination in cancer patients.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of fentanyl citrate for reducing pain.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of fentanyl citrate for reducing anxiety.

        -  Evaluate the percentage of relief and patients' satisfaction related to the
           administration of fentanyl citrate.

      Secondary objectives (phase II only):

      • Describe the reasons why the diagnostic or therapeutic intervention/examination failed.
    
  