
    
      An experimental study with three groups is planned over a time period of 18 months. Patients
      in the intervention group receive an interactive, computerized expert system (Intervention
      Group, IG). Patients in the Active Control Group (ACG) get an interactive computerized
      standard program. This standard program has already been proven to be effective but which
      does not tailor treatment components to the individual needs of the patients. Patients in the
      Passive Control Group (PCG) are asked to answer the questionnaires only. Rehabilitation
      patients (N = 1000) will be recruited in three rehabilitation clinics and followed up over
      six measurement points: t1 and t2 with computer interventions during their rehabilitation
      stay; t3 and t4 with booster-sessions via telephone (6 weeks and 6 months after admission
      from rehabilitation). Furthermore, patients will be contacted at t5 per mail with
      motivational material (12 months after admission) and at t6 again per mail (only
      questionnaire, 18 months after admission).

      The hypotheses are: In comparison to the PCG, both the IG and the ACG are expected to have a
      higher motivation, to adopt a healthy lifestyle, to perform more health behavior and to be
      less likely to relapse into previous unhealthy routines. Also, IG and ACG will be healthier
      as well as they will report more quality of life and rehabilitation satisfaction. In
      comparison to ACG, the IG is hypothesized to be more effective than the ACG regarding
      motivation, behavior and social-cognitive predictors of behavior. Moreover, the interventions
      (ACG and IG) are supposed to be equally effective for cardiac and orthopedic, as well as
      out-patient and stationary treated rehabilitation patients. After successful evaluation and
      some adoptions the intervention will be implemented as a self-help program in all eligible
      rehabilitation clinics and in the internet.
    
  