
    
      Diabetes and its complications pose a substantial physical, psychological and financial
      burden on the large number of racial/ethnic minorities and other socioeconomically deprived
      persons with diabetes. However, self-management goals are often not met in racial/ethnic
      minorities and in populations with fewer socioeconomic resources. In response, our research
      team has developed a novel "health coaching" intervention to promote diabetes self-management
      in the community. Health coaching is based on Control Systems Theory and helps patients to:
      1) identify problems in self-care behaviors; 2) create dynamic plans for correcting these
      issues; and, 3) learn to navigate the complexities of everyday life and to achieve clinically
      and personally desirable outcomes. The primary innovation of the present project is that
      first-year medical students are trained to serve as the health coaches, and are participating
      in the study Coaching for Control (STU00069506). The objective of our pilot study is to test
      whether 20 patients from five Northwestern Medicine primary care practice groups (two in the
      Austin community, two at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and one at Norwegian American
      Hospital) enrolled in the "Coaching for Control" intervention experience favorable changes in
      clinical and behavioral outcomes after 16 weeks as compared with an equal number of patients
      from those same clinics who are not enrolled in the program. We will use a non-randomized
      trial design to carry out the following aims: 1. Determine whether patients with diabetes who
      participate in the "Coaching for Control" behavioral intervention program (i.e., the
      intervention arm) have lower hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) after four months than patients who do
      not participate in the program (i.e., the control arm). 2. Determine whether diabetes
      patients in the intervention arm report higher task-related self-efficacy for initiating and
      maintaining recommended diabetes self-care behaviors than participants in the control arm. We
      hypothesize that participants in the intervention arm will have more favorable HbA1c and
      report higher self-efficacy for diabetes self-care behaviors than participants in the control
      arm. Secondary objectives are to test whether these changes persist 8 months after the
      program ends and to test whether we observe changes in additional clinical measures such as
      blood pressure, waist circumference, and in self-reported health behaviors such as medication
      adherence, self-care behaviors, physical activity and diet. Process evaluations through focus
      groups and interviews with participants will allow us to refine our intervention. The
      translational aspects of our proposal include the application of a proven intervention to
      promote diabetes self-care in a community setting that includes adults at high risk for
      diabetes complications. Findings from the present pilot study will be used to justify
      expansion of the study to a larger group of community members so that we can carry out a
      larger randomized trial of efficacy.
    
  