
    
      Orthognathic surgery is usually the final phase of treatment for patients with cleft lip and
      palate (CLP). More than 25% of patients with CLP develop a significant maxillary hypoplasia
      that requires surgical intervention, and maxillary osteotomy is, therefore, most commonly
      performed for these patients. If the sagittal discrepancy is too large or if there are
      associated mandibular deformities (e.g., asymmetries, canting of the mandibular occlusal
      plane), a simultaneous setback of the mandible is performed. The bilateral sagittal split
      osteotomy (BSSO) has become the preferred mandibular osteotomy in many centers for the
      treatment of mandibular deformities. Nevertheless, this treatment is known to give rise to
      various complications; sensory disturbance of the inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) is probably
      the most common one with the incidence ranging from 8% to 85%. Such sensory disturbances may
      affect patients' quality of life due to the difficulties in speech, eating and drinking.
      Patients may also complain about the inability to assess tactile stimuli such as putting on
      lipstick, shaving or kissing, which may lead to psychological and social issues.

      IAN disturbance is believed to be caused by iatrogenic injury to the nerve including
      excessive nerve manipulation, nerve laceration, fixation of segments by incorrect placement
      of position screws, large mandibular movement and bad splits. Identification of risk factors
      for IAN disturbance after BSSO can help clinician to prevent it and raise the satisfaction
      level of patients. It is generally thought that the injury to IAN inside the mandibular ramus
      and body during surgery are highly correlated to variations in preoperative anatomy (ie,
      patient-related factors). Previous computed tomography (CT) studies have reported the
      anatomical variations including the thickness and length of ramus, the position and bone
      density of inferior alveolar nerve canal (IAC) and thickness of buccal and lingual cortical
      plate. However, few studies tried to identify surgery-related factors such as types of BSSO,
      extent of surgical correction, extent of split, concomitant genioplasty or third molar
      extraction. Furthermore, most of the studies were retrospective in design or had limited
      number of patients to conduct multivariate analysis to recognize the influences of patient-
      and surgery-related risk factors on IAN disturbance. Moreover, heterogeneity of the
      assessment timing and methods for IAN disturbance in previous studies prevented from overall
      assessment of the degree of IAN recovery. We therefore aim to (1) determine the incidence of
      IAN injury after BSSO, (2) identify the risk factors associated with such injuries, and (3)
      understand the consequences of such injuries including the degree of neurologic recovery by
      performing a prospective, longitudinal study.
    
  