
    
      Anxiety is common in perioperative patients with incidence of 60-89 %. Lack of knowledge
      about surgery and anesthesia, anesthesia procedures and unfamiliar surroundings are the
      common causes of anxiety . Anxiety related to anesthesia can be due to lack of knowledge
      about its process, procedures and risk associated with it or misconceptions about it. Long
      NPO status and unexpected delay before and during anesthesia procedure and surgery further
      increases the anxiety in perioperative patients. Anxiety increases the activity of
      sympathetic nervous system and cause preoperative and intraoperative tachycardia,
      hypertension, arrhythmias, increased pain perception and increase requirement of anaesthetic
      drugs. This may lead to harmful effect on patient health and decrease overall patient
      satisfaction and even traumatic experience for rest of life. This may affect process of
      giving informed consent for the planned surgery. Many measures are taken to allay anxiety in
      perioperative patients. Anxiolytic medications are given preoperative period to allay anxiety
      but they may have detrimental effect on patient health, requires administration under
      supervision of health professional and may not be effective unless the cause of anxiety is
      taken care. Counselling regarding the procedure of anesthesia during pre-anesthetic check up
      is other way to allay anxiety but transfer of knowledge is usually limited and may not be
      entirely retained. Other method in the form of written pamphlets, booklet or questionnaires
      have been tried but most of the patients in Nepal are not literate enough to read and
      understand it. Multimedia information to allay patient's anxiety has been successfully tried.
      Previous study shows a significant reduction in anxiety level due to preoperative multimedia
      information among the patients undergoing surgery. Investigators have developed a short
      visual clip of 4.5 minutes duration depicting the procedure of spinal anaesthesia
      .Investigators will be using Hamilton Anxiety Score in patients undergoing surgical
      procedures under spinal anesthesia .
    
  