
    
      Rationale: Asthma inception occurs only in susceptible individuals, and is often triggered by
      specific environmental factors, such as respiratory viruses and aeroallergens. Although
      asthma is generally viewed as a chronic persistent disease, remission of asthma is possible
      in a subset of patients. This is highly relevant, since understanding mechanisms that
      contribute to asthma inception and remission may teach us how asthma can be stopped and thus
      may provide novel avenues for the treatment of asthma. In adulthood, average remission rates
      of asthma are approximate 2% per year 1. We observed that remission in adulthood is more
      likely with earlier onset of asthma, less airway obstruction, more severe bronchial
      hyperresponsiveness, and smoking cessation. A proper definition of remission is very
      important; we therefore introduced the terms 'clinical remission' and 'complete remission' 2.
      Clinical remission was defined as the absence of asthma symptoms and no use of asthma
      medication, complete remission as the absence of asthma symptoms, no use of asthma
      medication, normal lung function and no bronchial hyperresponsiveness. In a longitudinal
      study of 119 allergic asthmatic children followed-up for 30 years, our group found that
      clinical remission occurred in 30% and complete remission in 22% of all cases.

      Objective: to determine the underlying mechanisms and molecular events involved in the
      inception and remission of asthma.

      Methods: We will include a 40 subjects divided over the following 4 groups: i) clinical
      asthma remission (10 subjects), ii) complete asthma remission (10 subjects), iii) ongoing
      asthma (10 patients), iv) non-asthmatic healthy controls (10 subjects) in a cross-sectional
      study. All subjects will be extensively clinically characterized including respiratory
      symptoms/questionnaires, in- and expiratory CT-scans, and parameters of large and small
      airway function and inflammation. In addition, blood and nasal epithelial brushes will be
      obtained to study the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of asthma remission. Finally,
      bronchoscopy with bronchial biopsies and brushes will be performed under conscious sedation.
      Bronchial biopsies from all four patient groups will be used for index FACS sorting of the
      three most important cell types orchestrating the asthmatic inflammatory process: i.e. B
      lymphocytes, CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells. We will perform single cell whole-genome
      transcriptome sequencing on at least 100 cells of each type and the primary outcome of the
      study is to identify how the transcriptomic profile of bronchial epithelial cells is changed
      between asthma patients and healthy controls as a consequence of asthma inception and what
      transcriptomic profile changes occur in CD4+ CD8+ and B lymphocytes in the airways from
      subjects with asthma remission compared to patients with ongoing asthma and healthy controls.
    
  