
    
      Today, the one that stands out the most among these protocols is laser application which was
      concluded to be a support or be an alternative treatment approach to standart periodontal
      treatments . As the laser biostimulation therapy(LBT) has been investigated by means of
      anti-inflammatory and healing promotion action on periodontal tissues, the LBT adjunct to
      non-surgical periodontal treatment of diabetic patients expected to create positive healing
      effects. The biostimulation effect of laser on tissue healing has drawn significant
      attention, not only in healthy individuals but also in patients with systemic problems
      causing impaired wound healing such as diabetes mellitus . Patients with poor metabolic
      control frequently present impaired wound healing and using LBT as a treatment method for
      diabetic ulcers have shown positive healing effects . However, there has been little
      knowledge about the additional benefits of LBT on healing proccess or inflammatory response
      among patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus type 2 receiving periodontal treatment.

      In the light of the current knowledge, the impaired wound healing seen in diabetic patients
      may be a reason to require an additional approach in periodontal treatment like
      biostimulation of periodontal tissues by several ways. In order to determine the healing
      response, we aimed to evaluate the effects of LBT irradiation with Nd-YAG laser at the
      1064-nm wavelength as an adjunct to non-surgical periodontal treatment (NSPT) by means of
      periodontal clinical measurements and gingival crevicular fluid cytokine levels (IL-1β and
      IL-10) in systemically healthy and uncontroled DM2 patients with generalized periodontitis .

      The study was designed as a split-mouth randomized, controlled, double-blind clinical study.
      The study protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee of Ondokuz Mayıs University and
      Turkey Ministry of Health, Drug and Medical Device Agency . The written informed consent was
      obtained from all study participants in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration .

      All participants with periodontitis received NSPT. Non-surgical periodontal treatment
      consisted of conventional quadrant scaling in four session of 30 min, each on a weekly basis,
      using scalers, curettes and ultrasonic devices.

      Laser Biostimulation treatment (LBT) and Sham application: Following NSPT, either the left or
      right side of each periodontitis patient was randomly selected (by coin toss) to receive LBT
      or sham treatment. LBT was performed six times (on the same day 30 which was the last
      scalling and root planning session and repeated weekly for 5 more times) using a 1064 nm
      Nd.YAG laser (Fotona AT Fidelis III,Ljubljana, Slovenia).

      Clinical Measurements and Gingival creviculat fluid (GCF) Sampling Clinical measurements were
      performed before NSPT (baseline) and on days 30, 37 and 72 of the follow-up for both DM2 and
      SH groups. The following clinical periodontal measurements were recorded Silness & Löe plaque
      index (PI), Löe & Silness gingival index(GI), probing pocket depth (PPD); clinical attachment
      level (CAL); bleeding on probing (BOP). A Williams periodontal probe (Nordent Manufacturing
      Inc., Elk Grove Village, IL, USA) calibrated in mm was used to measure 6 sites on each
      selected tooth (mesio-buccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual, mid-lingual,
      disto-lingual locations). For each tooth, the side with the highest PPD and CAL values were
      identified, and the additional clinical measurements and GCF sampling were performed on this
      side in both LBT and sham application of the patients. (total: 30 teeth in DM2 group, 30
      teeth in SH group). GCF samples were collected before NSPT treatment(baseline) and on Days
      30, 37 and 72 of follow-up. Sampling sites were isolated with cotton rolls, saliva was
      removed, and supragingival plaque, if present, was removed using a sterile curette. GCF was
      sampled by placing a strip of filter paper (Periopaper, ProFlow, Inc., Amityville, New York,
      USA) into the crevice until mild resistance was felt and then leaving it in position for 30
      seconds. The GCF volume of each strip was determined by electronic impedance (Periotron 8000,
      ProFlow, Inc.), and samples were then placed in sterile polypropylene tubes and stored at
      -70°C until analysis.

      Amounts of IL-1β and IL-10 in each GCF sample were evaluated using standard enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assays (ELISA) according to the manufacturers' instructions.
    
  