
    
      Black African immigrants living in the United States have exceptionally high rates of HIV and
      AIDS. Sub-Saharan Africa remains the epicenter of the global HIV epidemic, accounting for
      22.5 of the 33.3 million people living with HIV worldwide. Political, economic, and social
      instability in many African countries has resulted in an escalating number of Africans
      migrating to the United States. The number of black African immigrants in the U.S. is
      growing, having increased 166% between 1990 and 2000. The 1.4 million documented African-born
      immigrants in the U.S. in 2007 does not account for the many undocumented Africans living in
      the U.S. Immigrant-related stressors, particularly for undocumented migrants, present
      challenges to both black Africans and healthcare providers seeking to engage this community
      in HIV testing and treatment. Characteristically long delays in accessing health services and
      accepting HIV testing have resulted in a greater proportion of black Africans presenting with
      an AIDS diagnosis (45%), compared to both U.S.-born non-blacks (25%) and U.S.-born blacks
      (35%). As the U.S. community of black Africans continues to grow, efforts are needed to
      reduce the impact of HIV within such marginalized communities.

      The lack of culturally sensitive voluntary HIV testing programs has discouraged early
      diagnoses and treatment for African-born immigrants in the United States. The investigators
      are developing a new theory-driven HIV testing program that builds on the successful history
      of developing HIV testing models in the emergency department (ED), but relies on partners
      from the black African immigrant community to address specific cultural, social, and
      practical barriers to HIV testing faced by their communities. Traditional methods of HIV
      testing have not been successful in testing high percentages of black Africans in the U.S.
      for several reasons including (1) their reluctance to access health care for prevention; (2)
      their unwillingness to disclose information to their social networks, thus rendering
      ineffective the CDC-recommended social networking strategies for reaching disaffected
      populations; (3) the stigma of HIV; and (4) cultural and migrant-specific factors that pose
      barriers to accessing health care. The investigators propose to partner with black African
      immigrant community members to identify the cultural and migrant-specific factors that
      interfere with HIV testing, identify those that characterize the African migrant experience
      regardless of country of origin, and develop videos that can be used to increase willingness
      to be tested at community testing sites. The investigators plan to develop and pilot Project
      Consensus, which will use a trusted community setting - the pharmacy - to establish a
      permanent site for HIV testing that will engage large numbers of black Africans; increase HIV
      awareness and eliminate the need to rely on social networks; and reduce stigma by placing HIV
      testing in the context of a general health screening.

      This proposal is based on eight years of research and experience developing and testing
      BRIEF, a Bronx-based rapid HIV testing program in the ED that utilizes theory-based risk
      reduction videos and a user-friendly interactive touch screen computer program. The
      investigators have tested over 53,000 Bronx residents, with high acceptance rates (95%) for
      adult HIV testing and a high rate (85%) of linking HIV+ patients into specialized medical
      care. Project Consensus was developed out of recognition that BRIEF does not eliminate
      important barriers to HIV testing for black African immigrants, a community that suffers
      disproportionately from the health and social consequences of HIV. Given an increasing
      emphasis within the U.S. on efficient preventive care, this intervention has the potential to
      provide an exemplary method for engaging members of immigrant communities in earlier stages
      of disease.

      The study has three phases: Phase 1 consists of interviews and focus groups to obtain
      community input on social and cultural barriers to testing. This input will frame the content
      of a health education video, as well as the creation of an effective HIV testing program.
      Phase 2 will develop the HIV testing intervention. Phase 3 is a feasibility trial to prepare
      for a future randomized controlled trial. An advisory board composed of a diverse group of
      African community leaders will inform and guide all three phases. There are three specific
      aims:

        1. Use individual interviews and focus groups to identify specific barriers to HIV testing
           and assess appropriate methods to increase participation in voluntary HIV testing among
           black African immigrants;

        2. Develop a theory-based HIV video to educate and encourage black African immigrants to
           get tested;

        3. Establish the feasibility of the intervention in a community pharmacy that places HIV
           testing in a general health context, as determined by: standard deviation for the
           primary outcome of HIV testing rates, use of a computer-based model; recruitment of
           black Africans in the pharmacies.

             1. Determine the percentage of individuals diagnosed with one of three chronic
                illnesses linked to care and determine predictors of those that refuse testing.
    
  