
    
      Patients with COPD often need assistance from their significant others (family member) to
      cope with the impacts of the disease. Family members are, therefore, the primary source of
      support to patients and may be affected by patient's condition through role changes, impact
      on social activities, emotional stress and financial burden.

      Although the impact of COPD on family members is an emergent area of research, there are few
      interventions directed at supporting both patients and families. The World Health
      Organization has recognized the importance of changing the focus of the interventions for
      patients with chronic diseases and has recommended family integration in rehabilitation
      programs. In COPD, the inclusion of family members in PR programs, a core component of the
      management of patients with COPD, may contribute to promote a better adjustment of the whole
      family to the disease and, thus, improve their well-being. However, this has not been
      investigated yet.

      The purpose of this study is to explore the impacts of Family-based PR on patients with COPD
      and their family members.

      This study will enroll patients with COPD and family members who are identified as their
      primary caregiver. Recruitment will take place at primary care centers via general
      practitioners.

      A Family-based PR program will be designed according to a comprehensive literature review and
      the findings from a previous observational study exploring the expectations, needs and
      concerns of patients and family members about a Family-based PR program.

      Then, dyads (patient and respective family member) who agree to participate will be randomly
      assigned to either the Family-based PR group or the Conventional PR group. The former group
      will participate in a Family-based PR program consisting of exercise training for patients
      and psychoeducation for dyads. In the Conventional PR group, only patients will participate
      in the exercise sessions and psychoeducation. Both programs will last 12 weeks and will be
      implemented in primary care centers by physiotherapists and gerontologists.

      The impact of Family-based PR will be explored using a mixed-methods approach.

      Assessments will be conducted in both groups at 4 time points: before, immediately after, 3
      and 6 months after the interventions. Patients and family members' adjustment to the disease,
      family coping behaviors and psychological well-being will be evaluated in these time points.
      In addition, patients' clinical status will be assessed with a wide range of outcomes, such
      as activities limitation resulting from breathlessness, exercise tolerance and health-related
      quality of life. Difficulties associated with the caregiving experience will be assessed in
      family members.

      Dyads participating in the Family-based PR program will also be invited to attend focus
      groups immediately after the intervention to assess their perspective about the intervention.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to characterise the sample. To analyse changes in outcome
      measures, data from the two groups will be compared at each time point.

      A sample size calculation using the primary outcome was performed based in a previous pilot
      study. It was found that statistically significant differences between groups would be
      detected with 21 dyads in each group. However, as PR programs usually have considerable
      dropouts (around 30%), 28 dyads will be recruited for each group.
    
  