
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety profile of EMD 121974 (cilengitide) when administered as a one-hour
      infusion twice a week concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation
      therapy for newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. (Safety Run-In)

      II. To estimate overall survival in newly diagnosed patients with glioblastoma multiforme
      treated with EMD 121974 concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with
      radiation therapy. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate and compare overall survival between a low dose treatment group and a high
      dose treatment group in newly diagnosed patients with glioblastoma multiforme treated with
      EMD 121974 concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy.
      (Phase II)

      II. To determine the toxicity of EMD 121974 (cilengitide) when it is administered in
      conjunction with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy in patients
      with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. (Phase II)

      III. To evaluate the molecular profile of individual patients and correlate molecular
      expression profiles with clinical outcomes. (Phase II)

      IV. To characterize tumor blood volume, tumor blood flow, and permeability ratios using
      perfusion MR in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme and follow these parameters during
      treatment with EMD 121974 (cilengitide). (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, safety run-in study of cilengitide followed by a
      randomized phase II study.

      Safety Run-In:

      INITIATION COURSE: Patients receive cilengitide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 4. Treatment
      repeats weekly for 10 weeks. Patients also receive oral temozolomide and undergo radiotherapy
      one hour later on days 1-5 of weeks 1-6.

      MAINTENANCE COURSES: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5 in courses
      1-6. Patients also receive cilengitide IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cilengitide (3 Pre-defined study dose
      levels are defined as: 500, 1000 and 2000mg). The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 3 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. If no MTD (maximum
      tolerable dose) is defined through three steps of the dose escalation process, we will pursue
      the phase II safety/efficacy study with randomized treatment allocation. Patients will be
      randomized into one of two pre-specified treatment dosage arms, 500mg group or 2000mg group.

      PHASE II:

      Patients are stratified according to age (50 and under vs over 50), Karnofsky performance
      score (60%-80% vs 90%-100%), and tumor status (measurable vs nonmeasurable). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive radiotherapy and temozolomide as in safety run-in initiation course
      and cilengitide at the lower dose as in safety run-in initiation and maintenance courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive radiotherapy and temozolomide as in safety run-in initiation course
      and cilengitide at the higher dose as in safety run-in initiation and maintenance courses.

      Patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 9-112 patients (9-18 for safety run-in and 94 [47 per treatment
      arm] for phase II) will be accrued for this study within 1.5-37 months
    
  