
    
      The reference therapy (control arm) used in the course of this trial was the combination arm
      of everolimus plus exemestane. The investigational therapies in the context of this study
      were everolimus monotherapy and capecitabine monotherapy. All treatments were taken orally
      until disease progression, intolerable toxicity or withdrawal of patient's informed consent.
      Patients were randomly assigned with equal allocation to one of the treatment arms:

        1. Exemestane (25mg daily) in combination with everolimus (10mg daily)

        2. Everolimus (10mg daily)

        3. Capecitabine (1250mg/m2 twice daily) orally for two weeks, followed by a one week rest
           period in 3-weeks cycles.

      Treatment assignment was stratified by the presence of visceral disease (yes vs. no).
      Visceral refered to lung, liver, heart, ovary, spleen, kidney, adrenal gland, malignant
      pleural or pericardial effusion or malignant ascites.

      Randomization and Treatment Phase:

      At Visit 3 all eligible patients were randomized in 1:1:1 ratio to receive everolimus (10mg
      daily oral tablets) in combination with exemestane (25 mg daily oral tablets), everolimus
      (10mg daily oral tablets) or capecitabine monotherapy (1250mg/m2 twice daily orally for two
      weeks followed by a one week rest period in 3-weeks cycles). Assignment was stratified by the
      presence of visceral disease (yes vs. no). Visceral refered to lung, liver, heart, ovary,
      spleen, kidney, adrenal gland, malignant pleural or pericardial effusion or malignant
      ascites. After randomization, study treatment started and continued until progression,
      intolerable toxicity or consent withdrawal. Further treatment after progression and study
      treatment discontinuation was at the investigator's discretion. Dose adjustment (reduction,
      interruption) according to safety findings was allowed. Regular safety and efficacy reviews
      by Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) were performed. Tumor assessments were performed every 6
      weeks until disease progression. Additional evaluation were performed to confirm response at
      4 weeks after it was first observed. After at least 150 PFS events had been documented per
      RECIST 1.1 by local assessment in each of the two following groups: (i) everolimus +
      exemestane arm plus everolimus monotherapy arm, and (ii) everolimus + exemestane arm plus
      capecitabine monotherapy arm, the frequency of tumor assessments was changed to every 12
      weeks or as clinically indicated.

      Follow-up phase:

      Patients were followed for safety for 30 days after study treatment discontinuation. If a
      patient did not discontinue study treatment due to disease progression, lost to follow-up or
      consent withdrawal, then tumor assessments continued to be performed every 6 weeks until
      disease progression, death, lost to follow-up or investigator decision in patient best
      interest.

      Survival Data Collection:

      All patients were followed for survival status at least every 3 months regardless of
      treatment discontinuation reason and up to two years after randomization of last patient.
      Survival information could be obtained via phone and information were documented in the
      source documents and eCRF. Additional survival follow-up might be performed more frequently
      if a survival update was required for reporting the results or to meet safety or regulatory
      needs.
    
  