
    
      With the social development and changes in the lifestyle, the incidence of obesity and type
      2diabetes is rapidly increasing. In 2010, the global incidence of type 2 diabetes was 8.3% in
      adults, 11.6% in China and 50.1% in China. In overweight and obese people, the prevalence of
      type 2 diabetes also increased significantly, and the prevalence of type 2diabetes in those
      people with BMI> 30 reached 18.5-23%. Diabetes-induced cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
      diseases, renal insufficiency and other complications, seriously affecting the quality of
      life of the patients, endangering the safety of life, the treatment of type 2 diabetes and
      related complications to public health expenditure has brought tremendous pressure.

      Traditional medical methods are difficult to achieve long-term and effective control of type
      2 diabetes. Surgery has been shown to achieve 75-95% long-term relief of obesity in patients.
      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, RYGB) and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
      are most commonly used. Among them, laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is relatively simple, low
      incidence of complications, lower operating costs, and gradually become the most important
      surgical methods of weight loss and metabolic disease surgery. Numerous clinical studies are
      shown that sleeve gastrectomy in patients with type 2 diabetes has the same therapeutic
      effect as gastric bypass with a complete remission rate of 70-90% for T2DM.

      For the choice of surgical approach, numerous studies have shown that BMI ≧ 45, the general
      choice of gastric bypass surgery, BMI <45, participants can choose sleeve gastrectomy. The
      remission rate for T2DM, sleeve gastrectomy has a good result for young patients with shorter
      duration. In China, the BMI less than 45 is majorities.

      According to the previous survey in 2012, the newly diagnosed diabetes patients in China
      constituted more than half of all diabetic patients. Since bariatric surgery is relatively
      simple, so bariatric surgery is easier to popularize in China and has wide application
      prospect.
    
  