
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of fulvestrant + abemaciclib + copanlisib hydrochloride
      (copanlisib) (FAC) and determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

      II. To determine if FAC is superior to fulvestrant + abemaciclib (FA) using progression-free
      survival (PFS) as an endpoint.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR = partial response [PR] + complete response
      [CR]) and clinical benefit rate (CBR = PR + CR + stable disease [SD] >= 6 months) of FAC
      versus (vs.) FA.

      II. To compare the median PFS between FAC and FA arms in the following subgroups:

      IIa. Tumor PIK3CA/PTEN altered (PIK3CA mutation or PTEN mutation/PTEN loss). IIb. Tumor
      PIK3CA/PTEN not altered (wild-type PIK3CA and PTEN and without PTEN loss).

      IIc. Tumor phosphorylated (p)AKT levels (above or below the median). III. To assess whether
      triplet therapy with FAC inhibits AKT phosphorylation, reduces cyclin D1, and is more
      effective than FA in inhibiting Rb phosphorylation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether the combination of abemaciclib and fulvestrant affect the copanlisib
      pharmacokinetics (PK).

      II. To assess the median PFS in the following molecularly defined subgroups treated with
      either FAC or FA:

      IIa. Tumor PIK3CA mutation vs. not. IIb. Tumor PTEN mutation/PTEN loss vs. not. IIc.
      Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) PIK3CA mutation vs. not.

      IId. CtDNA PI3K/PTEN mutation vs. not. IIe. CtDNA ESR1 mutation vs. not. III. To assess
      baseline and treatment induced changes in various cancer associated pathways, including but
      not limited to PI3K, MAPK, ER, cyclins, CDKs and CDK inhibitors; and to correlate with
      treatment response and progression.

      IV. To correlate baseline and treatment induced changes in breast cancer intrinsic subtypes
      (PAM50), and PI3K messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) signature and expression of candidate
      genes with treatment response and benefit from adding copanlisib.

      V. To evaluate ctDNA mutations at baseline and over time for response predictors at baseline,
      and clonal evolution associated with treatment.

      VI. To correlate ctDNA mutation profiles with tumor sequencing, and correlate baseline ctDNA
      mutations, particularly in components of the PI3K pathway with treatment response, and
      correlate early changes in ctDNA variant allele frequencies (VAFs) with PFS, assess emergent
      resistant mutations at progression.

      VII. To assess resistance mechanisms to FA and FAC at baseline and at disease progression.

      VIII. To examine the molecular effects of FA and FAC on tumor and circulating markers.

      IX. To analyze tumor infiltrating lymphocytes at baseline, during treatment, and at disease
      progression.

      X. To assess whether copanlisib affects abemaciclib pharmacokinetics (PK).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of copanlisib hydrochloride and
      abemaciclib, followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive copanlisib hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1,
      8, and 15 or days 1 and 15 (depending on dose level) and abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID) on days 2-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive
      fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) on days 2 and 16 of cycle 1, and on day 1 of subsequent
      cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (FAC): Patients receive copanlisib hydrochloride as in phase I. Patients also receive
      abemaciclib PO BID on days 1-28 and fulvestrant IM on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of
      subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (FA): Patients receive abemaciclib PO BID on days 1-28 and fulvestrant IM on days 1
      and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 5 years.
    
  