
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus remains a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease with an
      estimated 425 million adults worldwide having diabetes in 2017, with type 2 diabetes mellitus
      accounting for about 90% of the cases. Recent evidence indicates that certain
      glucose-lowering therapies are associated with reduction in cardiovascular outcomes. There
      is, therefore, an urgent need to improve the understanding of the impact of newer classes of
      glucose-lowering therapies, such as dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, glucagon-like
      peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists and sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors
      on cardiovascular outcomes in clinical practice.

      CVD-REAL is a comparative effectiveness study that aims to compare new users of SGLT-2
      inhibitors with new users of other glucose-lowering drugs with regard to the risk of
      all-cause mortality and clinically relevant CV outcomes (including stroke, myocardial
      infarction, and hospitalization for heart failure) respectively. The study is based on data
      from 12 countries across four major world regions.

      The study is conducted using data from claims, medical records and national health registries
      from twelve countries combined in two waves. CVD-REAL 1 includes Germany, Denmark, Norway,
      Sweden, United Kingdom (UK) and United States of America (USA). CVD-REAL 2 comprises
      Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. The study will collect data from
      approximately 4 million patients from the time they start treatment with a SGLT-2 inhibitor
      or another glucose-lowering drug (index date) to the end of the follow-up period.

      The Study Population will consist of new users of SGLT-2i and other glucose lowering drugs
      respectively. These will be compared with all-cause mortality, hospitalization for heart
      failure, myocardial infarction and stroke during the follow-up period. In addition certain
      other cardiovascular and renal outcomes will be assessed descriptively in the two groups
      respectively.

      The study period will range from launch of the first SGLT-2i in each of the countries and end
      at latest available data in each data source.

      All-cause mortality and the incidence of cardiovascular events will be compared between new
      users of SGLT-2 inhibitors and the comparator arm using a hazard ratio (relative risk) and
      corresponding 95% confidence interval. The analysis will be performed using the Cox
      proportional hazards model or some other appropriate method.

      Matching by propensity scores will be used to balance the potential confounding covariates
      between the SGLT-2i group and the reference group to ensure that the two groups are as
      similar as possible at baseline.To achieve sufficient power, a meta-analysis will be applied
      to integrate the point estimates from each of the individual database analyses and calculate
      an overall weighted estimate and corresponding 95% CI.
    
  