
    
      Bipolar disorder (affecting 3 to 5% of French population) is characterized by the recurrence
      of severe symptomatic periods (depression, mania, hypomania) and interepisodic periods
      characterized by the persistence of residual symptoms, impaired psychosocial functioning and
      quality of life. The combination of psychosocial strategies with drug treatment is associated
      with an improvement in the prognosis of the disease. Among these complementary strategies,
      psychoeducation has been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of recurrence, the length
      of hospital stays and improving compliance. It improves an individual's understanding and
      knowledge of their disorder and its various treatments. Despite its effectiveness,
      psychoeducation for bipolar disorder remains relatively scarcely applied in France due to a
      limited healthcare offer (44 available programmes labeled by the Regional Health Agencies in
      2017).

      In recent years, a significant number of smartphone applications have been developed in the
      field of mental health. To date, none of these applications has proven effective in patients
      with bipolar disorder. In this context, the Institute of Neuroscience of Barcelona has
      developed a "SIMPLe" application to assess and record a subject's symptoms and deliver
      personalized psychoeducation. In terms of efficacy, a study has shown the interest of this
      application in improving biological rhythms, thereby reducing the risk of relapse and
      improving psychosocial functioning and the quality of life of patients suffering from bipolar
      disorder in remission phase. This application has been translated and adapted into French as
      part of a partnership with the Barcelona Institute of Neuroscience. However, the benefits of
      this type of application in terms of effectiveness, accessibility or reduction of health
      costs have never been studied in comparison to face-to-face psychoeducation programmes. This
      research project therefore represents a real opportunity to evaluate for the first time the
      effectiveness of an application allowing the delivery of personalized psychoeducation in
      comparison to a face-to-face group psychoeducation program (reference treatment for relapse
      prevention).

      The SIMPLe app includes 5 daily questions (mood, energy, sleep, irritability, medication
      adherence) that will assess different areas associated with bipolar disorder. The user will
      also receive a weekly test to determine the presence and intensity of depressive or manic
      symptoms. Daily and personalized psychoeducation messages (adapted to the answers to the
      tests carried out) will be sent to the user by notifications. The app contains a bank of
      around 400 psychoeducational messages, based on Prof. Vieta and Dr Colom's Psychoeducation
      Manual for Bipolar Disorders.

      Eligible patients, after obtaining their consent, will be randomized (i) either in the
      face-to-face psychoeducation group which will consist of the participation by the patients in
      all the sessions of a therapeutic education program (labeled and controlled by their Regional
      Health Agency) of the investigator center, (ii) or in the SIMPLe application group and will
      benefit from access to the application via a code that will be sent to them.

      Three additional visits to the usual care are planned (assessment visit, 6 months and 12
      months). At each visit, patients must complete questionnaires (CSRI, YMRS, MADRS, FAST, MARS,
      WHOQOL-BREF and EQ-5D).

      The hypothesis formulated by the investigator is that a psychoeducational strategy using the
      SIMPLe smartphone application has an effect comparable to participation in a face-to-face
      psychoeducation group, in term of the recurrence prevention in a sample of stabilized
      patients with bipolar disorder (at 12 months). The recurrence rate is defined by the
      percentage of patients having presented a mood episode of bipolar disorder, namely a major
      depressive episode, manic or hypomanic episode, according to the criteria of DSM-5 and on the
      basis of the judgment of the clinician since the beginning of the intervention.
    
  