
    
      The CKD is currently regarded as an important worldwide public health problem. In the United
      States, approximately 10.8% of population has this disease (Sarnak et al 2003) and it is
      estimated that by 2015 about 40 million people in this country will develop chronic renal
      failure (BRONAS, 2009). In Brazil, epidemiological data are rare, but there is a study that
      there is a prevalence of 9.6% in the population (Bastos et al, 2009).

      The skeletal muscles of patients with CKD may present structural alteration and degeneration
      of muscle fibers, contributing to reduction of strength and endurance. The use of steroid
      medications, malnutrition, hormonal and electrolyte abnormalities are also other elements
      (CHAN, CHEEMA, SINGH, 2007). These symptoms directly contribute to physical inactivity and
      low mobility, increasing the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with CKD (MANSUR
      LIMA; NOVAES, 2007).

      To measure the quality of life of CKD patient is needed to identify how and in which
      dimensions of this patient's life is being affected, for such investigation SF 36 is widely
      used (CATTAI et al, 2007). The SF-36 assesses quality of life for the individual analysis of
      physical, social, emotional and mental health. (Castro et al, 2003).

      There are numerous ways to assess functional capacity, and the cardiopulmonary exercise test
      (ET), is a valuable method for. Involves the assessment of respiratory, metabolic and
      cardiovascular variables by measurement of pulmonary gas exchange during exercise and
      expression of functional assessment indices (SIERRA, 1997; Yasbek JR, 1998). The functional
      capacity or aerobic capacity is determined by obtaining the contents of maximal oxygen uptake
      (VO2 max) and ventilatory anaerobic threshold (BARROS NETO; Tebexreni; TAMBEIRO, 2001).
      Several studies bounce the importance of physical activity and indicate the benefits that
      this can bring to patients with CKD on dialysis. Smith and colleagues (2007) submitted their
      dialysis patients to an exercise protocol, consisting of heating, stretching and active and
      resistance exercises conducted in 24 sessions. They observed a significant improvement in
      blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR), as well as improved quality of life assessed using
      the SF-36.

      Patients with CKD have a high prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) including coronary
      dysfunction, peripheral vascular dysfunction and heart failure (CANZIANI, 2004). The CVD
      represent the leading cause of death for patients in early stages of CKD, with a rate of
      approximately 45% in patients that do not do dialysis (Abedin et al, 2010). Recent studies
      have shown that markers of arterial stiffness are important predictors of mortality and
      morbidity related to CVD in CKD patients (MOLLER et al, 2007). The arterial stiffening is a
      hallmark of the aging process, due to changes in wall structure of arteries and the
      consequent remodeling process that can be accelerated by metabolic disturbances arising from
      the CKD (Frimodt-MOLLER et al, 2008; PORAZKO et al, 2009 ).

      The pulse wave velocity (PWV) is a valid instrument to assess arterial distensibility, is
      recognized as gold standard for measuring arterial stiffness, because it has good
      reproducibility, noninvasive and easy to perform (Di Iorio et al , 2009).

      Mustata et al (2004) in their study evaluated arterial stiffness and insulin resistance in
      dialysis patients, aiming to measure the impact of aerobic training on these variables and
      obtained as response a significant decrease in the values of arterial stiffness after
      training.

      Toussaint et al (2008) conducted a prospective study on the impact of cycling during dialysis
      in arterial stiffness patients with CKD and found a significant improvement after physical
      training compared with no exercise. With this study the authors speculated that the
      improvement in arterial compliance was related to enhanced NO bioavailability serum. The
      results of these studies are promising and suggest that exercise training can improve
      arterial compliance and reduces left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with CKD. Clearly,
      more research is needed in this area to confirm these findings in patients with CKD.

      Abedin et al (2010) analyzing data from a controlled study, found a high prevalence of
      vascular calcification and arterial stiffness in pre-dialysis patients, showing a positive
      relationship between the progression of CKD and CVD.

      The CKD and generalized vasculopathy, mentioned above are accompanied by endothelial
      dysfunction (COSTA-HONG et al, 2009). One of the causes of endothelial dysfunction is the
      inhibition of nitric oxide (NO), an important vasodilator and potent factor that opposes the
      atherogenesis. This inhibition occurs, among other causes, increased serum concentration of
      the substance asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) that is present mainly in CVD and CKD
      (Mittermayer et al, 2005).

      Oner - Iyidogan et al (2009) show a close relationship between increased values of ADMA and
      CKD, justified by the lack of excretion of this substance. In another study, Gibson et al
      (2008) analyzed patients with metabolic syndrome and found that they had low endogenous NO
      formation and high concentrations of circulating ADMA.

      The patient with CKD generally along the disease develops insulin resistance, CHF and high
      concentration of ADMA (ONER-IYIDOGAN et al, 2009). However in our knowledge no study has
      evaluated the effect of physical exercise in the value of ADMA serum of this group.

      The only work in our knowledge that evaluated the impact of physical training in patients at
      pre-dialysis, written by Boyce et al (1997), examined variables as renal function, blood
      pressure and cardiorespiratory endurance. They concluded that exercise training reduces blood
      pressure, increases aerobic capacity and muscle strength.

      Moinuddin and Leehey (2008) reported that aerobic exercise and muscle training are a great
      benefit to CKD patients, improving the VO2max and muscle mass. Chan, & Singh Cheema (2007),
      after undergoing 12 weeks of high intensity exercise with progressive and resistance training
      during hemodialysis routine, obtained as a result increased muscle mass and strength and
      subsequent improvement in quality of life of these patients.

      Given the importance of the topic and the fact that appropriate therapeutic slow the
      progression of dysfunction, reduce the suffering of patients and reduce costs to the national
      health system, sees the need to study the implementation of physical rehabilitation in
      patients with CKD who are not undergoing hemodialysis. Therefore, this study aims to evaluate
      the impact of exercise training in relation to functional capacity, quality of life, pulse
      wave velocity and ADMA in patients with CKD on conservative treatment.

      This project is a randomized controlled study that will be developed at Clinic Hospital, at
      School of Medicine of Botucatu. The work is approved by the Ethics and Research committee and
      will be started after the informed and formal consent of patients.

      The data collection will begin with an assessment of quality of life using the SF-36
      validated in Brazil; application the short version of IPAQ Questionnaire to identify
      sedentary patients, evaluation the PWV and the functional capacity with a spirometry test
      (brand Cosmed K4b2, Rome, Italy).

      This study will use the lab test that is already part of routine in our department for
      monitoring patients with CKD, as The Brazilian Guidelines for Chronic Kidney Disease
      recommend. Simultaneously will be collected a venous blood sample for measurement of serum
      ADMA.

      The results will be recorded and submitted to statistical analysis. The baseline
      characteristics of the groups will be compared by t test for independent data or chi-square
      when appropriate. The behavior of the groups will be analyzed by t test for dependent
      samples.
    
  