
    
      Oxidative stress and glutathione (GSH) imbalance are major contributors to the pathogenesis
      of diabetic nephropathy. Current options for the treatment of oxidative stress in diabetic
      nephropathy are limited and only partially effective, thus interest in the development of new
      strategies is high.

      The study intends to test the hypothesis that combined oral supplementation of the
      antioxidants N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and milk thistle flavonolignan silibin (as
      silibin-phosphatidylcholine) will reduce proteinuria and urinary and systemic manifestations
      of oxidative stress and inflammation, which are characteristically observed in patients with
      T2DM and related nephropathy. The investigators expect these effects to be achieved with
      minimal or no side effects, and with good patient tolerance.

      The trial is designed as a two-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized,
      modified-factorial dose-ranging design, five-arm pilot study in patients with Type 2 diabetes
      mellitus and advanced diabetic nephropathy with proteinuria.

      Intervention consists of three-month oral administration of NAC, silibin, and/or respective
      placebos for three months. Subjects are randomized to the following five intervention arms:
      (A) placebo; (B) NAC; (C) silibin; (D) NAC + silibin; and (E) NAC + double-dose silibin.

      The primary outcome measure is urinary excretion of albumin, a marker of glomerular injury.
      Secondary outcome measures are alpha-1 microglobulin, a marker of tubular injury, and urinary
      excretion of inflammatory cytokines and C-C chemokines, i.e. markers of renal inflammation.
      In addition, peripheral blood monocytes from the same patients are analyzed for GSH content
      and activity of GSH metabolizing enzymes. All outcome measures are monitored in relation to
      both treatment allocation and prevalent blood and urine levels of the active treatment.
      Safety and tolerability of this combination treatment are monitored throughout the trial.
    
  