
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM), a plasma cell dyscrasia, is the most common primary malignancy of the
      bone marrow.The etiology of myeloma is largely unknown, although genetic predisposition and
      environmental factors have been speculated. MM arises from malignant plasma cells that
      clonally expand and accumulate in the bone marrow. These clonal plasma cells produce high
      levels of monoclonal immunoglobulins. Plasma cell dyscrasias are classified as monoclonal
      gammopathy of undetermined significance, solitary plasmacytoma, smoldering myeloma, active
      myeloma, extra-skeletal myeloma, or plasma cell leukemia.

      In 2015 an estimated 26,850 adults (14,090 men and 12,760 women) in the United States will be
      diagnosed with multiple myeloma. It is estimated that 11,240 deaths (6,240 men and 5,000
      women) from this disease will occur this year.

      In recent years, new and more effective drugs have become available for the treatment of MM.
      Such drugs have been evaluated together and in combination with older agents, rapidly
      increasing the number of therapeutic options available to MM patients, and resulting in an
      improvement in their overall survival (OS) rates. Among the drugs that have been FDA approved
      specifically for myeloma are the immunomodulatory agents (IMiDs) thalidomide, and its newer
      analogs lenalidomide and pomalidomide.

      IMiDs exert their anti-neoplastic action by affecting various cancer cell functions and the
      microenvironment, including cytokine production, immune cell function, and in some instances,
      inflammation, cell proliferation and cell death. The IMiD thalidomide has been found to be
      effective as an anti-MM agent in one-third of myeloma patients; notably, higher response
      rates have been observed when combined with steroids. Lenalidomide is an analog of
      thalidomide that has shown more potent anti-MM activity than thalidomide in preclinical
      studies, and has been FDA-approved for the treatment of previously untreated as well as
      relapsed or refractory MM (RRMM) in combination with dexamethasone. Recently, an analog of
      thalidomide and lenalidomide, pomalidomide, has also been approved for RRMM patients.

      The 5-year survival rate for MM patients has increased from 25% in 1975 to 34% in 2003 and is
      currently closer to 40% due to these newer and more effective treatment options.
      Unfortunately, even with these newer agents, responses to therapy are transient, and MM
      remains an incurable disorder with an eventual fatal outcome; and, therefore, new therapies
      are urgently needed.

      JAK2 is an intra-cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase that belongs to the Janus kinase family. JAK
      kinases play a major role in the transmission of signals from cytokine and growth factor
      receptors into the nucleus. JAK kinases activate several intracellular signaling proteins,
      among which the STAT transcription factors are well defined. The JAK/STAT pathway mediates
      diverse cellular events that affect cell growth, differentiation and cell survival.

      Abnormal JAK2 activation has been implicated in several hematological disorders and
      malignancies. Mutations, gene translocations or cytokines released by bone marrow stromal
      cells, may all result in aberrant JAK2 activation. The activating JAK2 V617F mutation results
      in uncontrolled cytokine and growth factor signaling, and is believed to play a key role in
      the pathophysiology of myeloproliferative neoplasms. Constitutive JAK2 activation through
      specific chromosomal translocations is thought to contribute to the development of leukemia,
      lymphoma and multiple myeloma. In MM, elevated levels of cytokines and growth factors such as
      interleukin-6 (IL 6), vascular endothelial growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1, basic
      fibroblast growth factor, IL-1, IL-10, IL-11, IL-15, IL-21, granulocyte macrophage colony
      stimulation factor, interferon-α, and leukemia inhibitory factor may also contribute to
      exacerbated JAK2 activation.11 Among these cytokines, IL-6 has been most widely studied and
      is considered to be a growth and survival factor for myeloma cells. Binding of IL-6 to the
      IL-6 receptor activates JAK2, which in turn can phosphorylate the IL-6 receptor, thereby
      augmenting its downstream signaling effects. Thus, pharmacological inhibition of JAK1/2 may
      be a promising therapeutic strategy for treatment of MM.

      In this context, treatment of MM cell lines and patient derived primary MM cells with various
      JAK1/JAK2, JAK2 and JAK pan specific inhibitors (e.g. INCB16562, CYT387 and TG101209) has
      been shown to inhibit cell proliferation. Furthermore, JAK inhibitors have demonstrated
      synergistic activity with established anti MM therapies such as melphalan and bortezomib
      (CYT387) or melphalan, bortezomib and dexamethasone (INCB16562), in both MM cell lines and
      patient derived primary MM cells. Sensitization of MM cells to dexamethasone in response to
      JAK inhibitors may occur through crosstalk between the JAK/STAT pathway and glucocorticoids.
      In this regard, dexamethasone treatment has been shown to increase STAT3 and the pro survival
      factor phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) levels in melanoma cells; in turn, PI3K was found
      to increase STAT3 levels. Prolonged exposure to dexamethasone results in resistance, which
      could be overcome, at least in part, by JAK/STAT inhibition.

      Ruxolitinib is an oral, selective inhibitor of JAK1 and JAK2, and is the only JAK1/2
      inhibitor approved by the US FDA for the treatment of intermediate and high-risk
      myelofibrosis. Pilot experiments carried out in our research laboratory at the Institute for
      Myeloma and Bone Cancer Research have demonstrated that the JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib in
      combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone inhibited the proliferation of the MM cell
      lines U266 and RPMI8226 and primary tumor cells derived from MM patients, and that this
      inhibition was greater than that achieved with these drugs as single agents. Enhanced
      anti-tumor activity was also observed when these three drugs were administered together to
      severe combined immunodeficient mice bearing LAGκ-1A (bortezomib- and melphalan-sensitive) or
      LAGĸ-2 (bortezomib- and melphalan-resistant) human myeloma tumors, both of which were
      originally derived from fresh bone marrow biopsies from MM patients. In addition, ruxolitinib
      as a single agent showed no anti MM effects whereas the combination of this drug with
      dexamethasone showed enhanced anti-MM effects compared to steroid treatment alone. Finally,
      an elderly heavily pre treated MM patient with polycythemia rubra vera (PRV), who had
      previously received single-agent ruxolitinib while progressing from MGUS to MM and then
      subsequently failed treatment with lenalidomide and methylprednisolone, responded to the
      addition of low dose ruxolitinib twice daily to these two drugs.

      Together, these results suggest that ruxolitinib may overcome lenalidomide and steroid
      resistance for RRMM patients that are failing therapy from steroids alone or in combination
      with lenalidomide. Therefore, in this phase 1 trial, the investigators will evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of ruxolitinib in combination with methylprednisolone and lenalidomide.
    
  