
    
      Pain is one the most underrated, misunderstood and often underdiagnosed field especially in
      children. Pain is an unpleasant feeling which is basically a subjective feeling, which in
      children is poorly expressed. Failure to control pain during childhood ultimately results in
      having chronic adverse effects which include altered sleep, eating habits and neuroendocrine
      responses and increased sensitivity to pain in the following pain episodes.

      Successful postoperative pain management is one of the main pillars of anaesthesia. Regional
      Anaesthesia has gained a lot of popularity over the past few years in paediatrics.
      Approximately one-quarter of analgesic procedures currently performed on children are done by
      regional analgesic techniques. There are various methods that are being currently used to
      control post-operative pain among children. Amongst these methods, caudal block is one of the
      most favoured, prominent and dependable methods for providing reliable analgesia in surgeries
      below umbilicus. However, it has a drawback of being having a limited time of action when
      used as a single shot technique. This time limit can be increased significantly by the
      addition of different adjuvants along with local anaesthetic drugs in caudal block, which not
      only helps the anaesthesiologist in giving a better quality of anaesthesia and analgesia but
      it leads up to creating a desirable intraoperative environment for the surgeon as well.
      Better control over intraoperative and post-operative analgesia also helps the
      anaesthesiologist in giving reduced levels of anaesthesia which caused reduced amount of
      postoperative sedation as well.

      Dexmedetomidine has a specific affinity for α2-adrenoreceptor having sedative and analgesic
      properties, which makes it an ideal adjuvant agent. The landmark ability of this adjuvant is
      that it causes minimal respiratory depression even at high dosages. A number of studies have
      been done until now that have proved successfully that dexmedetomidine can be used as an
      adjuvant in caudal block, in children, in enhancing post-operative analgesia. Although there
      is insufficient data available, various studies have demonstrated the dose of dexmedetomidine
      in Caudal Block ranging from 0.5 µg/kg to 2 µg/kg. According to an up to date review
      anaesthesia will last longer with dexmedetomidine as compared to morphine when used, as
      haemodynamics were found to be stable mostly when dexmedetomidine was used. However
      bradycardia was mostly related to a dose of 2 mcg/kg of dexmedetomidine. A study published in
      2019 documented a decrease in heart rate, not requiring active management, in the
      dexmedetomidine group at a dose of 1mcg/kg.

      Our objective is to compare two doses of Dexmedetomidine added as adjunct to local
      anaesthesia using reduced dose in caudal block for prolonging the duration of analgesia. Our
      secondary outcomes will include blood pressure, heart rate, urinary retention, nausea and
      vomiting in the paediatric population.

      Patient meeting inclusion criteria visiting paediatric operating room will be inducted in the
      study. Informed and written consent will be taken from parents/guardian explained about the
      potential risk and benefits of study. Patients' demographic details like age, sex, and weight
      will be collected by filling the relevant proforma. A total of 162 patients will be divided
      into three equal groups randomly by lottery method. The observer and the anaesthesiologist
      who will induce the patient will be blinded regarding the group in which the patient will be
      placed.

      Pre operatively, a detailed history, examination and related laboratory investigations will
      be seen as a part of hospital pre-operative assessment protocol. On arrival to operation
      theatre, monitors (SpO2, Pulse Oximeter, NIBP, pre cordial stethoscope and ECG) will be
      applied. Emergency drugs will be prepared already before the patient arrives in operation
      theatre. Anaesthesia will be induced with 100% oxygen and sevoflurane 8% using Jackson Rees
      Circuit. Once the desired depth of anaesthesia is achieved, I/V access will be taken.
      Propofol 3mg/kg and Nalbuphine 0.1mg/kg will be given and Sevoflurane will be set at 3%. LMA
      of desirable size will be placed. After this, patient would be placed in lateral position.
      Sufficient exposure would be done for Caudal Block. After taking all aseptic measures, Caudal
      Block procedure will be done with help of 23G needle after identifying the anatomical
      landmarks. Correction position of the needle will be confirmed by swoosh and whoosh test. On
      aspiration of the syringe if it is negative for CSF and blood, then one of the following drug
      combinations will be used for the caudal block.

      Group C (control): 0.25% bupivacaine at a total volume of 0.5ml/kg Group BD1: 0.25%
      bupivacaine + 1mcg/kg dexmedetomidine at a total volume of 0.5ml/kg Group BD2: 0.25%
      bupivacaine + 0.5mcg/kg dexmedetomidine at a total volume of 0.5ml/kg After dressing the
      injection site, the patient will be turned supine. Vitals of the patient including heart
      rate, blood pressure, SpO2 and respiratory will be recorded before the induction of caudal
      block and there after every 10 minutes. Inadequate analgesia or unsuccessful block will be
      labelled if there would be a 20% increase in heart rate of the patient as compared to the
      baseline recording. If the caudal block is insufficient that case will not be included in the
      study. Hypotension and bradycardia will be recorded and treated with fluid bolus and atropine
      respectively. . The first surgical incision would be given 10 mins after the application of
      caudal block. After the completion of the surgery, inhalation gas will be closed and patient
      will be given 100% oxygen only. LMA will be removed once the patient is awake and the patient
      will be shifted to Post Anaesthesia Care Unit (PACU). Here patient's vitals will be monitored
      and pain will be assessed at 1, 2, 4, 6 and 12 hours after the application of caudal block
      using FLACC scale16. Time taken for the requirement of first rescue analgesia will also be
      recorded. Intravenous paracetamol 15mg/kg will be given if FLACC score is more than 4 at any
      of the above mentioned time. Secondary findings like heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory
      depression, urinary retention, nausea and vomiting will also be recorded.
    
  