
    
      Acute exacerbation of COPD is among the most frequent reasons for hospitalisation.
      Approximately 4% of the general population in the western world is admitted with an acute
      respiratory disease at least once a year and nearly one fifth of hospital visits is due to
      acute exacerbation of COPD. Early identiﬁcations and management of AE-COPD is an important
      issue in clinical practice. AE-COPD is accompanied with various worsening respiratory
      symptoms and deterioration in lung function. Also the frequency and severity of attacks is
      associated with increased mortality.

      During exacerbation, the inﬂammation in COPD is ampliﬁed in comparison with stable periods.
      The increased level of inﬂammatory markers is associated with lung function decline. As
      infection, is the main cause leading to clinical AECOPD, white blood cell counts and ESR are
      the common markers to show the existence of infection in patients with COPD. Recently, other
      bio markers are used. Authors have found that the high-affinity Fc receptor-CD64 is expressed
      by monocytes and only weakly on resting neutrophils. The high-expression of neutrophil CD64
      (nCD64) is an early step in the host- immune response to bacterial infection. Studies have
      shown that the nCD64 might be used as a bio-marker for early-onset sepsis or bacterial
      infection. However, authors agreed that the value of the nCD64 in COPD prognosis is unknown.

      As most of novel bio-markers that identify the severity of acute exacerbation in COPD, are
      time consuming and expensive, there is a need to use more simple tests. The
      Neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio is a rapid, easy and cost-effective method derived from routine
      complete blood count tests in clinical practice. The NLR could be an important marker that
      assess inﬂammatory status in patients with COPD and could identify early, acute exacerbation.
      However, this bio marker has not been widely used in the diagnosis of AECOPD.

      The purpose of the present study is: 1- To measure the values of the neutrophil CD64 and NLR
      in patients with AECOPD and stable COPD, 2- to correlate between nCD64, NLR and the usual
      routine bio-markers as white blood cell count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 3- to
      investigate the role of nCD64 and NLR as predictors for short term hospital outcome in this
      group.
    
  