
    
      STUDY DESIGN Prior to commencing this investigation, investigators will optimize the tactile
      discrimination threshold testing (i.e. as per baseline visit, below), and the training
      conditions, in up to ten participants (patients and/or healthy controls). This will serve as
      a pilot to refine operational aspects of study procedures before investigators commence the
      main investigation proposed herein. Following this, youth with either chronic pain (ages
      10-17, n=40) or healthy youth (ages 10-17, n=20) will undergo assessments of two-point and
      single-point discrimination thresholds in an initial session (Aim 1). After this initial
      session, youth with chronic pain will participate in up to 9 additional sessions of
      attentional training (Aim 2). These chronic pain patients will be randomized to either
      two-point discrimination training (n=20) or a single-point spatially-directed attentional
      control condition (n=20). Participants will not be informed of which intervention they will
      receive (single-blind study). Psychological questionnaires will be completed in the first and
      last sessions in order to determine how these variables relate to tactile discrimination and
      response to training.

      STUDY INTERVENTIONS 5.1 Two Point Discrimination Training: Two-point discrimination threshold
      (TPD) training may be performed 1) at spatial locations remote from pain, 2) at spatial
      locations adjacent to the region of pain, and/or 3) at spatial locations in the site of pain,
      if the participant will tolerate it. TPD is defined as the smallest distance between two
      points at which someone can recognize two points, and not one, touching their skin. As such
      this is a test of one's ability to identify separate stimulation of two discrete areas, and
      relies heavily on lateral inhibition. Highly precise mechanical calipers will be gently
      placed onto the skin and the distance between the prongs will be increased/decreased. After
      repeated decreases and increases in the distance between the prongs, the TPD will be deemed
      as the distance at which participants consistently report two points instead of one.
      One-point stimuli will be interleaved to serve as a control condition. Participants will be
      informed immediately of correct and incorrect responses as part of the discrimination
      training.

      5.2 Control Stimulation: Participants will undergo a single-point discrimination training at
      the same sites as described above. Probes of different sizes will be used for this portion -
      a small diameter probe (~1-5 mm) and a large diameter probe (~6-50mm). The probes will be
      gently placed in contact with the participants' skin, and the participant will be instructed
      to respond if they were contacted with the small or large probe. Participants will be
      informed immediately of correct and incorrect responses as part of the discrimination
      training.
    
  