
    
      -  The conduct of this study is driven by the substantial advantages that are documented to
           be offered by jet anesthesia over needle injected anesthesia combined with the scarcity,
           heterogeneity, limitations and contradicting inconclusive results of previously
           conducted studies assessing the acceptance and anesthetic efficiency of jet injectors
           against conventional needle attached dental syringes in pediatric patients, particularly
           for pulpotomy of primary molars. Jet injection offers the opportunity to deliver local
           anesthesia without using a needle and hence helps to avoid all drawbacks associated with
           needle injection such as psychological distress; pain; inability to cope with dental
           treatment; prolonged chair-side time; avoidance of dental care; high clinician skills
           required for child management and needle-stick injuries. It also allows precise
           controlled dosing; fast delivery and onset of local anesthesia; absence of
           post-operative numbness and thus self-inflicted traumatic injuries; reduction of medical
           waste and cutting down of long-term costs on the clinician. However, the true adequacy
           of jet anesthesia necessary to complete dental treatment successfully and the acceptance
           of jet injection in a child patient is yet to be revealed through further research.

        -  This randomized controlled trial is to be performed on children attending the Diagnosis
           outpatient clinic in Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department, Faculty of
           Dentistry, Cairo University, Egypt. Children will be screened via personal, medical and
           dental history taking from them and their parents/caregivers; clinical examination and
           radiographic examination to identify appropriateness for recruitment in the trial based
           on the pre-specified eligibility criteria. Legal guardians of eligible children will be
           informed of the trial aims, conditions and procedures in details and a written informed
           consent will be obtained from them upon agreement for their children to participate in
           the trial. A verbal assent will be also obtained from each potential participant
           following a simple explanation of the trial procedure.

        -  Based on the sample size to be calculated, a random allocation sequence will be computer
           generated and will be used to assign participants to the experimental group receiving
           jet anesthesia (group A) and the control group receiving conventional infiltration
           anesthesia (group B). The allocation sequence will be enclosed in sequentially numbered,
           opaque, sealed envelopes and disclosure of the randomization code to the principle
           investigator will be performed only upon allocation of each corresponding subject
           throughout the course of the trial.

        -  For each study group, participants will be introduced to the dental setting and dental
           instruments to be used and have the anesthetization and dental procedure simply
           explained while avoiding any anxiety-provoking words. Psychological behavior management
           techniques such as Tell-Show-Do, voice control, distraction and positive reinforcement
           will be used similarly for both study groups. Following delivery of anesthesia,
           pulpotomy of maxillary first primary molars will be performed.

        -  Throughout the treatment procedure, if rescue anesthesia was needed, it will be
           delivered by needle infiltration in both study groups and recorded.

        -  Primary and secondary outcome variables will be measured and recorded via selected tools
           at pre-specified time points.

        -  Definitive examination and diagnosis for determination of eligibility, anesthetization,
           treatment, outcome measurement and data collection procedures will be all performed by
           the principal investigator.

        -  The principal investigator will be responsible for managing any intervention-related
           harms encountered by participants, both medically and financially, following-up the
           participant whenever necessary and providing post-operative prevention and oral hygiene
           instructions.

        -  All examination charts and outcome sheets will be labelled each with a specific code
           unique to every individual participant. Participant personal information will be kept
           confidential in a secured limited access area. All data will be electronically backed-up
           and securely stored by the principal investigator. Statistical analysis and
           interpretation of the collected results will be performed.

        -  All study results are planned to be disclosed and communicated to the public via a
           written thesis that will be orally presented and discussed in a defense that is to be
           held in Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department, Faculty of Dentistry,
           Cairo University, in the presence of a selected jury. A manuscript of the trial work is
           planned to be prepared and submitted for publication.
    
  