
    
      Background: Force generation and force level control are important neuromuscular control
      mechanism for successful execution of movement for our daily activities. Impaired force level
      control is a major deficit of motor control in people with stroke. Electromyographic
      biofeedback (EMG biofeedback) has been suggested by researchers and clinicians to be a useful
      and effective tool for enhancing control of force level during motor skill learning for
      people with stroke. Based on the concept of motor-skill learning, practice with variable
      force levels may be more effective than practice with a constant force level to enhance
      movement performance. The EMG biofeedback provides a suitable tool for such practice of force
      level control and hence for motor skill learning. However, research literatures thus far have
      yet to provide convincing evidences to support this claim. Neural imaging studies have shown
      corresponding brain reorganization and neural plasticity following physical practice of
      movement skills in people with stroke. It is curious whether EMG biofeedback augmented
      physical practice of motor skills enhances brain reorganization. Using brain mapping
      techniques, in particular, the transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we could investigate
      neural plasticity accompanying motor function changes induced by physical training, and hence
      may help to develop safer and more effective training parameters. The purpose of this study
      is to examine the effects of variable practiced EMG biofeedback training emphasized on force
      level control of the ankle muscle on balance and gait performance and the corresponding
      changes of corticospinal excitability using TMS in people with chronic stroke. Study Design
      and Methods: This study is a single-blind randomized controlled trial. Sixty participants
      will be recruited and randomly assigned to one of the three groups: constant practice,
      variable practice and control group. Each participant receives 3 days per week for a total of
      6 weeks of EMG biofeedback assisted force level control training of the Tibialis Anterior
      (TA) muscle. For the variable practice group, the participants will practice exertion of
      force output levels at 100%, 75%, 50%, and 25% of maximal TA muscle strength with EMG
      feedback. For the constant practice group, the goal of force level control training is 100%
      of maximal strength. The control group participants will practice maximal TA muscle control
      without EMG feedback. Balance and gait-related motor functions, such as TA force control
      error, TA strength, ankle range of motion, calf muscle spasticity, walking speed, Timed Up
      and Go test, Six-minute Walking test, and dynamic balance test and corticospinal excitability
      including threshold, latency, and recruitment curve of TA motor evoked (MEP) potentials will
      be evaluated at baseline, post-training, two weeks after training and six weeks after
      training. Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS)13.0 will be used for statistical
      analysis. Anticipated results: We anticipate that all three groups of participants may
      demonstrate changes in maximal weight shift amplitude, gait speed and corticospinal
      excitability. However, only the variable practice group will demonstrate ability to modify
      and vary force level control during balance and gait tasks, and reveal corresponding changes
      in recruitment curve of TA MEP.
    
  