
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess whether daily duloxetine hydrochloride (duloxetine) decreases average joint
           pain in women with aromatase inhibitor-associated musculoskeletal syndrome (AIMSS), as
           measured at 12 weeks by the modified Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF).

      Secondary

        -  To assess whether daily duloxetine decreases worst joint pain in women with AIMSS, as
           measured at 12 weeks by the modified BPI-SF.

        -  To assess whether daily duloxetine decreases pain interference in women with AIMSS, as
           measured at 12 weeks by the modified BPI-SF.

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine improves functioning, pain, and stiffness in the
           knees/hips according to the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis
           (WOMAC) scale. (Exploratory)

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine improves function, pain, and stiffness in the
           hands according to the Modified Score for the Assessment and Quantification of Chronic
           Rheumatoid Affections of the Hands (M-SACRAH). (Exploratory)

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine improves functional quality of life as measured
           by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Scale (FACT-ES). (Exploratory)

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine improves the proportion of patients reporting
           changes for the better versus worst as measured by the Global Rating of Change Scale.
           (Exploratory)

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine decreases analgesic use.

        -  To investigate whether daily duloxetine increases adherence to, and reduces the
           discontinuation rate for, aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy. (Exploratory)

        -  To assess whether patients receiving duloxetine as compared to placebo have improved
           depression as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) at Weeks 6 and 12.
           (Exploratory)

        -  To explore the relationship between inherited variants in genes responsible for
           duloxetine metabolism and activity (COMT, HTR3A, SLC6A2, SLC6A4, CYP1A2, CYP2D6) and
           aromatase (CYP19A1) and change in pain with 12 weeks of treatment. (Exploratory)

        -  To explore the impact of treatment on serum inflammatory cytokine levels with 12 weeks
           of treatment at baseline and 12 weeks. (Exploratory)

        -  To bank blood samples for future correlative analyses. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to baseline pain
      score (4-6 vs 7-10), and prior taxane use (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive duloxetine hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
           1-7, twice daily (BID) on days 8-84, and then QD on days 85-91.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-7, BID on days 8-84, and then QD on
           days 85-91.

      Patients complete the modified Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF) questionnaire at
      baseline and periodically during study treatment. Patients may also complete the Western
      Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (WOMAC) scale, the Modified Score for the
      Assessment and Quantification of Chronic Rheumatoid Affections of the Hands (M-SACRAH), the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Scale (FACT-ES), Global Rating of Change
      Scale, and the patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9).

      Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during treatment for
      correlative studies, including biomarker and genetic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 168 days.
    
  