
    
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is the gold standard surgical treatment of symptomatic
      cholecystectomy which traditionally performed under general anesthesia. Laparoscopy has
      provided many advantages over open surgery for the patients; however, general anesthesia
      adversely affects patients' early postoperative quality of life (POQoL).

      Spinal anesthesia which is a less invasive technique compared to general anesthesia has many
      advantages regarding the POQoL such as no need to wait for recovery from anesthesia, less
      nausea and vomiting, less or no pain at the end of surgery, no discomfort associated with
      intubation, early ambulation, fully awaken and oriented patient in the bed, and less anxious
      relatives.

      LC has been shown to be feasible under spinal anesthesia if performed with proper technique.
      There are many reports demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of LC under spinal
      anesthesia in selected patients. However, patients with complicated gallstone disease such as
      acute, gangrenous or subacute cholecystitis have been considered as unfit cases for LC under
      spinal anesthesia because of technical difficulties. On the other hand, spinal anesthesia has
      also been regarded as inappropriate for patients complying with American society for
      anesthesiology (ASA) III and IV due to the uncontrolled anesthesia risks.

      The aim of this study is to compare early postoperative outcomes of unselected consecutive
      patients underwent LC under spinal versus general anesthesia. If proportion of general
      anesthesia (PGA) / proportion of spinal anesthesia (PSA) denotes the proportion rate of
      outcomes in the general anesthesia group (GaG) / spinal anesthesia group (SaG), then
      two-sided test problem is assessed as follow:

        1. Null hypothesis: H0: PGA = PSA. There is no difference between the two anesthesia
           techniques in terms of primary outcomes.

        2. Null hypothesis: H1: PGA ≠ PSA There is a difference between the two anesthesia
           techniques in terms of primary outcomes.
    
  