
    
      Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS) is caused by viruses in the genus Hantavirus of
      the family Bunyaviridae. There are four known Hantavirus that cause HFRS: Hantaan, Seoul,
      Puumala and Dobrava viruses. HFRS is acquired by contact with chronically infected rodent
      hosts, most commonly from inhalation of infected rodent excreta. Hemorrhagic fever with renal
      syndrome is characterized clinically by the triad of fever, hemorrhage and renal
      insufficiency. HFRS typically consists of five consecutive but frequently overlapping
      clinical phases: febrile, hypotensive, oliguric, diuretic and convalescent. DoD operations
      have resulted in the deployment of personnel in Europe and Southeast Asia, areas endemic for
      HFRS, a viral hemorrhagic fever. Early initiation of therapy with intravenous Ribavirin has
      been shown to be an effective treatment for HFRS. It is therefore important to initiate
      therapy based on a clinical diagnosis consistent with viral hemorrhagic fever and with an
      epidemiological history for risk of exposure to the hantavirus. Ribavirin is a nucleoside
      (guanosine) analog with activity against a wide variety ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic
      acid viruses. Mechanism of action is not fully defined. The mechanism may be related to
      alteration of cellular nucleotide pools and of viral messenger RNA formation, but recent data
      suggest the mechanism of Ribavirin in HFRS may be to serve as a RNA virus mutagen resulting
      in an "extinction catastrophe" error, as a result of incorporation in the viral RNA genome.

      Ribavirin is licensed in the United States in aerosol form for the treatment of severe lower
      respiratory tract infection in children and in the oral formulation in combination with
      recombinant interferon alpha for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. The
      intravenous formulation of ribavirin in not licensed in the United States. IV Ribavirin for
      the treatment of HFRS is used under IND 16,666.

      This is a Phase 2, open-label study of the safety of IV Ribavirin treatment in individuals
      with Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS) admitted to the 121st Combat Support
      Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea. The study will also monitor morbidity and mortality of
      subjects with HFRS who are treated with IV Ribavirin. The study population will include all
      subjects with a probable or suspected clinical diagnosis of HFRS, at least 18 years of age
      (age 17 if active military) but not greater than 65 years of age. The Investigators intend to
      treat all individuals who present with a tentative diagnosis of HFRS (and within 7 days of
      onset of illness) and meet entry criteria with a 7 day course of IV Ribavirin and a 28-60 day
      follow up period after first dose of Ribavirin. In addition to treatment with Ribavirin, all
      subjects will be given standard supportive and symptomatic care as determined by the clinical
      judgment of attending physicians or consultants who manage the subject's care at the 121 CSH.
      Up to 50 subjects could potentially be enrolled in a five year time period with an expected
      accrual of 0-5 subjects per year, but the number may be higher (10 to 20 persons in a year)
      if an HFRS outbreak should occur. Specific inclusion/exclusion/relative exclusion criteria
      are a part of the protocol. Safety procedures required during 7 days of treatment include
      continuous cardiac monitoring, daily lab work, physical exams and vital signs.
    
  