
    
      Pre-emptive pharmacogenomic testing will be implemented in clinical sites across seven
      European countries (United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Austria, Greece, Slovenia, Italy and
      Spain). The 36-month study is split into two (19 and 18-month) time-blocks. The participating
      countries are randomized to start with either implementing pharmacogenomics guided
      prescribing or with standard of care in the first block. In the pharmacogenomics guided
      prescribing arm, results of the pharmacogenomic test will be incorporated in the (electronic)
      medical record and may be used by physicians and pharmacists to guide drug and dose selection
      for 39 routinely prescribed drugs, as per the Dutch Pharmacogenomics Working Group
      guidelines. In the standard of care arm, patients will not receive pharmacogenomic testing.
      After this 19-month block, the countries switch to implementing the opposite strategy and
      will recruit new patients for a period of 18 months.

      Patients are eligible for participation when they receive a first prescription for one or
      more of 39 drugs for which a Dutch Pharmacogenomic Working Group guideline is available
      (acenocoumarol, amitriptyline, aripiprazole, atomoxetine, atorvastatin, azathioprine
      ,capecitabine, citalopram, clomipramine, clopidogrel, codeine, doxepin, efavirenz,
      escitalopram, flecainide, flucloxacillin, fluorouracil, haloperidol, imipramine, irinotecan,
      mercaptopurine, metoprolol, nortryptiline, paroxetine, phenprocoumon, phenytoin, pimozide,
      propafenon, sertraline, simvastatin, tacrolimus, tamoxifen, tegafur, thioguanine, tramadol,
      venlafaxine, voriconazole, warfarin or zuclopenthixol). All patients will be followed for a
      minimum of three months and a maximum of 18 months. In total, 8,100 patients will be
      recruited; 4,050 will receive pharmacogenomic testing, and 4,050 will receive standard of
      care. Each implementation site will concentrate on, but is not limited to, recruiting
      patients within a specific therapeutic area. Therapeutic areas include primary care, general
      medicine, cardiology, oncology, psychiatry, neurology, and transplantation. It is
      hypothesized that implementing pharmacogenomics guided drug and dose selection will decrease
      incidence of clinically relevant adverse drug reactions by 30% (from 4% to 2.8% among those
      with actionable drug-gene interactions).
    
  