
    
      The multimodality approach for management of primary and secondary brain tumors includes
      surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Determination of an objective response to treatment
      relies on imaging findings (e.g. CT, MRI, PET).During the course of the disease patients with
      brain tumors often develop new or worsening contrast-enhancing lesions on routine follow-up
      imaging.These lesions may reflect tumor recurrence, treatment effect, or a combination of
      both. Discerning between tumor recurrence and treatment effect is clinically significant
      issue and a major challenge in neuro-oncology. Treatment-related effects exist within a
      spectrum, with "pseudoprogression" reflecting subacute and often transient injury, and
      "radiation necrosis" reflecting later and more permanent damage.The difficulty in
      differentiating tumor progression from treatment-related effects has serious implications for
      individual patient treatment decisions and prognosis as well as for clinical trial design and
      interpretation of results.

      A contemporary hybrid scanner technology is capable of acquiring both metabolic information
      from PET and morphological and functional details from MRI. This new integrated technique
      opens new horizons for clinical and research evaluation of brain tumors and the associated
      treatment effects.

      The aim of the current study is to use the combined data obtained by PET-MRI scanning
      regarding amino acid metabolic profile, functional and morphological details in order to:

        1. Distinguish between progressive tumor and treatment related effects

        2. To identify pseudo-response to antiangiogenic therapy from tumor progression

        3. To optimize the study protocol of PET-MRI for future routine clinical application.

      The study will include three cohorts of patients with brain tumors:

        1. Primary brain tumors:

           A cohort of 60 adult patients (age: 18-70) with newly diagnosed high grade gliomas
           (Glioblastoma, Anaplastic Astrocytoma, Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma, Anaplastic
           Oligoastrocytoma) scheduled for a combined treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
           Patients will be eligible for the study immediately after receiving the pathological
           diagnosis and prior to any further treatment. These patients will undergo the PET-MRI
           scanning at 4 time points as follows:

             -  1st scan: after surgery or biopsy and before any further treatment

             -  2nd scan: will be performed up to 4 weeks after completing the combined
                radiotherapy and chemotherapy regimen.

             -  3rd and 4th scans: will follow with interval of 3 months between studies.

             -  Additional scans will be performed by the decision of the investigators or when the
                patient is scheduled for antiangiogenic therapy

        2. Brain metastases treated with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS):

           A cohort of 60 adult patients (age: 18-75) who are being followed after SRS treatment
           for brain metastases secondary to breast or lung cancer whose recent imaging showed
           signs of progression in at list one of the previously treated lesion. Progression will
           be determined by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO criteria) for
           brain metastases. Number of target lesions should not exceed 4 with size of lesions
           ranging between 5-40 mm. These patients will undergo the PET-MRI scanning at three time
           points as follows:

             -  1st scan: Following determination of progression of SRS treated lesion based on
                standard surveillance MRI

             -  2nd and 3rd scans: will be performed every 2 months after the first scan

             -  Additional scans will be performed by the decision of the investigators

        3. Brain metastases not treated with SRS/radiotherapy

      A cohort of 20 adult patients (age: 18-75) with a diagnosis of brain metastases secondary to
      human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer or anaplastic lymphoma
      kinase (ALK) or Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) gene mutant lung cancer who might be
      candidate for SRS treatment and in whom targeted therapy is selected instead. The size of the
      lesions should range between 5-40 mm. These patients will undergo the PET-MRI scanning at
      three time points as follows:

        -  1st scan: after the first documentation of brain metastases on standard MRI

        -  2nd and 3rd scans: will be performed every 2 months after the first scan

        -  In case of progression and SRS treatment follow-up scanning will be performed every 2
           months

        -  Additional scans will be performed by the decision of the investigators
    
  