
    
      This therapeutic trial will be conducted in patients with MCT8 deficiency (also called
      Allan-Herndon-Dudley Syndrome (AHDS)), which is due to mutations in monocarboxylate
      transporter (MCT)8. MCT8 is a thyroid hormone transporter which is crucial for the transport
      of thyroid hormone from the blood into different tissues. Defective MCT8 results in a lack of
      thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism) in tissues that are dependent on MCT8 for thyroid hormone
      uptake, such as the brain. Hypothyroidism in the brain results in severe intellectual and
      motor disability. Another important feature of this disease is the high serum T3
      concentrations in the blood. This results in hyperthyroidism in tissues that are not
      dependent on MCT8 for their thyroid hormone supply. As a result, patients with MCT8
      deficiency have clinical features of thyrotoxicosis such as low body weight, elevated heart
      rate and reduced muscle mass.

      Preclinical studies have shown that the T3 analogue tiratricol is transported into cells in
      an MCT8-independent manner. In animal models mimicking MCT8 deficiency, Triac has been shown
      to normalize brain development if administrated during early postnatal life.

      Recently, Triac Trial I (NCT02060474) has shown that tiratricol treatment in patients with
      MCT8 deficiency improves key clinical and biochemical features caused by the toxic effects of
      the high T3 concentrations. No drug related serious adverse events have occurred during Triac
      Trial I.

      This study will investigate the effect of treatment with tiratricol in young boys (≤30
      months) with MCT8 deficiency (also called the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS)). The
      hypothesis tested is that treatment with tiratricol will have a beneficial effect on the
      hypothyroid state in the brain as well as the hyperthyroid state in peripheral organs and
      tissues in these patients. Patients will be treated for 24 months with tiratricol, treatment
      effect will be evaluated at an interim analysis after 12 months treatment and after 24 months
      treatment.
    
  