
    
      Study Protocol

      Minimum three interviews would be carried out in the hospital with the caregivers meeting the
      inclusion criteria after stroke patients are hospitalized.

      The first interview would be carried out within 24-48 hours after the hospitalization.

      The second interview would be carried out on the following day after the first interview.

      The third interview would be carried out two days after the second interview. If required,
      interview would be carried out in the hospital every day.

      The home visit will be realized by the coordination center or researcher within 5 working
      days after discharge.

      Caregivers will be called by the coordinator once at a certain hour every day in the first
      week after discharge and between the second and twelfth weeks. In addition, communication
      with the phone will constantly continue when needed.

      24/7 access to the website, which is prepared for family members / caregivers of stroke
      patients, will be available for three months from discharge.

      The Intervention to be Applied to Control Group

      Preparation of control group for discharge would be made by clinical staff based on routine
      program of the hospital. In the first interview after the admission to the hospital, the
      pretest will be applied to intervention and control groups and the posttest would be applied
      to the groups at the end of three months after discharge. After taking the posttest, the
      website will be made available to the control group.

      Randomization

      Simple randomization method was used in order to randomly select stroke patients and
      caregivers and to assign the intervention and control group impartially. The simple
      randomization method will be used for selecting the caregivers of stroke patients, planned to
      have participated in the study, incidentally from the universe, and for assigning the
      intervention and control group detachedly. Randomization was performed by using the
      https://www.randomizer.org/ website and the intervention and control group were determined
      according to the list obtained. The patients and caregivers will be participated according to
      this sequence number. Pre-tests will be collected by the researcher.

      Data Collection Forms

      It was planned to use separate assessment instruments for the caregivers and the patients.
      Assessment instruments to be used for the caregivers are descriptive information, E-health
      literacy scale, Caregiving Competence Scale, Preparedness for Caregiving Scale, and Maslach
      Burnout Inventory-General Form. Descriptive information, Modified Ranking Scale for
      confinement level, Functional Independence Measure (Küçükdeveci et al., 2001), evaluation of
      rehospitalization of patients, LACE index (length of stay (L), acuity of the admission (A),
      comorbidity of the patient (C) and emergency department use in the duration of 6 months
      before admission (E)) and Braden Scale (Pınar and Oğuz, 1998) for evaluating pressure sores
      were planned to be used as assessment instruments to be used for the patients.
    
  