
    
      Visuo-motor imitation (VMI) impairments are central to the pathogenesis and affect the
      treatment of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Therapies most commonly used to enhance social,
      communicative, academic, adaptive and occupational function in individuals with ASD rely on
      imitation, and impairments in VMI represent a bottleneck to the efficiency and efficacy of
      these therapies. Furthermore, an influential psychological account suggests that imitation
      impairments lead to the development of the ASD phenotype. By studying precisely how VMI is
      impaired in ASD, it is possible both to enhance widespread therapies and possibly to alter
      the course of the disorder itself. Unfortunately, researchers currently know little about the
      precise nature of imitation impairments in ASD. Our laboratory has recently identified a
      promising specific task parameter that separates preserved from impaired gesture imitation in
      ASD: children with ASD have difficulty imitating when the task requires two separate movement
      elements be coordinated simultaneously. By contrast, imitation is relatively preserved when
      movement elements are performed serially. This finding has been subsequently validated in a
      published study and again replicated in preliminary data. Coordination of simultaneous
      movements is a hallmark of skills performed in the real world (shoe tying, eating with
      knife-and-fork, driving, communicating with simultaneous verbal and gestural language). In
      order to optimize common adaptive and social-communicative skill therapies, the next step is
      to tease apart where, in the chain from perception to action, the capacity limitation in
      simultaneous processing lies. To do this, the investigators propose a rigorous research plan
      that encompasses three complementary experimental approaches: systematic psychophysics,
      neuropsychological testing and EEG. The goal is to specifically dissect the contribution to
      the simultaneity bottleneck in perceptual vs. motor processes using psychophysical control
      experiments. Under the hypothesis that some children with ASD may have more perceptual
      limitations and others may have more motor limitations, the investigators will assess
      heterogeneity explicitly. It is then possible to relate perceptual and motor aspects of
      simultaneous gesture VMI to validated neuropsychological tests of known clinical attentional
      and perceptual deficits in ASD. Finally, in Aim 3, the investigators will directly
      interrogate visual and motor networks. EEG measures of task-related activation are sensitive
      to task load and can be differentially assessed in visual and motor networks. By assessing
      deficient event-related modulation of EEG activity in visual or motor networks to
      simultaneous (high-load) vs. serial (low-load) conditions, the investigators can pinpoint the
      bottleneck. In addition to providing an approach that is complementary to the behavioral
      measures of Aims 1 and 2, the results of the EEG study can pave the way for future biomarkers
      and neurostimulation therapies.
    
  