
    
      The effect of Nivolumab in oncologic diseases is to modulate the immune system in order to
      generate and/or restore a durable anti-tumor response leading to clearance of tumor. Clinical
      data generated with Nivolumab monotherapy in a variety of settings support the hypothesis
      that blockade of the PD-1 pathway results in rejection of tumor by the host immune system.
      The precise mechanisms by which Nivolumab exerts its anti-tumor activity are still under
      investigation. To contribute to this knowledge, tumor tissue from primary operation for all
      patients and tumor tissue from patients in the surgical Arm A will be used for further
      analysis.

      Targeted sequencing with next generation sequencing (NGS) and Genome-wide Associations
      Studies (GWAS) with the use of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-arrays and micro-array
      for expression profiling will be performed in order to describe the profile of the tumor. At
      Rigshospitalet has initiated a program of NGS of patients with GBM after informed content, by
      obtaining fresh tissue from primary or relapse surgery. In the surgical group (Arm A) of this
      study NGS will be repeated after one dose of Nivolumab. This information will be used in
      combination with the clinical observations for each patient receiving the combination of
      Nivolumab and Bevacizumab and the aim is that these results could be useful towards finding
      prognostic and/or predictive biomarkers in GBM.

      In order to study the interaction between tumor cells and the immune system investigation of
      intratumoral and peripheral changes in tumor-infiltration lymphocytes (TILs) will be
      performed. By looking at TILs and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) Surgical samples will
      be compared to sequencing of baseline surgical samples (before Nivolumab). The interaction of
      TILs and tumor cells will be assessed with in vitro functional assays of autologous tumor
      cell recognition. Functional patterns of antitumor CD8+ and CD4+ TILs and PBLs will be
      investigated, with assays combining characterization of major T cell functions and
      simultaneous surface staining of PD-1 after co-culture with autologous tumor cells. This may
      detect treatment-induced changes in the functional repertoires of CD4+ and CD8+ TILs both in
      the tumor microenvironment (TILs) and in the periphery (PBLs). It is expected that these
      analyses will reveal whether significant functional changes (defined as increased frequency
      of tumor-reactive T cells or as functional shifting from a monofunctional to a
      multifunctional profile) are induced in the whole repertoire of T cells, or whether these
      changes are restricted to PD-1 positive T cells.

      Regarding the immune-reactivity, CD8 T cell recognition of tumor-specific-antigens (TSA),
      i.e. and mutation derived neoepitopes will be analyzed in enrolled patients. To analyze for
      immune reactivity on a personalized basis by comprising epitope-maps based on both
      mutation-derived neoepitopes and shared tumor antigens selected based on the individual tumor
      mRNA expression level.

      For the prediction of mutation- and splice-variation derived epitopes, whole exome sequencing
      (WES) and mRNA sequencing will be conducted on tumor versus germline-control samples.
      Cancer-specific mutations, indels, frameshifts and splice variations will be mapped to
      predict T cell epitopes overlapping these regions based on the patient HLA type, using
      available prediction tools, netMHC. A pipeline for processing next-generation sequencing data
      into tumor-specific neo-epitope maps has been generated to include analyses of tumor
      heterogeneity and generate personalized peptide libraries for each patient and analyze for T
      cell recognition of personalized neoepitopes in each patient included in the study. A novel
      technology will tag and track multiple (>1000) antigen specific T cell specificities based on
      their peptide-MHC (pMHC) recognition motif through a pMHC multimer with a co-attached 'DNA
      barcode'. Through use of this technology T cell recognition will be assessed against large
      libraries of peptides in limited biological samples, such as tissue biopsies, TILs and
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Data will reveal to what extend mutation and
      splice-variant derived neoepitopes are contributing to immune recognition as a consequence of
      checkpoint inhibition. If these are significantly recognized, then they are likely to play a
      crucial role for the clinical response to checkpoint inhibition.
    
  