
    
      The purpose of the present clinical trial in humans will be to test the impregnation capacity
      of the acai dye (10 and 25% concentrations) in the identification of the posterior hyaloid
      and ILM during vitreoretinal surgery in humans.

      Twenty-four patients that seek treatment at the Ophthalmology Department of The Federal
      University of São Paulo will be selected for this study. Inclusion criteria will be patients
      diagnosed with epiretinal membrane, macular hole or diabetic retinopathy (with or without
      vitreal hemorrhages, and/or macular edema, and/or vitreomacular traction). All must be
      indicated for vitrectomy surgery for the removal of the epiretinal membrane and/or internal
      limiting membrane.

      The present clinical trial was approved by the ethics committee of the Federal University of
      São Paulo (CEP-UNIFESP). All patients will be invited to sign an Informed Consent Form before
      participating in the study.

      Twenty-four different retina surgeons will operate one of the 24 selected patients, using the
      standard vitrectomy technique that employs 4 sclerotomies and a 23-gauge system with
      accessory illumination. All surgeries will be performed using the acai dye (Euterpe oleracea)
      in the following concentrations: 10% (n=12) or 25% (n=12).

      Immediately after the procedure, each surgeon will be given an evaluation questionnaire to
      fill-in.

      All patients will be submitted to the following routine pre-operatory evaluations:

        1. Physical and pre-anesthesia evaluations - to be performed by the Anesthesiology Team of
           the São Paulo Hospital.

        2. Complete Ophthalmological Examination - that will include:

             1. Visual Acuity Measurements with best correction for both eyes.

             2. Applaination Tonometry (Goldman Tonometer). For this, one drop of anesthetic
                solution and one drop of fluorescein were instilled in the eye.

             3. Biomicroscopy

             4. Indirect binocular ophthalmoscopy: under mydriasis that will be obtained before
                each procedure by topical application of tropicamide and phenylephrine.

             5. Retinography and Angiofluoresceinography (with patient under mydriasis- except when
                "opacidade de meios")

             6. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) of the posterior segment (except when "opacidade
                de meios")

             7. Multifocal Electroretinogram (except when "opacidade de meios")

      The vitrectomy surgery will be performed in all patients of this present study using the
      23-gauge technique composed of 4 sclerectomies and vitrectomy without 23-gauge sutures.

      During surgery, after vitreous removal, the dye extracted from the acai fruit will be slowly
      injected using a 23 or 25-gauge silicone cannula connected to a 5ml syringe. The objective of
      the slow injection of the dye is so that it will deposit over the posterior hyloid/peripheral
      vitreous due to gravity. At this moment, photographic documentation will be performed.

      After the dislocation of the posterior hyloid, the removal of the peripheral vitreous and the
      excess dye, a MachemerTM (Volk, Germany) macula magnifying lens will be used to improve
      visualization for the removal of the ILM using an intraocular tweezers. If the ILM is not
      visible, a second injection with the dye will be performed.

      At the end of the surgery, all patients will receive medical prescription of drops with
      antibiotic and corticoid association during 1 week after the procedure, following vitrectomy
      post-surgical routine.

      A questionnaire with 6 questions (ANNEX 1) will be handed to each surgeon after the end of
      the surgery.
    
  