
    
      All patients recruited will undergo standard endoscopy using current generation Pentax
      endoscopes. These endoscopes are widely used for standard endoscopic procedures. All of the
      endoscopes that will be used have the I-scan function which is controlled by the operator.
      Therefore there will be no difference between the groups randomised to I-Scan or standard
      endoscopy, other than a very slight difference in duration for I-scan, which the patient is
      unlikely to detect. We have received no funding from Pentax for the use of their endoscopes.

      Following recruitment patients will be randomly allocated to receive standard white light
      endoscopy or standard white light endoscopy plus I-Scan using a random number generator at
      www.random.org with possible values of 0 or 1. Those with a 0 will receive standard endoscopy
      and those with a 1 will receive standard endoscopy plus I-Scan. Both arms will undergo
      standard endoscopic evaluation including appropriate biopsies by fully trained experienced
      endoscopists with Joint Advisory Group (JAG) accreditation for endoscopy. The investigators
      will be initially blinded to the indication for endoscopy until the I-Scan has been utilised
      at which point the indication will be revealed to ensure patient safety. Patients will have
      biopsies only by the clinical indication. No extra biopsies that would not normally be
      clinically justified will be taken. Following the procedure all patients will be asked to
      evaluate the tolerability of their test using a validated 10 point likert scale. All
      procedures will be recorded on an anonymised basis using a unique research identifier and
      subsequently reviewed by other expert endoscopists within the department to allow us to
      accurately assess the reliability and interobserver variability of the test. Each of the
      endoscopists will be fully trained in standard endoscopy and will be blinded to the
      indication for the procedure.

      The study will be a randomised controlled trial. Given the nature of the study it is not
      possible to blind the investigators to the procedure type. The investigator carrying out the
      procedure will however be blinded to the indication for the procedure until the I-Scan has
      been used as this could lead to bias. The endoscopists reviewing the images will be blinded
      to all patient information and indications for the endoscopy throughout the study period.
    
  