
    
      "Transfusion-Associated Dyspnea: Prospective Observation and Laboratory Assessment" (TADPOL)
      aims to improve the diagnosis and characterization of cardiorespiratory transfusion reaction
      (CRTR) patients ("cases"), as compared with high risk febrile transfusion reaction (HRFTR)
      patients ("controls"), by applying a standardized and intensive clinicolaboratory profiling
      tool.

      CRTR, in contrast with HRFTR, are more difficult to diagnose and manage. Patients are often
      sick with (or prone to) pathologies that resemble reactions (eg. congestive heart failure
      [CHF] vs transfusion associated circulatory overload [TACO]), and/or experience more than one
      transfusion-associated disturbance at a time.

      CRTRs are also the most disruptive, distressing, and disposition-escalating events for
      patients at an individual level, and are disproportionately accountable for transfusion
      associated deaths at the collective level in national hemovigilance systems. The cardinal
      CRTRs range from TACO (most commonly) to allergic bronchospasm to transfusion related acute
      lung injury (TRALI).

      Inaccurate classification may undercount certain phenomena (when criteria fail to be met by
      confounding conditions), and/or overcount others (when including all
      possibilities-of-relevance in hemovigilance).

      These uncertainties beget gaps (or excesses) in patient care and in donor/product-associated
      decision-making.

      HYPOTHESES: The TADPOL CRF and laboratory profiling effort will improve the yields of
      confident (more certain), accurate (better-grounded), and thorough (multi-event-sensitive)
      diagnoses in CRTR patients.

      Most cases of TAD are likely to be re-classified as milder versions (or overlaps) of possible
      CRTR states (± the underlying condition), while the remainder may exhibit a signature
      resembling FNHTR (FTR controls).

      Precise case-mapping should yield useful personalized information, while aggregated findings
      from each disturbance pathway - as they are distributed in each conventional reaction
      category - can validate the utility of markers being explored in reaction investigation
      algorithms.

      The TADPOL bioarchive and anonymized dataset will also be assets for explorations of novel
      indicators and patterns.
    
  