
    
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and Hodgkin Lymphoma are two aggressive lymphomas often treated
      with doxorubicin containing chemotherapy. Doxorubicin is an anthracycline and is known to be
      toxic to both Leydig Cells of the testes and hormone-producing cells of the hypothalamus.
      Therefore, patients treated with this drug are at risk of developing hypogonadism. Standard
      follow-up programs do not include analysis of hormone levels or treatment of hypogonadism.
      With this study the aim is to investigate the effect and toxicity of treatment with exogenous
      testosterone in male long-term survivors of malignant lymphoma, to clarify whether it is
      relevant to include serum testosterone and potentially testosterone replacement therapy in
      standard follow-up programs.

      Our Hypothesis:

      Hypothesis 1: A significant proportion of long-term male survivors of HL and DLBCL have
      impaired quality of life (QoL) due to sexual dysfunction.

      Hypothesis 2: A significant proportion of long-term male survivors of HL and DLBCL have
      reduced levels of testosterone.

      Hypothesis 3: A significant relationship between QoL, sexual dysfunction and testosterone
      levels exists.

      Hypothesis 4: Substitution with testosterone in carefully selected subgroups will improve
      sexual function and QoL.

      Hypothesis 5: Treatment with testosterone in this setting is safe with acceptable toxicity.

      To assess efficacy and safety of treatment with testosterone replacement therapy on
      hypogonadism in lymphoma patients, blood tests and questionnaires are completed throughout
      one year of treatment. To assess patient sexuality and quality of life, 3 questionnaires are
      included; the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of
      Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ C30) for general quality of life, EORTC Sexual Health
      Questionnaire 22 (SHQ-22) for sexual health and International index of erectile function with
      5 questions (IIEF-5) for sexual function.
    
  