
    
      The aims of this study are: (a) to compare SADI vs DS as a primary bariatric procedure for
      weight loss; (b) to compare the minor and major complications of SADI vs DS (c) to compare
      SADI vs DS for remission rates of type 2 diabetes (d) to compare SADI vs DS for remission
      rates of hypertension (e) to compare SADI vs DS for weight regain at 5 years (f) to compare
      SADI vs DS for metabolic alterations. The investigators hypothesize that both procedures will
      have similar weight loss and metabolic remission results. If the complication rates of SADI
      are similar or superior to the complication rates of the DS, then the investigators could
      propose the SADI as a viable alternative to the DS in patients with high BMIs requiring
      increased weight loss.

      The investigators will conduct a prospective randomized study. The study will include 140
      patients who are scheduled for bariatric procedures. The patients will be stratified into 2
      groups. The first group will continue according to the standard bariatric preoperative
      protocol and will be assigned to a DS. The second group will also follow standard bariatric
      preoperative protocol but will be assigned to a SADI. Follow up of all patients will continue
      according to the usual bariatric clinic guidelines.

      From literature, the mean excess body weight loss is 77.65% with standard deviation of 21%
      for Duodenal Switch bariatric surgery. If there is in truth no difference between the
      Duodenal Switch and SADI for excess body weight loss, then 140 patients (70 per group) are
      required to have 80% power for the lower limit of a one-sided 97.5% confidence interval (or
      equivalently a 95% two-sided confidence interval) will be above the non-inferiority limit of
      -10%.

      Participants must meet ALL of the following inclusion criteria:

        -  Fulfilled criteria for bariatric surgery as coined by National Institutes of Health.

        -  Their age is ≥18 years and ≤70 years

        -  Able and willing to give written consent

      Participants who meet any of the following criteria at the time of the baseline visit are NOT
      eligible to be enrolled in this study:

        -  Contra-indication to general anesthesia

        -  Any medical condition, which in the judgment of the Investigator and/or designee makes
           the subject a poor candidate for the investigational procedure

        -  Pregnant or lactating female (Women of child bearing potential must take a pregnancy
           test prior to surgery)

        -  History of alcohol abuse (>30 g/day in men or >20 g/day in women)
    
  