
    
      Vitiligo is a common, disfiguring skin complaint which affects between 0.5 and 2% of the
      world population and which presents with de-pigmented patches of skin. Highly stigmatising it
      has a profound psychological impact on those affected and negatively impacts quality of life.
      Efficacy of current therapies which include topical steroids/calcineurin inhibitors and
      ultraviolet light are limited and new treatments are required. Numerous papers including the
      2010 Cochrane review have highlighted the need for a consensus on outcome measures which
      could then facilitate meta-analyses and provide robust clinical recommendations. No standard
      method of measuring skin re-pigmentation has been identified to date and current best
      practice relies on clinician assessment and use of various non-standardised grading systems
      (of which there are over 40 none of which has been proven superior or accepted by the
      consensus of clinicians) and in addition are neither robust nor objective. Measurement of
      skin pigment levels can be achieved using portable devices such as Spectrophotometric
      Intracutaneous Analysis scope (SIAscope) using an imaging modality called ScanoskinTM. Unlike
      other digital methods reported in the literature, this has been validated as a quantitative
      measure of melanin content in the skin, it is portable, easy to use and not prohibitively
      expensive. The aim of this study is to determine if ScanoskinTM is equivalent to the current
      gold standard of planimetry (mainly used in research setting) for establishing extent of
      vitiligo. In addition the investigators want to assess whether it offers a more objective
      standardised measure of vitiligo compared with clinician assessment (current accepted best
      clinical practice) which could then be utilised to provide a meaningful assessment of new and
      existing treatment modalities. In addition the investigators will assess whether ScanoskinTM
      is able to identify subclinical disease which could affect clinical decisions regarding
      treatment strategies and also assess whether improvements in pigmentation correlate with
      patient satisfaction and quality of life scores.
    
  