
    
      A high volume of patients are admitted to hospitals yearly for bowel obstruction/ileus
      complications. Lifetime risk of small bowel obstruction varies from 0.1%-5% if patients have
      not undergone abdominal surgery, but increases to 30% if the patient underwent a prior
      abdominal surgery. Ileus is also a common complication in the short term post-operative
      period. Both of these conditions are initially treated with nasogastric tube decompression if
      the patient is having emesis.

      The investigators were unable to find any literature that shows a concrete volume of
      nasogastric tube output that was deemed the maximum for safe removal. Signs of return of
      bowel function can indicate it is safe to remove the nasogastric tube. These include flatus,
      bowel movements, decrease in nasogastric tube output amount, change of nasogastric tube
      output color from bilious (green) to more gastric (yellow) or salivary (clear/foamy) quality.
      Some physicians prefer to perform a clamp trial before removal of the nasogastric tube. The
      duration of the trial and cutoff amount of residual drainage varies among physicians.
      Regardless of the duration, the nasogastric tube is essentially stenting open the lower
      esophageal sphincter while it is left in place and not connected to suction. This,
      theoretically, places the patient at risk for aspiration and subsequent pneumonia.
      Information in the literature appears divided in regard to aspiration risk.

      This study hopefully will support the statement that it is safe to remove the nasogastric
      tube with signs of bowel function, without the need for clamp trials and thus avoiding any
      possible adverse outcomes associated with the trial. The investigators also anticipate that
      this study will provide objective guidelines on which patients will continue to improve after
      nasogastric tube removal.
    
  