
    
      Stroke is one of the leading causes of death worldwide and the main cause of incapacity.
      Currently, the only therapies for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients are the administration
      of rt-PA and/or endovascular treatment. Unfortunately, many patients cannot benefit from
      these therapies due to contraindications or evolution time. Neuroprotective therapies could
      not only increase the benefits of available reperfusion therapies but also provide an option
      for patients who are not candidates for these treatments. However, most neuroprotection
      trials have so far failed to demonstrate their efficacy in acute phase stroke patients,
      despite good results in animal studies. Remote ischemic perconditioning (RIPerC) represents a
      new paradigm in neuroprotection. It upregulates endogenous defense systems to achieve
      ischemic tolerance in brain ischemia. It consists of brief episodes of transient limb
      ischemia. According to studies in coronary ischemia, RIPerC during the ischemic event is
      safe, feasible and related to reduction in myocardial injury. However, there is only limited
      data about the clinical utility of RIC in AIS patients. Only one small single-centre,
      randomized, open label clinical trial has been conducted to test RIPerC in AIS patients as an
      adjunctive therapy intravenous alteplase in the prehospital setting.

      The investigators want to conduct a multicenter study (involving 5 university hospitals) of
      prehospital RIPerC in AIS patients (within 8 hours of stroke onset) in which 572 stroke code
      activated patients will be included (286 subjects will undergo RIPerC and 286 subjects will
      be sham). RIPerC will consist of five cycles of electronic tourniquet inflation during five
      minutes and deflation during five minutes. The main endpoint will be a good clinical outcome
      measured by the modified Rankin score. The investigators will also establish a secondary
      neuroimaging endpoint defined by the infarct size observed in a Magnetic resonance imaging
      performed at three days. In addition, the investigators will conduct a substudy of biomarkers
      in 100 patients.

      Our hypothesis is that RIPerC will be safe and will induce endogenous neuroprotective
      phenomenon responsible for good outcome in AIS patients whether treated with
      revascularization therapies or not. Moreover, the development of systemic ischemic tolerance
      will provide a metabolomic and lipidomic signature that will offer the opportunity to find
      specific molecular markers (biomarkers).

      Project Objectives:

        -  To assess RIPerC clinical benefit in AIS measured by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS)
           score <3.

        -  To evaluate whether RIPerC is safe not only in AIS but also in all cases of stroke code
           activation.

        -  To assess whether RIPerC is associated with a reduction of cerebral infarct size.

        -  To identify the metabolomic and lipidomic signatures of the RIPerC effect.
    
  