
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe overall response rate (ORR) upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib, and
      nivolumab in patients with BRAFV600E, microsatellite stable (MSS) metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC).

      II. To determine the safety and tolerability of nivolumab, encorafenib, and binimetinib in
      patients with BRAFV600E, MSS mCRC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate median progression-free survival (PFS) upon treatment with encorafenib,
      binimetinib, and nivolumab.

      II. To estimate median overall survival (OS) upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib,
      and nivolumab.

      III. To estimate median time to response (TTR) upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib,
      and nivolumab.

      IV. To estimate median duration of response (DoR) upon treatment with encorafenib,
      binimetinib, and nivolumab.

      V. To estimate disease control rate (DCR) upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib, and
      nivolumab.

      EXPLORATORY (CORRELATIVE) OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess genomic and immune changes upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib, and
      nivolumab in tumor tissue, blood and stool.

      II. To correlate genomic and immune changes upon treatment with encorafenib, binimetinib, and
      nivolumab in tumor tissue, blood and stool with radiographic response.

      III. To evaluate contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) imaging for disease burden that
      is not measurable by immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST)
      and to correlate location and patterns of metastatic disease with clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive encorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, binimetinib PO twice
      daily (BID) on days 1-28, and nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28
      days for a maximum of 24 cycles of treatment. If disease progression or recurrence occurs,
      treatment may be resumed outside of the context of the clinical trial.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 100 days, then every
      3 months thereafter.
    
  