
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of combination therapy comprising
           intraperitoneal (IP) pemetrexed disodium in combination with IP cisplatin and paclitaxel
           in patients with optimally debulked stage III ovarian epithelial cancer, primary
           peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer in relation to the percentage of patients
           completing at least 6 courses of treatment.

        -  To determine the toxicity and the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To observe 80% of these patients progression free at 18 months after initiation of
           chemotherapy.

        -  To determine, as an exploratory endpoint, the median overall survival of patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  To investigate the pharmacokinetics of this regimen at the determined MTD in these
           patients.

        -  To conduct correlative studies on tumor tissue and blood from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pemetrexed disodium.

      Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intraperitoneally (IP) on day 1, cisplatin IP on day 2,
      and paclitaxel IP on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At least 10 patients are treated at
      the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD).

      Whole blood samples and tumor tissue specimens are obtained from patients at baseline and
      banked for future DNA, RNA, and protein studies related to prediction of disease progression
      and treatment resistance. Plasma and intraperitoneal fluid samples may also be collected from
      patients treated at the MTD for pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma concentrations of
      pemetrexed disodium by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or mass
      spectrometry-HPLC.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  