
    
      Regional anesthesia has been increasingly utilized for providing post-operative analgesia for
      a number of surgical procedures in children. Rectus sheath block and local anesthetic
      infiltration of the surgical site are two common modes for providing post-operative
      analgesia. Studies comparing the two modes have shown ultrasound-guided rectus sheath block
      to improve immediate pain scores and reduce use of post-operative analgesia in pediatric
      patients undergoing umbilical hernia repair. However, these studies have compared
      pre-incisional ultrasound-guided rectus sheath block to post-operative local anesthetic
      infiltration as a subcutaneous and/or intradermal injection. Also, to our knowledge, there
      are no studies evaluating the use or efficacy of laparoscopic guided rectus sheath block for
      pediatric single-incision laparoscopic surgery. Single-incision surgery involves performing
      abdominal operations though a single, small incision, usually located at the umbilicus.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of trans-incisional rectus sheath block
      to intra-operative infiltration of the rectus sheath under direct laparoscopic visualization
      via an intra-abdominal approach for providing post-operative analgesia following
      single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy (SILC) in children.

      The investigators propose a prospective study where pediatric patients who are undergoing
      single-incision laparoscopic cholecystectomy will be randomized pre-operatively to receive
      either a trans-incisional rectus sheath block after facial closure but prior to skin closure
      or intra-operative infiltration of the rectus sheath under direct laparoscopic visualization
      after cholecystectomy. The primary outcome is the post-operative pain rating based on the
      Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale (WBFPRS) following SILC. Additional outcomes measured will
      include: operative times, the use of intravenous/oral opioid and/or non-opioid medication in
      the post-operative period, duration of analgesia following surgery based on time to first
      rescue analgesic, intra-operative hemodynamic changes, post-operative hemodynamic changes,
      incidence of side-effects, and complications. Patients/patient guardians will receive a sheet
      to document post-operative WBFPRS scores, oral opioid and non-opioid medication
      administration once discharged to home for a total of 5 days.
    
  