
    
      The prevalence rate of smoking among schizophrenia patients is as high as 88 percent. This is
      associated with a 2-fold increase in deaths due to smoking related diseases-compounded by
      high rates of nicotine dependence and low abstinence rates following cessation programs.
      Converging lines of evidence suggest that high rates of smoking and nicotine addiction among
      schizophrenic patients is influenced by the presence of disease-related abnormalities in
      brain function. Genetic and post mortem studies show that patients exhibit abnormalities in
      neuronal nicotinic receptors, which are involved in a number of cognitive functions.
      Pharmacological studies show that nicotine temporally improves performance in several
      cognitive tasks including sensory gating, long-term memory, and visual tracking. These data
      support a growing consensus that smoking among schizophrenic patients is a form of
      self-medication, and suggest that the success of targeted smoking cessation programs will
      depend, in part, on finding alternative means of treating the underlying cognitive deficits.
      One of the most reproducible neurocognitive and biological changes in schizophrenia is
      abnormal visual tracking, or smooth pursuit eye movements. Preliminary data show that
      previously reported deficits in visual tracking are related to anticipatory learning deficits
      and that nicotine enhances performance in patients by temporarily treating this learning
      deficit. A better understanding of these processes may lead to better behavioral and/or
      pharmacological therapeutic interventions for excessive nicotine abuse and recidivism in this
      clinically vulnerable population. In order to identify brain regions underlying this learning
      deficit we propose to compare brain activations in 30 healthy controls and 30 patients with
      schizophrenia during anticipation of target motion using functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI). In order to identify the brain regions involved in nicotine-induced
      enhancement of anticipatory learning we will compare activation in patients under conditions
      of unexpected and anticipated target motion following administration of nicotine and placebo.
    
  