
    
      Intrathecal opioids in have been shown to produce analgesia. Lipid solubility and effect on
      specific mu opioid receptors in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord primarily determine the
      analgesic effect of intrathecally injected opioids. Rostral spread of intrathecal opioids
      causes some of the side effects like pruritus, respiratory depression, nausea and vomiting.

      In the investigators' institute, during cesarean delivery under spinal anesthesia is usually
      performed with 1.6-1.8 ml of 0.75% bupivacaine with dextrose (hyperbaric solution) with
      10-20mcg of fentanyl. Preservative free intrathecal (IT) morphine100 to 200 mcg is injected
      at the time of initiation of spinal block for postoperative pain relief. Multiple studies
      have shown excellent postoperative pain relief following cesarean delivery up to 18hrs with
      this dosing regimen.

      However, there has been a national shortage of preservative free morphine since August 2012.
      Based on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile, intrathecal (IT) preservative free
      hydromorphone 100 mcg has been used as a substitute. Anecdotal experience during the past 8
      months suggest that patients have comparable post partum pain relief, with a similar
      side-effect profile to IT morphine.

      There is no published data on the optimal dose of IT hydromorphone for post cesarean
      analgesia. There are case reports and retrospective case study of use of 100mcg IT
      hydromorphone. One randomized controlled trial for knee arthroscopy used 2.5-5-10 mcg of IT
      hydromorphone for postoperative analgesia.

      Hence it is important to determine the optimal dose of IT hydromorphone for post operative
      pain management following cesarean delivery in terms of analgesic efficacy, incidence of side
      effects and the need for treatment interventions

      This study will aim to determine the optimal dose of intrathecal hydromorphone that would
      provide adequate postoperative analgesia with minimal side effects.
    
  