
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of R-flurbiprofen on time to systemic disease progression evaluated
           over a minimum of 3 years in patients with localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate with
           an intermediate or high risk of recurrence and rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
           levels after radiotherapy alone, prostatectomy alone, or both radiotherapy and
           prostatectomy.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on the change in serum PSA levels over time prior to
           androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on the time of initiation of ADT in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on the number of patients requiring ADT.

        -  Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the population pharmacokinetics of R-flurbiprofen and bioinversion of R-ToS in
           this patient population.

        -  Determine the number of patients with systemic disease progression at the end of the
           study.

        -  Determine the time to clinical disease progression in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the time to prostate cancer-related mortality and time to all cause mortality
           in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to risk of recurrence based on Gleason score at diagnosis (5-7 vs
      8-10). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral low-dose R-flurbiprofen twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral high-dose R-flurbiprofen twice daily.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily. In all arms, treatment continues for
           up to 5.5 years (66 months) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients who demonstrate increased prostate-specific antigen without objective
           disease progression and require androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) continue receiving
           R-flurbiprofen. Patients who develop local recurrence or systemic disease may withdraw
           from study and receive additional therapy off study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 390 patients (130 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 3 years.
    
  