
    
      The strategy and methodology used for the systematic review was based on the PRISMA Statement
      (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Medline, PubMed, Cochrane
      Database of Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, ISI Web of
      Knowledge and Web of Science were searched. Information was retrieved about COCH mutations
      causing DFNA9, including phenotype, genotype, audiometric and vestibular data.

      Audiometric data were collected using individual measurements or pure tone average incides in
      the selected records.In case of different audiometric data presentation, for instance
      audiograms or different pure tone average (PTA) plots against age, a comprehensive assessment
      and inventory of all individual measurements was conducted. All available measurements at
      both ears per frequency were inventoried and a binaural mean value for each frequency per age
      was averaged, before the calculation of the indices. If longitudinal measurements of the same
      individual were shown, all the available data was included in the assessment.

      The following parameters for the audiometric data were inventoried: pure tone average (PTA),
      Annual Threshold detarioration (ATD) per frequency and/or PTA, Age-related Typical Audiogram
      (ARTA) and age of onset of the sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL).

      For the vestibular function, all different parameters of the vestibular function were
      inventoried. Normative values, if mentioned, were used to evaluate the measurements. An
      overall inventory of all individual vestibular measurements in relation to age was conducted.

      The following parameters for the vestibular function were inventoried: Time Constant (T)
      derived from velocity-step test (VST) in seconds, Caloric response gain on
      electronystagmography, Annual vestibular deterioration rate and age of onset of vestibular
      dysfunction.
    
  