
    
      Intravenous (IV) iron is a well-tolerated and efficacious treatment of iron deficiency
      anaemia in conditions such as Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      (IBD). Several studies in CKD and IBD patients have shown that IV iron is superior to oral
      iron, most likely explained by decreased uptake and poor compliance (due to gastrointestinal
      side-effects) when using oral iron.

      The patented Iron Isomaltoside 1000 (Monofer®) has been developed to overcome the current
      limitations of IV iron drugs with regards to safety and convenience of use. The possibility
      to administer Monofer® at high single doses (up to 20 mg/kg) reduces the number of treatment
      visits needed for full iron correction, which is cost-effective, resource and time-sparing,
      and a reduced drug exposure frequency decreases the risk of side-effects such as infusion
      reactions.

      The objective of the study is to monitor and quality assure the efficacy, including effects
      on quality of life, and safety of Monofer® in CKD and IBD patient populations when Monofer®
      is used according to the Monofer® label (Summary of Product Characteristics, SPC) in current
      clinical practice and where standard routines are being followed. The scientific rationale
      being to fulfill a need for systematic information/auditing on applied practice including
      both short and long-term experience with the use of IV iron in different hospital settings
      and in current clinical practice. The outcome will provide an evidence base for optimised
      treatment procedures in terms of safety and efficacy.

      The total duration of the study per site is approximately 21 months, which includes a 6
      months enrollment period, a prospective observation period of at least 12 months, and a
      period of maximum 3 months prior to the last blood test. Patients will only attend hospital
      visits planned as part of their standard treatment and they will receive treatment as a part
      of standard care and according to the doctor's discretion. The number of patient visits
      depends on the number of Monofer® treatment courses needed during the study period. Each
      patient can receive one or more treatment courses during 12 months after informed consent.
      The last blood test will be taken after the last Monofer® treatment course which might occur
      13-15 months after informed consent. Study termination will occur once the 12 months
      observational period has been completed for all patients and the last blood test has been
      collected from the last Monofer® treated patient in the study. Each treatment course can
      consist of one or more Monofer® administrations. For each administration of Monofer® either
      intravenous infusion or injection can be used. Pre- and post-treatment blood tests according
      to standard treatment and quality of life assessments for fatigue symptoms (FACIT-Fatigue and
      IBD-F Scales) are a part of the Monofer® treatment course. Laboratory assessments, i.e.
      anaemia work-up/treatment evaluation, shall be a part of local standard practice. The
      protocol does not accept any additional samples outside current local standard practice to be
      taken.

      Clinical data management will be performed in accordance with applicable standards and data
      cleaning procedures. The collected data will systematically be entered into an electronic
      case report form (eClinicalOS, myEDC, license by BioStata Aps Denmark). The sources of
      information are the relevant treatment and laboratory results obtained from patient records
      as well as the quality of life questionnaires for fatigue symptoms. The data will be
      evaluated by the Pharmacosmos Medical Affairs teams and an external Data Management vendor
      located in a country within the European Union.
    
  