
    
      Aims and Objectives

      The study aims to explore the ways in which Optifood can be developed to create relevant
      food-based recommendations (FBRs) and be used for advocacy purposes. Specific objectives seek
      to:

        1. To develop a tool with which to formulate/test FBRs and create effective advocacy
           materials.

        2. To assess its performance in the hands of government/NGOs, in Peru, Thailand and India
           to identify structural changes required and provide guidance on its incorporation into
           their program planning and advocacy activities.

        3. To use the tool to develop locally appropriate FBRs in Peru, Thailand and India.

      Study Setting

      The study will take place in Switzerland, India, Thailand and Peru. Collaborating partners
      and specific locations are as follows:

        -  World Health Organisation - Geneva

        -  Society for Applied Studies - New Delhi

        -  Mahidol University - Bangkok

        -  Instituto de Investigación Nutricional - Peru.

      FBRs will be tested in India in Kheri Kalan PHC in Haryana State.

      Overall study design

      The study aims to pilot test the Optifood tool with relevant organisations, then use the tool
      to test and refine existing FBRs for the target population. Mixed-methods research is
      recommended for exploring complex interventions. Accordingly, quantitative and qualitative
      methods will be used to address the study objectives. The study will use a wide range of
      respondents to gain a broader understanding of current behaviours, identify key influencers
      and understand the facilitators and barriers to behaviour change from different perspectives.
      Sample size will be determined by saturation sampling, that is, continuing investigating
      until no new information is uncovered.

      Design

      Key staff from relevant nutrition experts and governmental and non-governmental organisations
      will be trained to use Optifood, and asked to provide feedback on how it may be adapted to
      support nutrition programme planning activities. Next, Optifood will be used to evaluate and
      refine current FBRs for the target population, which will then be tested with mothers of
      children aged 9-11 months in the study area. This age group has been selected since 9-11
      month old infants will likely demonstrate greater nutritional benefit when compared to older
      children, and they have more established CF intakes than a younger age group (e.g. 6-8
      months) that is more likely to be transitioning to eating complementary foods.

      Sampling strategy

      Organisational staff will be purposefully selected from relevant NGOs and research institutes
      in Peru, Thailand and India. Relevant global nutrition experts will also be purposefully
      sampled for the initial pilot test in Geneva. Sampling will be purposive as the research team
      is aiming for inclusiveness, not representativeness. The characteristics of participants in
      the FGD will reflect the diversity and breadth of potential Optifood users. Organisations
      will be selected based on whether they are involved in nutrition programming and would have
      use for Optifood.

      Mothers of children aged 9-11 months (n=60) will be recruited from six catchment areas within
      the study setting to collect information on food patterns, which is needed to run Optifood.

      Mothers of children aged 9-11 months (n=36) will also be randomly selected from six
      subcentres in Kheri Kalan PHC (i.e. 6 randomly selected mothers from each subcentre) to test
      FBRs once they have been finalised using Optifood. This number is based on the recommended
      sample size from the Trials for Improved Practices (TIPs) protocol guidance, and factors in
      an attrition rate of 10% based on observed in a similar TIPs study in Indonesia.

      Health workers (n=3-6 per FGD) will be purposefully selected from each study area to express
      their impressions of the new FBRs in FGDs. Sampling will be purposive as the research team is
      aiming for inclusiveness, not representativeness. The number of FGDs will depend on the
      number required to reach data saturation i.e., repeated and new material or themes do not
      emerge. Characteristics of Health workers in the FGDs will reflect the diversity and breadth
      of potential Health workers involved in the promotion of nutrition messages.

      Data Analysis

      Quantitative data analysis

      Quantitative data collection methods in this study include QQs, FFQs, and 24-HRs. All
      quantitative data will be double-entered and data entry errors will be identified using range
      and consistency checks. After the data are cleaned, they will be transferred to Stata 11
      software for analysis. Dietary data will be analysed in a specific diet program that has been
      developed using Microsoft Excel. Categories will be generated for continuous variables as
      needed. Data will be analysed and represented using numerical, graphical and tabular methods.
      In order to estimate any changes in infant diet when FBRs are tested with mothers, paired
      t-tests will be used to identify differences in means with 95% CIs for all 24-HRs.
      Differences will be considered significant at P< 0.05. Statistics will be used for
      descriptive purposes, i.e. the study population will be represented as proportions, means,
      etc. and dietary data will be represented in means and standard deviations.

      Qualitative data analysis

      The study will rely heavily on FGDs, IDIs and structured observations at various stages for
      insights into how to refine the Optifood tool. Qualitative analysis will be iterative, thus
      evolve alongside data collection. NVivo 8 software will be used to store and code all the FGD
      and IDI transcripts after they have been translated into English. Contents of FGD and IDI
      transcripts will identify the range of health personnel and mothers' reactions to Optifood
      and FBRs, respectively. A thematic approach will be used to code FDGs and IDIs, starting with
      initial free coding with an ultimate aim of categorizing themes into categories. This process
      will not use a grounded theory approach, in which coding is entirely inductive.8 However, all
      qualitative data will be coded allowing for emergence of new unanticipated themes.

      Triangulation of data is important to establish reliability of data. Accordingly, data from
      all the FGDs and IDIs will be compared and checked against each other for inconsistencies and
      completeness. Doing so will help the student ascertain the most "correct" interpretation of
      data. All conclusions will be presented to key study staff for accuracy to further improve
      reliability.

      Methods

      Objective 1- Developing the Optifood tool

      Global nutrition experts will be trained to use the Optifood tool in Geneva. Two FGDs will be
      conducted during and 1-day post-training to assess the performance and potential applications
      of Optifood. A self-administered QQ will be collected to obtain information on computer
      literacy, professional experience and socio-demographics.

      Will take place with a trained facilitator with fluency in local language(s) and a
      transcriber. Nutrition experts will answer questions on recommended changes, as well as the
      feasibility and acceptability of Optifood. Open-ended questions will be asked, and then
      followed up by specific prompts which relate to the research question. FGDs will be recorded
      with digital recorders.

      Health personnel will answer self-administered QQs on computer literacy, professional
      experience and sociodemographic information.

      Objective 2- Adapting Optifood for local use

      Key staff from NGOs and/or research institutes in Lima, Bangkok and New Delhi will be trained
      to use the Optifood tool. For each organisation, two FGDs will be conducted during and 7-days
      post-training to assess the performance and potential applications of Optifood. A
      self-administered QQ will be collected to obtain information on computer literacy,
      professional experience and socio-demographics.

      FGDs will take place with a trained facilitator with fluency in local language(s) and a
      transcriber. Health personnel will answer questions on recommended changes, as well as the
      feasibility and acceptability of Optifood. Open-ended questions will be asked, and then
      followed up by specific prompts which relate to the research question. FGDs will be recorded
      with digital recorders.

      QQs will be translated into local languages as needed. Health personnel will answer
      self-administered QQs on computer literacy, professional experience and sociodemographic
      information.

      Objective 3 - Using Optifood to develop, test and refine FBRs

      Developing FBRs

      Optifood will be used to develop population-specific FBRs for the target population. In order
      to run the model, Optifood requires data on the following parameters:

        1. List of foods eaten by the target population

        2. Average portion size

        3. How many times/week the food could be consumed

        4. Whether the food is staple food (Yes/No)

        5. Whether the food is a snack (Yes/No)

        6. Cost per 100 grams edible portion for each food

        7. Information on food patterns by food groups (e.g. legumes, fruit, vegetables, milk,
           etc.) to be measured in number of servings/week.

           a. This information should also include a lower level (5th percentile), upper level
           (95th percentile) and average (50th percentile)

        8. Food Composition Table

        9. Average body weight of population - this can be an estimate.

      Most of these data are available through the collaborating partners. However, data on cost of
      food and food frequency needs to be collected in order to run Optifood.

      A food sub-group frequency questionnaire will be used to collect dietary data on the weekly
      frequency of consumption for each food sub-group usually consumed by children aged 9-11
      months. The food groups and sub-groups to include in the FFQ will be finalised in India based
      on foods reported in the dietary survey data from SAS. This FFQ is based on the FFQ used in
      the National Nutrition Survey in Colombia. Data will be collected from 30 mothers of infants
      aged 9-11 months. For each food sub-group, a trained research assistant fluent in local
      language(s) will ask mothers if any foods from a food sub-group (i.e. cooked vegetables,
      salads or raw vegetables) are consumed by the child. If the answer is yes, mothers will be
      asked to estimate the number of times her child consumed foods from this sub-group over the
      past week.

      A market survey will also be done to obtain cost of foods consumed per 100g edible portion.
      Research assistants will go to 3 local markets and 3 food sellers in each study setting to
      collect one sample of each frequently consumed food regardless of whether it is cooked or
      raw. The edible portion will be determined from the grams of food purchased. For cooked
      foods, raw ingredients will be purchased and cooked to provide a cost per 100g edible
      portion. This method is based on one used in a similar study in Indonesia.

      Once these data have been collected, Optifood will be used to generate FBRs for each target
      population in each study setting.

      Testing FBRs with mothers

      An interviewer-administered socio-demographic QQ will be collected to obtain descriptive data
      on participants testing the FBRs. QQs will be translated into local languages as needed.

      Upon development, FBRs will be tested with 36 mothers of infants aged 9-11 months. Evaluation
      methodology is based on the ProPAN strategy, with one modification of using the Trial of
      Improved Practices (TIPs) method of testing multiple instead of individual FBRs with each
      mother. Sample size is based on TIPS guidance and a similar study in Indonesia.

      Research assistants will introduce FBRs to mothers in their respective homes. IDIs will be
      done to assess their impressions of the FBRs and the feasibility of adopting them. Mothers
      will be given 7 days to implement the FBRs. IDIs will be done at the beginning, middle and
      end of the 7-day testing period (Day 8) to reinforce messages and to assess feasibility of
      long-term practice. IDIs will take place with a trained interviewer with fluency in local
      language(s). Mothers will answer questions on the feasibility and acceptability of FBRs,
      barriers to their use and potential ways to change them after they have put the FBRs into
      practice. IDIs at the final visit at the end of the 7-day testing period will be recorded
      with digital recorders. Based on IDI results, FBRs will be refined for use in this
      population.

      The child's dietary intakes will also be assessed using a modification of the interactive
      multiple-pass 24-hour recall7 pre- and post-FBR introduction. Trained research assistants
      with fluency in local language(s) will ask mothers to recall all food and beverages consumed
      by their child in the past 24 hours, and estimate the amount of each food consumed. The
      modification that will be made to the original interactive multiple-pass 24 hour recall is
      that at the end of the interview, mothers will also be asked to estimate the frequency of
      consumption of each food over the past week. Infant weight will also be measured at the end
      of the 7-day testing period.

      Health workers will also provide additional data on the barriers to nutrition counseling, as
      well as the feasibility and acceptability of promoting the Optifood-generated FBRs in
      comparison with those currently being used. Health workers will participate in a FGD to
      collect data on these FBRs. A trained facilitator with fluency in local language(s) and a
      transcriber will ask health workers open-ended questions about their impressions of the FBRs,
      the feasibility of promoting them, and barriers to nutrition counseling in the target area.
      FGDs will be recorded with digital recorders. A brief socio-demographic QQ will also be
      administered to health workers to collect descriptive data.
    
  