
    
      Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a highly vascularised tumour. Previous studies have shown
      that prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is robustly expressed by the tumour vascular
      endothelium of GBM and thus could be an interesting target for diagnosis and treatment.

      Several groups have focused on the development of 18F-labeled PSMA ligands for PET imaging.
      18F as a radionuclide has several advantages over 68Ga. Due to the longer half-life compared
      (110 min for 18F compared to 68 min for 68Ga) allows for centralized production and
      distribution to greater areas. Furthermore, multiple doses of 18F can be produced in one
      synthesis, while each gallium generator provides only one or two elutions per day. Moreover,
      due to the decreased positron energy (0.65 MeV for 18F compared to 1.90 MeV for 68Ga) imaging
      resolution may be higher. The first generation of 18F-PSMA ligands, such as 18F-DCFBC,
      suffered from high background due to slow blood clearance. The second generation 18F-DCFPyL
      PSMA ligand has a fast elimination via the urinary route and showed high tumor-to-blood
      ratios. Benesova et al developed the 177Lu-DKFZ-61, which is suitable for labelling with both
      diagnostic 68Ga as well as therapeutic 177Lu (beta-emitting) or 225Ac (alpha-emitting), and
      Giesel at al developed 18F-PSMA-1007, which is structurally related to DKZF-617.

      Since various studies have shown feasibility of PSMA imaging in brain lesions of patients
      with recurrent GBM, we want to extend these results in a cohort of patients with a
      first-diagnosed suspected GBM. We want to use the PET tracer 18F-PSMA-1007. If this technique
      can be implemented successfully, the added value of 18F-PSMA PET/CT for tumour grading and
      differential diagnosis could be investigated further in larger patient cohorts (especially
      with recurrent brain lesions). These studies will pave the way for further studies involving
      177Lu-PSMA-based therapy, which is currently applied in patients with metastatic prostate
      cancer.
    
  