
    
      Patient-centred care, without the use of medicines is offered as a first course of treatment
      for agitation in dementia. However, there is a need for second line treatments when these
      fail, at the moment antipsychotics are commonly prescribed, as very little research has been
      done in to safer alternative treatments.

      There are medicines available to treat agitation and/or aggression in dementia, but it is not
      clear which treatments work best.

      This research study has been designed to help answer this, by comparing a which is currently
      prescribed for depression, Mirtazapine, with placebo (a tablet designed to look like a
      medicine but that has no active medicine in it) to see if Mirtazapine is suitable for
      treating agitation in dementia.

      If participants and their family/carers agree to take part in this study, participants will
      be prescribed treatment for 12 weeks. Participants will then be followed up for 1 year after,
      with assessment sessions at 26 and 52 weeks.

      Participants taking part in this study will be randomly allocated to a treatment group
      (selected to their treatment group by chance). The study is blinded, so this means the
      participant's doctor and the research team will not know which treatment the participant has
      been taking until after the study has ended. This is necessary so that the trial is a fair
      test of which treatment works best, however it is possible to find out which medicine they
      are taking in the event of a medical emergency.

      The study is entirely voluntary and all participants wishing to join the study must complete
      an informed consent form (or if they lack capacity the participant's representative may do so
      on their behalf). Each participant must also have a nominated carer who consents to being
      questioned on aspects of the participant's dementia/care and their own experiences in caring
      for the participant.

      The investigators are aiming to recruit 222 patients to the study in total from around 20
      different regions across the UK.

      The study was originally designed to included a second medication, called Carbamazepine, to
      also look at whether it would work and be safe and cost effective in agitation in dementia.
      Challenges in recruitment in this population resulted in the funder requesting that the
      available data was reviewed to July 2018, to see whether one of the arms (Mirtazapine or
      Carbamazepine) should be discontinued in terms of future recruitment. The independent data
      monitoring committee compared blinded data from both groups against placebo data and
      concluded that on the basis of efficacy and safety, the group, which when unblinded was found
      to be Carbamazepine, should be dropped. Some limited analysis will still be completed for all
      data collected in the Carbamazepine group, but the trial will continue now only randomising
      participants to Mirtazapine or placebo.
    
  