
    
      When compared to the general population, farmers have an increased risk of non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma (NHL) and certain other hematopoeitic cancers (i.e., multiple myeloma, leukemia).
      Factors that contribute to this excess risk have not been discerned. While several
      epidemiologic studies have observed an increased risk of NHL among farmers who are exposed to
      certain pesticides (i.e., phenoxyacetic acids, organophosphates, organochlorines, and
      triazines), these studies have not been conclusive. In addition, a clear mechanistic
      association between farming or pesticide exposure and subsequent development of cancer has
      not been identified. Given that immunocompromised individuals are at increased risk for NHL,
      it has been hypothesized that altered immune function may be an indicator of increased
      potential for the development of immunologically based diseases such as NHL. Therefore,
      research into early immunologic effects of farming exposures holds some promise in discerning
      disease mechanisms and in identifying specific etiologic agents for lymphatic cancers such as
      NHL. Few such studies have been conducted.

      This protocol outlines a study of immune effects among corn farmers within Agricultural
      Health Study (AHS) cohort. The main objective is to evaluate the changes in immune parameters
      in farmers throughout the growing season, as well as effects of specific pesticide exposures
      including atrazine and organophosphate (OP) insecticides. Farmers and control subjects were
      contacted just prior to planting (February-March) to be enrolled in the study. Biological
      sampling before and after planting and application of preemergent pesticides (likely to
      include atrazine and possibly Ops or carbamates) allowed examination of short-term biologic
      effects associated with specific pesticide exposures and general planting activities (e.g.,
      tillage). The first post-emergent application of organophosphate insecticide will also be
      monitored, in order to evaluate short-term biologic effects associated with this OP
      exposture. Post-harvest and off-season samples also were collected to allow evaluation of
      overall immune effects of farming activities. Pesticide exposures (e.g., atrazine, OPs, and
      potentially 2,4-D or carbamates) are being assessed primarily by measurement of the parent
      compound or its metabolites in urine, and additional information on farming activities and
      work practices will be obtained by questionnaire. Farmers serve as their own self-controls,
      and a selected control group will provide a means for external comparison.
    
  