
    
      Stage 1: Questionnaires

      After obtaining informed consent, the spouse would be asked to fill in the baseline
      demographic form. After that, they will be asked if they have undergone any prior screening
      as recommended by the MOH screening guidelines as stipulated earlier. Following that, a
      quantitative questionnaire utilizing the validated Health Belief Model would be administered
      to study the potential barriers to screening which may be faced by the spouses. This
      questionnaire is based on the 5 domains of the Health Belief Model which include perceived
      susceptibility to acquiring CRC, perceived severity of the disease, perceived benefit of
      going for screening, perceived barriers to action and cues to action. The response options
      for questions on these domains are categorized into "disagree", "agree" and "unsure".

      A second questionnaire based on the transtheoretical model would then be implemented next. We
      would determine their stage in the transtheoretical model based on their responses. The basic
      questionnaire was based on previous published data. This questionnaire will take
      approximately 5 minutes to complete.

      Faecal Occult Blood Test or Colonoscopy:

      Never heard: Has not heard of FOBT or colonoscopy.

      Precontemplation: Never had an FOBT or last FOBT was more than a year ago or last colonoscopy
      was more than 10 years ago and not thinking about having an FOBT or colonoscopy in the next 2
      months.

      Contemplation: Never had an FOBT or last FOBT was more than a year ago or last colonoscopy
      was more than 10 years ago but thinking about having an FOBT or colonoscopy in the next 2
      months.

      Action: FOBT was within the last year or colonoscopy was within the last year.

      Maintenance: Has undergone two or more FOBTs in the past 2 years or has undergone at least
      two or more colonoscopies and would continue to do so in concordance with the schedule

      The same questionnaire would be repeated in 3 months and 6-12 months following the initial
      interview, with at least 3 months between each follow-up. This is in sync with the
      appointments that the patients themselves would be attending as part of their surveillance
      for their CRC. This is to document the changes in their responses to the various domains as
      the impact of the patients' cancers is less felt with time. The responses would guide the
      research team to determine if the peri-operative period remains the best time to advise the
      spouses to undergo screening or if we should delay it to a more appropriate and hence
      receptive period.

      Stage 2: Randomization into Intervention versus Control

      Participants who have underwent previous FIT test would be excluded from this part of the
      study and will proceed directly to stage 3 after completing the two questionnaires (stage 1).
      This goes the same for patient who opt out from stage 2 RCT will also proceed directly to
      stage 3. The eligible participants will be randomized into either "Intervention" or
      "Control". A randomisation list is generated using a computer procedure using block
      randomization. Based on the randomisation list, the assigned group for each study
      participants ID are written in a sealed opaque envelope. The envelope will be open at the
      point of randomisation to find out which group participant is randomised to.

      The "Intervention" arm is aimed at specifically addressing gaps in terms of knowledge of
      colorectal cancer and the importance of screening, as well as targeting cost as well as
      convenience issues. Spouses who have been randomized into this arm will undergo a session
      with a trained research assistant who will highlight the following points:

        1. What is colorectal cancer and what are its risk factors?

        2. What is the spouse possibly at risk of developing colorectal cancer?

        3. How screening can help to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer?

        4. What are the screening modalities for CRC?

        5. What are FIT kits?

        6. How to use FIT kits?

        7. Where to return the FIT kits once they have been used?

      All participants who have undergone the counseling session will then be given 2 x FIT kits
      (as recommended in the guidelines) free of charge, and also advised to mail the FIT kits back
      to the colorectal clinic in a pre-paid envelope once it has been used. By performing the
      above targeted interventions, we would have tackled issues relating to education, cost and
      convenience.

      The "Control" arm is the current practice in the community where these participants would be
      informed that the FIT kits can be obtained from the Singapore Cancer Society (SCS) free of
      charge if they fulfil the screening criteria as stipulated in the MOH guidelines. The
      participants will be advised on the various locations to collect these FIT kits.

      The endpoint for the "intervention" and the "control" arms is whether the spouses returned
      the FIT kits within 3 months from date of consent.

      Stage 3: Colonoscopy

      All participants will be offered colonoscopy. Regardless of whether they have returned the
      FIT kits after 3 months, we would ask the spouses if they would be keen to undergo the
      colonoscopy if it is to be arranged by the research team to be conducted at their convenience
      and to have the cost of the colonoscopy covered. If not, the underlying barriers would be
      uncovered. Colonoscopy cost for all study participants from this study will be covered by a
      research grant.

      If the spouses agree to undergo the colonoscopy, the research team would proceed with the
      arrangement to get the colonoscopy arranged. Spouses will attend a consult visit with
      specialist doctor prior to colonoscopy where they receive details about the procedure, risk
      and benefits, bowel preparation, undergo financial counselling for colonoscopy etc. as per
      standard clinical procedure.

      The findings of the colonoscopy would be documented. In those who did not have their FOBT
      done earlier and now willing to undergo colonoscopy, we will also get them to undergo the 2
      FIT kits before the colonoscopy. This is to compare the findings of the FOBT to the
      colonoscopy subsequently.
    
  