
    
      This is an open label, single arm Phase 2 study to determine the safety and tolerability of
      SCIB1 administered to patients with advanced melanoma using an electroporation device (the
      TDS-IM v2.0 device) when added to pembrolizumab (Keytruda), a standard treatment already
      approved for the treatment of advanced melanoma.

      The plan for this research study is for SCIB1 to be given for up to 2 years, in combination
      with pembrolizumab according to the current label.

      After receiving the first dose of SCIB1, the patient will then receive SCIB1 3 times, 3 weeks
      apart, then once 6 weeks later, and after that once every 12 weeks until the treatment is
      stopped.

      Pembrolizumab will be given by an injection into the patient's vein once every 3 weeks. The
      injection, known as an infusion, usually takes about 30 minutes to complete.

      Every time the patient has a SCIB1 infusion, they will also receive pembrolizumab.
      Additionally, there will also be some days when the patient will receive pembrolizumab alone.

      On each occasion, SCIB1 will be given by two injections into a muscle in a different limb,
      e.g. one into the upper arm and the other into the thigh. Instead of a normal needle and
      syringe, a small, hand-held device TDS-IM v2.0 will be used to inject SCIB1 into the muscles.
      The site of SCIB1 administration will alternate on each occasion.

      The injection device is designed to increase the amount of SCIB1 that is delivered to the
      muscle cells. The liquid containing SCIB1 will be delivered through the injection needle.
      Immediately after the injection, the device will give a very short electrical impulse to the
      muscle through the four thin wires at the site of the injection. The impulse will last for
      less than one tenth of a second. A short video will be shown to the patient before the first
      injection is given to show the patient what will happen.

      Before treatment starts and after consent has been given, all patients will undergo screening
      tests for up to 4 weeks to ensure the patient is eligible to take part. For screening, the
      patient will need to undergo tissue typing, a melanoma tumour biopsy will be required if an
      adequate sample for testing was not previously performed, an eye examination, blood and urine
      samples taken for clinical laboratory tests, pregnancy status (for female patients only),
      tests of their immune functions, a physical examination including their vital signs,
      performance status and an ECG, a CT scan, skin fold thickness measurement, and medical
      history collection.

      Over the 2-year treatment period, the patient will visit the hospital 14 times in the first 6
      months and then every 3 weeks when they will continue to receive treatment. The evaluations
      and procedures that will be carried out at each visit are all detailed in the study
      information sheets given to the patient before consent is taken. At some of these visits,
      blood samples will be taken for immunological tests. The patients will also attend for a
      visit 4-6 weeks after the last treatment. Female participants of childbearing potential will
      undergo pregnancy testing at screening, before the first dose of SCIB1, again at week 6 prior
      to receiving SCIB1, prior to receiving subsequent doses of SCIB1 and then at the end of
      treatment visit.

      At certain visits, all patients will have physical examinations and have their skin lesions
      assessed and photographed. At all visits, all patients will be asked about other medications
      they are taking and about any adverse effects they might have experienced since their
      previous clinic visit.

      After receiving their last dose of SCIB1 or pembrolizumab, all surviving participants will be
      followed up by telephone or during standard of care clinic visits at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
      Within this 1-year period disease assessments will be performed according to local standard
      of care and will only be recorded until disease progression is first confirmed. For the whole
      12-month period questions will be asked about the following: development of infection,
      immunological reactions, participation in any other clinical trials and subsequent exposure
      to highly potent treatments.

      An interim clinical study report will be compiled from all study data collected up to a
      cut-off date that will be 1 year from the 1st dose of SCIB1 for the last patient enrolled.
      Data collected beyond this cut off date up to the date of the final follow up contact for the
      last patient remaining in the study will be presented in the final clinical study report.
    
  