
    
      This is a prospective and observational study. Sample size calculation and patient selection
      The investigators plan to include a total of 140 participants in this study. Sixty-five
      cirrhotics with portal hypertensive symptoms (such as platelets count less than 100,000) will
      be enrolled to evaluate for the presence and stage of esophageal varices by using a
      magnetic-assisted capsule endoscope system. Thirty-five cirrhotics patients with history of
      endoscopy-confirmed esophageal varices will be included for the follow-up examination by
      using the magnetic-assisted capsule endoscope system. Another 40 healthy volunteers without
      known gastrointestinal disease will be enrolled as the control group. Those participants with
      less than 20-year-old, having implanted electronic or magnetic devices, pregnant, or unable
      to swallow the capsule, will be excluded from the study.

      Intervention The patient will undergo both diagnostic tests in two days, with a
      magnetic-assisted capsule endoscope system first and then conventional EGD will be carried on
      at least 4 hours afterward.

      Magnetic-assisted capsule endoscope system (MACE, InsightEyes EGD System) with or without 3D
      images("MedicalTek" Endoscopic Imaging system and accessories) will be used for detecting
      esophageal varices and other possible lesions. As standard per-endoscopy preparation,
      patients undergo a 6-8 hour fast. The participants take 400 mg of N-acetylcysteine solution
      in 200 mL of water 1 h before the MACE examination and an additional 300 mL of clear water
      after 30 min to remove gastric mucus. With the upright(sitting) position, the patient is
      instructed to swallow the capsule with 20mL of clear water. The hand-held magnet is held
      above the sternum in order to catch the capsule and examine the esophagus. Capsule endoscopy
      is manipulated by changes in the patient's position and hand-held magnet. The magnetic field
      navigator is placed in front of the patient's abdomen and helped the capsule moving and
      rotating by moving the magnetic field navigator.

      The capsule endoscopy will end up in the second portion of the duodenum as the conventional
      EGD does.

      The lesion is detected using 2D and 3D imaging at the same time during the examination.

      Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) EGDs (Olympus GIF-H290) are conducted by experienced
      endoscopists. These practitioners are able to check the indication of the procedure and
      previous findings of EGD. The EGDs are conducted by standard techniques. The patient
      undergoes pharyngeal anesthesia and then EGD.

      Preparation evaluation The quality of gastric preparation includes the degree of mucosal
      visibility and stomach distention. The degree of mucosal visibility is classified into four
      grades: excellent = no adherent mucus on the gastric mucosa; good = small amount of mucus on
      the gastric mucosa but without obscured vision; fair = small amount of mucus on the gastric
      mucosa with partially obscured vision; and poor = profuse mucus on the gastric mucosa with
      obscured vision.

      Stomach distention is classified into three grades: good = satisfactory stomach distention
      with the remaining small amount of collapsed gastric folds; fair = considerable amount of
      collapsed gastric folds that obscure some parts of the stomach; and poor = insufficient
      stomach inflation, and examination of the area of interest is impossible. The investigators
      evaluate the proximal (cardia, fundus, and upper body) and distal (lower body and antrum)
      portions of the stomach separately.

      Lesion detection Esophageal varices detection Esophageal varices will be evaluated and
      described according to the Japanese Research Society for Portal Hypertension.

      Other lesion detection Another lesion is evaluated including portal hypertensive gastropathy,
      peptic ulcers, and polyps.

      Questionnaire on comfort and acceptance After the examinations, the patient will receive a
      questionnaire, including the pain during the examination by using a visual analog scale
      (VAS), scoring from 1(no pain) to 10(badly painful, barely tolerable), other discomforts such
      as nausea and abdominal fullness. The questionnaire also includes the preferred choice of two
      modalities.

      Study outcomes Primary outcome

        1. The investigators will compare the detection rate of esophageal varices in the cirrhotic
           patients in the MACE system and 3D image processing with conventional EGD.

        2. The investigators will compare the grading consistency in the patients who have the
           esophageal varices between the two modalities, using the conventional EGD as the gold
           standard.

      Secondary outcome

        1. The investigators will evaluate the image quality in the MACE system and 3D image
           processing in all participants.

        2. The investigators will compare the detection rate of other gastric lesions such as
           portal hypertensive gastropathy, gastric polyp, and ulcer in the MACE system plus 3D
           image processing with conventional EGD in all participants.

        3. The investigators will evaluate the discomfort using the questionnaire in all
           participants.
    
  