
    
      The research proposed here is motivated by the need to support pediatric cardiologists in
      making image-based decisions in the assessment and management of congenital heart disease
      (CHD). In marked contrast to adult cardiology, which deals almost exclusively with the left
      ventricle (LV), the function of the RV is associated with a number of life-threatening
      conditions in pediatrics. These defects include Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome (HLHS),
      Congenitally Corrected Transposition of Great Arteries, Post operative Tetralogy of Fallot,
      and Double Outlet Right Ventricle.

      In particular, a computer model that simulates both the myocardium and blood pool of the
      right ventricle (RV) is being investigated that can be used to measure clinically useful but
      diverse parameters of RV blood flow and wall behaviors that previously would require multiple
      analysis tools to acquire. The model is based on data from MRI studies of patients. Alternate
      measurement techniques such as ultrasound and catheter pressure measurements are needed to
      verify the efficacy of the model.

      Through a retrospective chart review of CHD patients with defects associated with RV
      dysfunction, data will be obtained from CHOA over a five year period, June 1, 2001 through
      May 31, 2006. It will be collected from 10 children aged 0-18 years. Magnetic Resonance
      images, Ultrasound and catheterization measurements will be collected and analyzed.

      Data from MR will be used primarily to determine RV volumetric data. This information will be
      used to determine RV shape at the different stages of systole and through diastole. The RV
      shapes are the input to the computer model. The computer model will determine relevant
      clinical measures such as ejection fraction, pressure measurements, strain rate, and wall
      thickening based solely on the MR image data. The ultrasound and catheter data will be used
      as independent sources of verification against the data determined from the computer model.
      Ultrasound data will be used to compare ejection fraction and wall behavior to the predictive
      model and catheter data will be used to compare pressure measurements.
    
  