
    
      Stroke remains a major cause of death and disability. Acute thrombolytic therapy offers the
      potential to achieve early recanalization (reopening of blocked arteries), save tissues, and
      improve outcome. Currently, intravenous (IV) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA)
      is the only approved acute stroke therapy. IV rt-PA is an effective therapy for acute
      ischemic stroke but has substantial limitations when used alone to open blocked arteries The
      Interventional Management of Stroke (IMS III) Trial is a multi-center study that will compare
      two different treatment approaches for restoring blood flow to the brain. One approach,
      giving the clot-dissolving drug rt-PA, is already FDA-approved when given through a vein
      (IV). This treatment will be compared to a new approach, giving rt-PA at a lower dose first
      through IV in the arm and then, if a blood clot in the brain artery is found, through a small
      tube or catheter at the site of the blood clot (intra-arterial or IA) to see which is better.
      Both approaches must be initiated within three hours of stroke onset.

      The primary goal of this trial is to determine if individuals with ischemic stroke treated
      with rt-PA using an endovascular therapy approach to recanalization started within 3 hours of
      onset are more likely to have a better outcome than individuals treated with standard IV
      rt-PA alone. While information on device use was collected, individual device performance was
      not a primary outcome.

      Nine hundred participants with moderate to severe ischemic stroke will be enrolled at more
      than 50 centers in the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe.

      Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive endovascular therapy or IV only with
      adjustment for clinical site and NIHSSS strata. If enrolled under Amendment 5 or later both
      treatment groups will receive the standard approved therapy dose of rt-PA (0.9 mg/kg, 90 mg
      max) administered intravenously over one hour. The consent process and randomization can take
      place prior to or anytime up to forty minutes after the IV bolus dose. If, at the 40 minute
      time point, no consent has been obtained or randomization has not been completed, the patient
      will no longer be eligible for IMS III enrollment. After consent, the endovascular therapy
      group will then undergo immediate angiography. If clot is not demonstrated, no more treatment
      is administered.

      If clot is demonstrated, the neurointerventionalist will then choose from currently available
      but trial defined endovascular therapy approaches, choosing the treatment they feel will be
      most effective in attempting to reopen the blocked artery. These approaches utilize local
      regulatory, US FDA and IMS III Executive Committee approved devices for the intra-arterial
      infusion of investigational rt-PA using standard microcatheter or the EKOS Micro-Infusion
      Catheter® (in US) or embolectomy devices including the Concentric Retriever Device®, the
      Penumbra System ™, or the Solitaire™ FR Revascularization Device. All devices must be used
      per the manufacturer's instructions for use. Endovascular therapy, whether initially with the
      Merci® Retriever, EKOS Micro-Infusion Catheter, Penumbra System™, Solitaire™, a future
      device, or infusion of IA rt-PA via a standard microcatheter, must be started within 5 hours
      and completed within 7 hours of symptom onset. The maximum dose of IA rt-PA is 22mg (maximum
      2 to 4 mg bolus and infusion at a rate of 10 mg/hr). Use of tandem devices (i.e. EKOS
      Micro-Infusion Catheter, Merci Retriever®, Penumbra System™, or Solitaire™) in a single case
      is a protocol violation. Only standard microcatheter rt-PA infusion therapy may be
      administered following attempt with a device.

      The primary measure of benefit in this trial is the ability of the individual with stroke to
      live and function independently 3 months after the stroke. This trial will also determine and
      compare the safety and cost effectiveness of the combined endovascular therapy to the
      standard IV rt-PA approach.

      Duration of the study for participants is approximately 12 months.
    
  