
    
      Mother Infant Retention for Health (MIR4HEALTH) is an innovative implementation science study
      focused on testing an effective multicomponent strategy to improve linkage and retention of
      newly identified HIV-infected pregnant women accessing maternal child health (MCH) services
      in Nyanza Province, Kenya. MIR4HEALTH is distinguished by several innovations including the
      recognition that newly identified HIV-infected pregnant woman are especially vulnerable to
      poor retention within PMTCT services and that both mother and child must be retained in care
      to ensure optimal health outcomes.

      The study is a randomized trial to compare the effectiveness of a novel strategy using Active
      Patient Follow-Up (APFU) to the current standard of care (SOC) routinely provided for the
      retention of women and their exposed infants postpartum. The proposed APFU includes a package
      of evidence-based interventions including health education, provision of phone and short
      message service (SMS) appointment reminders, active tracking of patients for linkage and
      retention, and individualized retention and adherence support. Patients enrolled in the APFU
      intervention arm will complete three antenatal study visits after enrollment as well as two
      postnatal study visits with their infants at 6 weeks and 6 months postpartum. Laboratory
      blood specimens will be collected from mothers and infants at two separate visits to assess
      viral load and and drug levels. Additionally, all staff will be offered a chance to
      participate in an interview assessing the feasibility and acceptability of APFU.

      Study participants will be recruited from various clinics in the Nyanza Province in Kenya.
      This study will enroll pregnant women who test positive for HIV during their first antenatal
      visit and have no prior HIV diagnosis. Upon live birth, the infants of participating women
      will also be included in the study. The study will enroll 214 newly-infected pregnant women,
      with 107 participants in the APFU arm (intervention) and 107 participants in the SOC arm.
      Infants born to women enrolled in the study will also be included so there will be a total of
      214 mother-infant pairs, totaling 428 participants.
    
  