
    
      Rhinovirus infections are the most frequent cause of up to 80% of cold illness during the
      fall rhinovirus season. While viral upper respiratory tract infections are generally mild and
      self-limiting, they are associated with an enormous economic burden, both in lost
      productivity and in expenditures for treatment. Rhinovirus infection is frequently associated
      with medical complications that have substantial morbidity such as acute otitis media and
      exacerbation of asthma.

      Marketed treatment options for common colds consist primarily of symptomatic cold remedies
      that have only most effects on specific cold symptoms. 3804-250A is a topical treatment under
      investigation for the prevention of rhinovirus-associated colds by interruption of
      person-to-person transmission.

      The study is a randomized trial conducted during a 9-week period during the fall rhinovirus
      epidemic season. Healthy, normal subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      groups:

        1. AV Lotion or

        2. No Treatment control.

      Subjects in the 3804-250A group will use the treatment on a defined schedule. The No
      Treatment control group will maintain their regular hand washing routine.

      All subjects will record the presence of cold illness symptoms daily. Subjects will return to
      the study site weekly during the study for specimen collection for rhinovirus PCR, evaluation
      of irritation, review and clarification of study diary entries, for review and assessment of
      compliance, collection of adverse events and replenishment of study supplies. In addition,
      for the first five weeks of the study, subjects in the AV Lotion group will attend a second
      weekly compliance visits in which diaries and test product consumption will be assessed for
      compliance and collection of adverse events. Photographs of the hands will be taken for
      subjects who are withdrawn for skin irritation. The incidence of cold illness,
      rhinovirus-associated cold illness and rhinovirus infection will be compared between the
      treatment groups.
    
  