
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility and toxicities of tandem cycle ablative therapy consisting first
      of high-dose melphalan and then escalating doses of fractionated total marrow irradiation
      (TMI) using helical tomotherapy in patients with advanced multiple myeloma.

      II. To establish the maximum tolerated dose of TMI using helical tomotherapy. III. To assess
      response rate, progression free and over-all survival following treatment with tandem cycle
      ablative therapy consisting first of high-dose melphalan and then escalating doses of TMI
      using helical tomotherapy with Dexamethasone/Thalidomide maintenance therapy in patients with
      advanced multiple myeloma.

      IV. To assess the feasibility of adding decadron and thalidomide as maintenance following the
      second cycle of high-dose therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform cytogenetic, gene rearrangement, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)
      studies on baseline and post-treatment bone marrow and blood specimens and correlate the
      presence/persistence of these features with treatment outcome.

      II. To bank/develop cell lines developed for future investigations of tumor biology, and for
      potential assessment of efficacy of novel therapeutic agents.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of total marrow irradiation (TMI).

      PRIMING AND APHERESIS: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours. Patients also
      receive filgrastim IV or subcutaneously daily beginning 24 hours after the administration of
      cyclophosphamide and continuing until apheresis is complete. Patients undergo apheresis until
      an adequate number of peripheral blood stem cells are collected.

      ABLATIVE THERAPY:

      Course 1: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -2 and -1. Patients
      then undergo autologous PBSC transplantation on day 0 and receive filgrastim IV or
      subcutaneously beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Course 2: Beginning 6-18 weeks later, patients undergo TMI once or twice daily on days -4 to
      -1. Patients then undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant and receive
      filgrastim IV or subcutaneously beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning within 6-8 weeks of day 0 of course 2 (TMI), patients receive
      oral lenalidomide daily. Courses repeat every 28 days for approximately 3 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days, every 6 months for 1
      year, and then annually for at least 2 years.
    
  