
    
      Patients who sustain broken ankles have a very high risk of developing arthritis soon after
      their injury (within 2 years). This arthritis can cause increased pain and decreased level of
      function, especially if the injury occurs at an early age. During and shortly after the ankle
      injury, there is an inflammatory chemical processes that take place in the ankle that can
      cause damage to the cartilage in the ankle joint. Currently the treatment for this injury is
      doing surgery is a two step process. When the patient has an ankle fracture, surgeons will
      stabilize the fracture with an external fixation device to allow ankle swelling to decrease
      which has been shown improve outcomes within a few hours. After about 10 days the patient
      will come back for their final surgery in which surgeons will open the ankle joint and make
      sure that the joint lines up and fix it with plates and screws.

      There is no intervention that is done with regards to the physiologic process that goes on
      inside the ankle joint when the ankle is injured. This is what the investigators intend to
      study. There is a very large destructive process that may contribute with the early
      development to arthritis.

      The investigators would like to see the effect of this inflammatory response with the
      addition of platelet rich plasma (PRP) which is produced from a small vial of the patient's
      own blood. PRP has been used safely in patients with osteoarthritis and has been shown to
      slow the progression and improve pain scores. PRP is made by spinning the patient's blood in
      a centrifuge which separates the blood cells from each other. The bloods cells that are
      anti-inflammatory in nature are taken and placed in another syringe. This is a blinded
      randomized control study. There will be two groups in which the patients will randomize into:
      PRP group, or Normal Saline Group. In both groups, the investigator's plan is to withdraw
      joint fluid from both the injured and uninjured ankle at the time of the first surgery as to
      analyze the joint fluid from both ankles.

      Participants who are randomized into the PRP group will receive PRP in the injured ankle at
      the time of the first surgery when the external fixator is placed. Participants who are
      randomized into the Normal Saline group will receive Normal Saline in the injured ankle at
      the time of the first surgery when the external fixator is placed.

      After 7-14 days the participant will return and have their second surgery for definitive
      fixation. At the time of surgery, joint fluid will again be taken out of the joint for
      analysis to see if the PRP decreased the anti-inflammatory cells decreased inflammation.
      After the second surgery the participant will be followed up in the clinic in a regular
      manner.
    
  