
    
      Background:

      Periodontal disease is a chronic inflammatory disease of the supporting structures of the
      tooth which includes periodontal ligament, cementum, and bone. Conventional periodontal
      therapy involves a non-surgical and surgical method for mechanical debridement of
      supragingival and subgingival sites to eliminate the pathogens and reduce inflammation of the
      periodontium. Smokers respond less to conventional therapy and require antibiotics for
      additional benefits. Where the use of antibiotics provides benefits to the host, the
      increasing proportion of developing antibiotic resistance are a major concern. The
      introduction of "Probiotics" as a treatment option is under special consideration. According
      to WHO, Probiotics are defined as viable micro-organisms which when delivered in an
      appropriate dose, provides health benefits. Lactobacillus-reuteri has been considered as a
      reliable option in regards to safety with no reported adverse effects, in the treatment of
      periodontitis as an adjunct to Scaling and Root Debridement.

      Objectives:

      The objective of the present study is to evaluate the clinical improvement of
      Lactobacillusreuteri Probiotics in comparison to a combination of amoxicillin and
      metronidazole antibiotics in smokers with moderate to severe chronic periodontitis after
      non-surgical scaling and root debridement.

      Method:

      A total number of 60 Smokers with moderate to severe chronic periodontitis were randomized
      into two groups after taking consent. Group 1 received amoxicillin and metronidazole for 7
      days and placebo for Probiotics for 30 days. Group 2 was provided with 1 tablet of
      Lactobacillus-reuteri Probiotics (2x108CFU) twice daily after brushing for 30 days and a
      placebo for antibiotics for 7 days. At recruitment, scaling and root debridement were
      performed and change in pocket depth, attachment loss, gingival index, plaque index and
      bleeding on probing were recorded. The same outcomes were recorded again at 1 month and 3
      months follow-up. Mean, standard deviation and confidence interval were reported using SPSS
      version-20.
    
  