
    
      Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a rare vascular tumor affecting elderly individuals from
      Mediterranean countries (CKS), post transplant patients and, with increased incidence and
      aggressiveness, HIV-infected individuals (AIDS-KS). No definitive cure has been established
      for KS and all conventional therapies result in low response rate, high toxicity and tumor
      relapse.

      Antiretroviral therapies including a HIV protease inhibitor (HIV-PI) have reduced AIDS-KS
      incidence and induce KS regression in treated patients. This cannot be explained solely with
      drug-mediated HIV suppression and immune reconstitution. We have shown that HIV-PI such as
      Indinavir or Saquinavir block KS-like lesions in mice by inhibiting angiogenesis and tumor
      cell invasion through a blockade of matrix metalloprotease 2 (MMP2) proteolytic activation.

      Based on these data, a proof-of-concept clinical study on HIV-negative (classic) KS (C-KS)
      patients was planned to prove that Indinavir has anti-angiogenic and anti-KS effects in
      humans independently of its antiretroviral activity.

      Recent concepts in the evaluation of non cytotoxic anti-cancer drugs such as anti-angiogenic
      agents suggest novel criteria for the design of clinical studies due to the specific
      mechanism of action of these drugs. In particular, the use of the conventional evaluation
      criteria based on cytotoxic actions may mislead the interpretation of the therapeutic
      efficacy of non cytotoxic agents. The study was therefore designed to compare the clinical
      response to Indinavir in early-stage vs. late-stage KS and by relating it to key biological
      endpoints and plasmatic drug concentrations. This was also motivated by the rareness of C-KS
      and by ethical reasons which prevented the inclusion of a control group.

      Patients will be treated per os with 800 mg x 2/daily of Indinavir for 12 months. Follow-up
      will be one year.

      Primary objectives:

      Evaluation of the tumor response rate (complete response, partial response, improved disease
      and stable disease) to indinavir in the treatment of mild or severe classical KS patients;
      Evaluation of the duration of response in indinavir-treated patients.

      Secondary objectives:

      Evaluation of Indinavir safety in classical KS population; Determination of the
      pharmacokinetic profile of Indinavir; Evaluation of key Kaposi's sarcoma biological endpoints
      including markers of angiogenesis and tumor invasion, Th1 and Th2 polarization of the immune
      response, immunoactivation, and immune responses to HHV8, herpesviruses and common pathogens.
    
  