
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the feasibility of administering dinutuximab, GM-CSF, and isotretinoin in
      combination with irinotecan and temozolomide in the frontline Post-Consolidation setting in
      patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who have undergone Induction and Consolidation therapy
      with tandem high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue (ASCT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicity profile of dinutuximab, GM-CSF, and isotretinoin in combination
      with irinotecan and temozolomide in the Post-Consolidation setting.

      II. To describe the event-free survival and overall survival of patients who receive
      dinutuximab in combination with irinotecan and temozolomide, GM-CSF, and isotretinoinin the
      Post-Consolidation setting.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicity profiles associated with chemo-immunotherapy in the
      Post-Consolidation setting according to the type of prior therapy.

      II. To describe response to chemo-immunotherapy in the Post-Consolidation setting using the
      revised International Neuroblastoma Risk Classification (INRC) in patients with evaluable or
      measurable disease at study entry.

      III. To characterize immune and cytokine profiles in patients receiving Post-Consolidation
      chemo-immunotherapy.

      IV. To bank serial blood samples to investigate the relationship between factors related to
      the tumor, host, and immune environment and clinical outcomes in patients treated with
      chemo-immunotherapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) or via enteral tube daily and irinotecan
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes daily on days 1-5, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours daily
      on days 2-5, sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) or IV over 2 hours daily on days 6-12, and
      isotretinoin PO twice daily (BID) on days 8-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5
      cycles (up to 6 cycles for isotretinoin only) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 30,
      36, 42, 48, 54, and 60 months.
    
  