
    
      NYCKidSeq is a research study using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design to compare the
      use of GUÍA in a traditional genetic counseling return of results session to facilitate the
      return of genomic results compared to a traditional return of results counseling session.
      GUÍA will be an enhanced, personalized electronic version focused on helping patients
      understand their own genomic results. The researchers will also evaluate the clinical utility
      of whole genome sequencing (WGS) compared to targeted gene panels (TGP) in children with
      suspected genetic etiology of their neurologic disorders, primary immunodeficiencies, and
      cardiovascular disorders with the goal of detecting the mutated gene(s) responsible for their
      disorder.

      1100 referred children Mount Sinai and Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore
      Hospital (Einstein/Montefiore) will be enrolled and randomized to either traditional genetic
      counseling (standard of care) or traditional genetic counseling plus GUÍA. The researchers
      will assess parents' perceived and subjective understanding of results as well as their
      adherence to follow-up recommendation (primary and secondary outcomes) through the use of
      parental surveys at three time points. The RCT will occur in the context of performing WGS
      and TGP for diagnostic purposes in 1,130 children.

      Participants will have three study visits (Baseline, ROR1, and ROR2) over a nine-month
      period. At the baseline visit, families will receive pre-test counseling and will complete a
      survey. Blood will be collected from all study participants and from each biological parent
      (if available) to assist with interpretation of genomic results. Samples will undergo WGS and
      TGP. Approximately three months later, results will be returned and explained via one of the
      two study arms - traditional genetic counseling versus genetic counseling with GUÍA, and
      parents will be asked to complete the ROR1 survey. Six months later, they will be asked to
      complete the ROR2 survey. The length of a subject's participation will be a minimum of nine
      months to a maximum of 27 months, depending on the time of study entry; participation after
      the initial nine months will consist solely of chart and data review. Over the initial
      9-month period the investigators are studying the experiences and understanding of parents of
      children who receive sequencing to help understand how best to implement genomic medicine in
      a diverse population.

      GUÍA will be an enhanced, personalized electronic version of a flip chart, which is the type
      of tool most commonly used in routine genetic counseling. In the third year of the study, the
      study team anticipates to have the tool integrated into EPIC. There are no tools yet focused
      on this complex information, specifically on helping patients understand their own genomic
      results.
    
  