
    
      Study investigators propose the use of personalized neuronavigation, based on each
      participant's structural brain MRI, to aim LIFUP at the amygdala in the pursuit of
      enhancement of emotionality in humans. A comprehensive approach will integrate behavioral and
      multimodal neuroimaging to assess the utility of LIFUP to increase activity in deep neural
      structures and in the regulation of anxiety. Further, this is the first study to use LIFUP in
      (A) amygdala in humans and (B) for pro-cognitive effects. Findings from this study will
      provide important insight into the utility of LIFUP modulation of subcortical regions and
      their associated networks and functions, which have wide ranging implications for clinical
      LIFUP as a therapeutic device for numerous patient populations. By characterizing the effect
      of LIFUP on the amygdala and associated networks, this study will provide the foundation on
      which LIFUP can be validated as an effective neural prosthetic and as a treatment tools for
      psychiatric patient populations.

      Participants will complete a brief T1-weighted structural brain scan. Then, they will be
      removed from the scanner and, using the T1 image in Neurocare Brainsight software, the LIFUP
      transducer will be aimed at the amygdala and gently strapped in place to their head.
      Participants will then return to the scanner where a second T1 image will verify the position
      of the LIFUP transducer and allow for estimation of the spatial location of the sonification
      beam focus (approximately .5cm long x 7mm diameter). Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD)
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be collected during two conditions: short
      train sonification LIFUP and sham LIFUP: total time = 20min. Short train LIFUP (previously
      used in primary sensory cortices47 will be administered in 75 sonifications at 210 Kilohertz
      (KHz) frequency with pulse repetition frequency of 500 Hertz (Hz), 35mW/cm2, sonification
      duration 0.5s with 7s inter-stimulation interval. Sham LIFUP will involve the same procedures
      (e.g. participant provided the same instructions) except the sonification will not occur.
      Before and after completing the scan and a short break, these participants will receive short
      train LIFUP while they are administered a series of three computerized, amygdala-mediated
      emotion reactivity and regulation tasks. Given that routine clinical neuropsychological
      measures are designed to provide diagnostic information and are not sensitive or specific
      enough to precisely measure longitudinal emotional change related to an intervention,
      investigators will use validated experimental neurocognitive measures.
    
  