
    
      Intrapleural Fibrinolysis and DNase versus VATS for the treatment of pleural empyema: a
      randomized, controlled trial

      BACKGROUND

      Pleural empyema is a disease with an infection inside the chest cavity, often as a result of
      a pneumonia. In Denmark there are approximately 500 new cases per year. Patients often have
      longer duration of hospitalization, and the disease carries a significant morbidity and
      mortality rate of approximately 15%. The state of pleura empyema is characterized by the
      passage of three stages (I - III):

        -  Parapneumonic effusion (stage I)

        -  Fibropurulent stage (stage II)

        -  Chronic organizing stage (stage III)

      The aim of treating the disease is to remove the infection and provide fully expansion of the
      lung.

      In our study we want to find the optimal method for treating patients in stage II and III.

      The initial treatment at the early stage of the disease (stage I) is simple drainage and the
      disease at later stages can be treated with surgical intervention. In clinical practice,
      stages II and III are treated alike. Current standard treatment for these stages is drainage
      with ultrasound (ULS) -guided pigtail with a minimum size of 10 F. Simultaneously with
      drainage, an intrapleural fibrinolyticum can be given, but the indication and evidence for
      this is discussed. In the MIST II study, fibrinolytic (alteplase) was combined with DNase,
      and the authors found a positive effect using this combination.

      Previously, surgery was associated with a significant morbidity and, to a lesser extent,
      mortality. The surgery was conducted as open surgery using a thoracotomy. Today, it can often
      be performed as a Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS), which can be performed with a
      very low morbidity and mortality. It has been advocated that patients should be operated very
      early in the process, but the evidence is weak. In a Cochrane review on surgical versus
      non-surgical treatment of pleura empyema, two studies with adult patients have been included.
      None of the studies have a size or methodological quality that makes it possible to determine
      whether VATS should be included as part of the standard treatment of these patients. In
      children (aged <15 years), a randomized, controlled study of 50 patients in each group was
      conducted. It found no difference in outcome between fibrinolyticum and VATS, but no fixed
      treatment algorithm has been established for this age group. Furthermore, these results
      cannot be generalized to an adult population.

      The theoretical advantage of early surgery is that patients undergo rapid, definitive
      treatment and surgery can ensure optimal drain placement. The potential advantages in early
      surgery are reduced mortality, admission time, and fewer late complications. In addition, it
      is estimated that an increased number of early-operable patients may reduce the proportion of
      patients, who will later be thoracotomized, as early surgery may be performed as VATS.
      However, there is the inherent risk of an operation and thereby the increased costs of the
      surgical procedure when compared to simple drainage. However, this could possibly be
      outweighed by reduced drug consumption, reduced need for supplemental drainage, shorter
      duration of admission, and reduced morbidity after discharge.

      Accordingly, it is necessary to determine whether early VATS should be introduced as standard
      therapy in patients with fibropurulent stage (stage II) and the chronic organizing stage
      (stage III).

      Hypothesis

      • Patients over 18 years with a fibropurulent stage (stage II) or a chronic organizing stage
      (stage III) pleural empyema will have a significantly reduced time of hospitalization, if
      they undergo a VATS operation compared to ULS-guided pigtail drainage and fibrinolyticum
      (Acitlyse® (altaplasm)) with DNase (Pulmozyne®)

      Aim of study • To determine if there is a difference in outcome in patients diagnosed with
      fibropurulent stage (stage II) and the chronic organizing stage (stage III) empyema who are
      receive a primary VATS surgery or ULS guided drainage and intrapleural therapy (fibrinolytic
      (altaplasm) with DNase (Pulmozyne ®))

      Expected improvements If this trial is positive for the primary and/or the secondary
      outcomes, it could potentially change and strengthen the treatment of patients with this
      disease, both nationally and internationally. We investigate both clinical parameters,
      patient satisfaction and economical aspects (cost-effectiveness) in relation to pleura
      empyema treatment, so it will cover many aspects of this disease. If the trial is neutral, it
      will provide valuable data on intervention that is currently commonly used for this disease
      and can guide the treating physician to choose the adequate treatment based on the local
      preferences.

      METHODS Design

        -  Randomized, controlled study

        -  Not blinded (open label)

        -  National multicenter study

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  > 18 years or more on the day of hospitalization

        -  Must be able to provide informed consent

        -  Acute hospitalization within the last 48 hours

        -  Meeting diagnostic criteria for community-induced fibropurulent stage (stage II) and the
           chronic organizing stage (stage III) empyema

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Pregnant

        -  Breastfeeding

        -  Known malignant sickness and declared terminal for this

        -  Previous surgery (within <1 year on the same side of the thorax as where the
           parapneumonic effusion / pleural empyema is located

        -  Previously (within <1 year) hospitalized with an empyema stage II-III

        -  Drainage on the same side of the thorax (excluding diagnostic pleural puncture),
           including a pigtail

        -  Use of intrapleural therapy contraindicated (e.g. allergy)

        -  Enrollment duration at the time of diagnostic puncture > 48 hours

        -  Hospitalization within 7 days prior to current hospitalization

      Endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

      • Hospitalization time, where admission time is defined as the time from first
      hospitalization in the course of hospitalization and to the completion of treatment (time of
      discharge). (In patients who cannot be discharged due to failure to receive primary care
      (e.g. waiting time at the relocation site), the date where the attending physician has
      finished the treatment is used as the discharged date).

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Hospitalization time (total) when patients are stratified in subgroups (Stage, ULS
           score, RAPID score)

        -  Hospitalization time after commencement of intervention

        -  Percentage of patients where primary intervention could be considered as final
           treatment: Definitive treatment is defined as a patient receiving only invasive
           interventions in the form of VATS procedure or initial ULS recommended drainage and not
           subsequent construction of additional drainage or need for surgery during
           hospitalization

        -  Mortality during hospitalization

        -  30-day mortality

        -  Drainage time measured in days

        -  Radiological regression (a.m. MIST II)

        -  Number of drains

        -  Need for additional thoracic surgery (VATS, thoracotomy) during and within 12 months
           after hospitalization

        -  Need for intensive therapy

        -  Consumption of painkillers during hospitalization and within 12 months after
           hospitalization

        -  Lung Physiology

        -  Re-admission

        -  Quality of life, see EQ5D

        -  Health related costs within 12 months after hospitalization (including costs during
           hospitalization, post-hospitalization (hospitalization) and sick leave etc.).

      Randomization All referred patients who have parapneumonic effusion in Stage II or III who
      immediately comply with the inclusion criteria and which cannot be excluded from the
      exclusion criteria will be requested to participate in the project.

      Patients will be randomized to either:

        1. VATS procedure with drainage, including rinse with NaCl

        2. ULS-guided pigtail catheter placement and intrapleural therapy with Actilyse and DNase,
           including rinse with NaCl

           Block randomization with varying block size will be used to get an equal number of
           patients in both groups. There will be stratification for the center (Rigshospitalet,
           Odense University Hospital, Aalborg University Hospital and Aarhus University Hospital)
           in the randomization. The randomization takes place after the patient is included and is
           conducted via a web-based randomization program, designed in RedCap.

           Blinding Patients and staff who care and treat patients will not be blinded. Data
           analysis and assessment of different scoring systems (e.g. ULS and radiology score) are
           made blind, to the extent that it is practically feasible.

           Patient population and selection All patients admitted during the diagnosis of pleural
           empyema or pleural effusion without specification (diagnostic codes: DJ 86, DJ 86.1, DJ
           86.9, DJ 90.9), Stages II and III will be potential candidates, whether they are
           hospitalized at a Regional Hospital or at a University Hospital. All
           respiratory/pulmonology medical departments and relevant common emergency
           services/departments in Denmark will be informed that the project is in progress and
           that they can contact local contact persons regarding inclusion in the project.

           Patients who can be included in the project receive both written and oral information
           before inclusion in the study.

           Practical issues regarding inclusion of patients Patients who immediately meet the
           criteria for inclusion and are interested in participating are informed by one of the
           project participants or project nurses from the thoracic surgery department or other
           relevant department where the patient is hospitalized. The physical location of
           information and randomization will vary with the local organization of hospitals and
           departments. If the patient is randomized to VATS, the patient is transferred to one of
           the four centers where there is a thoracic surgical department. If the patient is
           randomized to ULS guided drainage and intrapleural therapy, the patient is transferred
           to one of the specialized pulmonology departments participating in the project.

           Intervention Drain and intrapleural therapy group Pigtail is applied at a specialized
           department (Pulmonary or Thoracic surgery department) as soon as possible and within 48
           hours of admission. Drain placement is carried out using ULS. Operators (conductors of
           the procedure) must have relevant training and competencies corresponding to the
           specialist level within the relevant specialty and be approved by the steering committee
           to conduct the procedure. A pigtail catheter (minimum 10F) is inserted. Operator
           determines the size of drain and whether drain placement is done with one-step or
           Seldinger technic.

           VATS group The VATS procedure must be completed as soon as possible and no later than 48
           hours after admission. The surgery is performed with the patient in a 90 degree sideways
           position, using general anesthesia. Preferably a uniportal access, purification and
           possibly decortication, and insertion of one pleural drain (sizes 24 - 32F) at the end
           of surgery. 20 ml Marcain is used as local analgetic and applied at the incision sites
           or as a nerve block. In the VATS group, suction on drain (- 15 cm H20) is applied in the
           first day after the procedure. Operator must have relevant training and competencies
           corresponding to the specialist level within the relevant specialty and be registered
           and approved by the "steering committee".

           After the procedure Randomized patients should, after treatment (VATS or pigtail), be
           transferred to a specialized pulmonary medical department or remain hospitalized at the
           Thoracic surgical department. This is decided by local agreements, competencies and
           practical conditions. Practical conditions are agreed locally, both in some hospitals
           and in each Region prior to initiation of the study.

           Antibiotics

           Standard antibiotics treatment is initiated as intravenous treatment. Change to oral
           treatment can be done when all of the following three criteria are met:

             -  Clinical improvement of the patient (e.g. no fever / fever, improved general
                condition)

             -  Paraclinically satisfactory response (with respect to decreases in leukocytes and
                CRPs)

             -  Drain / pigtail is removed This means that 14 days i.v. treatment will not be given
                as standard. The duration of i.v. antibiotic treatment will therefore be individual
                based on the application of the above criteria. The overall duration of treatment
                of antibiotic is 6 weeks as standard.

           Removal of drain/pigtail

           The following criteria are used for discontinuation of drain / pigtail in both groups:

             -  Clinical improvement of the patient (e.g. no fever / subfebril, improved general
                condition)

             -  Paraclinically satisfactory response (with respect to a decrease in leukocytes and
                CRPs)

             -  Imaging (TUS, CT or Chest X-ray (CXR) in 2 planes) without significant residual
                effusion

             -  Drain with clear pleural fluid by rinsing

           Data recording Baseline patient data (admission data / baseline variable) are registered
           on all included patients

           Surgical data:

           • Side of surgery (right / left), percentage of patients where the procedure has been
           completed with a uniportal access, number of incisions, conversion to an open procedure,
           operating time, complications, name of surgeon, number of assistants, equipment usage.

           ULS pigtail data:

           • Side of procedure (right / left), zone, findings including "Empyem score", number of
           "attempts", drain size, technique used (One-Step, Seldinger, ULS identification of
           puncture site / real-time guidance), procedure time, medication used, vital parameters,
           place of where the procedure are performed (FAM, ward etc.), name of operator, number of
           assistants, equipment usage and complications

           Costs during hospitalization:

           Calculated for the two groups regarding the following expenses:

             -  VATS Group:

                  -  Utensils used during surgery

                  -  Time of the procedure

                  -  Consumption of human/staff resources

                  -  Hospitalization time

                  -  Medicine

             -  Drain group:

                  -  Utensils used during the procedure

                  -  Procedure Time

                  -  Consumption of human/staff resources

                  -  Fibrinolyticum and DNase (amount used)

                  -  Hospitalization time

                  -  Medicine

           Costs within the 1st year after discharge:

           Calculated for the two groups regarding the following expenses:

             -  Re-admission

             -  Ambulatory services

             -  Medication

             -  Number of sick days

             -  Visit to a GP

           Patient satisfaction and functional level:

           • Data in the form of EQ5D and Sct. George is collected at the following times:

             -  Upon inclusion in the study

             -  At discharge

             -  Ambulant: 3 months, 6 months and 12 months.

           Various parameters acquired from and after hospitalization (including ambulant
           outpatient visits):

             -  Hospitalization time, total

             -  Hospitalization time after commencement of intervention

             -  Primary intervention could be considered as final treatment

             -  Mortality during hospitalization

             -  30 days of mortality

             -  Drainage time

             -  Radiological regression a.m. MIST II

             -  Number and types of drains

             -  Need for additional surgery (VATS, thoracotomy) during and within 12 months after
                hospitalization

             -  Need for additional intrapleural therapy (regardless of choice of drug) during and
                within 12 months after hospitalization

             -  Need for intensive therapy

             -  Type and total duration of antibiotic treatment

             -  Consumption of painkillers during hospitalization and within 12 months after
                hospitalization

             -  Place of post-procedure stay (surgical / pulmonary medicine)

             -  Lung function tests and walking tests

             -  Re-admission

             -  Miscellaneous paraclinical parameters (blood culture, blood to biobank, urine test
                etc.) A very thorough and extensive plan for all data acquired has been made.

           Outpatient check/clinic after discharge In conjunction with participation in the
           project, in addition to any common local controls, outpatient check is carried out at
           the regional pulmonary/respiratory out-patient-clinic after 3, 6 and 12 months after the
           discharge.

           Data collection Media

             -  REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), REDCap Consortium, Vanderbilt University
                Medical Center, Tennessee, USA

             -  Electronic patient record (EPJ in Region Midt, EPJ in Region North, EPJ (COSMIC) in
                Region South and EPJ (EPIC Health Platform) in the Capital Region and Region
                Zealand).

             -  Health related costs are retrieved via the National Patient Register (LPR).

           Handling and archiving data All data is entered in a Case Report Form in RedCap. REDCap
           is a professional database that provides a user-friendly interface. The REDCap data
           management system is secure, fully compliant with all regulatory guidelines, and
           includes a complete audit-trail for data entry validation. Through these mechanisms, as
           well as relevant training for all involved parties, patient confidentiality will be
           safeguarded. REDCap is available for free at both Odense and Aarhus University.

           When handling, processing and archiving data collected, the Data Inspectorate's
           guidelines are followed, which implies that all personal data are deleted at the end of
           the project. The collected data is stored at the Department of CardioThoracic and
           Vascular Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital and at Department of Pulmonology, Odense
           University Hospital.

           Sample size and power calculation The study is based on assumptions and knowledge about
           admission time, both from national and international publications. The sample size
           calculation is therefore subject to some uncertainty. In clinical practice, stage II and
           III are treated alike, and the pragmatic approach is therefore that both groups are
           included and calculated as aggregates in connection with the primary endpoint. We
           calculated the sample size based on the following assumptions: The main effect target is
           the difference between the total time (primary endpoint) between the two groups of
           patients (VATS versus drainage). The distribution of the hospitalization time is
           expected to be skewed to the right, so that a logarithmic transformation is needed to
           achieve normality.

           We assume a median hospitalization period in the drainage group of 12 days, a minimum
           clinically relevant difference in hospitalization of two days, 80% power, and
           Coefficient of variation (CV) of 40%.

           Significance level is set to 0.05. Thus, 77 patients in each group must be included. To
           account for excluded patients (set at 20%), we expect to include 92 patients in each
           group. A total of 184 patients is to be included.

           In terms of showing clinically relevant non-inferiority with a difference in
           hospitalization of 1 day with a 80% power, and CV of 40%, 70 patients is needed in each
           group. This is based on a true improvement of 1 hospitalization day.

           Data analysis Data extractions are made from RedCap database. Data analysis is performed
           using one of the following: Microsoft® Excel® 2011 (Microsoft Corporation, Washington,
           USA), Prism Version 6 for Mac OS X (GraphPad Software, Inc., California, USA), STATA
           version 14 (StataCorp LLC, Texas , USA). Endpoints will be described for the individual
           group by median and percentile, assuming data is not normally distributed.

           Differences between the groups in the primary endpoint are determined by t-test at the
           log-entry time and reported as median ratios with associated confidence intervals.
           Whether death before discharge affects the primary endpoint is assessed using survival
           analysis as sensitivity analysis. We expect that the distribution between stages II and
           III will be 75% and 25%, respectively, and whether there is a difference between stages
           II and III will be assessed as secondary analysis. When repeating measurements (e.g.
           quality of life), repeated measurements ANOVA are used with treatment and time as
           systematic effects and patient as random effect. All data are analyzed primarily
           according to the intention to treat principle, but there will also be one per protocol
           analysis regarding the above-mentioned endpoints. Comparison will take place between the
           two groups (drainage and VATS).

           Statistical cooperation partner Bo Martin Bibby. Ass. Professor, Biostatistical Advisory
           Service (BIAS), Faculty of Health Sciences, Aarhus University.

           Risks of participation, ethical considerations and monitoring Common clinical practice
           is currently very divergent and there is no national or international consensus on which
           of the treatments is preferable (VATS versus drainage). There is thus no safe evidence
           for any of the regimes.The individual patient may not immediately benefit from
           participating. The results of the study will primarily benefit future patients.

           The project is carried out in accordance with the Helsinki II Declaration, European
           regulations and Good Clinical Practice Guidelines. The Scientific Ethics Committees for
           Denmark and the Data Inspectorate are applying for permission to complete the program.
           Information about the subjects is protected under the Personal Data Processing Act and
           the Health Act, and the trial has been reported to the Data Inspectorate / Regional
           office. The trial will be monitored by the regional Good Clinical Practice monitoring
           unit.

           Interruption of the experiment Suspected Severe Adverse Reactions suspend the attempt
           for the individual patient. However, patient data is still used in the project according
           to intention to treat principles.

           Earlier termination of the trial for the individual patient

             -  If the patient wishes to leave the study.

             -  If unexpected complications occur If leaving the trial, the patient will follow the
                department's usual procedure for treating patients treated for pleura empyema. If
                the patient wishes to leave the study, the collected data is not used if, as a
                result of unexpected complications, the patient cannot receive the intervention the
                patient is randomized, the patient enters the data and continues to collect data in
                accordance with the intention to treat principles.

           Events and side effects All unintended events and adverse events throughout the
           treatment period and until the last call after 30 days are recorded. All Adverse Events
           are recorded in the patients Case Report Form.

           Agreements with other departments / hospitals All involved departments have signed a
           document obligating them to take active part in the trial.

           All Pulmonary and Thoracic Surgical departements on the four University Hospital has
           agreed to participate in the trial The Danish Society of Cardiothoracic Surgery and the
           Danish Society of Respiratory Medicine has both recommended and endorsed the study

           Project collaboration and work distribution The main applicant will be the principal
           investigator, and primarily responsible for the overall practical feasibility,
           conducting and hosting of the study. The co-applicants (Morten Bendixen and Thomas
           Decker Christensen) is part of the steering committee and equally responsible for the
           conduction of the trial.

           Morten Bendixen have taking part in the process of preparing and writing the protocol,
           organizing the study and applying for economical support. He will take part in the
           implementing of the study (inclusion of patients, performing surgery, practical issues
           etc.), analyzing and interpretation of data and writing of the manuscripts. His share of
           the budget is estimated to 1269400 Dkr.

           Thomas Decker Christensen have taking part in the idea/concept of the study, the process
           of preparing and writing the protocol, organizing the study and applying for economical
           support. He will take part in the implementing of the study (inclusion of patients,
           performing surgery, practical issues etc.), analyzing and interpretation of data and
           reviewing the manuscripts. His share of the budget is estimated to 1269400 Dkr.

           International collaborators To provide scientific input and an international
           perspective, we have assembled a group of international experts with great expertise and
           experience within pleural emphyema and clinical trials. This group includes Prof. Najib.
           N. Rahman, Professor, Consultant of Respiratory Medicine, Nuffield Department of
           Medicine, Clinical Director, Oxford Respiratory Trials Unit, University of Oxford, UK
           and Prof. Babu Naidu, Professor, Consultant of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Thoracic
           Surgery, Birmingham Heartland Hospital, Birmingham, UK

           Report / applied for permission from the following institutions

             -  Scientific ethics committee

             -  Data Inspectorate / Region Midt

             -  Medicines Agency (Case No. 2017084202)

             -  www.clinicaltrials.gov

           Time schedule The proposal covers a 5 years' timeline, with approximately half a year
           for further planning and organization of the trial, 2.5 years for patient inclusion, 1
           year for follow-up and 1 year for data analyses and publications. Additional details are
           provided in the attached figure.

           Publications and sharing of the data Both positive, negative and inconclusive results
           from the study will be published in international journals. The researchers' free right
           to publication cannot be restricted. All information will be disclosed in anonymous
           form. The results will also be presented at international scientific congresses.

           A minimum of six manuscripts are planned from the current trial. Study findings will be
           published irrespective of the results. Completely de-identified data will be shared in
           public database after the trial to allow for other researchers to replicate the results
           or to test new hypotheses.

           Steering committee A steering committee will be responsible for the design and conduct
           of the trial. The principal investigator will be Christian B Laursen (see applicant
           information) Additional members of the multidisciplinary steering committee will include
           Thomas Decker Christensen (co-applicant), Morten Bendixen (co-applicant), Peter B. Licht
           MD, PhD (thoracic surgery), Rene H. Petersen MD, PhD (thoracic surgery), Lars Møller MD
           (thoracic surgery), Jens-Ulrik Stæhr Jensen MD, PhD (pulmonologist), Vasiliki Panou MD
           (pulmonologist) and Søren Helbo Skaarup MD (pulmonologist).

           A qualified Ph.D. fellow will be included in the steering committee and involved in the
           conduct of the trial.

           Abbreviations used in the project description CRP: C-reactive protein CT: Computed
           tomography CXR: Chest X-ray EQ5D: European Quality of Life F: French Ml: Milliliter
           MIST: Multi-centre Intra-pleural Sepsis Trial TUS: Thoracic Ultrasound ULS: Ultrasound
           VATS: Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery
    
  