
    
      The study schedule for each patient consists of the screening period (up to 2 weeks) followed
      by the treatment period (4 treatment administrations at 8-week interval), and the follow-up
      period (5 years).

      The treatment period will consist of 4 Lutathera treatments administered at 8-week intervals.
      Lutathera administration will occur on Week 1 Day 1 of each cycle. Each patient will receive
      a total of 4 doses of Lutathera (7.4 GBq/200 mCi x 4 administrations every 8 weeks;
      cumulative dose: 29.6 GBq/800 mCi). An infusion of 2.5% Lysine - Arginine amino acid (AA)
      solution will be co-administered with each Lutathera dose for renal protection according to
      the approved Lutathera local prescribing information. An antiemetic will be administered
      prior to infusion of the AA solution for prevention of infusion-related nausea and vomiting.

      The dosimetry and PK assessments will be performed during the first week after the 1st
      Lutathera dose, i.e. one time during the study treatment period for each patient. The
      dosimetry analysis will allow for estimation from the 1st Lutathera administration of the
      cumulative absorbed radiation dose from 4 Lutathera doses and also for taking a decision on
      the next dose levels. In the exceptional circumstances when dosimetry cannot be performed in
      a particular patient after the first Lutathera dose, it should be completed as soon as
      feasible upon a later dose. In order to minimize risk for each study subject, an accelerated
      analysis of dosimetry and safety data will be performed for each patient in the study, to
      enable the Investigator to take a decision for the subsequent Lutathera doses. The results of
      dosimetry assessments (imaging and blood dosimetry) will be provided to the investigators for
      their evaluation prior to administration of subsequent therapeutic cycles in each patient.

      A total follow-up period of 5 years (60 months) after the last Lutathera dose will take place
      for each patient who received at least one dose of Lutathera. This follow-up period will be
      comprised of a short-term follow-up of 6 months to evaluate cumulative Lutathera toxicities,
      followed by a long-term follow up of another 54 months.

      An external Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will also operate in the study to
      evaluate accumulating safety and dosimetry data, to ensure the safety of adolescents enrolled
      in the study, and to provide recommendations to investigators as well as to the clinical team
      in charge of conducting the study.
    
  