
    
      Introduction Surgical site infection (SSI) is the second commonest hospital infection,
      despite advances in prevention that have been achieved. However, among surgical patients, it
      is the hospital infection of greatest incidence. In the United States, it has been estimated
      that around 500,000 cases of SSI occur every year, thus generating an annual cost of more
      than 1.6 billion dollars.

      According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), SSI can appear up to 30 days after
      performing the surgical procedure and up to one year afterwards, when a prosthesis was
      implanted. SSI is classified as superficial infection when it only affects the skin and
      subcutaneous tissue at the incision site. It is classified as deep infection when it involves
      deep structures of the wall and muscle layers of organs and spaces in any part of the anatomy
      that is opened or manipulated during the surgical procedure, with the exception of the
      incision.

      SSI has a series of consequences. These include increased duration of hospitalization,
      increased cost of medical and hospital care, increased prescription of broad-spectrum
      antibiotics (with consequent increased bacterial resistance) and increased postoperative
      mortality, given that 30% to 40% of deaths during this period result from this type of
      infection.

      The risk factors most frequently correlated with SSI are in connection with the patient and
      the surgical procedure and include obesity, malnutrition, smoking, age extremes, diabetes,
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, immunosuppression, alcoholism, use of corticoids,
      potential for contamination of the operative wound, long-duration operations, presence of a
      foreign body at the surgical site, incorrect administration of antibiotic prophylaxis and
      poor surgical technique. Thus, the risk of SSI may vary according to the type of surgery and
      each individual's inherent conditions.

      With regard to surgical technique, the points that need to be taken into consideration
      include careful dissection and manipulation of the tissue so as to minimize the tissue
      trauma, adequacy of hemostasis to impede formation of hematomas, avoidance of environments
      favorable to microbe proliferation and excessive use of electric scalpels or their use with
      higher-than recommended currents, which has a high potential for tissue devitalization.
      According to Fernàndes, experimental studies have demonstrated that incorrect use of electric
      scalpels may double the rate of SSI during electrocauterization.

      Because of the lack of solid data in the literature, in relation to the impact on SSI of
      using electric scalpels for making incisions in the skin and all subcutaneous tissues, it was
      judged to be opportune to conduct the present study.

      Objectives:

        -  To compare the incidence of SSI and other complications of the operative wound among
           patients undergoing elective abdominal gynecological surgery at Barretos Cancer
           Hospital, between the use of electric and cold scalpels.

        -  To identify the incidence of SSI and other complications of the operative wound among
           patients undergoing elective abdominal gynecological surgery, when using electric
           scalpels for skin incisions and for subcutaneous incisions.

        -  To identify the main risk factors for SSI among patients undergoing elective abdominal
           gynecological surgery.

      Methodology:

      This is a blinded randomized clinical trial composed of two groups (cold scalpel versus
      electric scalpel), among patients undergoing elective abdominal gynecological surgery at
      Barretos Cancer Hospital between July 2010 and July 2012. These patients will fulfill the
      following inclusion criteria: over 18 years of age, agreement to participate in the study and
      undergoing elective abdominal gynecological surgery for the purposes of diagnosis or curative
      or palliative oncological treatment. The following types of patient will be excluded:
      patients undergoing surgery with manipulation of the digestive system, patients undergoing
      surgery to open a stoma and cases of reoperation. The randomization will be performed at the
      time of the surgery by the Research Support Center of Barretos Cancer Hospital, with further
      subdivision of the patients into two groups, with body mass index (BMI) < 30 and ≥ 30. The
      cold scalpel and electric scalpel will be used in accordance with the randomization, to open
      the skin and the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The aponeurosis and peritoneum will be incised
      using an electric scalpel. The data will be gathered by the investigator, who will make
      direct observations of the operative wound in order to make diagnoses of SSI after discharge
      from hospital, with assessments on the 14th and 30th days after the operation. The present
      project has been approved by the Research Ethics Committee of Barretos Cancer Hospital.
      Subjects who agree to participate will show their acceptance through signing a free and
      informed consent statement. Other factors such as hematoma, seroma, bulging, etc., will also
      be evaluated.
    
  