
    
      Parents / Mothers with impending pre-term delivery at <30 weeks of gestation will be
      approached for informed consent to participate. If consent is given prior to delivery, upon
      delivery the neonate may be randomly assigned to either Fisher & Paykel CPAP (conventional
      approach) or Seattle--PAP (experimental approach).

      First 72 hours of life: 1) Neonates able to breathe spontaneously on less than 40% oxygen
      after initial resuscitative efforts and would normally be placed on CPAP will be randomly
      assigned to one of the two treatment groups using sealed cards generated by a variable block
      randomization scheme. 2) Neonates requiring increased support after initial resuscitation
      (intubation, >40% oxygen by CPAP) will not initially be randomized. However, if within the
      first 72 hours of life, the infant meets NCH criteria for extubation, randomization to CPAP
      delivery method will be performed. 3) Neonates born at <30 weeks gestation who were intubated
      at birth and are unable to be weaned from ventilator support will be removed from the study.

      72 Hours - 32 Weeks of Life: 1) Neonates from the first period (First 72 Hours of Life,
      above) who remain on CPAP will continue on randomly assigned CPAP methodology. 2) Neonates
      from the first period, who failed stabilization on CPAP and required intubation, but are able
      to be extubated to CPAP will be placed back on their assigned CPAP method. 3) Attempts will
      be made to wean back to assigned CPAP method any neonates who are >72 hours old and require
      intubation beyond this period for any reason. 4) If unable to wean back to CPAP prior to 32
      weeks of age, these patients will be removed from the study.

      CPAP Failure (Sub-Group 1): For the neonates initially assigned to CPAP in the delivery room
      (sub-group 1), respiratory failure secondary to hyaline membrane disease is recognized as a
      common occurrence. If a patient assigned to this group, regardless of CPAP methodology,
      requires a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) greater than 0.40 on CPAP of 6 cm of water
      (H2O), or is deemed to require intubation for adequate oxygenation, this will be considered a
      failure of CPAP stabilization. These patients, however, may remain in the study if it becomes
      clinically feasible to return them back to their assigned CPAP method prior to 72 hours of
      life. If this is unable to be done, they will be removed from the study.

      CPAP Failure (Sub-Group 2): Any neonate that requires FiO2 greater than 0.40 on CPAP of 6 cm
      H2O or intubation beyond the first 72 hours of life will also be considered CPAP failures.
      Like those assigned to sub-group 1, these patients may remain in the study if it becomes
      clinically feasible to return them back to their assigned CPAP method prior to 32 weeks of
      life. If this is unable to be done, they will be removed from the study.

      All patients who are not removed from the study as outlined above or due to other unforeseen
      circumstances will be monitored to discharge for any change in ventilation and ventilation
      requirement status. Routine care, including clinical exams and procedures (echocardiography,
      ultrasound, eye exams, x--rays) that would be considered standard of care for these patients
      will be performed at the medical discretion of the assigned care providers. No changes other
      than the type of CPAP device used (if applicable) will be necessary to routine practice.

      Transfers to NCH: [From Outside Hospital] - Neonates born at an outside institution who meet
      the inclusion criteria (<30 weeks GA, able to spontaneously breathe by 72 hours of life or
      were initially placed on CPAP and failed, <32 weeks of age) and whose parents can be reached
      to obtain consent will be considered for inclusion in this research study. [Transfers from
      Ohio State University (OSU) Hospital] - It is recognized that many neonates born at OSU will
      require transport to NCH for further medical care. Having fulfilled inclusion criteria at
      OSU, transport to NCH will not result in removal from the study.

      Cardiopulmonary Monitoring: All neonates are monitored in the NICU using pulse oximetry as
      part of normal practice. Many potential subjects in this study are also monitored through
      blood tests and arterial catheters, the latter of which are normally not intended for long
      term use.

      Pressure Monitoring: A stand-alone Data Acquisition and Recording Instrument (DARCI) that
      measures pressure (i.e., positive airway pressure [PAW]) will be attached to the ventilation
      circuit. The DARCI unit is equipped with a standard International Organization for
      Standardization (ISO)19054 pole mount fitting attached on the back. A medical grade plug-in
      transformer provides electrical power (120 volts alternating current (AC) to 5 volts direct
      current (DC)). An internal battery and on-board non-volatile memory provide continuous data
      processing and storage in the event of power interruption or loss. A start button with a
      green light emitting diode (LED) and a stop button with a red LED provide the operational
      interface to the user during setup and changes in ventilation circuits. Initial programming
      and downloading of recorded pressure data will be accomplished using a laptop personal
      computer (PC) with interface application software installed.
    
  