
    
      Background:

      A high intake of fruit and vegetables is a common trait among healthy dietary patterns and a
      cornerstone of nutrition interventions for cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention. There is
      an international consensus that at least 5 servings per day of fruit and vegetables is
      beneficial to overall population health (WHO, 2003). This guidance, however, is largely
      founded on observational studies showing protective associations of high intakes of fruit and
      vegetables with CVD in health-conscious individuals (Reddy and Katan, 2004). Recommendations
      to consume specific types of fruit and vegetables, such as citrus fruit and green leafy
      vegetables, have been established mainly on the association of isolated nutrients with CVD
      risk reduction in observational studies or the effect of isolated nutrients on CVD risk
      factors in small randomized trials (Katamay et al., 2007). Given its prominence in dietary
      guidelines, there is a need to determine the extent of CVD risk reduction that may be
      attributed to the consumption of fruit and vegetables. As guidelines are shifting away from a
      focus on single nutrients to a focus on whole foods and dietary patterns and achieving
      adequate intakes continue to be a challenge worldwide and (Hall et al., 2009), there is also
      an advantage in establishing which types of fruit and vegetables are associated with the
      greatest protection in CVD incidence and mortality per serving. Although several systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses of prospective cohort studies have demonstrated protective
      associations between the intake of total fruit and vegetables and CVD risk (Aune et al.,
      2017; Zhan et al., 2017; Gan et al., 2015; Wang et al, 2014; Hu et al., 2007; He et al.,
      2007; Dauchet et al., 2006), few have focused on specific fruit and vegetables or explored a
      range of cardiovascular outcomes which may have different etiologies. Several large
      prospective cohort studies have recently been published which may strengthen the certainty of
      the evidence by increasing the number of observations for the relationship between different
      fruit and vegetables exposures and different cardiovascular outcomes. We propose to build and
      expand on the exiting systematic reviews and meta-analyses by conducting a comprehensive
      synthesis of prospective cohort studies comparing the certainty of the evidence for the
      different types of fruit and vegetables in relation to a range of cardiovascular outcomes.

      Objective:

      To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the available prospective cohort studies
      using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach
      to assess the association between different types of fruit and vegetables and different
      cardiovascular outcomes including CVD, CHD, and stroke incidence and mortality.

      Design:

      The conduct of the proposed systematic review and meta-analysis will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions and the GRADE handbook for grading the
      certainty of the evidence and the strength of recommendations using the GRADE approach. The
      reporting will follow the Meta-Analysis Of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) and
      the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statements.

      Data Sources:

      MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) will be
      searched using relevant search terms. Search of databases will be supplemented by manual
      searches of bibliographies.

      Study Selection:

      Prospective cohort studies exploring the relation of fruit and/or vegetable intake to
      incident cardiovascular disease for a minimum follow-up time of 1 year will be included.

      Data extraction:

      Two independent reviewers will extract relevant information including study design, sample
      size, subject characteristics, exposure form (i.e. total fruit and vegetables, citrus fruit,
      green leafy vegetables, etc.), duration/person-years of follow-up, adjustments of models and
      risk ratios for clinical outcomes derived from clinical event data across quantiles of
      exposure. Any disagreements will be reconciled by consensus with arbitration by the Principal
      Investigator.

      Risk of bias:

      Risk of bias (ROB) will be assessed by two independent reviewers using the Newcastle-Ottawa
      Scale (NOS). Up to 9 points can be awarded based on cohort selection (max 4 points), the
      comparability of cohort design and analysis (max 4 points), and adequacy of the outcome
      measures (max 3 points). Studies that receive ≥6 points will be considered as higher quality.
      Again, any disagreements will be reconciled by consensus with arbitration by the Principal
      Investigator.

      Outcomes:

      We will assess 6 outcomes: CVD incidence and mortality, CHD incidence and mortality, and
      stroke incidence and mortality.

      Data Synthesis:

      We will pool the natural log-transformed relative risks for the 6 cardiovascular outcomes
      using the inverse variance method with random effects models with data expressed as risk
      ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Analyses will be conducted by extreme
      quantiles analyses, comparing the highest with the lowest (reference) level of exposure. Data
      will also be scaled to allow for per serving/day analyses. Between-study heterogeneity will
      be assessed by the Cochran Q test and quantified by the I2 statistic with significance at
      P<0.1. An I2≥50% and P<0.1 will be considered as evidence of substantial heterogeneity.
      Sensitivity analyses and a priori subgroup analyses will be undertaken to explore sources of
      heterogeneity. Sensitivity analyses will include the systematic removal of included cohorts
      with the recalculation of summary estimates. A priori subgroup analyses will be conducted
      when ≥10 cohort comparisons are available by age, sex, location of cohort, follow-up
      duration, dietary assessment tool, risk of bias (NOS score). A separate subgroup analysis
      will also be conducted by each domain of risk of bias by NOS. Meta-regression analyses will
      assess the significance of categorical and continuous subgroups analyses. Dose-response
      analyses will be undertaken using random-effects generalized least squares trend estimation
      models (GLST) to assess linear relationships and spline curve modeling (the MKSPLINE
      procedure) to assess non-linear relationships. If ≥10 cohort comparisons are available, then
      publication bias will be assessed by visual inspection of funnel plots and formal testing
      with the Egger and Begg tests at a significance level of p≤ 0.10. If publication bias is
      suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Grading the Evidence:

      The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) method will be
      used to assess the overall certainty of the evidence for each of the cardiovascular outcomes.
      This system grades the evidence as "high quality", "moderate quality", "low quality", or
      "very low quality". Observational studies including prospective cohort studies start at a
      "low quality" and then can be downgraded or upgraded based on established criteria. Criteria
      to downgrade will include study limitations (weight of studies show risk of bias by NOS),
      inconsistency (substantial unexplained inter-study heterogeneity, I2>50%, P<0.10),
      indirectness (presence of factors relating to the population, exposures, and outcomes that
      limit generalizability), imprecision (95% CI are wide or cross a minimally important
      difference of 5% [RR 0.95- 1.05]), and publication bias (significant evidence of publication
      bias or small-study effects). Criteria to upgrade will include a large magnitude effect (RR>2
      or RR<0.5 in the absence of plausible confounders), a dose-response gradient, and attenuation
      by plausible confounding effects.

      Knowledge translation plan:

      The results will be disseminated through interactive presentations at local, national, and
      international scientific meetings and publication in high impact factor journals. Target
      audiences will include the public health and scientific communities with interest in
      nutrition, physical activity, lifestyle modification, obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular
      disease. Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key
      areas for future research will be defined.

      Significance:

      The study will aid in establishing a stronger evidence-base to determine the extent to which
      a high fruit and vegetable intake may be associated with reduction in incident CVD. It may
      also bring to light categories of fruits and/or vegetables that could provide additional
      benefit in CVD prevention.

      References:

      World Health Organization. (2003). Fruit and Vegetable Promotion Initiative - report of the
      meeting. Geneva.

      Reddy KS and Katan MB. (2004). Diet, nutrition and the prevention of hypertension and
      cardiovascular disease. Public Health Nutrition. 7(1A): 167-186

      Katamay SW, Esslinger KA, Vigneault M, et al. (2007) Nutrition Reviews. 65(4): 155-166.

      Hall JN, Moore S, Harper SB, et al. (2009). Global variability in fruit and vegetable
      consumption. American Journal of Preventative Medicine. 36:402-409

      Aune D, Giovannucci E, Boffetta P, et al. (2017). Fruit and vegetable intake and the risk of
      cardiovascular disease, total cancer and all-cause mortality - a systematic review and
      dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies. International Journal of Epidemiology.
      1-28

      Zhan J, Liu Y, Cai L, et al. (2017). Fruit and vegetable consumption and risk of
      cardiovascular disease: A meta-anaylsis of prospective cohort studies. Critical Reviews in
      Food Science and Nutrition. 57(8):1650-1663

      Gan Y, Tong X, Liqing L, et al. (2015). Consumption of fruit and vegetable and risk of
      coronary heart disease: A meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. International Journal
      of Cardiology. 183: 129-137

      Wang X, Ouyang Y, Liu J, et al. (2014). Fruit and vegetable consumption and mortality from
      all causes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer: systematic review and dose-response
      meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. British Medical Journal. 349

      Hu D, Hunag J, Wang Y, et al. (2014). Fruits and vegetables consumption and risk of stroke: A
      meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Stroke. 45: 1613-1619

      He FG, Nowson CA, Lucas M et al. (2007). Increased consumption of fruit and vegetables is
      related to reduced risk of coronary heart disease: meta-analysis of cohort studies. Journal
      of Human Hypertension. 21:717-728

      He FJ, Nowson CA and MacGregor GA. (2006). Fruit and vegetable consumption and stroke: a
      meta-analysis of cohort studies. Lancet: 367:320-326.

      Dauchet L, Amouyel P, Hereberg S, et al. (2006). Fruit and vegetable consumption and risk of
      coronary heart disease: A meta-analyses of cohort studies. The Journal of Nutrition. 136:
      2588-2593.
    
  