
    
      Breast cancer patients are at an increased risk of recurrence in bone and bone density loss
      (osteopenia/osteoporosis) and consequently fragility fractures due to: age, systemic therapy
      with aromatase inhibitors, and premature induction of menopause by chemotherapy or ovarian
      ablation. Bone is the most common site of breast cancer recurrence. The use of bone modifying
      agents, such as Zoledronate may reduce the risk of bone metastases and fragility fractures.
      Despite the widespread use of adjuvant Zoledronate, it is not known what the optimal number
      of infusions is to reduce the risk of bone metastases and the risk of fragility fractures.
      Indeed, the recent CCO and ASCO Practice Guideline, 'Bottom line recommendations'
      specifically states, "More research is recommended comparing different bone-modifying agents,
      doses, dosing intervals, and durations." In the metastatic setting, for nearly 2 decades
      biphosphonates (i.e. Zoledronate) have been given to patients every 3-4 weeks. This dosing
      interval was selected based on convenience of co-administration with standard anti-cancer
      agents and not on the long biological effect of these agents on osteoclasts, the cells
      responsible for excess bone breakdown. Furthermore, in the bone density preservation setting,
      despite the usual administration of Zoledronate once a year a single dose of Zoledronate was
      associated with a sustained increase in bone mineral density 5 years later. A recent
      systematic review in the adjuvant setting, showed that BTA at any particular dose or route of
      administration showed superiority over the other. In other words, the lowest dose appears to
      be just as good as the highest dose. This study will compare the single dose of Zoledronate
      to Zoledronate given every 6 months for 3 years. The primary outcome for this study will be
      feasibility of conducting this trial. The secondary outcome will assess bone-metastasis risk,
      fragility rates, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness.

      In this study it is hypothesized that a single dose of Zoledronate will be non-inferior to
      every 6 months in terms of bone-metastasis free survival, time to first bone metastasis and
      fragility fractures. It is also hypothesized that a single dose of Zoledronate will have less
      toxicities associated with Zoledronate compared to every 6 months.
    
  