
    
      Objective - Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is hypothesized to be a safer
      alternative to conventional on-pump CABG, but the comparative risks and benefits of the
      procedures for neurological outcomes have not been established by prospective randomized
      testing. The primary objective of this study is to assess the difference in frequency of new
      ischemic brain lesions in patients randomized to either on- or off-pump CABG. We will test
      the hypothesis that off-pump CABG is associated with a smaller proportion of patients with
      new lesions on MRI post-operatively. Secondary objectives will explore the relationship of
      other imaging markers, blood markers, and results of cognitive testing to the occurrence of
      new ischemic lesions, and estimate the relative risk of pre-operative factors. We will also
      conduct an observational substudy of non-randomized heart surgery patients acquiring
      complementary data to estimate the relative risk of pre-operative and operative factors for
      the occurrence of new ischemic lesions.

      Study population - A total of 140 patients (70 per each group) will be randomized. Subjects
      will be neurologically independent adult patients undergoing non-emergency CABG who are
      appropriate for either on- or off-pump surgery. In the observational study we will also
      assemble a cohort of 100 consecutive patients that will have CABG and 100 consecutive
      patients that will have valve replacement surgery. Total accrual across both studies will be
      340 patients.

      Design - The study has a prospective randomized single blinded design. Patients will be
      randomized to on- or off-pump surgical technique if they meet all eligibility criteria.
      Analyses will be performed blinded to the surgical group assignment and based on
      intention-to-treat principle. MRI evaluation will be performed prior to surgery, 48 hours
      after surgery, 30 days and 6 months after surgery. Biomarkers will be quantified in blood
      drawn before and immediately after surgery and 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post-operatively.
      Cognitive testing will also be performed 30 days and 6 months after surgery. Interim analysis
      after each 20 patients will be performed up to the first 100 patients, with stopping rules if
      a highly significant difference is observed on the primary outcome variable. Patients
      randomized but who have no post-operative scan and have no clinical evidence of
      post-operative stroke will not be included in the sample for the primary analysis. Patients
      in the observational substudy will undergo the same pre- and post-operative evaluations as
      patients in the RCT.

      Outcome measures - The primary outcome measures are evidence of new ischemic lesions on
      48-hour DWI or 30-day DWI or FLAIR, or clinical evidence of new stroke if protocol required
      scans are not performed, determined at 30 days after surgery. The proportion of patients in
      each group with primary outcome variable will be tested by a chi-square for proportions.
      Secondary imaging outcome variables will include the number of new lesions, and the total
      volume of new ischemic lesions. Secondary outcome measure include all cause mortality,
      encephalopathy, 30-day and 6-month cognitive decline, evidence of reperfusion injury on
      48-hour post-gadolinium FLAIR, new ischemic lesions on 6-month DWI or FLAIR, and changes in
      values of blood markers. The relationships among new ischemic lesions, cognitive decline, and
      changes in blood markers will be explored. The association of baseline variables to the
      prediction of new lesions will be explored using multivariate logistic regression procedures.
    
  