
    
      The primary objective of this ongoing study was to evaluate DFS with pazopanib 600 mg daily
      initial dose as compared with placebo as adjuvant therapy for subjects with localized/locally
      advanced RCC following nephrectomy.

      Subjects with locally recurrent renal cell carcinoma (RCC), bilateral RCC, or history of
      another malignancy were excluded from enrolling in the study.

      The study was comprised of three successive study periods: 1) the Screening/Baseline period,
      2) the study treatment period, and 3) the DFS /OS follow-up period. The Screening/Baseline
      period had a maximum duration of 12 weeks from the date of nephrectomy to the date of
      randomization.

      After a subject met all the eligibility criteria and completed all the required baseline
      assessments, the subject was randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive once daily blinded
      treatment with either pazopanib 600 mg as initial dose or matching placebo based on
      pre-defined stratification factors.

      Subjects received continuous daily treatment until completion of the 12-month treatment
      period, disease recurrence, or unacceptable toxicity/intolerance. Subsequent adjuvant
      therapies for RCC were not allowed. During the study treatment and DFS follow-up periods,
      subjects received routine safety and efficacy assessments.

      The study treatment period was 12 months. Subjects received continuous daily treatment until
      completion of the 12 month treatment period, disease recurrence, or unacceptable
      toxicity/intolerance. Subsequent adjuvant therapies for RCC were not allowed.

      All subjects, regardless of study treatment status (i.e. premature discontinuation or
      completion of the 12-month treatment), were to be followed with routine imaging assessments
      and remain blinded until objective evidence of disease recurrence was obtained or until the
      study achieved the required number of events for the primary endpoint of DFS (319 events).
      After objective evidence of disease recurrence was obtained, subjects could be unblinded and
      received the first-line treatment for metastatic RCC per local standard of care.

      All subjects were off treatment for at least 4 years at the end of study.
    
  