
    
      Alzheimer's Disease and related dementias (ADRD) are debilitating conditions affecting more
      than 5 million Americans in 2014. With aging of the population it is projected that 8.4
      million people will be diagnosed with ADRD over the next 15 years and health care costs
      attributable to ADRD are projected to be more than 1.2 trillion by 2050. Behavioral and
      Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) (anxiety, agitation, depression) are common and
      often involve aggressive behavior towards family caregivers (CG) in response to unmet needs,
      discomfort, or frustration. BPSD are disturbing and frequently lead to caregivers seeking
      medication to control patient symptoms. Antipsychotic use in persons with dementia (PWD) more
      than doubles mortality risk; however, many caregivers are willing to accept those risks. The
      Choosing Wisely Guidelines from the American Psychiatric Association and American Geriatrics
      Society both recommend against prescribing antipsychotics as a first-line treatment for BPSD.
      STAR-Caregivers is an efficacious first-line behavioral treatment, endorsed by the
      Administration on Aging, that involves caregiver training to manage BPSD. However, the
      program has not been implemented widely - partly due to the cost of the programs, difficulty
      conducting outreach, and modality of training (in person with written materials). Adequate
      caregiver training and commensurate reduction in caregiver burden are the mediators
      (mechanisms) the Investigators will engage in this Stage III trial to reduce BPSD and
      discontinue antipsychotic medication use by PWD.

      The STAR-Caregivers program is an education, training, and support intervention demonstrated
      efficacious in reducing BPSD. The original program involved 8 face-to-face, in-home training
      sessions and 4 follow-up phone calls. The condensed version involves 4 in-home sessions with
      2 phone follow-ups.18 Neither of these is feasible from a payer perspective. The
      investigators propose to test a self-directed, remote version called STAR-virtual training
      and follow-up (STAR-VTF) that leverages secure email within the member portal at Kaiser
      Permanente Washington to improve access to training, fidelity to the STAR principles, and to
      lower the cost of the program.

      The investigators propose a Stage III trial to ascertain the feasibility and acceptability of
      STAR-VTF in which (a) caregiver training materials are delivered electronically and learning
      is self-directed, (b) caregivers have one orientation phone visit with a social worker and
      (c) where caregivers receive ongoing support from a social worker via telephone and secure
      messaging in the web-based member portal. Investigators will compare outcomes in the STAR-VTF
      group to an attention control group (mailed material, links to websites, and generic secure
      messages).

      The specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Assess the feasibility and acceptability of conducting caregiver outreach, training,
      and support via social workers including: (1) willingness of caregivers to interact primarily
      through secure messaging (contact rates); and (2) willingness of caregivers to complete
      self-directed training (training completion rates).

      Aim 2: Assess the feasibility and acceptability of the program from the payer perspective
      including: (1) average time spent per home-visit (including preparation and travel time); (2)
      average time per month spent responding to caregiver emails and coordinating care with
      primary care physicians; and (3 differences in face-to-face primary care, urgent care, and
      emergency department visit rates by PWD.

      Aim 3: Test the hypotheses that (H1) caregiver participants in STAR-VTF will have lower
      levels of caregiver burden at 8 weeks and 6 months compared to an attention control group;
      and (H2) PWD participants in STAR-VTF will have lower rates of antipsychotic medication use
      at 6 months compared to control. Secondary outcomes are: caregiver depression and caregiver
      self-efficacy. The investigators propose to recruit 100 CG-PWD dyads (50 per arm).

      This will be the first study to test a low intensity, self-directed caregiver training
      program with remote support from social workers. It will also be the first study to measure
      changes in antipsychotic medication use by PWD after caregiver training. Kaiser Permanente is
      an ideal setting because investigators have access to the complete electronic health record
      (EHR), prescription medication use, health care use, and demographic data. The investigators
      will be able to identify and enroll participants in real-time using an automated data "troll"
      as investigators have done previously. This study will be an important step in expanding
      access to training and support in a format that could be implemented within integrated
      delivery systems with capitated payments (i.e., Accountable Care Organizations). Growing use
      of EHR portals in these organizations will further increase demand for web-based care
      management/support. Demand will also increase as today's near-retirees, familiar with
      web-based applications, develop ADRD. Kaiser Permanente has pioneered such efforts and is the
      lead site in the Mental Health Research Network (MHRN). Findings from this study will inform
      a future multi-site pragmatic trial across the 13 health systems and 12 million enrollees in
      the MHRN.
    
  