
    
      Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is a potentially malignant disorder affecting any part of the
      oral cavity, sometimes pharynx associated with juxta epithelial fibrosis causing progressive
      trismus leading to dysphagia. It is mainly seen in the Asian countries with more prevalence
      in India.

      Etiology of OSMF is considered to be multifactorial. However, it is strongly associated with
      the use of arecanut in various forms and also in combination with other compounding factors.
      Autoimmunity had been suggested as one of the factors yet unproven.

      Few studies reveal that there is high incidence of Autoantibodies including antinuclear
      (ANA), Anti smooth muscle (SMA), Anti thyroid microsomal (TMA), and anti reticulin antibodies
      in OSMF patients. These findings have not been consistent in further studies which needs
      further more research in this.

      A study concentrated on quantitation of circulating immune complexes (CIC) levels which was
      established in patients with oral cancer and oral precancerous lesions. The levels were
      compared with that in normal controls and chronic chewers of betel quid with no signs of any
      disease. Both patients with oral cancer and oral precancerous lesions had elevated CIC when
      compared to both the control groups. The most interesting observations were (a) the CIC
      levels in the chewing controls were significantly raised when compared to normal controls;
      and (b) the CIC levels in the patients with premalignant lesions were elevated almost to the
      same levels as in the oral cancer patients.

      HLA-typing was carried on areca nut chewers. however, it was unable to demonstrate a specific
      pattern of HLA-antigen frequencies in chewers with or without the disease. It is not
      necessarily a HLA-associated susceptibility in Oral Submucous Fibrosis.

      Due to less number of articles published on autoantibodies, this study is done to evaluate
      the presence of such auto antibodies in OSMF patients thereby paving way for new arena of
      treatment on par with the etiology of this persistent condition.
    
  