
    
      Objectives This pilot trial will provide feedback on the feasibility and impact of LOFT in
      breast cancer survivors. The investigators will also explore the relationship of the LOFT
      intervention to changes in insulin resistance, growth hormone levels, body mass index,
      patient reported physical activity, fatigue, and overall quality of life.

      Primary Objective Evaluate the safety and feasibility of LOFT training in breast cancer
      survivors (< 3 years from diagnosis) treated with either chemotherapy and/or anti-estrogen
      therapy.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Estimate the effect size of LOFT training on muscle power, endurance, daily activity,
           fatigue, and quality of life.

        2. Estimate the effect of short-term LOFT training on biochemical parameters of
           inflammation, metabolism, anabolic hormone secretion, and bone turnover.

      LOFT Therapy™ Summary LOFT Therapy™ is a form of exercise that requires less energy for
      movement. LOFT Therapy™ will be performed 2 times a week for 4 weeks a total of 8 sessions.
      The patient will be wrapped with fabric cuffs, on up to four limbs. The cuffs are applied to
      the widest part of the biceps and upper thighs at pressures between 80-100 mmHg with minimal
      venous encroachment. The patients will ride a recumbent bike for 18 total minutes of
      sub-maximal exertion (up to 70% repetition maximum ), with the option of up to 2 periods of
      15-second higher intensity exertions as tolerated, followed by individualized respiratory
      recovery periods determined by the relative decrease in breathing effort.

      The 18-minute session will be preceded by a two-minute compression check, where the wraps
      will be adjusted based on any signs or symptoms of nerve or vessel impingement. Patients will
      undergo an intake and outtake assessment with each session to collect subjective data and
      patient feedback. Two compression sessions will be conducted for 4 weeks, for a total of 8
      sessions.

      This study will enroll 15 patients. A 20% dropout rate for this group was taken into
      consideration so the investigators assume analysis will be done on at least 12 patients.
    
  