
    
      This study will determine the safety and side effects of two experimental HIV vaccines and
      see if vaccination can enhance the pre-existing HIV-specific immune response in HIV-infected
      individuals on anti-retroviral therapy . The vaccines are VRC-HIVDNA016-00-VP (called the
      "DNA vaccine") and VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP (called the "rAd vaccine"). The DNA vaccine codes for
      four HIV proteins. The rAd vaccine is made using an adenovirus (a common virus that causes
      upper respiratory infections, such as the common cold) that has been modified to contain DNA
      that codes for three HIV proteins. These vaccines will be given in a "prime-boost" schedule
      and cannot cause HIV or adenoviral infections.

      HIV-infected people between 18 and 50 years old who are on a stable treatment plan for HIV
      with highly active antiretroviral (ARV) drugs, have a CD4+ T cell count greater than 350, and
      have a low viral load may be eligible for this 48-week study.

      Participants receive an injection (shot) of the DNA vaccine or a placebo (solution that does
      not contain any vaccine, medicine, or drugs) the day they enter the study and again at study
      weeks 4 and 8. They receive a booster injection of the rAd vaccine or placebo at week 24. The
      DNA vaccines are given with a needle-less injection device called the "Biojector
      2000(Registered Trademark)" and the rAd vaccine is given using a needle and syringe. All
      shots are given in the upper arm muscle, alternating right and left arms with each injection.
      Patients fill out a diary card at home for 5 days after each vaccination, recording their
      temperature and any symptoms. The cards are turned in to the clinic at the first visit after
      all 5 days are completed. Patients must call a study nurse 1 or 2 days after each of the four
      injections and again 7 or 8 days after each of the first three injections.

      Patients have 12 clinic visits during the course of the study. At each visit, they are
      checked for health changes or problems, asked how they are feeling and if they have taken any
      medications or other treatments, including over-the-counter medicines, herbal supplements,
      etc. Blood samples are drawn at every visit and urine samples are collected at some visits.

      At week 28 (4 weeks after the fourth injection), patients undergo apheresis, a procedure for
      collecting large numbers of white blood cells. The cells are tested in the laboratory to see
      how the immune system responds to the study vaccine. For the procedures, blood is collected
      through a needle in an arm vein and spun in a machine that separates the white blood cells
      from the rest of the blood (red cells, plasma and platelets). The white cells are removed and
      the rest of the blood is returned to the patient's body through the same needle. Patients who
      cannot or do not want to undergo apheresis have 80 mL (about 1/3 cup) of blood drawn through
      a needle and collected in blood collection tubes.
    
  