
    
      Detailed Description: This study will include 9 ventilator or oxygen dependent subjects with
      comparable diagnoses, nutritional levels and Stage III and/or IV pressure injuries. Of the
      subjects selected, 5 subjects will be placed on Freedom Beds and 4 will be placed on Group II
      Low Air Loss/Alternating Pressure Mattresses for a period not less than 6 months. A waiver of
      informed consent is required prior to bed placement and data collection. Consented subjects
      will have primary and secondary diagnosis recorded, pressure injuries photographed and
      classified, assessment of ventilator/oxygen support measured, oxygenation levels, nutrition
      levels, and estimated cardiac condition. Subjects will receive daily treatment and wound care
      as prescribed by the attending physician with weekly measurements and reporting of values.
      Subjects will continue until they reach one of the study endpoints: 1) discharge from the
      ventilator unit, or 2) withdrawal of informed consent, or 3) completion of the 6-month study.

      Subjects placed on Freedom Beds will be automatically turned in accordance with positions
      determined optimal and approved by the attending physician. All programmable turning angles,
      dwell times, head and leg elevations must be "dialed in" within a week of the study
      beginning. Any modification to the program during the study must be approved by the care team
      and documented accordingly.

      Subjects placed on Group II Low Air Loss/Alternating Pressure Mattresses will require manual
      repositioning every 2 hours. All turning and/or repositioning must be timed and documented.

      The primary and secondary outcome measures documented on each subject throughout the week
      will be collected by the Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) on a weekly basis and submitted
      to the Principal Investigator. The weekly reports will then be consolidated by the CRC into a
      monthly report and submitted to the Institutional Review Board (IRB), Principal Investigators
      (PI) and Supervising Authorities (SA) for review.
    
  