
    
      This is a prospective 1:1 randomized open-label clinical trial to investigate the safety and
      efficacy of the combination of Colchicine + Rosuvastatin added to standard of care (SOC)
      compared to SOC alone in hospitalized subjects with moderate COVID-19.

      Subjects will be screened during admission to hospital. Patients with confirmed SARS-CoV-2
      infection, and meeting all other inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be randomized to
      either Colchicine+Rosuvastatin treatment or SOC for the duration of hospitalization. SOC will
      be guided by the YNHH SARS-CoV-2 Therapeutics Group. In cases where patients require
      randomization in another trial evaluating an experimental drug, they will continue on study
      drug. Patients will be assessed daily while hospitalized for clinical, biomarker, safety, and
      laboratory parameters based on SOC.

      Colchicine is an extensively studied oral anti-inflammatory agent with a well-defined safety
      profile. Colchicine, by inhibiting tubulin polymerization and clathrin-mediated endocytosis
      has the potential to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 cell entry. In addition, colchicine has a direct
      anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting the NLRP3 inflammasome activation which in turn has
      the potential to reduce the SARS-CoV-2-induced cytokine storm. Statins also have direct
      anti-inflammatory effects by reducing chemokine release, adhesion molecules, and modulating T
      cell activity and have the potential to prevent SARS-CoV-2 related endothelial dysfunction
      and may reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with COVID-19. Rosuvastatin, in
      particular, appears to have direct antiviral properties by binding and inhibiting the active
      site of the main protease enzyme (Mpro) of SARS-CoV-2.1

      The combination Colchicine + Rosuvastatin may have a synergetic effect to antagonize
      SARS-CoV-2 infection, modulate the inflammatory response and to reduce morbidity and
      mortality associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and myocardial injury in
      COVID-19 patients.

      Both drugs have been in use for decades for gout and pericarditis (colchicine) and
      hyperlipidemia, coronary disease (CAD) and diabetes (rosuvastatin/Crestor), and have been
      tested in thousands of patients used individually and in combination with a low and well
      characterized risk profile. Colchicine and rosuvastatin are currently used as standard of
      care in COVID-19 patients whether due to pre-existing CAD, gout or pericarditis or acute
      presentations with acute coronary syndromes or acute gout with no expected added risk in the
      population being studied.

      This study is not intended to support a labeling change or advertising claim for either drug,
      and the study will be conducted in compliance with the requirements of Yale University's IRB
      review and a research IND.

      Subjects will be screened within 48 hours of hospital admission. Patients with real-time
      reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection and
      meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be randomized to either Colchicine +
      Rosuvastatin treatment in addition to SOC or SOC alone for the duration of hospitalization.

      Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 manner to one of two arms:

      Active treatment:

      In addition to SOC* subjects randomized to active treatment will receive:

        -  Rosuvastatin: 40mg daily AND

        -  Colchicine: 0.6mg twice daily for 3 days then 0.6mg daily Note: Dose adjustment based on
           medical conditions and drug interactions (see section ยง7.4.1). Subjects previously on
           chronic statin therapy will be eligible for enrollment in the trial, and if randomized
           to active treatment, chronic statin therapy will be discontinued and replaced by
           rosuvastatin 40 mg for 30 days or hospital discharge and resumed thereafter.

      Standard of Care Controls:

      Subjects will undergo SOC treatment determined by the primary care team and the YNHH
      treatment algorithm for hospitalized patients with COVID-19.

      *All standard of care treatments for hospitalized subjects with SARS-CoV-2 are permitted
      concurrently with the study intervention. This only includes treatments approved by the Yale
      SOC treatment Committee. Concomitant therapy will be performed according to standard
      practice, local standards of care and published guidelines. Subjects will not be permitted to
      participate in other investigational studies. Methods for identifying drug interactions and
      dose adjustment are listed in section ยง7.4.1 of the protocol. Drug discontinuation is only
      permitted with documented adverse reactions (section ยง7.4.3).

      Treatment will continue for a total of 30 days. If the subject is discharged the treatment
      will stop at that time.
    
  