
    
      Recent reports demonstrated Acthar gel is effective to induce remission of proteinuria in the
      Nephrotic Syndrome patients (Bomback 2011, 2012). There are limited published reports
      documenting the clinical response (creatinine, proteinuria, serum albumin and cholesterol) to
      ACTHAR therapy in a non-diabetic hemodialysis population. In addition to renal dysfunction
      and high risk for mortality, individuals who receive dialysis also have decreased strength,
      low exercise capacity, poor physical functioning, and a low quality of life (Edgell 1996,
      Johansen, 2001). Strength deficits are well documented in those with End Stage Renal Disease
      [ESRD] (Cheema 2010, Yoda 2012). There are several reports documenting an association between
      strength and gait deficits and other measures of physical performance in persons with ESRD
      (Bohannon 1994, Fitts 1997, Segura-Orti 2011). It is well known that measures of physical
      performance may predict risk for fall and hospitalization in older individuals (Guralnik JM,
      2000).

      Deficits to physical performance may be further compounded by poor nutritional status.
      Persons with chronic renal disease, particularly in the context of hemodialysis or chronic
      renal replacement therapy, are often malnourished and/or are affected by abnormal
      micronutrient status (McMahon 2012). Furthermore, previous studies have shown that more than
      a third of acute-care, nephrology-related admissions are characterized by malnutrition (Lim
      2012), and that it affects from 23% - 76% of all patients receiving hemodialysis (including
      outpatients)(Blumenkrantz 1980, Ikizler 1996, Pecoits-Filho 2002).

      Decreased functional status and concomitant malnutrition contribute to increased hospital
      readmissions, prolonged length of stay (and inevitably, increased medical costs), and
      increased morbidity and mortality patients (Isabel 2003, Lim 2012). Given the high prevalence
      of these characteristics in persons with renal disease, it is important to prioritize
      identification of novel and effective means by which to sustain and improve the functional
      capability of these patients, and to maintain their nutritional status and attenuate
      malnutrition.

      To date, there are no reports of the impact of Acthar gel therapy on renal function,
      strength, physical performance, nutritional status and quality of life in NDHD patients. This
      study will determine if Acthar gel therapy will maintain or improve overall kidney function
      as measured with 24 hour urine study at baseline and at the end of study period. In addition
      this study will determine if Acthar gel therapy will improve nutritional, physical and
      biochemical status in an outpatient non-diabetic hemodialysis population.
    
  