
    
      This will be an open-label dose escalation study. The study will be conducted in two steps:

        1. STEP A aims to identify the optimal amount of antibody to convey the specific
           radio-label activity of radionuclide.

        2. STEP B will be conducted with the amount of antibody chosen in STEP A, and an escalating
           radio-labeled therapeutic dose response curve will be performed (3.5 to 5.5 GBq) A
           maximum of 36 evaluable patients suffering from treatment-refractory Tenascin-C positive
           tumors.

      This dose escalation study will be evaluated using descriptive statistics: no sample size
      calculation was performed

      Primary objectives

        1. To identify the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and assess Safety and Tolerability of i.v.
           infused 131I-Tenatumomab.

        2. To identify the optimal amount of unlabeled Tenatumomab able to convey 131I- Tenatumomab
           with the highest Tumor/nonTumor ratio.

        3. To evaluate the whole body Dosimetry (safety dosimetry) and Tumor to normal tissue ratio
           (T/nT ratio, referred to AUC) of i.v.infused 131I-Tenatumomab.

        4. To evaluate intra-lesional distribution and retention of 131I-Tenatumomab and to record
           individual lesion dosimetry.

        5. To evaluate systemic biodistribution, pharmacokinetics, urinary excretion and dose
           linearity of 131I-Tenatumomab.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate proportional 131I-Tenatumomab tumor binding, as a function of the total
           load.

        2. To evaluate Pharmacokinetics of Tenatumomab (protein and protein related materials) in
           serum.

        3. To evaluate preliminary Efficacy of 131I-Tenatumomab based on disease response rate
           (Complete Response, Partial Response, Stable Disease) and patient's general clinical
           condition by ECOG performance status assessment.
    
  