
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common disorder among degenerative neurological
      diseases. PD is a complicated disease which consists of different subtypes. A certain type of
      parkinsonism has its unique clinical feature and genetic basis. Standards of classification
      and prognosis in different PD subtypes are still poorly understood. Investigators aim to
      establish a database of longitudinal recruited PD cohort ,and characterize the clinical
      feature, genetic basis, environmental factors and their interactions among different PD
      subtypes in China, identify natural history of a highly-presentative Chinese PD cohort and to
      discern major milestones in the disease process which indicates disease progression.

      Data were collected at baseline, 12±1 months during the routine follow-up visits. Information
      about detailed disease history, level of education, significant chronic comorbidities,
      physical examination, medication history, family history, living habits and toxic exposure
      history, which include smoking, drinking tea, alcoholic consumption, drinking coffee,
      exposure to pesticide or occupational solvent, history of carbon monoxide poisoning and
      recurrent head trauma will be recorded at baseline. For each evaluation, the same
      questionnaires will be conducted. A standardized neurological assessment according to the
      recommendation of Consensus on the construction of clinical database of Parkinson's disease
      and movement disorders in China. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) part
      III is conducted for motor assessment, all the patients are evaluated in "OFF" state. The
      clinical stage of PD is assessed by Hoehn and Yahr scale (H-Y). The non-motor symptoms are
      evaluated by Non-motor Symptom Scale (NMSS), autonomic symptoms are evaluated by The Scale
      for outcomes in Parkinson disease for Autonomic Symptoms (SCOPA-AUT). Constipation was
      diagnosed by Functional Constipation Diagnostic Criteria Rome Ⅲ. The 39-item Parkinson's
      Disease Qestionnaire (PDQ-39) was used to assess the quality of life. Sleep quality was
      evaluated by Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS) and excessive daytime sleepiness by
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). Probable rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (p-RBD)
      was diagnosed by rapid eye movement sleep behavior questionnaire-Hongkong (RBDQ-HK). Restless
      leg syndrome (RLS) was diagnosed with the Cambridge Hopkins Restless Leg syndrome
      questionnaire (CH-RLSq). Cognitive assessment was used the previously validated scale, Mini
      Mental State Examination (MMSE). Olfaction test was carried out by Hyposmia Rating Scale
      (HRS), a proportion of patients was also ascertained by Sniffin's Sticks. Depression was
      diagnosed by Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD). Symptom of fatigue was measured by PD fatigue
      severity scale (PFS). Wearing-off was evaluated by WOQ-9 and freezing gait by new freezing
      gait questionnaire scores (NFOGQ). Dyskinesis was evaluated by Rush Dyskinesia Rating Scale.
      DNA samples extracted from peripheral blood and all the PD patients will be examed by Whole
      Exome Sequencing or Whole-genome sequencing. All the participants are scanned by structural
      MRI to exclude obvious intracranial lesions and other parkinsonism such as MSA, PSP and WD.
    
  