
    
      This study, randomized, open, controlled with schizophrenia-standard-care, is aimed to
      determine structural and functional brain changes associated to cognitive remediation and
      physical exercise in schizophrenia.

      The study participants will be enrolled in the catchment area of the Hospital Psiquiatrico de
      Alava, in the province of Alava, Basque Region, Northern Spain.147 patients diagnosed with
      schizophrenia will be randomly assigned to Cognitive Training Group or Aerobic Exercise Group
      or a Control Group for a five-month period.

      Both Cognitive Training Group patients and Aerobic Exercise Group patients will participate
      in training sessions of 60 min/d, 3 d/wk. Patients assigned to Control Group will receive the
      standard care for schizophrenia in this area plus occupational activities for the same
      duration and frequency than the two experimental groups.

      Cognitive Training will be implemented through REHACOP, a cognitive remediation program for
      Spanish speaking patients with schizophrenia whose efficacy on cognitive performance and
      negative symptoms has already been demonstrated in patients with schizophrenia. REHACOP is a
      "paper & pencil" based cognitive remediation program that covers 8 cognitive domains
      including social cognition. It is based on the principles of Optimization, Restauration &
      Compensation.

      Aerobic Exercise Training will consist of an intensive physical exercise program supervised
      by certified graduates and doctorate students of Physical Activity and Sport Sciences.
      Sessions will include 10-minute warming-up and 10-minute back exercises and stretches. The
      main part of the session will consist of aerobic exercise (20-minute indoor bicycle) and
      muscle-resistance and strength exercises for 20 minutes. The intensity of the sessions will
      be determined on a case by case basis according to the HR necessary to achieve the intensity
      ranges (R2-moderate and R3-high). During the sessions, the bicycle's power and pace will be
      individually adjusted to achieve the selected HR.

      The assessment batteries, neuroimaging and Serum BDNF levels will be administered and
      determined at baseline and immediately following the completion of the Cognitive Remediation
      or Aerobic Exercise interventions.

      Primary outcomes: Structural and functional brain changes will be assessed by MRI
      neuroimaging. A Philips Achieva 3.0T MRI system equipped with a modular 32-channel
      architecture. 3 different types of images will be acquired: a) T1-weighted MRI imaging, b)
      Diffusion Tensor imaging, c) fMRI imaging at rest and using a cognitive paradigm.

      Secondary outcomes will be changes in cognitive performance, clinical and functional changes
      and Serum BDNF changes.
    
  