
    
      Gout is caused by high levels of uric acid in the body, and is associated with a broad range
      of comorbidities including heart disease, chronic kidney disease and additional risk factors
      like obesity and high blood pressure. Hyperuricemia, which is defined as an elevation in
      serum urate levels, develops into gout when urate crystals form from supersaturated body
      fluids and settle in joints and other organs. Urate-lowering therapy is used to treat
      hyperuricemia in patients with gout.

      Current treatments focus on initiating urate-lowering therapy in hyperuricemic gout patients
      who have experienced multiple acute gout flares within the past year. However, joint damage
      caused by crystal deposition may occur much earlier than previously considered. Monosodium
      urate crystals have been found present in the joints of people with hyperuricemia who do not
      have any symptoms. The presence of monosodium urate crystals would indicate that after the
      crystals form, they stay within the joint if serum urate levels are not reduced. Lowering
      uric acid levels and maintaining them may reduce acute gout flare episodes and possibly halt
      or reduce joint damage in patients with gout.

      This study will evaluate the effect of febuxostat on joint damage in hyperuricemic patients
      with early gout. All patients will receive gout flare prophylaxis for the first 6 months of
      the study. Gout flares may also be treated throughout the study.

      A variety of imaging techniques are in use to evaluate gout. Plain radiographs (x-rays),
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Dual Energy Computed Tomography (DECT) will be utilized
      in this study. The modified Sharp/Van Der Heijde scoring method (named after Drs. Sharp and
      Van Der Heijde) for assessment of x-rays has been validated in patients with chronic gout and
      will be used in this study for evaluating erosion and joint space narrowing. Participants are
      expected to have 15 visits which will include plain radiographic examinations at 5 visits, 3
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examinations and 3 DECT procedures at selected sites.
    
  