
    
      The total sample was determined in 54 volunteers, distributed equally in two groups: Chronic
      Ankle Instability and Control. Each group will be randomized for sensory-motor training with
      sneakers and without sneakers.

      Inclusion criteria: athletes of both sexes, aged between 18 and 30 years, with history of
      ankle sprain in the last 12 months, sensation of instability or "yielding" of the ankle and
      score determined by the CAIT <24 questionnaire, did not perform sensory-motor training or
      conventional physiotherapy in the last six months.

      Exclusion criteria: presence of pain complaints at the time of evaluation, recurrence of
      sprain with acute inflammatory signs, painful complaints in the lower limbs, lower limb
      surgery with neurological, cardiovascular, rheumatologic, diabetes, altered plantar
      sensitivity.

      Participants with chronic ankle instability and controls will be randomly assigned to the two
      treatment groups, through the program www.ramdom.com, in blocks in the two groups: Sensory
      Motor Training Group with Tennis (TSMT) and Group Training Sensory Motor Barefoot ( TSMD).

      Scratchs:

      Since this is a study with intervention in participants with chronic ankle instability, there
      is a risk of new sprain during sensorimotor training. In case it occurs, the participant will
      receive all the support of the team coordinated by the professor Christiane Guerino de Souza
      Macedo in the extension project: Physiotherapy from theory to practice.

      Procedures:

      Initially the participants will complete the demographic data sheet (age, weight, height,
      BMI, level of physical activity and dominance in the lower limbs) and history of lower limb
      injury. Will respond to the chronic ankle instability questionnaire CAIT-p. They will sign
      the informed consent form (TCLE).

      Following, the Lunge test will be performed to analyze ankle mobility. The same will be
      developed with the participant in orthostatism in front of a wall, with a tape measure, the
      participant will begin the test with a distance of 2cm from the wall and will be incremented
      by 1cm each time until the greater distance is reached. You will perform maximum knee flexion
      without the heel lifting from the floor or assuming a valgus position, with the goal of
      bringing the knee up to the wall. The result will be established by means of the halux-wall
      distance.

      Postural control and muscle recruitment of a lower limb with the same direction should not be
      assessed by force platform and electromyography, respectively. The evaluations are made for
      the blind and according to the order of the instruments and the use or not of the shoe.

      The anchoring of electromyographic analysis electrodes is performed on the anterior tibialis
      muscle (TA), lateral gastrocnemius (GL), medial gastrocnemius (GM), long fibularis (FL),
      gluteus maximus (GMe) and gluteus maximus (GMa). There will be a screening of electrotherapy
      supplements and cleaning of the area with alcohol rubbing (Moraes et al., 2012). The
      electrodes will be attached to the previous muscular points, according to the guide.

      After placement of the electrodes the participant will be positioned with the lower limb to
      be tested on one step (based on height of applied force platform) and perform a series of
      assactions per second for thirty seconds controlled by metronome. This evaluation will be
      done 3 times. With a rest period of one full day in each test.

      For an evaluation of dynamic postural control (BIOMEC400, Sistema EMG do Brasil, SP Ltda.).
      On the platform will be placed the member with chronic instability of the ankle and perform
      squatting to 30 seconds. With a rest period of one morning between each sitting test. They
      will be carried out 3 times with sneakers and 3 times with bare feet.

      At this moment, the main parameters of COP-based postural control are: The area of COP
      ellipse (A-COP in cm²) and the mean COP oscillation distance (VEL in cm / s) are the most
      indicated in the directions: anteroposterior (A / P) and medium-lateral (M / L). Results were
      calculated for an average of three trials.
    
  