
    
      Experimental Design

      12-week parallel randomised control trial

      Recruitment

      We will recruit via advertisements outside Dasman using social media and local ads in
      addition to screening of Dasman Registry for any potential participants. Opportunistic
      recruitment will also occur by DDI dietitians. Following telephone screening to ensure the
      potential participant meets initial screening criteria we will carry out a medical screening
      to ensure the person can take part.

      Environment All screening, dietary counselling visits, and placement of the CGM will take
      place at the Dasman Diabetes Institute (DDI). The institute has extensive space for
      interventional studies, including screening rooms, body composition assessment and clinical
      rooms for placement of the CGM monitor.

      STUDY INTERVENTIONS

      For both groups all participants will be guided towards a 5% weight loss based on
      individualised energy requirements. The difference will be the hours during which the
      participants consume their required calories.

        -  Time restricted feeding group: Will consume their calories between 12pm and 6pm.

        -  Continuous energy restriction group: Will consume their calories between 8am and 11pm.

      Participants will be guided towards their weight loss during one-to-one visits at baseline
      and every 2 weeks for 12 weeks.

      Procedures

        -  At baseline and follow-up all participants will undergo an oral glucose tolerance test.

        -  A blood sample will also be taken for HbA1c, lipid profile, fasting insulin,
           inflammatory factors and a sample for Biobank. The biobank sample will be stored to
           enable us, with other researchers at DDI to understand the heterogeneity of type 2
           diabetes; whether certain people respond to dietary interventions based on their
           genetic, epigenetic or metabolomic background; and ultimately will help guide clinical
           care.

        -  Participants will wear Flash Glucose monitoring or other continuous glucose monitoring
           device to measure their 24-hour blood glucose concentrations during the seven days
           preceding the start of the dietary intervention, seven days of the second month, and the
           final seven days of the third month.

        -  Participants will also measure their capillary ketones during the first three days of
           the first month, three days of the second month, and final three days of the third
           month.

        -  Medication changes: prandial medications (insulin or sulphonylurea) will be altered to
           the timing of meal intake. Any reduction in medication due to changes in glucose will be
           carried out by the patient's doctor.

        -  A quality of life questionnaire: PAID.

        -  A 3 day food diary with meal times to check compliance.

      Statistical Methods

      This is a pilot study. We will recruit 25 people per group. This is based on recommendations
      for sample sizes for feasibility and pilot studies.
    
  