
    
      Background: Dr. Duffy has developed, tested, and refined the efficacious, nurse-administered
      Tobacco Tactics intervention and has packaged it into a Toolkit for dissemination in two
      Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals. However, rigorous testing of dissemination outside of the VA
      is needed.

      Objectives: Using 6 community hospitals in the Trinity Health System, the objectives of this
      study are to:

        1. Determine provider and patient receptivity, barriers, and facilitators to implementing
           the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics intervention versus usual care using
           face-to-face feedback and surveys.

        2. Compare the effectiveness of the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics
           intervention versus usual care across hospitals, units, and patient characteristics
           using biochemically confirmed 7-day point-prevalence abstinence at 6-month cessation as
           the primary outcome.

        3. Determine the cost-effectiveness of the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics
           intervention versus usual care including the cost per quitter, cost per life-year saved,
           and cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved.

      Methods: This effectiveness study will be a cluster randomized control trial in 6 Michigan
      community hospitals of which 3 will get the nurse-administered Tobacco Tactics intervention
      and the other 3 will provide their usual care in accordance to how the hospital responds to
      current Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organization's (JC) standards. A
      research nurse will disseminate the intervention in the 3 out of 6 sites to Master Trainers
      who will teach staff nurses on all shifts on all units, until all staff nurses are trained.
      The interventions will become the standard of care within the intervention sites. Research
      nurses will also conduct rolling evaluation to identify barriers and facilitators to
      dissemination and implement measures to ensure sustainability of the intervention. It is
      expected that 7,868 inpatient smokers per year will be eligible to participate in the study
      of which the investigators expect to recruit 2,350 to have sufficient power to analyze the
      objectives. Descriptive statistics (means and frequency distributions) will be used to
      summarize the nurses' survey results, participation rates, smokers' receipt of specific
      cessation services, and satisfaction with services. Logistic regressions and t-tests will be
      used to determine differences between intervention groups on satisfaction and quit rates,
      respectively, with adjustment for the clustering of patients within units and hospitals.
      Regression analyses will test the moderation of the effects of the interventions by patient
      characteristics such as confidence in ability to quit, nicotine addiction, alcohol intake,
      depression, demographics and a smoking related diagnosis such as heart disease.
      Cost-effectiveness will be assessed by constructing 3 ratios including the cost per quitter,
      cost per life-year saved, and the cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved.
    
  