
    
      Physical activity has shown beneficial effects for cognitive and brain health. In particular,
      studies have shown that physical activity has the potential to increase the volume of the
      anterior portion of the hippocampus, a brain structure involved in learning and memory. The
      Fit to Study - Brain imaging sub-study is being conducted to understand better the effects of
      a physical activity intervention delivered during school PE lessons on anterior hippocampal
      volume, as well as cognition, mental health, and brain organisation.

      The Fit to Study main trial aims to test the effect of a school-based physical activity
      intervention on academic performance (as well as cognition and physical measures) across Year
      8 pupils in 100 secondary schools. A full description of the Fit to study main trail,
      including its outcome measures, has been provided as part of its registration at
      ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03286725).

      The Fit to Study - Brain imaging sub-study will target a sub-sample of participants of the
      large-scale trial, in order to test pre to post intervention changes in anterior hippocampal
      volume, as well as cognitive performance, mental health and brain organisation. The
      assessments will take place pre-intervention, immediately post-intervention and 12-months
      post-intervention, and will comprise structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) scans.

      Fit to Study main trial participants are considered eligible for brain imaging sub-study. The
      brain imaging sub-study consists of two sub-samples, recruited at different times during the
      trial:

        1. The first cohort of 60 participants completed assessments pre-intervention, will
           complete identical assessments post-intervention to investigate pre-to-post intervention
           changes, and will be invited to take part in follow-up assessments.

        2. A second cohort of ~50 participants will be recruited for post-intervention assessments
           that are similar, but not identical, to the assessments of the first group, as well as
           1-year follow-up assessments. This cohort will enable cross-sectional analysis of
           between-group (intervention-control) differences in a larger sample.

      The assessments are similar, but not identical for the two cohorts. The key assessments are
      listed here and details are provided in the 'outcome measures' section.

        1. Cohort 1

             -  Magnetic resonance imaging (at pre- and post intervention)

             -  Computer-based cognitive tasks (at pre-, and post intervention and follow-up)

             -  Mental health questionnaires (at pre-, and post intervention and follow-up)

             -  Physical activity assessments (at pre-, and post intervention, and follow-up)

             -  Fitness assessments (at pre-, and post intervention)

             -  Gait assessments (at pre- and post intervention)

        2. Cohort 2

             -  Magnetic resonance imaging (at post intervention only)

             -  Computer-based cognitive tasks (at post intervention and follow-up)

             -  Mental health questionnaires (at post intervention and follow-up)

             -  Physical activity assessments (at post intervention and follow-up)

             -  Gait assessments (at post-intervention only)

      The primary aims of the study are:

        1. To examine cross-sectional relations between anterior hippocampal volume and physical
           activity and fitness at baseline (cohort 1)

        2. To examine whether changes in anterior hippocampal volume are greater in the
           intervention group compared to the control group (i.e. group by time interaction tested
           in cohort 1)

      Secondary aims are:

        1. To examine cross-sectional relations between brain structure and function, and physical
           activity and fitness at baseline (cohort 1)

        2. To examine whether changes in brain organisation, mental health, cognitive performance
           and fitness are greater in the intervention group compared to the control group (i.e.
           group by time interaction tested in cohort 1)

        3. To examine whether brain organisation, mental health, cognitive performance and fitness
           is different in the intervention group compared to the control group post intervention

        4. To identify MRI markers predisposing the PA intervention effect
    
  