
    
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection remains an important cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide. A problem for eradication efforts is the large reservoir of ~2 billion
      people with latent tuberculosis (TB) infection (LTBI) and poor understanding of factors
      leading to active disease progression. Helminth infections geographically overlap with Mtb
      and induce significant immune-mediated modulation. Although CD4+T cells producing IFN-gamma
      and TNF-alpha have been implicated in protective immunity to TB, a detailed description of
      the evolution of protective and immunomodulatory responses in LTBI is lacking. Additionally,
      there is incomplete understanding of how the immunomodulation caused by helminth co-infection
      affects such responses.

      This protocol will attempt to fill this knowledge gap through comprehensive longitudinal
      immunological analyses of two populations of subjects with LTBI, with or without concurrent
      helminth infection (HEL+ and HEL- respectively). In both groups, venipuncture and possibly
      apheresis will be performed to understand protective and modulatory T cell and
      monocyte/macrophage responses. Subjects will receive treatment for helminth infection and
      treatment for LTBI will be offered according to current standard of care guidelines. Two
      groups of subjects within the LTBI group will be offered bronchoscopy and lavage --- (a)
      those with structural lung damage from prior treated/healed tuberculosis and (b) those with
      recent prolonged exposure (greater than or equal to 3 months) to a household contact with
      active TB.

      The primary objective is to evaluate CD4+ T cell responses and regulatory T cell responses in
      HEL+ and HEL- subjects with LTBI at the time of diagnosis (baseline). HEL+ subjects will then
      receive treatment for parasitic infection and both groups (HEL+ and HEL-) will be offered
      LTBI treatment. Evolution of the baseline TB-specific immune responses on and after LTBI
      treatment will then be studied. Additionally, baseline immune responses to mycobacteria will
      be contrasted in the HEL+ group with all time points post treatment for helminth infection. A
      secondary objective is to evaluate the immune phenotype and functionality of tissue resident
      immune cells obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage in subjects with LTBI and structural lung
      damage from prior treated/healed pulmonary tuberculosis as well as subjects with recent
      prolonged TB exposure from an active TB case irrespective of helminth infection status.

      An exploratory objective is to evaluate if there are subsets of subjects within the LTBI
      group (irrespective of helminth infection status) who have stable pool of long lasting
      antigen-specific IL-2 only producing CD4+ central memory T cells and changes to this pool
      after receiving LTBI treatment.
    
  