
    
      Heart failure is a serious condition with a poor prognosis. It is the leading cause of
      hospitalization and readmissions for worsening heart failure remains high. Treatment aims to
      reduce symptoms and morbidity and to improve quality of life and survival. Counseling and
      education is an important part of treatment, but despite the fact that most patients receive
      education, many are not able to adequately engage in self-care activities. Non-adherence to
      self-care recommendations is high which may be a contributing factor for worsening heart
      failure and to the high number of readmissions.

      Having support of a partner is important for patients with heart failure. Supportive others
      have the potential to improve self-care outcomes and increase adherence to treatment. At the
      same time, it should be acknowledged that the disease can also affect the partners
      negatively. However, emotional reactions of burden and stress decrease when partner's
      experiences control over the heart disease.

      Despite the fact that heart failure has a number of negative consequences for patients and
      the partners, research addressing self-care barriers from a family perspective is rare, and
      until now contemporary care has remained patient focused. Previous studies have indicated the
      importance of partner support but have not found the appropriate methods for involving and
      encourage partners. Therefore, studies focusing on the heart failure patient-partner dyad are
      needed, but to date, most studies have only evaluated short term effects of intervention
      programs, while long term effects might be of equally importance. The aim of this randomized
      controlled study was to evaluate the effects of an integrated dyad care program with
      education and psychosocial support to patients with chronic heart failure and their partners
      during a post-discharge period after acute deterioration of heart failure.

      Methods: One hundred fifty five patient-caregiver dyads has been randomized to usual care (n
      = 71) or a psycho-education intervention (n = 84) delivered in three modules through
      nurse-led face-to-face counseling, computer-based education and other written teaching
      materials to assist dyads develop problem-solving skills. Follow-up assessments has been
      completed after 3, 12 and 24 months to assess perceived control, perceived health, depressive
      symptoms, self-care, knowledge, caregiver burden and health care utilization.
    
  