
    
      Five hundred patients will be recruited over one and half years from our institution and
      other hospitals for suspected coronary artery disease. All patients will give informed
      consent and our Institutional Review Board approved the study. To obtain relatively
      consistent image noise, patients will be limited to body height and weight of 160 cm to 175
      cm,and 55 kg to 75 kg, respectively. Patients with acute heart failure, severe arrhythmia and
      severe renal dysfunction will be excluded from the cardiac studies.

      All patients underwent CT coronary artery scans using a 64-row multi-detector CT (MDCT)
      scanner (Light Speed VCT, GE Healthcare)in supine position. The five hundred patients were
      divided into conventional (C)and low dose (L) scan groups with 250 patients in each group.
      The patient distributions in terms of height, weight, body mass index (BMI)and heart rate
      were similar for the two groups with no statistically significant difference. Patients will
      be given bocker of about 25-50 mg orally when necessary one-hour before the cardiac scans to
      control heart rates and reduce their variations. Patient heart rates during CT scans were 43
      to 81. A single scout scan shall be performed on every patient to cover the whole heart area,
      which is about 12cm. CT calcification scoring scan was performed for every patient before the
      CT angiography (CTA) according to the standard protocols at our institution. Timing bolus
      scans were performed before CTA to determine the scan start delay time: A total of 15 ml
      contrast agent was injected intravenously. Cine scans were used to monitor the contrast
      enhancement in the aorta. An ROI was placed on the ascending aorta and contrast enhancement
      curve as function of time was measured to determine the blood circulation time between vein
      of the elbow and aorta. This time was then used to determine the optimal scan delay time for
      CTA. The retrospective ECG-gated helical CTA scan will be then performed with predetermined
      scan delay time and with minimum scan range to just cover the whole heart. 70 ml contrast
      agent will be injected at 4.5 ml/s injection rate intravenously followed by 30ml of saline at
      the same injection rate.Standard scan technique shall be used for the CTA scans for the C
      group including: 120kV,640mA,0.35s rotation speed, 0.625 mm slice thickness, body bowtie, and
      0.20-0.26 pitch selected automatically by the scanner based on the patient heart rates. For
      patients in L group combinations of dose reduction techniques will be applied including the
      use of application-specific cardiac bowtie,and adaptive post-processing filter C2,and ECG mA
      modulation with full tube current of 450mA for cardiac phases of 40-80%and 90mA for the rest
      of the cardiac phases. Cardiac bowtie provides more x-rays near the center and less x-rays
      towards the edge compared to a typical body bowtie to optimize x-ray distribution for cardiac
      applications. Our previous studies have demonstrated its advantages of image noise reduction
      for the heart as well as overall dose (CTDI)reduction. The lower tube current selection for
      the patients in L group shall be based on previous studies which indicated that the noise
      reduction advantage of the adaptive post-processing filter C2 might be converted into the use
      of lower mA to achieve similar image noise as with higher mA in clinical applications.

      All images will be reconstructed with standard segment reconstruction algorithm. For the L
      group with lower tube current, we will apply the adaptive post-processing filter C2 to reduce
      image noise. Two experienced radiologists quantitatively evaluated the image quality blindly
      in terms of the number of coronary arteries and smaller branches identified, the sharpness of
      vessel edges and contrast agent clarity in the vessels using scores of 1-4 with 4 being the
      highest. Score 4 would indicate that at least 13 coronary artery segments could be
      identified,and up to the 3rd branch. Also, all identified vessels have sharp edge and clear
      delineations of contrast agent in the vessels. If any one of the above parameters is not
      satisfactory, then the quality score would be 3 and 2 if any two parameters are not as good.
      Image noises will be measured for the two sets with ROI placed at the center of the ascending
      aorta in the same place for both groups. CTDI values will be recorded for each group and
      converted into effective dose (ED) using European DLP method. We shall perform statistical
      analyses on the quality scores,the noise measurements and the effective dose measurements
      from the two sets using t-test with the spss10.0 software.
    
  