
    
      Bipolar disorder is a chronic disabling psychiatric disorder characterized by recurrent
      episodes of mania or hypomania and depression. Bipolar disorder can be separated into bipolar
      1 and bipolar 2 disorders with bipolar 1 disorder characterizing individuals who have
      episodes of mania and depression, and bipolar 2 disorder characterizing individuals who have
      episodes of depression with periods of hypomania, but not mania. Bipolar disorder has an
      estimated prevalence of approximately 1% and a roughly equal gender ratio. Current
      pharmacological treatments for bipolar disorder and in particular for the management of
      depressive episodes in bipolar disorder remain sub-optimal, with pharmacological strategies
      employed to date often only partially effective. In addition to the time duration for
      treatment response, multiple treatment trials are also often required, thus increasing
      patient discomfort and distress.Consequently, pharmacological mechanisms that potentially
      alleviate depressive symptomatology in bipolar disorder and ameliorate patient functioning
      could present an additional pharmacological strategy for the management of bipolar disorder.
      A number of recent studies have suggested that Scopolamine, a pan muscarinic (M) receptor
      antagonist can elicit a rapid anti-depressant response in both major depressive disorder
      (MDD) and bipolar disorder and thus may present a novel therapeutic strategy, particularly
      for the management of bipolar disorder, in individuals experiencing depressive episodes. No
      significant adverse effects were noted with treatment with Scopolamine (intravenously) in
      these studies.

      This antidepressant effect has been rapid in effect in studies where administration was by an
      intravenous (IV) method.Of note, those clinical trials where efficacy has been demonstrated
      have been undertaken in the same centre (Mood and Anxieties Disorder Program at the National
      Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, MD) with the more recent trials of larger numbers
      from that centre including individuals that participated in the previous clinical trials.
      Although beneficial effects have been noted for depressive episodes in both MDD and bipolar
      disorder, the actual numbers of participants with bipolar disorder has been limited.

      Fewer studies have utilised other potential modes of administration for Scopolamine. A
      previous study of intramuscular scopolamine demonstrated no antidepressant effect whilst one
      trial of oral scopolamine as an augmentation agent demonstrated an antidepressant effect,
      albeit this study did not demonstrate a rapid-acting effect as demonstrated in the studies of
      IV Scopolamine and did not include individuals with bipolar disorder. In addition, oral
      Scopolamine has very limited bioavailability of ~4 %.Trials relating to administration of
      Scopolamine utilising a transdermal patch for the management of depressive episodes have yet
      to be published.

      This is a single-site, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel, phase IIb
      clinical trial. The trial will be sponsored by the National University of Ireland (NUI)
      Galway and the sponsorship role coordinated by the HRB-Clinical Research facility Galway
      (CRFG). The site will be University Hospital Galway, Galway and the site activities will also
      be co-ordinated by the CRFG. Participants will be attending the Galway-Roscommon Mental
      Health Services, including a specialised bipolar clinic in Galway and referred due to
      experiencing a depressive episode by their treating clinical team; or patients who have
      previously attended NUI Galway/HRB-CRFG with an interest to participate/or have participated
      in research and have indicated a willingness to engage in future research; or patients who
      approach the research group directly requesting participation.

      Trial participants will be adults (both male and female) who have bipolar disorder and are
      experiencing a depressive episode of at least moderate severity. A diagnosis of bipolar
      disorder (bipolar 1 or 2 disorder) will be determined by interview with the Structured
      Clinical Interview for DSM-V (SCID-RV) with severity of the depressive episode assessed using
      the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) (HDRS ≥14 for study inclusion) at screening.

      The primary outcome in this study is the change in severity of depressive symptoms as
      measured on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score (HDRS). Allocating 25 participants to
      each arm will ensure power ≥85% to detect a 50% lower score on the Hamilton Depression Rating
      Scale score (HDRS) in the Scopolamine group compared to placebo group. This assumes a loss to
      follow-up of ≤12%. It is also anticipated that approximately 60 participants will need to be
      recruited to ensure 50 participants are eligible for randomisation after a placebo run-in.

      After a screening Visit (Visit 1); at Visit 2, all participants will receive placebo run-in
      (100mls of Saline IV). The screening visit (Visit 1) and Visit 2 may occur on the same day.
      Within 7 days of Visit 2, participants will be randomised (Visit 3) to receive either placebo
      (n=25) or 4 μg/kg Scopolamine (n=25) IV in 100mls of Saline over 15 minutes at Visits 3 (day
      0), 4 (days 2-6) and 5 (days 6-10), with at least 2 days between IV infusions (Visits 2, 3, 4
      and 5). Two follow-up visits (Visits 6 and 7) will occur at day 15 (+/-5 days) and day 29
      (+/- 7 days).There will be at least 2 days between Visits 5 and 6 and 3 days between Visits 6
      and 7. Participants randomised to the placebo group will receive one 15-minute infusion of IV
      saline,repeated over 3 visits (Visit 3, 4 & 5). The placebo and active comparators will be
      indistinguishable from each other.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either scopolamine or placebo in a 1:1
      ratio. Randomly permuted blocks of sizes 4 and 6 will be used to ensure similar numbers of
      participants in each arm of the trial.

      Randomisation will be stratified by the HDRS score at trial entry (a score of <23 indicating
      a mild-moderate depressive episode and a score ≥23 indicating a severe depressive episode). A
      validated randomisation system will be used at Visit 3, (after HDRS and Young Mania Rating
      Scale (YMRS) are completed) to randomise patients to either arm. This centralised system will
      ensure allocation concealment; preventing blinded trial staff from knowing which treatment
      group will be allocated. Blocks of randomly varying length will also reduce the
      predictability of the allocation sequence.

      Effectiveness outcomes will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis for all participants
      randomised and with available follow-up data as per their randomised allocation. A
      per-protocol dataset is not well-defined under multiple treatments, here it could reasonably
      be defined as those participants who either received at least 1, at least 2 or all 3 IV
      treatments after randomisation. Sensitivity analyses will thus be performed on the primary
      outcome to assess efficacy of the treatment compared to placebo by incorporating the original
      allocation of participants and their level of adherence to treatment. This will involve
      examining the short term-effect of treatment in a longitudinal model and the overall effect
      of number of IV treatments received at follow-up visits after the final IV treatment.

      For the primary effectiveness analysis of the primary outcome, it is expected that
      pre-randomisation measurements of the HDRS score will be correlated with the scores obtained
      at Visit 6 of treatment. The mean scores at Visit 6 will be compared across the study arms
      using an ANCOVA model. The response variable will be the change in HDRS score from Visit 3 to
      HDRS at Visit 6 including the HDRS score at Visit 3 as a covariate in the model. The addition
      of stratifying variables and other variables as covariates will be considered as appropriate
      and specified in the statistical analysis plan. This analysis will increase the power to
      detect significant differences between the groups. Inverse probability weighting will be
      applied to the primary outcome analysis. These weights will be derived based on the inverse
      of the probability of a patient's data being missing given their pre-randomisation
      measurements. This will ensure the estimate and inference is more representative of all
      patients randomised, reducing bias in the estimation of the treatment effect due to
      participants lost to follow-up and missing data.

      Inference regarding the treatment effectiveness will focus on the point estimate, confidence
      interval and p-value for hypothesis confirmation.
    
  