
    
      Due to further COVID-19 restrictions, amendments to the methodology of the study will be
      necessary. In this situation the BREAK UP study will be conducted as an 8-week home-based
      before and after intervention study with the aim to improve physical function measured via
      the WIQ; and to reduce sitting time by up to 60 minutes per day, seven days a week.

      Participants will be required to make contact with members of the research team twice to
      complete assessments remotely, once to complete a coaching consultation, and once per week
      during the 8-week activity plan to discuss their performance. Organisation of these, and any
      contact associated with recruitment may require more frequent contact with the research team
      via telephone or email.

      Contact 1 (Recruitment/ eligibility):

      Expression of interest to participate will be sought by the treating clinician at Glenfield
      hospital (listed on the delegation log), who will offer the patient a Participant Information
      Sheet and consent form. If the participant is happy for a member of the research team to
      contact them within two weeks participants will complete a contact details slip during this
      visit and a member of the research team will telephone and/or email the participant to
      discuss the study in more detail and determine if they wish to participate or not. Should the
      patient choose to participate in the study they will be asked to complete the consent form
      and post this back to the research team. Once the signed and dated consent form has been
      received, the researcher can organise for the baseline data to be collected. In the situation
      whereby discrepancies are found with the completion of the informed consent form which has
      been returned via post, a member of the research team will contact the participant via
      telephone to help the participant complete a new consent form which will be sent and returned
      via post.

      Contact 2 (Baseline assessments):

      Within 2 weeks participants will be required to complete baseline assessments which includes
      information on their date of birth/age, sex, ethnicity, smoking status, alcohol consumption,
      medical history (co-morbidities) and the questionnaires outlined in 8.3 to assess their
      quality of life, breathlessness, anxiety and depression, fatigue and physical function. These
      will be completed over the telephone with the researcher or the researcher will post the
      questionnaires to the participants which will need to be completed and returned by post.
      These assessments will take approximately 1 hour.

      Participants will also be posted two activity monitors (monitor 1 and 2) one of which will be
      wrist worn and the other thigh worn, as well as information on how to fit these. Participants
      will wear these for a period of up to 8 days to collect habitual physical activity data. A
      daily sleep-wake log will be used to collect data on participants sleep and wake-time, which
      will be posted, along with instructions on how to complete these, and returned via post along
      with the activity monitors.

      Contact 3 (Coaching consultation):

      Within 2 weeks participants will receive a telephone or video call which will be termed a
      "coaching consult", during which sixteen 2-minute activities to break sitting time will be
      discussed with a member of the research team. These two-minute activities are outlined in
      Figure 1. Video tutorials and/or instruction cards of these activities will be sent via post
      prior to the coaching consult. These activities and data from the habitual physical activity
      measure will be used to inform personalised activity plans whereby participants will be
      encouraged, using Bandura's social cognitive theory, to use these activities to reduce
      sitting time by up to 60 minutes per day for 8-weeks. This contact will take approximately
      1-hour. The 8-week activity plan will be prescribed, to complete at home and will begin
      within 2 weeks of this contact.

      Participants will wear a wrist-worn activity monitor for the duration of the home-based
      8-week intervention (monitor 3). They will be instructed on how to use these during the
      coaching consultation and how to complete daily diaries for monitor wear and activity
      completion for the 8-week period.

      During the 8-week intervention participants will be contacted once a week via telephone or
      video to discuss their performance on the activity plan and completion of the daily diary.
      This will take approximately one hour a week. A member of the research team will organise
      this over email or telephone.

      A second 8-day habitual physical activity measurement period will take place during week 8 of
      the intervention. Activity monitors 1 and 2 will be posted to participants in good time along
      with instructions on how to fit these. During this second habitual physical activity
      measurement period participants will continue to wear wrist-worn activity monitor 3 as well.

      Contact 4 (Follow-up):

      Participants will then be contacted for their final assessments within one week of the end of
      the 8-week intervention. The follow-up assessments will include the same assessments as at
      baseline, except for the Sarc-F questionnaire, and will be completed via telephone with a
      member of the research team, or a researcher will be post these out to the participant for
      completion. The assessments will take approximately 1 hour.
    
  