
    
      Platelets are an important component of blood. Transfusions with platelets help to control
      bleeding in thrombocytopenic patients. Using the standard blood banking procedures, platelets
      can only be stored for up to 5 days. This is to help decrease the risk of contamination with
      bacteria. Currently, it is not possible to use cryopreserved (frozen) platelets because the
      platelets are damaged during the freezing process. Therefore, long-term banking of platelets
      or autologous donation (storing your own platelets to be given back to you at a later time)
      has not been possible. ThromboSol is a new solution that was designed to allow platelets to
      be frozen without damaging them. The use of ThromboSol may allow for long-term banking of
      platelets and/or autologous donations.

      During a period of cancer remission and when you have enough platelets in your blood, you
      will undergo an apheresis procedure to collect platelets. This procedure is similar to
      donating plasma to a blood bank. You will have up to 6 apheresis procedures (on different
      days) to collect up to 6 units of autologous platelets that can be transfused back to you.
      The platelets that are collected will be frozen with ThromboSol and stored so that they may
      be given back to you if your platelet count drops below a certain level. The frozen platelets
      can be stored for up to 18 months.

      When your platelet count drops below a certain level, you will be scheduled to have a
      platelet transfusion as part of your standard care.

      Before the transfusion you will have blood drawn (around 1-2 teaspoons) to check on the
      number of platelets in your blood. You will then be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a
      coin) to either receive the standard platelet transfusion or a ThromboSol-preserved
      autologous platelet transfusion. After the transfusion, you will have additional blood drawn
      (around 1-2 teaspoons) to check on the number of platelets in your blood. These procedures
      will be repeated each time you require a platelet transfusion. However, you will not be
      randomly assigned again. Each time you receive an additional platelet transfusion, you will
      be assigned the group different from the one before. The type of transfusions will be
      alternated. For instance, if you were randomly assigned to receive the frozen platelets for
      your first transfusion, you will receive the standard transfusion next, then back to the
      frozen for the third transfusion.

      If you develop side effects to the ThromboSol-preserved autologous platelet transfusion or
      the number of platelets in your blood does not increase after an infusion with the preserved
      platelets, you will be taken off the study and given a standard platelet transfusion.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 54 participants will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  