
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center observational survey study to uncover how antibiotic
      differences can influence utilization decisions. The purpose is to assess the trade-offs
      between drug side effects and infection prevention that patients are willing to make when
      taking prophylactic antibiotics. Misuse of antibiotics or non-adherence to prescribed
      regimens is a public health issue that may be due to a variety of reasons including unclear
      instructions, symptom improvement and adverse events Subjects will be healthcare providers
      (physician or nurse) and individuals 18+ years of age in the dermatologic surgery waiting
      area (including patients and accompanying individuals). Participants will complete a
      conjoint.ly survey and choose between treatment (antibiotic vs no antibiotic) scenarios.

      Adults in the dermatologic surgery department waiting room with age greater than or equal to
      18 years (this includes both patients and accompanying individuals (family members, friends,
      caregivers)) and healthcare providers in dermatologic surgery. A member of the study team
      will approach patients in the Perelman Dermatology Clinic to determine if they meet inclusion
      criteria and educate them about the study using the verbal script. If interested, patients
      will receive a link to the online survey, which will contain an informed consent page.
      Dermatology healthcare providers will be identified in clinic or from academic center staff
      directories. Individuals meeting inclusion criteria will also be recruited from the
      dermatologic surgery waiting rooms of other collaborating institutions (Penn State Health,
      University of Missouri Health Care, Indiana University Health, University of Minnesota,
      Oregon Health & Science University, Washington University in St. Louis, UT Southwestern, UC
      Davis and Ohio State University) once approved by their IRB.

      All data will be collected and stored in a secured password-protected conjoint.ly account
      managed by the Penn Dermatologic Surgery Clinical Research Team. Collaborating institutions
      will not have access to the survey responses. Data analysis: Multivariate random parameters
      logit will be used to estimate preference weights for each attribute level. These preference
      weights will be used to estimate the maximum acceptable risk of various side effects that
      subjects would be willing to accept in exchange for infection prevention. Collaborating
      researchers from other institutions will not be involved in data analysis.
    
  