
    
      BACKGROUND

        -  Vincristine sulfate is a widely used antineoplastic agent of the alkaloid class of drugs
           derived from the periwinkle plant (Vinca rosea Linn.). It has activity against a wide
           number of malignancies. It is a cell-cycle-specific agent that arrests cell growth in
           the M-phase (metaphase) by binding specifically with tubulin and disrupting cell
           division. Its dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is virtually always neurological.

        -  Investigations over the past two decades have demonstrated that liposomal drug carriers
           are capable of increasing the therapeutic index of anticancer drugs by altering the drug
           s pharmacological behavior.

        -  Marqibo(Registered Trademark) is vincristine encapsulated in sphingomyelin/cholesterol
           (SM/CHOL) liposomes, developed to increase the activity of vincristine. It has been
           shown to have activity in Phase 2 studies in adults. Previous investigation of
           Marqibo(Registered Trademark) in children is limited. A small phase 2 study was
           conducted with dosing of 2.0mg/m2 every 14 days. The agent appeared to be well tolerated
           and some activity was seen, although data were quite limited.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicities,
           and pharmacokinetics in children and adolescents with solid tumors or hematologic
           malignancies receiving weekly intravenous doses of Marqibo(Registered Trademark).

        -  To define the tolerability and potential activity of Marqibo(Registered Trademark) in
           children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
           at the pediatric MTD.

      ELIGIBILITY

      - Children and adolescents (greater than or equal to 2 years and < 21 years of age) with
      histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory malignant disease that is measurable or
      evaluable.

      DESIGN

        -  Marqibo(Registered Trademark) will be administered intravenously over 60 minutes (+ or
           -10 minutes) every 7 days (+ or - 3 days) (Days 1, 8, 15, 22) for four doses (1 cycle).
           Cycles may be repeated every 28 days for a maximum of 6 cycles; additional cycles may be
           offered with evidence of acceptable toxicity and clinical benefit.

        -  The trial follows a standard phase I design with 3 to 6 subjects per dose level and
           standard definitions of MTD and DLT. At the MTD, a total of 6 additional subjects with
           relapsed or refractory ALL will be evaluated.

        -  Detailed pharmacokinetic studies will be performed during the first treatment cycle.
    
  