
    
      This is a prospective, single-blinded, placebo controlled single center trial. One hundred
      subjects (50 in each arm) will be enrolled. Subjects undergoing multilevel spinal fusion will
      be screened and have the study introduced and discussed with them during the preadmission
      visit. Subjects may also contact study personnel or be contacted by study personnel before
      admission. Upon admission on the day of surgery, patients will be re-screened, recruited,
      have informed consent obtained. After consent is achieved in the pre-admission clinic prior
      to surgery, patients will be asked to fill out Beck's depression inventory (BDI),
      post-operative quality of recovery score(QoR-15) form, visual analog scale (VAS) for pain and
      short form McGill pain questionnaire to establish baseline scores. These forms can be
      completed at pre-admission testing, at home or on the day of surgery. The three forms will be
      on postoperative days (POD) 1, 2 and 3; only the VAS will be given in the Post-Anesthesia
      Care Unit (PACU). Eligible subjects will be assigned to either the ketamine or placebo group
      based on a computer generated randomization (randomization.com). Baseline demographic data as
      well as medical history and medication list will be recorded.

      Anesthetic management for this study will be exactly the same management that we are
      currently providing for patients undergoing multilevel spinal fusions. The only difference in
      care between the placebo group and the treatment group will be the addition of a low dose
      ketamine infusion in the treatment group. The placebo group will receive a fentanyl infusion
      at 1 mcg/kg/hr during the surgery and a morphine PCA for postoperative pain control. The
      placebo group will receive additional fentanyl as needed on the operating room and additional
      morphine as needed in the recovery room.

      Anesthetic management for both groups will start with IV placement and routine (American
      Society of Anesthesiologists - ASA ) monitors. An arterial catheter may be placed at the
      discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. After preoxygenation, general anesthesia will
      be induced with Propofol 1 to 2 mg/kg, fentanyl 1 to 2 mcg/kg, and rocuronium .6 mg/kg.
      Maintenance of anesthesia will be a propofol infusion starting at 150 mcg/kg/min, fentanyl 1
      mcg/kg/hr. Additionally, the ketamine group will receive a ketamine infusion at a rate of 10
      mcg/kg/min starting after intubation and terminated at the start of skin closure. All
      patients will be treated with zofran and ofirmev during surgical closing. Pre-induction
      midazolam will be administered at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. No NSAIDS will be
      given because of bleeding risk. Sevoflurane may be used for brief periods at the beginning
      and end of the procedure to cover times when total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) is not
      practical, i.e. when moving or positioning the patient. Additional fentanyl and rocuronium
      boluses can be given as needed. Administration of corticosteroids per surgeon's request will
      be recorded. Anesthetics will be titrated to maintain a Bispectral (BIS) index of 40 to 60.
      Patients will be awakened, extubated and transferred to the PACU after following simple
      commands. Morphine patient controlled anesthesia (PCA) at a setting of 1 mg dose with a 6
      minutes lockout will be started immediately on arrival in PACU. While in the PACU, all
      subjects who do not have adequate pain control will receive rescue dose of morphine 2 mg. to
      4 mg. as indicated by a numeric pain Rating Scale score > 3 or upon subjects' request. All
      narcotics and other pain medication given will be recorded. Postoperative nausea will be
      treated with droperidol .625 mg IV. If the patient's pain cannot be controlled with PCA
      morphine then a pain consult will be obtained. The pain service will be free to administer
      any medication deemed necessary to control the patient's pain.

      PACU Monitoring: Once in the PACU, all patients will be monitored by PACU nurses per nursing
      protocol. The following questionnaires: 1) VAS for pain will be administered in the PACU. On
      postoperative day 1, 2 and 3 the McGill short form, VAS, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and
      QoR15 will be given.

      The subjects who enroll in this study will be asked to fill out questionnaires at five
      different times. The questionnaires include The Beck depression inventory, McGill's short
      form pain questionnaire, Quality of Recovery - 15 form (QoR15) and the visual analog scale
      (VAS) for pain. The forms will be filled out at five separate times; preoperatively in
      pre-surgical testing or in the pre-surgical holding area of Tisch hospital, in the post
      anesthesia care unit of Tisch hospital after the surgery, on postoperative day #1, on
      postoperative day #2 and on postoperative day #3. In the PACU on the day of surgery, only the
      VAS will be given.

      All subjects will be carefully monitored for safety and efficacy. While the ketamine or
      placebo is administered in the operating room, an anesthesiologist, Certified Registered
      Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) or anesthesia resident will be present. In the PACU patients will
      have 1:1 or 1:2 nursing care. An anesthesiologist is immediately available in the PACU should
      a problem arise.
    
  