
    
      Insomnia patients are collected from: Outpatients from Sleep clinics. Included 200 cases of
      acute insomnia patients, the participants will randomly divided into 100 brief eCBTI Group
      and 100 patients with control group, brief eCBTI Group will receive 1 Week eCBTI intervention
      and control group will not receive any intervention. Both groups will receive 3 months of
      follow-up.

      At week 2, ISI and HADS will be conducted. Brief eCBTI group will also complete Treatment
      Component Adherence Scale (TCAS) in order to assess treatment adherence to and perceived
      helpfulness of each therapeutic element. At 3 months, two groups of subjects will have
      baseline assessment(except socio-demographic information), including chronic insomnia
      disorder diagnosis and self evaluation form (ISI, DBAS, SHPS ,PSAS,FIRST,ESS,HADS,SF-12v2).

      This study provides a Smartphone to complete third-party applications online insomnia
      treatment procedures. Brief eCBTI includes 1-week core curriculum: sleep hygiene education,
      sleep restriction, stimulus control, relaxation audios, cognitive components, information
      about sleeping pills, and a brief overview.

      Previous studies have shown that approximately 40% of acute insomnia will turn into Chronic
      insomnia disorder.While our preliminary work suggests, with the extension of follow-up time,
      high rates of chronic insomnia may be more ( 52.3% ).In order to meet the 95% confidence
      intervals (Confidence Interval, CI )( 35%-49% ) requirement, the project needs 200 acute
      insomnia disorder subjects, and random access eCBTI Treatment group and the control group
      (100 Cases) of whom an estimated 70% or more participants can complete 3 months of follow-up.
      This sample size ensures continuous data of small sample (Cohen d = 0.30) statistical effect
      is greater than 0.8, And test the odds ratio of dichotomous variables (Odds Ratio, OR)
      greater than 1.50(p>0.05 ).

      Mean value for continuous variable data ± Standard deviation, Numerical or categorical
      variable data expressed as a percentage. T test for the continuous variables and Chi Square
      test for the categorical variables will be used. Using repeated measures analysis of variance
      to compare two sets of continuous variables in the treatment and follow-up of changes in the
      process (such as ISI score, etc). Incidence of chronic insomnia is computed using Chi Square
      test. All statistical procedures are used in Windows running 26.0 version of the SPSS package
      (IBM SPSS 26.0).
    
  