
    
      It is estimated that 232,340 US women will be diagnosed with and 40,030 women will die of
      breast cancer in 2013. Metastatic breast cancer is a terminal condition and treatments are
      palliative in nature. The median survival for patients with metastatic breast cancer is
      approximately 2.5 years. The standard therapies currently in use include anti-estrogen
      therapies (anastrazole, letrozole, fulvestrant, tamoxifen), chemotherapy agents (taxanes,
      capecitabine, navelbine, gemcitabine, eribulin, ixabepilone), targeted therapies
      (trastuzumab, lapatinib), and supportive care agents (zolendronic acid, denosumab). While
      breast cancer typically responds well to treatment, the response is transient and their
      disease becomes more refractory with continued therapy. Also, quality of life is a
      significant issue for these patients as many of these therapies are associated with
      significant side effects. Well tolerated, novel agents which improve the efficacy of existing
      chemotherapy agents would prove quite useful in managing metastatic breast cancer.

      Preclinical data derived from MMTV-Neu mice with autochthonous tumors studied the interaction
      between indoximod and various chemotherapeutic agents. Mice with 5-10mm tumors were enrolled
      into control and treatment groups. Mice were treated with indoximod alone, chemotherapy alone
      (paclitaxel, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and others), and the combination of indoximod and
      chemotherapy. treatment with indoximod or paclitaxel alone caused retardation of tumor growth
      in this model but no regressions were seen. the combination of indoximod plus paclitaxel
      caused 30% tumor regression and histologically there was significantly enhanced tumor cell
      death with the combination versus either agent alone. This synergism was abrogated when the
      mice underwent CD4+ T cell depletion prior to treatment with the combination, suggesting the
      immune response played a role in the observed effect. Based on this data and other reports
      suggesting systemic immunomodulating drugs like indoximod can synergize with chemotherapy
      agents such as taxanes, the decision was made to devise this combination of therapy of
      docetaxel or paclitaxel with indoximod in metastatic breast cancer.
    
  