
    
      The purpose of this multi-site, randomized, controlled trial is to determine the optimal
      frequency of repositioning nursing facility residents with mobility limitations who are at
      moderate and high risk for pressure ulcer development who are cared for on high density foam
      mattresses for the purpose of preventing pressure ulcers. Pressure ulcers result primarily
      from pressure over a bony prominence that occludes blood flow to tissues. Traditionally, soft
      surfaces over mattress and repositioning individuals every 2 hours to relieve pressure have
      been the gold standard of care to prevent ulcers. Recent improvements in support surfaces may
      reduce the need for 2-hour repositioning. The specific aims of this study are to determine
      if: 1) there is a significant difference in the incidence of pressure ulcers among: a)
      moderate risk (Braden Scale Score, 13-14) residents randomly assigned to be repositioned
      every 2-, compared with every 3- or 4- hours; or b) high risk (Braden Scale Score, 10-12)
      residents who are turned every 2- compared with every 3- or 4-hours; 2) mobility (spontaneous
      or assisted) measured by actigraphy is a significant covariate with repositioning frequency
      in the incidence of pressure ulcers and 3) resident characteristics and resident influencing
      factors are significant covariates of repositioning schedules on pressure ulcer incidence. A
      2 X 2/2 X 3 experimental design is used in which participants at two levels of risk (moderate
      or high) for pressure ulcer development are randomly assigned to one of 3 repositioning
      schedules every 2-hours (the current standard of care), contrasted with 3- or 4- hours
      carried out for 3 weeks. Actigraphs worn for 7 days (Tuesday to Tuesday) will determine if
      mobility is a significant covariate. Residents (1080) who are over 65 years, able to give
      consent or have a surrogate who can give consent and are at moderate or high risk for
      pressure ulcers will be invited to participate. Nursing facilities are selected because of
      their ability to follow a research protocol and submit data according to protocol
      requirements, and who have a reputation for good care are being selected for participation.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to a repositioning schedule that will be carried out
      by a Certified Nursing Assistants (CNA) who will document time of each repositioning. A CNA
      supervisor monitors repositioning and documentation frequently. Data are FAXED to and
      monitored by the investigators daily. With the exception of the repositioning intervention,
      participants will receive the same preventive care as all residents. The primary outcome of
      this study, pressure ulcers (yes/no) will be documented by a nurse assessor who will be
      masked to the repositioning timing. Data analysis and management will be performed by ISIS.
      The goal of this study is to shape Nursing Facility policy by defining how level of risk,
      mobility, and frequency of repositioning of residents can reduce the incidence of pressure
      ulcers and improve resident outcomes. Less frequent repositioning would allow residents
      longer periods of sleep, would reduce staff time for repositioning, and allow more efficient
      allocation of time.
    
  