
    
      Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a current pandemic infection caused by an RNA virus called
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Severe forms of COVID-19 are
      most often responsible for isolated respiratory failure in the form of acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS), which accounts for most of the mortality. Angiotensin converting
      enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been shown to be a co-receptor for the entry of SARS-CoV-2 into cells and
      is likely to play a prolonged role in the pathogenesis of COVID-19. ACE2 and angiotensin
      (1-7) have been shown to be protective in a number of different lung lesion models. In a
      mouse model of acidic lung injury, negative regulation of ACE2 by COVID, the SARS virus
      responsible for the 2003 SARS outbreak, worsened the lung injury which was improved by
      treatment with ARBs.

      We believe that blocking the first RAS pathway at the end of the chain on the AT1r
      angiotensin 2 receptor may prevent the initiation of this chain reaction and limit
      decompensation secondary to the disruption of the equilibrium of the renin-angiotensin
      system. We have several molecules that block the AT1r angiotensin-2 receptor (ARBs) as well
      as a molecule that blocks the secretion of aldosterone (spironolactone). The main objective
      is to demonstrate the value of losartan and spironolactone therapy in the regulation of the
      renin-angiotensin system in improving the prognosis of patients infected with COVID-19 and
      suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome.

      This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled, therapeutic trial
      studying two parallel groups. The population included in this study is any major patient in
      acute respiratory distress hospitalized in intensive care requiring oxygen support of at
      least 6L/min and suffering from a PCR-confirmed SARS-cov2 infection. The control group will
      benefit from the usual resuscitation management of COVID19 , and the experimental group will
      benefit from losartan and spironolactone treatment in addition to the usual management,
      according to the study protocol. The number of subjects required has been calculated and 45
      patients for each group, for a total of 90 patients.

      The SOFA score at D7 will be compared between the "experimental" versus "control" groups
      using a mean comparison method. The comparison of this criterion and all secondary criteria
      of judgments between the 2 groups will be performed using a Student or Mann-Whitney test
      based on the normality of the distribution. The significance threshold will be set at 0.05.
      No intermediate analysis is scheduled. The analysis will be blinded.

      The main expected outcome is an improved prognosis with a decrease in the SOFA severity score
      at 7 days in resuscitation patients, resulting in an improvement in organ failure. The
      expected secondary results will be to show the interest of ARA2/Spironolactone treatment on
      oxygenation based on the PaO2/FiO2 ratio, mechanical ventilation duration and mortality.
    
  