
    
      Background and Hypothesis:

      Short-term outcomes in renal transplantation, such as the acute rejection rate, have improved
      dramatically over the past decade. Unfortunately, this success has made it more difficult to
      evaluate new therapies in kidney transplantation. Markers of kidney function, such as serum
      creatinine and creatinine clearance, are now being used to evaluate kidney transplant
      function. However, serum creatinine and creatinine clearance have many limitations and
      correlate poorly with the glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The Modification of Diet in Renal
      Disease (MDRD) formula has been shown to be very accurate at predicting GFR in patients with
      kidney disease who don't have renal transplants. Cystatin C, a novel marker of renal
      function, has also been shown to be accurate in transplant and non-transplant patients.
      However, the MDRD formula and cystatin C have not been properly validated in a large sample
      of renal transplant recipients.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if the MDRD formula accurately predicts
      GFR in renal transplant recipients. Secondary objectives of the study will determine whether:
      the MDRD formula is responsive to change in GFR over time, cystatin C accurately predicts
      GFR, or the MDRD formula is more accurate than other estimating equations in renal transplant
      recipients.

      Research Plan:

      A prospective cohort design will be used. Eligible adult renal transplant recipients at least
      3 months post-transplantation will have serum creatinine, albumin, urea, cystatin C, 24-hour
      urine excretion of urea, 24-hour urine excretion of creatinine, 24-hour urine excretion of
      protein and GFR measured at study entry and at least 3 months later. GFR will be measured
      using 99Tc-DTPA. Estimates of the GFR will be made with the MDRD equation and other
      estimating equations. Renal function will also be assessed by measuring the urinary
      creatinine clearance and the combined urea and creatinine clearance. The primary analysis
      will determine the accuracy (proportion of GFR estimates that lie within 30% of measured GFR)
      of the MDRD equation. Secondary analyses will be performed to determine the bias (mean
      difference between the measured GFR and estimated GFR) and precision (standard deviation of
      the difference between the measured and estimated GFR) of the MDRD equation as well as the
      bias and precision of the change in GFR over twelve months. Similar analyses will be
      performed for cystatin C and other estimating equations.

      Importance of Study:

      New methods to accurately measure GFR are needed for both clinical care and research studies
      involving renal transplant recipients. As new therapies and immunosuppressive strategies
      become available, a simple and accurate means (such as the MDRD equation) to assess response
      to therapy will be invaluable. Markers of kidney function (serum creatinine, predicted GFR)
      are already being used in clinical trials involving renal transplant recipients without
      appropriate evaluation. The proper validation of equations to predict GFR in transplant
      recipients must be carried before they can be widely accepted in practice or for use in
      research protocols. If this study shows that the MDRD equation (or other marker of kidney
      function) is accurate in transplant patients then we can confidently move forward and use
      these validated measures of GFR in patient care and future research studies.
    
  