
    
      Nursing homes are settings with a high rate of Staphylococcus aureus (SA) and carbapenem
      -resistant Gram-negative bacteria (C-GNB) acquisition, which can lead to infection,
      particularly for short stay residents who are recovering from an acute illness. The current
      standard of care for preventing antibiotic-resistant bacteria acquisition in nursing homes is
      Standard Precautions (gowns and gloves for anticipated contact with blood, body fluids, skin
      breakdown or mucous membranes) for all residents.

      The intervention is gown and glove use for high-risk care of high-risk residents based on
      prior research showing the increased risk of transmission from residents to healthcare
      workers' hands and clothing associated with certain care activities. Rather than wearing
      gowns and gloves for all care activities to prevent transmission (as would be indicated for
      Contact Precautions), gown and glove use is targeted to specific resident care activities
      (e.g., bathing, dressing, and toileting) with prolonged resident-staff contact.

      The intervention will occur on units with a mix of long stay and short stay residents, within
      the nursing home with the NH as the unit of analysis. The primary outcome will be SA, both
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and methicillin susceptible
      Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), and C-GNB acquisition as determined by surveillance cultures in
      short stay residents, which is a more frequent outcome than infection. During an 8-12 week
      baseline period, SA and C-GNB acquisition will be assessed via culture and use of gown and
      gloves for high-risk care of high-risk residents shall be assessed at all nursing homes. A
      4-week training period shall occur for each of the nursing homes prior to the start of the
      intervention period where the NH staff shall be trained on the targeted gown and glove
      approach. The training period shall be followed by an 8-12 week intervention period, during
      which SA and C-GNB acquisition shall be assessed via culture and use of own and gloves for
      high risk care of high-risk residents shall again be assessed and compared to the baseline
      period. Each nursing home shall act as their own control, via direct comparison of each
      nursing home during the intervention to itself during the baseline period, reducing
      variability. The two nursing homes in group 1 shall be trained on and then implement the
      intervention during study period 1, while the two nursing homes in group 2 continue the
      baseline period. The two nursing homes in group 2 shall then undergo training and
      implementation the intervention in study period 2 while the group 1 nursing homes have a
      washout period then the cross-over baseline observations and cultures. The baseline period,
      intervention period, and the cross-over baseline period shall each continue for 8-12 weeks
      aiming for at least 100 resident admissions during each of the study periods (baseline
      period, intervention period, and cross-over baseline period). Some facilities may not reach
      100, but the average across must exceed 100 each.
    
  