
    
      Study procedures:

      This is a single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel, pilot study of oral EW02
      in combination with chemotherapy, versus placebo in combination with chemotherapy in breast
      cancer patients as the primary phase (Cycle 1). The chemotherapy regimen is restricted to one
      of the following regimens: Doxorubicin + Cyclophosphamide (AC), or Doxorubicin+
      Cyclophosphamide+5-FU (CAF) under standardized dosage. The WBC recovery time is similar
      between these two chemotherapy regimens due to the facts that doxorubicin and
      cyclophosphamide are overlapped and their dose in CAF is reduced. The principle investigator
      has clinical experiences that the neutropenia nadir and severity caused by these two regimens
      are almost the same. Nevertheless, pre-stratification by chemotherapy regimen (stratum AC
      versus stratum CAF) at randomization will be implemented so that equal sample size of two
      study products will be allocated under each stratum. It will involve 60 outpatients for
      breast cancer, who have previously demonstrated a fall unto 1,000 to 3,000/mm3 in WBC count,
      or unto 500 to 1,500/mm3 in ANC count, on Day 8 or Day 15, whilst on Cycle 1.

      The second phase (Cycle 2): EW02 at 700mg tid daily versus placebo group are given at the
      beginning of Cycle 2 for 15 consecutive days. 60 subjects will be randomized 2:1 to two
      groups in pre-stratified permuted blocks of six with four subjects assigned to Group 1 (EW02)
      while two subjects assigned to Group 2 (Placebo). Group 1 will receive EW02 for 15
      consecutive days during the second cycle and Group 2 will receive 15 consecutive days of
      Placebo.

      The extension phase (Cycle 3): is designed to collect additional safety data and to ensure
      all the participants will have the opportunity to receive study drug. Thus, both groups will
      receive EW02 at 700mg tid/day for 15 consecutive days.
    
  