
    
      As cancer cells have a hyperpolarized mitochondrial membrane and deficiency in Kv channel
      expression, it was postulated that the reversal of this observation may increase apoptosis
      and inhibit tumor growth. Bonnet and colleagues reported that the administration of DCA led
      to the switch from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation in the Krebs Cycle through
      inhibition of PDHK. This was associated with an increase in the production of reactive oxygen
      species and a decrease in hyperpolarization of the inner mitochondrial membrane, leading to
      efflux of proapoptotic proteins and apoptosis as measured by increased in TUNEL-positive
      cells. In addition, DCA also decreased the expression of survivin, an anti-apoptotic protein.
      DCA upregulated the expression of Kv channels in cancer cells, leading to efflux of potassium
      ions and further increased the proapoptotic effect of DCA. Such change in energy metabolism
      and apoptosis was not observed in normal cells. DCA was also shown to inhibit tumor growth
      both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, inhibition of PDHK by DCA represents a novel anti-cancer
      therapy target with reasonable toxicities to normal tissue. It is therefore of interest to
      study DCA in refractory cancer patients.

      Although the bioavailability was only 50-60% in normal subjects treated with 2.5 microgram/kg
      of DCA , in a study using clinically relevant dose of DCA at 50 mg/kg, the bioavailability
      was 100% in health volunteers. DCA administered at 50 mg/kg/day can achieve plasma
      concentrations above those require for inhibition of PHDK, the target enzyme for at least 24
      hours, without exceeding the concentration for maximal lactate lowering. There was a high
      incidence of peripheral neuropathy in adults with MELAS after administration of DCA at 50
      mg/kg/day for 6 months, but peripheral neuropathy is part of the MELAS syndrome, and many
      adult patients with MELAS develop diabetes mellitus, which commonly presents with peripheral
      neuropathy. In the contrary, no peripheral neuropathy was observed in children with
      congenital acidosis after prolonged treatment with DCA at 50 mg/kg/day up to 2 years.
      Therefore, with exclusion of patients with any grade 2 or higher peripheral neuropathy and
      with careful monitoring of peripheral neuropathy using monofilaments, the likelihood of
      developing severe peripheral neuropathy in adult cancer patients should be minimized. Given
      the presence of significant neuropathy in adult patients with MELAS after treatment with DCA
      at 25 mg/kg/day, it is judged to be safe and reasonable to establish the starting dose at
      12.5 mg/kg/day in adult cancer patients.
    
  