
    
      Participants (N=4854) will be recruited through community partners, at events and using
      social marketing campaigns including advertisements, referrals from other participants,
      social media, and a web based educational website (Web-Ed). After establishing eligibility,
      written informed consent will be obtained. Subjects will complete a survey and provide a
      urine specimen for chlamydia (Ct) and gonorrhea (GC) testing and will provide their preferred
      contact information in order to be contacted about their test results. The testing laboratory
      will report positive results per LA hygiene code LAC 51:II.105:
      http://ldh.la.gov/assets/oph/Center-PHCH/Center-CH/infectious-epi/Surveillance/sanitarycode.p
      df. Tulane study staff will contact participants to inform them of their results. If the
      participant tests positive for Ct and/or GC, the subject will be offered expedited treatment
      for the subject and the subject's recent sex partners. The subject may choose to pick up
      medication at a local pharmacy or medication can be mailed to the subject. Staff will also
      ask the participant to contact his partner(s) and provide them with the Check It staff's
      contact information so that staff can let the partner know that they have been exposed to an
      infection and offer the subject's sexual partner expedited treatment options if the
      participant did not already provide the subject's sexual partners with that information. No
      information provided by the participant will be shared with his partners. The study will
      cover the cost of the medications for subjects who test positive for either or both organisms
      and their sexual partners. Three months after treatment, male subjects who were positive will
      be asked to be re-screened and if positive, staff will conduct similar expedited treatment
      and partner services. Any subject who provides consent for annual testing reminders will be
      reminded using their preferred method of contact.
    
  