
    
      Volunteers meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria will read and sign an informed
      consent form approved by the institutional review board (IRB). After consenting, each
      participant will answer a demographic questionnaire related to injury history and pertinent
      injury risk factors (location, duration and type of previous injury, profile time, height,
      weight, changes in menstruation, etc). The participant will then undergo a running analysis
      in which the individual will run on an instrumented treadmill while video of running form in
      the sagittal plane and frontal plane are captured using two stationary two-dimensional
      digital cameras sampling at 240 Hz. The video will capture the runner from the waist down in
      order to protect privacy and blinding. Information collected from the treadmill will include
      AVLR of vGRF, while step rate and other kinematic information will be collected from video
      analysis. Volunteers will run at their self-selected pace for three minutes on a treadmill,
      with step rate and AVLR analyzed during the last minute of running. During the inital data
      collection, if the participant's step rate is greater than 176 spm, the participant will be
      exluded from the study at this time. The same data collection procedure will be repeated for
      all participants after retraining and for a subset of participants at 6 months to observe
      post intervention AVLR and step rate.

      Volunteers will then be placed into a retraining group and a control group through random
      allocation. Each participant, regardless of group, will be provided a Garmin Forerunner35 to
      use while performing PRT with their unit and/or personal physical training for ten in-field
      training sessions. The ten in-field training sessions will be performed by the participant
      outside of the researcher's lab without a researcher present. The participant will be
      instructed to return to their normal running routine, but to use the watch during 10 running
      sessions to either monitor and modify their step rate for the retraining group or their pace
      and distance for the control group. Both groups will receive a training log to track their
      training sessions.

      The retraining group will receive a watch accelerometer to use for monitoring their step rate
      with instructions to increase their preferred step rate by 7.5% over the ten in-field
      training sessions. The runner will receive a training log with a target step rate recorded on
      it. The target step rate will be a 7.5% increase from the preferred step rate the runner used
      during the gait analysis. The researcher will provide instruction to the participant to match
      the target step rate while the participants are performing their in-field training sessions
      by using the watch to monitor their step rate. The watch provides the runner with real-time
      feedback on their step rate. This allows the runner to monitor their step rate while running
      and the runner should either increase or decrease their step rate to meet the target step
      rate provided by the study team member. Training units at FT. Sam Houston perform ability
      group or self-paced runs for the majority of their endurance training, so participants should
      not have difficulty adjusting their step rates IAW study plans. Willy et al. was successful
      using eight in-field training sessions to sustain a 7.5% increase in step rate 1 month
      post-training in healthy runners (Willy 2016). Adherence to step rate will be assessed at the
      follow-up by reviewing the last 7 training sessions in the history of the watch. The watch
      only saves 7 sessions at a time to the watch memory without connecting to an internet
      database. Viewing the last 7 sessions allows the investigators to assess adherence without
      relying on the runner to upload data to a server before the participants have completed their
      training sessions. The average step rate from the last 7 training sessions will be input into
      an excel spreadsheet and the training sessions will be deleted from the watch.

      The control group will receive the same device to monitor their pace but receive no
      instruction to change their preferred step rate. The participant will also receive a training
      log, but will track their pace and distance for each run.

      Every participant will perform a 2-3 minute running session on the treadmill after data
      collection in order to acclimate looking down at the watch, periodically, for 3-5 seconds.
      This should minimize risk with falling while intermittently looking at the watch for feedback
      while running overground without supervision.

      Volunteers will return after 10 in-field training sessions using their monitoring device and
      a subset of the study participants will return at 6 months to re-assess AVLR and step rate.
      The intake questionnaire asks if a participant will remain in the Fort Sam Houston area for 7
      months after study enrollment. If the participant mark yes, investigators will ask them if
      the participant would return for a six month follow-up. Investigators will have 30 runners
      (15 from control group and 15 from retraining group) return for a six month follow-up.

      The watch has GPS capability to provide accurate feedback on the runner's pace and distance.
      Investigators will not be monitoring GPS location information for the purpose of this study.
      All running data will be deleted off the watch when the participant return for their
      follow-up after the 10 in-field training sessions.

      A retrospective medical record review, using AHLTA, querying lower extremity injury diagnoses
      and low back pain will be conducted at six months and at the completion of one year after the
      retraining program. All volunteers will also receive four email surveys over the year asking
      them to give their weekly running mileage and (yes/no) if the participant has limited
      activity due to a running-related overuse injury for one or more days during that quarter. If
      the answer is yes, the runner will receive additional questions regarding the location and
      nature of the injury. This quarterly survey is necessary to maximize the accuracy of mileage
      and injury information to account for mileage conducted and for injuries for which the runner
      does not seek medical attention. If after 4 weeks the email response rate is less than 50%,
      the subjects will be contacted by phone to respond to the survey questions. A retrospective
      profile review, using MODS/Eprofile, querying limited duty days from running-related injuries
      will be conducted at six months and at the completion of one year after the retraining
      program. The participants will be required to return the Garmin Watch at the completion of
      the retraining program or if the participant chooses to leave the study at any time.
    
  