
    
      To evaluate the short term effects of Polyphenon E administered alone and in combination with
      erlotinib to patients with advanced Stage IIIB or IV Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) that
      has progressed after first line chemotherapy. We will do a Phase I dose escalation study with
      Polyphenon E and a fixed dose of erlotinib to evaluate for any significant adverse events
      related to the combination.

      Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Polyphenon E has been established the Phase II trial
      will be embarked upon using this dose in combination with erlotinib. In both the Phase I and
      Phase II parts the agents will administered until time of progression or unacceptable side
      effects occur.

      The primary end point of the Phase I part is establishing the safety, tolerability and MTD of
      Polyphenon E in combination with erlotinib given at 150mg per day.

      The Primary endpoint of the Phase II part that will be studied is Response rate (RR) to the
      combination. Progression free survival (PFS), Overall Survival (OS) and the safety and
      tolerability of Polyphenon E in addition to erlotinib in this subject population and setting
      will be assessed as secondary objectives.

      Changes in serum markers related to progression of cancer will also be studied as part of the
      Phase I and phase II study. The effect of Polyphenon E with or without erlotinib on the serum
      levels of circulating c-met RNA, Interleukin-8 (Il-8), Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF) and
      Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) will be studied as secondary objectives. Epidermal
      Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) expression of the initial tumor tissue and testing for EGFR
      mutations in the tumor tissue and serum DNA and evaluation of "KIRSTEN RAT SARCOMA VIRAL
      ONCOGENE HOMOLOG" (KRAS) mutations with correlation of these results with treatment outcome
      will also be undertaken as secondary objectives in both the Phase I and II parts.

      1.1 Determine the safety, tolerability and MTD of Polyphenon E given in combination with
      erlotinib. Polyphenon E dose-escalation from 200, 400 and 800mg/day will be performed to
      evaluate for the MTD when used together with erlotinib 150mg/d.

      1.2 Determine the effects of Polyphenon E in addition to erlotinib on response rate,
      progression free survival and overall survival

      1.3 Determine the effects of Polyphenon E on circulating serum C-met messenger RNA

      1.4 Determine the effects of Polyphenon E on serum HGF levels

      1.5 Determine the effects of Polyphenon E on serum Il-8 levels

      1.6 Determine the effects of Polyphenon E on serum VEGF levels 1.7 Determine the safety and
      tolerability of Polyphenon E in addition to erlotinib in this subject population

      1.8 Determine the possible correlation between EGFR expression on original tumor tissue, EGFR
      mutations in tumor tissue and serum DNA and the presence of KRAS mutations with the treatment
      response and outcome.

      This study was intended to be a Phase I/II study. This study never moved into the Phase II
      portion of the study. The sponsor stopped supplying Polyphenon E and there was not enough of
      a supply in-house to continue with Phase II.
    
  