
    
      Background

      Central Nervous System (CNS) hemangioblastomas are the most common tumor found in the
      familial neoplasia syndrome, Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL).

      Hemangioblastomas cause significant morbidity and mortality. While surgical resection is the
      treatment of choice for CNS hemangioblastomas, it is associated with morbidity and death.
      There is a critical need for new non-invasive treatments of VHL-associated CNS
      hemangioblastomas.

      Vorinostat is a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) that is FDA-approved for the treatment
      of refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Vorinostat has been tested in other
      hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Recent data suggests that vorinostat may have a
      potent therapeutic effect in the treatment of VHL-associated hemangioblastomas in patients
      with missense germline mutations of the VHL gene. In most VHL mutation types, the abnormal
      VHL protein content is not active, which leads to tumor formation and growth. In missense
      mutation VHL disease, tumor cells contain a malformed VHL protein that is partially active.
      However, the protein is degraded quickly by normal cellular mechanisms. Vorinostat prevents
      degradation of a malformed protein within the tumors. Increased protein leads to slower
      growth in these tumors.

      Objective

      To determine whether vorinostat reduces degradation of mutant VHL protein in VHL patients
      with germline missense mutations.

      Eligibility

      Adult patients (age greater than or equal to 18 years) with a known germline missense VHL
      gene mutation that require surgical resection of a hemangioblastoma.

      Design

      We intend to conduct a pilot study with vorinostat in six patients with hemangioblastomas
      causing significant symptoms from tumor growth. Vorinostat will be administered if the
      patients are deemed surgical candidates. Patients will receive one (1) dose of 400 mg of
      vorinostat daily for seven (7) days prior to surgery. On the day of surgery, the patients
      will not receive vorinostat. Patients will undergo surgery as usual, with no change in
      planning or technique of the procedure. The tumor specimens from surgery will be examined for
      presence and quantity of mutant VHL protein. Comparisons for levels of mutant VHL protein
      will be made with tissue banked from previous surgical resections under 03-N-0164.
      Measurements of genetic expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and
      erythropoietin (EPO) will also be performed on these specimens.

      Outcome Measures

        1. The presence and quantity of mutant VHL protein in resected hemangioblastoma specimens,
           including comparison of specimens without vorinostat treatment and those with
           presurgical vorinostat treatment.

        2. Measurement of VEGF and EPO results from resected hemangioblastoma specimens, including
           comparison of specimens without vorinostat treatment and those with presurgical
           vorinostat treatment.
    
  