
    
      Critical illness may be induced by different underlying life-threatening diseases, such as
      infection, sepsis, trauma, respiratory insufficiency or hypoxia and severe neurological
      status. The associated endocrine, nervous, metabolic and immunological changes are defined as
      acute stress syndrome.

      Although sepsis is one of the oldest syndromes in medicine, it is a challenging healthcare
      problem even nowadays. In spite of the era of modern an¬tibiotics and intensive therapy
      sepsis is still one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality.

      Based on the novel results and advances of pathobiology, management and epidemiology of
      sepsis, the definitions of the syndrome have been changed recently. Sepsis-3 consensus
      de¬fines sepsis as a life-threatening organ dysfunc¬tion caused by a dysregulated host
      response to infection.

      The diagnosis of sepsis is most often not easy especially in newborns or in patients whose
      im¬mune response is not adequate. Therefore, it is of most importance to introduce diagnostic
      biomarkers which can predict or verify systemic inflammation as early as possible. These
      tests should also be applicable for monitoring of the disease progression and efficacy of
      therapy as well.

      Salivary alpha-amylase is secreted from the salivary glands mainly in response to
      beta-adrenergic stimuli.

      Salivary alpha-amylase (sAA) has gained rapid popularity as a non-invasive marker of
      sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity. sAA is a digestive enzyme that breaks down starch
      into glucose and maltose, and enzymatic activity (in Units/ml) is used as a proxy for sAA
      concentration.

      The use of salivary alpha amylase as a marker of sympathetic activity seems justified.
      Salivary alpha amylase release from the salivary glands is under strong control of local
      sympathetic nerves. Its salivary concentration rapidly increases during acute stress, and its
      use as a marker of sympathetic activation is also validated by pharmacological studies.
    
  