
    
      Participants will be recruited from regular care settings (in-patient and out-patient
      services, general practitioners, psychotherapists) and via the RECOVER homepage. Upon
      fulfillment of the inclusion criteria and after having obtained informed consent,
      participants will undergo a complex baseline psychiatric diagnostic assessment, including
      among other measures the global assessment of functioning (GAF), severity of illness (CGI-S)
      and specification of diagnosis (SCID I and SCID II). Based on these three instruments,
      participants will be divided into four degrees severity: Grade 1 = mild, Grade 2 = medium,
      Grade 3 = medium to high, Grade 4 = severe mental disorder. Accordingly, there will be four
      strata of similar sample sizes (planned n=268, including 30% drop out rate; see power
      analysis below). Each participant will then be randomized either to the RECOVER treatment
      condition or the treatment as usual (TAU) condition. Randomization will be conducted by an
      independent person not involved in the RCT or diagnostic assessment, who will receive the
      pseudonymised participant ID and stratum number. A previously with the STATA 14 program
      defined list will be used to achieve randomization. When the planned sample size per stratum
      is achieved, no further patients will be included in this stratum.

      For a complete list of measures, please refer to outcome measures section. In addition,
      secondary data will be obtained from external data owners, essential for the achievement of
      RECOVER's research objective - the determination of health costs. These include personal
      patient-related data such as data from health insurances companies (e.g. data from inpatient
      and outpatient medical services, rehabilitation services, transport, medical aid, drug/
      medication data, home assistance and care services, work disability and sickness benefit/
      allowance data). These will be inquired from the health insurance for the years 2016 to 2021
      at the 12-month point in time and continuously assessed within the quality assurance study.
      Subsequently, a monetary valuation is carried out using standardized monetary valuation
      rates.

      Serious adverse events (SAE) will be documented from the first contact (i.e. registry)
      between patient and study staff and will be included in the participant's record. A copy of
      each SAE protocol will be directly forwarded to the study's central management. Each SAE is
      assessed in terms of its causal relationship between the event and the study procedures
      (""serious undesirable, study-related event"). For each SAE, the SAE protocol must be filled
      in (with pseudonymised data only) and will be immediately discussed with the study
      management, who will check the protocol for plausibility and completeness and evaluate the
      event. Events that have not yet been formally completed are tracked. If the undesired event
      has been resolved, a final documentation is provided on the SAE protocol. The executive
      committee is informed by the study management and asked for an assessment. If all assessments
      have shown that the suspected case is an SAE, all study staff will be informed by the study
      management immediately, but at the latest within 7 days of notification.

      The sample size is based on a power calculation to detect a statistically significant
      difference between the intervention (RECOVER) vs. standard care (TAU) in order to yield a
      small to medium standardized mean difference between the groups (Cohen's f of 0.175) after 12
      months. At a power of at least 80% with a type 1 error rate of 5%, 2-sided testing and 10% of
      declared variance due to baseline, at least 233 study participants are required. For testing
      hypotheses involving the interaction of intervention and stratification subgroup, sample size
      increases to n=383. Diagnostics and therapy are carried out in approx. 50 clusters with
      approx. 21 participants each and an intraclass correlation (ICC) of .05 is assumed for the
      primary, continuous outcome. This results in a design effect of approximately 2.0 and a total
      sample size of 890 patients (including 30% dropout). With an estimated participation rate of
      50%, 2140 patients must be addressed for participation.

      Statistical analysis will be supervised by the local Department of Medical Biometry and
      Epidemiology. The analysis of primary and secondary outcome data is performed according to
      the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. Missing values for the follow-up time points will be
      accounted for within mixed linear and logistic regression models. For sensitivity analyses,
      missing values will be replaced by multiple imputation and per-protocol (PP) analyses. The
      analysis of therapy utilization and productivity losses is performed descriptively as well as
      with difference-in-difference regressions (to analyze the measured costs over time). In
      addition, multivariate analyses will be carried out. Remission and response data are analyzed
      using logistic regression, while remission (non-clinical, i.e., performance under critical
      cut-off) and response (i.e. reduction in symptom severity of 50%) are specifically determined
      for each psychiatric condition during follow-up as compared to the baseline measurement.
      Changes in symptoms, level of functioning and health associated quality of life are analyzed
      with difference-in-difference-regression. To estimate cost efficiency, incremental
      cost-efficiency-relation (ICER) is calculated. To estimate the ICER's uncertainty,
      cost-efficiency-acceptance-curves based on net-benefit-regressions are calculated. All
      secondary outcome parameters are descriptively investigated as well as using multivariate
      analyses (e.g. logistic regression, difference-in-difference-regression). To assess
      inhibiting and promoting factors for the RECOVER model, qualitative measures are applied.

      All study data are immediately entered into a database. To minimize input errors, all data
      are entered by two different staff members independently. During data entry, integrity checks
      are performed to minimize input errors. These tests are carried out on the basis of a data
      validation plan and are countersigned by the head of study and the study statistician. The
      data input system enables continuous quality control of the input process via integrated
      inspection functions.

      After completion of the data entry, the access rights to the database are cancelled and the
      database is exported to the data transformation system. There, final plausibility checks are
      carried out and the data are checked for consistency and completeness. Missing values and
      inconsistencies are reported back to the examiner and processed by the person responsible. As
      soon as all corrections have been completed, the database is closed and transferred to the
      study statistician. All data entries, modifications or deletions are logged. All data (i.e.
      completed questionnaires, database) will be protected against unauthorized access, i.e. by
      physical locking in steel cabinets or secured by a system of individual access
      authorizations. In accordance with the principles of good clinical practice, all study data
      and relevant correspondence are archived by the investigators. Once the study has been
      completed, the all archived data will be stored by the University of Hamburg in accordance
      with legal regulations. The lead investigator is responsible for storing and archiving the
      study data.

      Quality assurance will be achieved by evaluation and comparison of data assessed at baseline
      and at follow-up assessments after six month (t6) and after one year (t12). Data contains
      measures of disease symptoms and severity (e.g., HEALTH-49, CGI-S, PANSS, PHQ-9, GAD-7,
      PHQ-15, PID-5). The daily function level is measured with the GAF, and health-related quality
      of life is assessed with the EQ-5D-5L and the SF-12. Treatment satisfaction will also be
      measured. The therapeutic coherence is determined with regard to both drug and non-drug
      treatment. All therapeutic services will be continuously documented in terms of number, type
      and duration.

      Data collection and monitoring will be carried out by treatment-unrelated, independent
      researchers (Dept. of Health Economics and Healthcare Research, Dept. of Medical Psychology
      and the Dept. of Medical Biometry and Epidemiology, UKE). They will primarily monitor
      compliance with the principles of good clinical practice and the study protocol, as well as
      proper data collection and input. Data verification will mainly focus on key variables that
      are defined at the beginning of the study. Frequency and duration of monitor visits will
      depend on recruitment progress, protocol compliance and data quality. It will be the
      monitor's responsibility to regularly check data collection and input, monitor adherence to
      the study protocol, and check that data are complete, consistent and correct. The monitor
      should have access to all data sources that can be used to verify the questionnaire
      information. In addition, in accordance with the regulations governing the monitoring of
      clinical trials, it is necessary for the investigator to grant the monitor access to the
      proportion of all pseudonymised patient files directly associated with the trial.

      Study results as well as a detailed study protocol will be published in national and
      international peer-reviewed scientific journals. A publication agreement for the
      participating institutions will be achieved within a consortium agreement.

      All data, personal identification data and scientific data, will be stored in the UKE's Dept.
      of Health Economics and Healthcare Research and Dept. of Medical Psychology for 10 years.
      Consent declarations will be stored in the study center's paper archive until a legally
      compliant scan is implemented. At all other locations, data will only be stored temporarily
      for immediate data processing as proposed within the study framework.
    
  