
    
      The subjects were enrolled in a double blind randomized way, according to a 2: 1 ratio, to
      intramuscular treatment with mesoglycan or placebo. Patients performed the study of the Flow
      Mediated Dilation (FMD) according to the following scheme:

        -  FMD baseline

        -  FMD 2 hours after the administration of 2 vials of mesoglycan or placebo intramuscularly

        -  FMD 6 hours after intramuscular administration.

      Nextly, both patients treated with mesoglycan vials and placebo vials continued therapy for
      assuming mesoglycan or placebo, per os, bis in die, for 90 days. At the end of this period of
      oral therapy (mesoglycan or placebo in a 2: 1 ratio), all patients performed FMD again. The
      patients who were taking any specific therapy (eg antihypertensive drugs) the Placebo was
      administered in addition to their standard therapy.

      The vascular reactivity evaluation adopted was the Flow Mediated Dilatation (FMD). After a
      period of fasting and rest for at least 6 hours, the study of FMD was performed using a
      high-resolution ultrasound system, equipped with a 7.5 Megahertz linear probe under ECG
      monitoring. After a rest period of at least 10 minutes on a bed in supine decubitus in an
      air-conditioned room, the sensor was placed on humeral artery, 3-5 cm above the elbow, and
      held the same position during the examination through an arm mechanically connected. They
      were performing a number of longitudinal sections and measured the internal diameter of the
      vessel, defined as the distance between the top edge of the echo produced by the interface
      between the lumen and the anterior wall of the vessel and the top edge of the echo produced
      by the interface between the lumen and the rear wall of the vessel. The inner diameter of the
      vessel was measured several times, on the R wave of the ECG, and a pc "software" calculated
      the average value. The flow rate was measured with the sample volume placed in the center of
      the vase with a 60 ° angle between the ultrasound beam and the longitudinal axis of the
      vessel. The post-ischemic vasodilation was induced using a sphygmomanometer placed on the
      forearm, distal to the elbow crease, kept inflated to 250 mmHg for 5 minutes. The flow rate,
      always with a correction angle of 60 °, was recorded immediately after the desufflation; the
      diameter of the brachial artery, it was measured several times after desufflation (for 60-90
      seconds). Nextly, the FMD was calculated as the percentage difference between the maximum
      diameter of the post-ischemic reached and the mean diameter of the base of the vessel.
    
  