
    
      Although we demonstrated the overall benefit of fetoscopic laser surgery as first-line
      treatment in twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS), indications in early stage TTTS are
      controversial. Indeed, a conservative management with close follow-up is offered in some
      centers as first-line management for QUINTERO stage 1 TTTS, although this strategy has not
      been formally compared to first-line fetoscopic placental surgery. The objective of this
      trial is to compare both strategies for patients with stage 1 TTTS and favorable obstetrical
      parameters in an international randomized controlled trial. Patients randomized to a
      conservative management will be followed on a weekly basis as long as the syndrome remains
      stable using obstetrical and fetal parameters and until an adequate gestational age is
      reached allowing delivery. Cases progressing to stage ≥ 2 or with a worsening of obstetrical
      parameters during follow-up in this group will be actively treated by percutaneous laser
      coagulation. Patients allocated to the "immediate laser" group will be treated by fetoscopic
      laser surgery within 24 h following randomization. The primary end-point encompasses survival
      and neurological morbidity at the age of 6 months for each foetus randomized. Analyses and
      power computations use a cluster-trial methodology that accounts for the inter-twin
      correlation, with many benefits over more traditional designs using a per-pregnancy outcome.
      With proportions of 60% and 75% meaning a clinically relevant difference of 15% between the
      groups, 200 fetuses or equivalently 100 pregnancies would be needed in each arm to reach a
      power of 80% with an alpha-risk of 5%, allowing 2 interim analyses based upon LAN-DEMETS
      boundaries and an O'Brien-Fleming function. Inclusion criteria, interventions and
      randomisation were investigated through a preliminary survey across potential participating
      centers. Based on this survey, it is anticipated that 3 years will be needed to achieve the
      requested number of patients. This trial will answer an important question and will help in
      the management and tailoring of surgical indications in stage 1 TTTS.
    
  