
    
      Over 30% of adolescents are overweight and 20% are obese, but the mechanisms that produce
      excessive weight gain in youth remain incompletely elucidated. Some overweight youth appear
      to have an attention bias (AB: a tendency to attend selectively to stimuli that have acquired
      salience or meaning) toward highly palatable food that may lead to overeating. AB involves
      distinct cognitive processes, (1) unconscious reactions (UCR), reflecting initial attention
      capture evoked by salient stimuli, and (2) continued attention deployment (AD) to stimuli
      relevant to current goals. These rapidly evolving processes are associated with unique
      neurocircuitry best measured using high spatial resolution and temporal sensitivity.
      Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is a novel neuroimaging technology that has both excellent
      temporal and good spatial resolution, thus is uniquely and ideally suited to study
      neurocognitive mechanisms of AB. Reducing AB to palatable foods may help some overweight
      youth curb their consumption of energy-dense options. Attention retraining (AR) programs can
      be used to reduce AB and have been effective in reducing AB to unhealthy food in adults.
      Although most AR studies involve computers in the laboratory, using smartphones in the
      natural environment may be a particularly effective method to deliver AR to adolescents and
      measure AB using ecological momentary assessment. The first aim of the proposed study is to
      examine the impact

      the a 2-week smartphone AR program on AB in overweight adolescent (12-17 y/o) girls with and
      without loss of control (LOC) eating, defined as a subjective experience of a lack of control
      over what or how much one is eating. LOC is a distinct eating behavior phenotype in youth
      that is a risk factor for excess weight gain and disordered eating, and is much more
      prevalent among girls (vs. boys). Overweight youth who report LOC may be particularly
      susceptible to AB. Additionally, adults with LOC demonstrate AB toward socially threatening
      cues, such as angry or disapproving faces, and the AB to social threat may be relevant to the
      relationship between AB to food and overweight. The second aim is to examine, using MEG, the
      effect of a 2-week smartphone AR program on neural responses to food cues. The third aim is
      to examine the effect of the AR program on food intake and body composition. An exploratory
      aim is to

      examine whether AB to socially threatening cues, moderates the effects of this novel
      intervention on AB to food cues, food intake, and body composition. The proposed study is
      innovative because no study to date has examined the impact of AR delivered in the natural

      environment on AB and its associated neurocircuitry using MEG in a group of youth prone to
      AB. These studies may help further characterize phenomenology of distinct obesity subtypes
      and may potentially identify an approach that could prevent undue weight gain in adolescent
      girls at risk for obesity.
    
  