
    
      Nociceptin/orphanin FQ peptide (NOP) receptor is a new class of opioid receptor cloned in
      1994 before identifying the endogenous ligand. Within a year, endogenous ligand was
      identified and soon many ligands were developed and evaluated in vitro and in vivo for NOP
      receptor distribution and activity. NOP receptor is widely distributed in brain, spinal cord
      and in peripheral organs such as heart, lungs, kidney, intestine and liver. Being a G-protein
      coupled receptor, its activation leads to changes in intracellular signal transduction
      mediated by adenylyl cyclase, Ca(2+) and K(+) ion channels, mitogen-activated kinase and
      phospholipase C. Based on preclinical studies, NOP receptor is implicated in regulation of
      pain, anxiety and depression, drug abuse, feeding, learning/memory, and motor activity.

      Since the time of cloning the receptor and identification of endogenous ligand, numerous
      compounds have been designed targeting this receptor. However, there are no PET radioligands
      currently available to study NOP distribution and activity in humans. We wish to test a newly
      developed PET radioligand, [(11)C]NOP-1A to study the role of NOP receptors in humans.

      The purpose of this protocol is (1) to perform brain imaging using [(11)C]NOP-1A in healthy
      volunteers to characterize the brain uptake and distribution (2) to perform whole body PET
      studies in healthy volunteers in order to estimate radiation absorbed doses for
      [(11)C]NOP-1A, (3) to perform brain test-retest studies in healthy volunteers in order to
      further examine the precision of the measurement of receptor binding and to determine optimal
      parameters for future experiments using [(11)C]NOP-1A, and, (4) to compare [(11)C]NOP-1A
      concentrations in artery and vein of healthy volunteers to assess the feasibility of
      replacing the arterial line with a less invasive venous line for brain scans.

      Successful development of a PET radioligand to image NOP receptor will have a strong impact
      on further understanding and clinical management of neuropsychiatric disorders that are
      mediated by opioid receptor system. Future experiments will include studies on any relevant
      neuropsychiatric disorder.
    
  