
    
      The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a parenting enhancement
      training (PET) for parents with children diagnosed with Attention Deficit-/Hyperactivity
      Disorder (ADHD) already medicated with methylphenidate (MPH). This particular PET was
      developed at the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy at the
      University of Cologne and has already been evaluated in several studies. MPH treatment has
      been proven to be efficacious in the reduction of ADHD symptoms. However, despite optimal
      titration a substantial percentage of children still suffer from residual symptoms and
      impairment in psychosocial functioning. Therefore, there is still room for improvement in
      satisfaction with medication. Moreover, a substantial rate of patients with good treatment
      effects fails to comply with medication during the course of treatment. This parenting
      enhancement training (PET) mainly conducted via written materials and telephone support will
      be introduced in patients already treated with MPH. Effects are expected on symptoms of ADHD
      as well as on comorbid oppositional symptoms. Further outcome parameters are satisfaction
      with medication and medication compliance of MPH treatment, psychosocial functioning as well
      as parenting skills. Parenting skills are a main focus of the PET and ADHD symptoms shall be
      improved through improving parenting skills. Besides focusing on symptoms, recent research
      often focuses on improvement of quality of life and impairment in psychosocial functioning
      (e. g. family, school, leisure time) as well. Not only suffer patients from the main
      symptoms. Many patients suffer as well from the symptoms' consequences, which is often an
      overall impairment. Satisfaction with medication and medication compliance are fundamental
      conditions for the success of a long term medical therapy. However, many studies show a lack
      of compliance.
    
  