
    
      Recent literature has unequivocally demonstrated that postoperative pain remains
      under-treated in hospitals. While breast surgery remains one of the most common surgeries
      performed in hospitals today, it has been shown that 40% of women still experience meaningful
      pain postoperatively. It is well known that poor pain control is not only associated with
      slower recovery, longer admission in hospital and poor patient satisfaction but it also can
      lead to the development of chronic post surgical pain.

      In recent years, regional nerve blocks have emerged as a promising adjunct to standard
      postoperative analgesic ladder protocols. The main advantage of regional anesthesia is the
      reduction of postoperative pain while limiting the amount of oral and intravenous narcotic
      use. The reduction of postoperative narcotic use is advantageous for the patient and
      caregiver alike as it reduces common side effects associated with such medications, such as
      drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, upset stomach and dizziness.

      Regional anesthesia in breast reconstruction surgery commonly include thoracic epidurals,
      intercostal nerve blocks and paravertebal nerve blocks. To date, there remains no standard of
      care for perioperative pain management and it is usually left to the discretion of the
      surgeon and anesthesiologist involved to decide which pain blockade is preferable on a case
      by case basis. While paravertebral and intercostal nerve blocks have shown promising results,
      they do not provide a complete sensory block to the anterior chest wall, as innervation is
      supplied not only from the thoracic spinal nerves but also via medial and lateral pectoral
      nerves off the brachial plexus.

      The pectoral nerve block is a novel interfascial block placed into the plane between
      pectoralis major and minor muscles and is particularly useful in reconstructive breast
      surgery involving subpectoral prosthesis. It has been associated with minimal analgesia
      postoperatively and is thought to be particularly useful in the daycare setting.

      To the best of the knowledge of the investigators, the utility of the pectoral nerve block in
      pedicled Latissimus Dorsi breast reconstruction has not been investigated. A mixed PEC I/
      Serratus Plane Block provides analgesia to the lateral and medial pectoral nerves, lateral
      and anterior branches of the T2-T4 spinal nerves, long thoracic nerve and thoracodorsal
      nerve, theoretically offering a more comprehensive block than the midaxillary intercostal
      block and with no additional morbidity to the patient. Furthermore, the intercostal nerve
      block is a blind technique that may be associated with higher failure rates compared to the
      more precise, ultrasound guided, PECI/SPB block.

      In this study, the investigators plan to systematically investigate these two blocks in
      latissimus dorsi flap reconstruction in order to document optimal postoperative pain
      management.
    
  