
    
      Latinos represent the largest minority group in the United States with a population of 35
      million or 12.5%. National surveys indicate that the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is 1.9
      times higher in Latinos than non-whites, and that approximately 24% percent of Latinos over
      the age of 45 years have diabetes. In Georgia, Latinos make up approximately 6.5% of the
      population. During 1990 and 2000, the prevalence of diabetes in Fulton and Dekalb counties,
      two of the most populated areas in Georgia and the Atlanta metropolitan area increased by
      30%. Language and cultural barriers represent the two most important obstacles in educating
      and improving the care of Latino patients with diabetes. Less than 5% of physicians, 2% of
      nurses, and 2.5% of dentists in the US speak Spanish.

      The Emory Latino Diabetes education program has been in existence since December 2005. This
      program aims to deliver diabetes education in Spanish to the underserved Latino community in
      Metro Atlanta. Program participants attend an initial 3 hour diabetes education class in
      Spanish. The class curriculum follows the American Association of Diabetes Educators (AADE)
      seven self-care behaviors: healthy eating, being active, monitoring, medication use,
      problem-solving and healthy coping. Participants are invited to return to a follow-up session
      within 6 months. Follow-up sessions are held in the late afternoon. These sessions are
      discussion-based and include an activity such as salsa lessons and cooking demonstrations.
      Diabetes education classes and follow-up sessions are offered at Grady Memorial Hospital
      (Diabetes Clinic, International Medical Center), Grady North Dekalb Clinic (Chamblee), and
      North Fulton Regional Hospital.

      Participants complete a questionnaire assessing behaviors and social and demographic
      characteristics of the Latino community being served. Hemoglobin A1C, blood pressure, weight,
      body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference will be measured at the beginning of each
      class. This study will analyze and publish data collected from individuals who are attending
      the educational sessions. Additionally, the researchers will collect retrospective data from
      past participants in the program.
    
  