
    
      Context:

      Cigarette smoking remains a leading preventable cause of death in the United States (U.S.)
      with substantial morbidity, mortality, and financial costs each year. More than 90% of adult
      smokers initiate tobacco use before age 18, making prevention and treatment of adolescent
      tobacco use a critical health priority. Further, e-cigarettes are now the most common tobacco
      product used by teenagers, and adolescent use of e-cigarettes is strongly associated with
      transition to cigarette use. Behavioral economic interventions utilizing financial incentives
      can promote smoking cessation in adult populations. No studies have evaluated financial
      incentives among adolescents to promote engagement in effective tobacco cessation programs
      through primary care settings.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To compare, through a pilot, randomized controlled trial, an intervention
      incentivizing contact with the Quitline, an intervention incentivizing quitting, or no
      financial incentive intervention on adolescent enrollment and depth of engagement in a
      tobacco cessation program (Free Smoker Quitline).

      Secondary Objective: To compare cotinine-confirmed 2-month quit rates across the 3 groups,
      among users who report abstinence.

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized controlled trial of a Quitline incentive versus tobacco cessation
      incentive versus no financial incentive on adolescent engagement with a tobacco cessation
      program.

      Setting/Participants:

      Setting: Primary care sites within the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP's) Pediatric
      Research Consortium along with other non-clinical community settings.

      60 adolescent tobacco users will be recruited. Eligibility criteria include adolescents (aged
      14-21 years), who speak English, screen positive for tobacco use during their routine well
      child or acute visit, are interested in quitting, and have a smart phone.

      Study Interventions and Measures:

      Adolescents will be randomized to 1 of 3 financial incentive groups: (1) Quitline Incentive:
      the payment structure emphasizes engaging with the Quitline, with an additional smaller
      payment for tobacco cessation; (2) Tobacco Cessation Incentive: the payment structure
      emphasizes quitting regardless of engagement with the quitline (though the quitline will be
      presented as a helpful tool); and (3) no financial incentive. The Quitline is funded by the
      Pennsylvania Department of Health and staffed by trained cessation counselors available 24
      hours a day, 7 days a week.

      Outcomes Measures: Objective 1: The main outcome of interest is adolescent completion of the
      tobacco cessation program, defined as the proportion of tobacco users identified in the
      clinic that enroll, use, and complete the Quitline program compared across the 3 groups.
      Objective 2: The secondary outcome is to confirm abstinence, via salivary cotinine
      concentration of <30 ng per milliliter at 10 weeks after the start of the study.
    
  