
    
      Patients participating in the NWE-Chance study will be transferred to their home supported by
      the integrated home hospitalisation platform and a daily visit by a specialised nurse. The
      home hospitalisation platform allows monitoring vital signs of patients by using the Sensium
      patch and a connected weighing scale and blood pressure meter of HC@home. Blood parameters
      like creatinine and potassium will be measured (daily) by using the Medimate lab-on-chip
      technology (more information below). Patients will get a smartphone to receive reminders for
      measurements of blood pressure and weight and will be able to see the evolution of their
      blood pressure and weight values. The patient application also contains educational
      information for the patient on home hospitalisation and on how to take the measurements
      correctly.

      Patients are treated by a team of specialised nurses under supervision of a cardiologist. The
      nurses visit patients at least once a day and are equipped with laboratory equipment and IV
      medication administering equipment. These devices and equipment are currently used in
      standard HF care and are not part of the newly developed home hospitalisation platform.
      Patients receive treatment similar to in-hospital treatment, according to the cardiologist's
      best knowledge and insight.

      In the case of Jessa Hospital, if there would be a need for IV medication during the
      home-hospitalisation period, this will lead to rehospitalisation of the patient and the
      ending of the intervention. In Isala, the nurses have a 24/7 duty service and can be called
      by patients or their relatives on their own initiative. In Jessa hospital and MUMC+, the
      nursing team can be contacted between 9 AM and 17 PM. During other hours, the patients can
      contact the cardiologist on call.

      In case of treatment failure or severe deterioration, patients will be transported to the
      hospital. In case of emergency, ambulances will transport patients to the hospital
      (conversion to regular hospitalisation). If in follow-up, condition worsens, the patient can
      be readmitted at home again. In theory, patients may undergo repeated hospitalisations at
      home.

      The home-hospitalisation period will last at least 5 days and can be extended, till a maximum
      of 13 days, after consultation of a cardiologist. Patient will be asked to fill in
      questionnaires to assess feasibility at the end of the home-hospitalisation period (last
      visit of nurse). At the last visit of the nurse, she will take all the devices with her.
    
  