
    
      Following recruitment, patients will have two devices placed on their skin, one on a limb
      (e.g. forearm), and one on their chest. They will be fixed to the skin using medical adhesive
      tape. The devices will be left on for around 1 hour on the "well patients" who are on a
      general paediatric ward. At the end of this time a member of the research team will remove
      the devices.

      For patients going to the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) the devices will be used to
      gather the CRT data before admission (where possible), during and following discharge from
      the PICU. The PICU participants will have the device left on during their stay, with the
      agreement of the clinical team caring for the patient, with the device being resited every
      4-6 hours as is normal practice for medical devices attached to the skin. Data will be
      collected in this way during the PICU stay (which is typically 2-3 days) or until the patient
      is transferred to the general ward. Before they go home, these participants will be monitored
      again for up to an hour with the CRT devices to obtain data when they are well.

      Collecting data in this way should allow us to show that our CRT device can detect a 30%
      difference in perfusion between the well and the unwell patient. By comparing well patient to
      unwell patient, and by comparing unwell patient, with themselves when well. For each
      participant we will collect routine demographic details, medical history details, Fitzpatrick
      skin colour assessment (that is their skin tone according to a recognised scale), height,
      weight and vital signs. Where taken, we will collect clinically relevant data in relation to
      the treatment received and results of clinical investigations for correlation with our device
      data. Patients on the PICU will have noninvasive measures of perfusion performed by the
      clinical team. The research team will also perform these at agreed times suitable to the care
      of the patient. This will include capillary refill and ultrasound assessment of blood flow
      (cardiac output).

      We will also conduct a semistructured interview with the patient and/or their parents/carer
      at the time of the study to gain feedback on the device. This should take about 15 minutes
      and will take the form of a semistructured interview. We will also seek user (i.e. healthcare
      professionals) feedback on the device and the accompanying GUI using a semistructured
      interview (approximately 15 minutes).
    
  