
    
      INTRODUCTION

        1. Objectives

           The principal aim of the EICS is to improve the management of PJI and develop consensus
           guidelines across Europe. By systematic analysis of consecutively included patients with
           PJI, factors associated with best outcome regarding infection (assessed by the
           infection-free interval) and joint function (assessed by the degree of pain, mobility,
           range of motion) will be determined in a longitudinal prospective study with long-term
           follow-up.

           In the EICS evaluable patient groups will be generated enabling the comparison between
           different surgical and antimicrobial treatment concepts. This study aim will be achieved
           by:

           - Recruitment of patients with PJI of joint prostheses (e.g. hip, knee, shoulder and
           ankle joints) in participating study centers.

             -  Systematic collection of clinical, radiological, pharmacological, laboratory,
                microbiological, treatment and outcome data using a standardized electronic CRF
                (eCRF)

             -  Ensuring long-term follow-up of patient with evaluation regarding infection,
                functional result and health care costs.

        2. Background

           Orthopedic devices are increasingly used for treatment of the degenerative joint disease
           and for fixation of bone fractures in the growing population of the elderly. In the
           United States, about 800,000 primary hip and knee arthroplasties were performed in 2006;
           by the year 2030, the demand for primary total hip arthroplasties is estimated to
           increase to 572,000 and for primary total knee arthroplasties to 3.48 million
           procedures. Similar increase of primary and revision arthroplasty surgeries are observed
           in Europe.

           Due to high cost of implantable devices and considerably morbidity associated with
           surgical procedure, a non-invasive approach is the preferred treatment modality, if
           possible (i.e. retention of the implant with antibiotic therapy active against
           biofilms).

        3. Purpose of the study

      The EICS is a multicenter European research project, including patients with prosthetic joint
      infections (PJI) in a cohort representative for Europe. The European Implant Cohort Study is
      established jointly by the Orthopedic and Traumatology surgeons, Infectious Diseases
      specialists and microbiologists of selected university and non-university institutions across
      Europe.

      RESEARCH PLAN

        1. Study design

           This is an investigator-initiated, open, prospective, multicenter observational study.
           Participating study centers will be university or non-university hospitals across
           Europe, which fulfill the following study conditions:

             -  Close collaboration between infectious diseases specialists, microbiologists and
                orthopedic/trauma surgeons,

             -  Availability of appropriate microbiological methods (following standard
                recommendations including sonication of removed prosthesis),

             -  Availability a dedicated study team (study nurse and/or research fellow) for
                regular eligibility screenings, patient inclusion procedure, real-time data
                collection and patient follow-up.

        2. Material and Methods

             1. Patient recruitment, ethics and study procedure All patients with a suspected PJI
                will be screened for eligibility by the responsible research fellow in each
                participating study center. Potential study participants will be identified during
                the outpatient visit (before hospitalization) or after admission. The data will be
                collected using an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) in real-time (within 5 days
                of patient inclusion). The approval of the Institutional Review Board (IRB) will be
                obtained before start of the study. Patients will give informed consent before
                study inclusion. The study protocol will be submitted for evaluation to the
                European Medicines Agency (EMA). For all local study coordinators a training
                workshop will be organized before start of recruitment. In addition, a hotline is
                available for questions regarding the inclusion/exclusion procedure, data
                collection, treatment algorithm or adverse event reporting.

             2. Data collection The following data will be collected at study inclusion, during
                hospitalization and during follow-up visits (3, 6, 12 months and thereafter as the
                usual clinical practice): demographic data, date of primary implantation, type of
                implant, previous joint surgeries, presence of potential risk factors for PJI,
                clinical characteristics, microbiological, laboratory and radiological data. At
                each follow-up visit, functional outcome, adherence to antimicrobial treatment
                protocol, potential drug-drug interactions and possible side effects of
                antimicrobials will be recorded. Patients who will not appear at their scheduled
                visits will be actively contacted by phone (or their treating practitioners).

             3. Outcome evaluation

                The following outcome endpoints will be evaluated:

                • Primary outcome: Infection outcome. This will be determined as the infection-free
                interval after end of treatment. Infection-free status is defined as absence of
                clinical (e.g. no fistula), laboratory (e.g. normal C-reactive protein) and
                radiological signs of infection (e.g. no septic loosening). The expected "cure
                rate", defined as the infection-free interval at 2 years, is > 80%. The treatment
                outcome of the combined (antimicrobial and surgical) treatment approach will be
                assessed in a time-dependent manner using the Kaplan-Meier survival method.

                  -  Secondary outcome: Functional outcome and pharmacokinetic studies. The
                     functional assessment will be performed using joint-specific scores involving
                     the range of motion (ROM), patient mobility / independency in daily life and
                     subjective evaluation of pain using a pain scale (1-10 points). The expected
                     functional outcome is that >60% patients return to previous life activities, >
                     75% reduction of pain.

                Definitions of variables

                • If clinical, laboratory or radiographic signs are suggesting infection,
                preoperative (e.g. arthrocentesis) and/or intraoperative procedures (e.g.
                arthroscopy or arthrotomy) will be performed to proactively confirm or exclude an
                infection. In case of uncertainty, diagnostic procedure will be repeated in several
                days to weeks (depending on the severity of symptoms).

                • PJI is defined if at least one of the following criteria are present: (i)
                presence of sinus tract (fistula), (ii) increased leukocyte count or neutrophils
                percentage in preoperative synovial fluid aspirate, (iii) acute inflammation in
                histopathology of periprosthetic tissue, (iv) visible pus around the prosthesis,
                (v) growth in synovial fluid, sonication or periprosthetic tissue.

                  -  Further classification is performed according to the route of infection
                     (intraoperative or hematogenous) and clinical presentation (acute versus
                     chronic = low-grade).

                  -  Device outcome is evaluated regarding infection (i.e. primary outcome = new
                     infection with a different pathogen versus persistent infection with same
                     organism) or functionality (i.e. secondary outcome = concerning non-infectious
                     characteristics, such as aseptic device failure, periprosthetic or implant
                     fracture, pain, mobility).

                  -  The number of variables, which will be evaluated with regard to treatment
                     outcome are reduce to the following 3 parameters: (i) type of joint
                     prosthesis, (ii) type of surgical procedure, (iii) type of antimicrobial
                     treatment. If the patient is not treated according to the predetermined
                     treatment protocol (i.e. study protocol deviation), these patients will be
                     evaluated separately.

                     d. Microbiology diagnostic Microbiology analyses will be performed at the
                     local microbiology laboratories of each participating study center. The
                     antimicrobial susceptibility of isolated microorganisms will be tested by as
                     routine practice. Synovial fluid will be aspirated preoperatively (when
                     appropriate) and multiple (at least 3 specimens) periprosthetic tissue samples
                     will be collected during initial surgery. All isolated strains will be
                     re-identified and their antimicrobial susceptibility will be re-tested at the
                     central microbiology laboratory. In addition, the explanted prosthesis (or
                     part of it) will be investigated by sonication to increase the diagnostic
                     yield of biofilms by detachment of adherent microorganism.

                     e. Pharmacokinetic studies In selected study centers (optional), population
                     pharmacokinetic profile of the administered antimicrobials (e.g. daptomycin,
                     rifampicin, vancomycin) in plasma and in drainage fluid will be determined, to
                     quantify inter- and intra-patient variability and to identify sources of
                     variability in drug concentrations.

                     f. Safety Adverse events and Serious Adverse events (SAE)

                  -  An adverse event is the appearance or worsening of any undesirable sign,
                     symptom, or medical condition occurring after starting study medication even
                     if the event is not considered to be related to study medication. Medical
                     conditions/diseases present before starting study medication are only
                     considered adverse events if they worsen after starting the study medication.
                     Abnormal laboratory values or test results constitute adverse events only if
                     they induce clinical signs or symptoms, are considered clinically significant,
                     or require therapy.

                  -  An SAE is defined as an event which:

                       -  Is fatal or life-threatening

                       -  Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity

                       -  Constitutes a congenital anomaly/birth defect

                       -  Requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing
                          hospitalization, unless hospitalization is for: routine treatment or
                          monitoring of the studied indication, not associated with any
                          deterioration in condition ; elective or pre-planned treatment for a
                          pre-existing condition that is unrelated to the indication under study
                          and has not worsened since the start of daptomycin ; treatment on an
                          emergency outpatient basis for an event not fulfilling any of the
                          definitions of a SAE given above and not resulting in hospital admission
                          ; social reasons and respite care in the absence of any deterioration in
                          the patient's general condition

                          g. Data analysis Depending on the type of data, the results are expressed
                          as mean ± SD or number of subjects (percentage). For each method, the
                          factors that influence the functional status of participants will be
                          identified first by a bivariate survival analysis (Kaplan-Meyer). This
                          first analysis will identify a number of potential risk factors, which
                          will be later confirmed by a multivariate survival analysis (Cox
                          regression model). The results are expressed as relative risk and 95%
                          confidence interval. The success rate at two years of each method is then
                          compared with literature values by a chi-square test.
    
  