
    
      The optimal goal of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) for breast cancer is to achieve pathologic
      complete response (pCR) with the least toxicity. As more effective therapies become
      available, one challenge is how to evaluate the response of tumor in a timely manner, so an
      optimal regimen can be given to the patient. Reliable imaging methods that can monitor and
      predict NAC response are needed. MRI is known as the most accurate imaging modality to
      evaluate the response to NAC based on tumor shrinkage, but so far there is no reliable
      parameter that can be measured at early times after the administration of drugs to predict
      the final treatment outcome. Furthermore, some patients may have contradiction to receive
      MRI, or cannot tolerate the long scan time in a prone position. Other imaging modalities that
      can measure early functional (particularly metabolic) changes are being investigated, and
      have shown some success. In this study investigators will assess the role of an MR-compatible
      scinti-mammography (MRI-SMM) system for monitoring and predicting NAC response. A total of 75
      breast cancer patients receiving NAC will be enrolled, and each subject will receive 3
      imaging studies before, during, and after completing NAC. The aims are: 1) to compare the
      tumor size measured by SMM and MRI at different times; 2) to evaluate the respective
      diagnostic accuracy of the post-NAC residual disease measured by SMM and MRI by comparing to
      pathological examination results as the gold standard; 3) to investigate the respective and
      combined ability of MRI and SMM, based on pre-treatment and early changes in the first
      follow-up imaging, for predicting pathologic complete response (pCR). The diagnostic results
      obtained using MRI and SMM from tumors of varying stages at different times during NAC will
      provide important information for establishing the role of a standalone SMM system, as well
      as the combined MRI-SMM system, for management of breast cancer patients.
    
  