
    
      Diabetes mellitus is increasingly recognized among patients living with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. At present, there are no unique guidelines for the
      management of diabetes in patients with HIV. Diabetes in this population is managed in
      accordance with national guidelines for the management of diabetes in any patient. However,
      there have been small studies suggesting that hemoglobin A1C (HbA1C) may not be indicative of
      true glycemic control in HIV positive patients. There are currently no published prospective
      studies examining the ability of HbA1C to reflect glycemic control in HIV positive patients
      with diabetes. Since the incidence of HIV positive patients with lipodystrophy, glucose
      intolerance, and diabetes is steadily increasing with the widespread use of highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the question of how best to monitor hyperglycemia in these
      patients is an important one.

      This study, a prospective cross-sectional study of 100 patients, seeks to collect preliminary
      data to determine if HbA1C is appropriately reflecting plasma glucose in HIV positive
      patients. Patients with HIV and diabetes or hyperglycemia will have a fasting and a random
      plasma glucose and HbA1C collected as in normal diabetes patient care. They will also have
      two validated alternate markers of glycemic control drawn, fructosamine and Glycomark [R], to
      determine how well these markers may reflect actual glycemia. Fructosamine represents a
      measure of protein glycosylation whereas Glycomark [R] is a monosaccharide in plasma
      competitively inhibited in the renal tubules by glucose that reflects day-to-day
      hyperglycemia. In addition, hemolysis will be assessed to investigate this as one potential
      mechanism for why HbA1C may be a less accurate representation of glycemia in these patients.
      The determination of the value of HbA1C as a marker of glycemia in HIV positive patients with
      diabetes will assist with the monitoring and the management of this unique population with
      diabetes. The measurement of other glycemic markers may provide evidence towards potential
      superior markers of glycemia in these patients, and the study will provide insight into the
      possible mechanism of the HbA1C discrepancy.
    
  