
    
      Background

      Cystectomy with pelvic lymph node dissection and urinary diversion is major abdominal
      surgery, which is associated with a high incidence of postoperative complications.
      Gastrointestinal complications are frequent and perioperative techniques aiming at an early
      return of bowel function are to be pursued.The rationale for this patients population (i.e.
      cystectomy patient with ileal urinary derivation) is that they are at high risk for
      postoperative complications (around 50%) and specially gastrointestinal (8-20%). There is a
      need for improvement in the postoperative setting aiming to reduce complications and costs.

      Optimal postoperative pain management is one of the key factors leading to enhanced recovery
      after surgery. The perioperative use of thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) for major abdominal
      surgery is established, not only because of its excellent analgesic properties, but also
      because TEA reduces the postoperative stress response, accelerates the return of bowel
      function, and lowers postoperative morbidity and mortality. However, TEA is associated with
      additional costs, need for close monitoring and nursing. Once successfully established, TEA
      requires constant attention from skilled nurses and anaesthetists often from an acute pain
      service to achieve and maintain optimal analgesia. Attention must also be directed to
      limiting or avoiding side-effects such as hypotension or motor block, which will reduce the
      benefits of the technique by preventing the patient from mobilizing effectively after
      operation.In addition each supplemental day with an indwelling TEA catheter increases the
      risk of infection, which is associated with a high morbidity. The mean length of stay of the
      TEA catheter in cystectomy patients at the investigators' institution is 6 days. If the risk
      of epidural infection is low (estimated 1:2000 in Switzerland, this risk increases the longer
      the epidural catheter is left in place. It is recommended to re-assess the risk/benefit ratio
      of TEA after 4 days, if not sooner. Therefore, it is important to develop strategies that
      reduce the duration of TEA without impairing the benefits. Enhanced recovery after surgery
      protocols, which have been established for colorectal surgery in the last 10 years, recommend
      removing the TEA catheter in the morning of postoperative day (POD) 2, which does not impair
      the return of the gastrointestinal function. However, while this approach is well established
      for colorectal surgery, there is less evidence for small bowel surgery or cystectomy with
      urinary diversion.

      Systemic analgesics with prolonged-release oral formulation like oral oxycodone (Oxycontin速)
      or combined drug mixture (oral oxycodone/naloxone (Targin速)) could be a valuable alternative
      pain treatment as a second analgesic step, starting on POD 3, so that the epidural catheter
      could be removed earlier without impairing postoperative enhanced recovery including return
      of the bowel function. Both oxycodone and naloxone orally administered are a recognized and
      accepted treatment option.The selected dosages of both orally administered drugs are in
      accordance with the literature and follow the recommendation of the manufacturers. In
      addition the dosages reflect the clinical practice of the investigators' institution. These
      drugs are daily used in a clinical setting in their pain service. The implementation of a
      placebo controlled group is considered as a gold standard approach in a randomized controlled
      trial aiming to assess the benefit of a drug for a specific indication. In addition, a rescue
      pain medication is implanted in the protocol. Rescue medication for breakthrough pain will be
      additional epidural boluses of 5 ml, limited to maximum one bolus per h. In case of
      persistent pain, orally administered of 5 mg oxycodone every 4-6 hours will be allowed by the
      ward nurses.

      The investigators expect, by administering oxycodone/naloxone in the early postoperative
      period to reduce the length of TEA without impairing the return of the bowel function. This
      could reduce the risk induced by the prolonged TEA (i.e. local infection, malfunction) and
      costs (pain service). This can result in the implementation in the future of a new
      postoperative analgesia concept with the early postoperative administration of an oral pain
      killer, reducing the length of epidural analgesia without impairing the enhanced recovery.

      A total of 90 patients (30 per group) undergoing cystectomy with urinary diversion with
      perioperative thoracic epidural analgesia will be studied.

      Blinding:

      Batches and blinding will be organized by Mundipharma Medical Company (Basel, Switzerland)
      and provided by Mundipharma Research GmbH & Co. KG granting good manufacturing practice
      (GMP). As Targin tablets are oblong in shape and the Oxycontin tablets are round a double
      dummy approach is inevitable to warrant the fully blinding. It will not be able to optically
      recognize the type of drugs administered. The one will contain only placebo, the second 20mg
      of oxycodone (Oxycontin速) and the third a mixture of oxycodone (20mg) and naloxone (10mg)
      (Targin速). Drugs will be orally administered at 12 hours intervals.

      Study nurses on the Department of Urology will bring the randomized blinded drugs to the
      intermediate care unit in a sealed package, only described with only the name of the included
      patient.

      This will allow for blinding of the patient, the patient's nurses of the IMC and ward and
      urologist, and data assessor (including pain service).

      Randomisation will be done by computer generated list, with blocks of 10 patients; allocation
      will be left in concealed opaque and numbered envelopes. Patients will be included strictly
      according to the lowest number.

      Duration of the study:

      The annual case load of cystectomy is around 100 in the investigators' institution per year.
      The investigators expect to recruit the participants within 24 months. To ensure that the
      study can be conducted in the anticipated timeframe, an interim analysis of recruitment is
      scheduled 1 year after Swissmedic study approval. If the recruitment remains below
      expectations and completion of the study in a timely manner is jeopardized, this would result
      in abandoning the Oxycodone arm.

      Sequence of the study:

      Seven days (inclusion the day before surgery, finished after removal of the epidural
      catheter)

      Time course of the study:

      Admission day:

      After informed patient consent, patients will be randomized.

      End of surgery till POD 3, morning:

      The study will start after cystectomy combined with urinary diversion is successfully
      performed in combined anesthesia (general plus TEA). After closure of the abdominal wall,
      continuous epidural analgesia will be maintained with bupivacaine 1.25mg/ml using an
      ambulatory infusion pump. The initial infusion rate will be 8 ml/h, with additional bolus
      volumes of 4 ml (lockout time: 1 h). The infusion rate can be adapted if necessary based on
      assessments made every 4 h to maintain a pain intensity lower than 3 at rest and lower than 5
      during mobilization on the numeric rating scale (NRS), where 0=no pain and 10=worst pain
      imaginable. The maximum infusion rate will be 10 ml/h. This epidural treatment is in
      accordance with the investigators' internal standard and has been successfully implemented in
      the last 15 years. Data on pain intensity, amount of epidural mixture used per 24 h and use
      of rescue analgesics will be recorded daily. In addition, episodes of PONV, first flatus and
      defecation and body weight will be documented.

      POD 3 around 08:00 a.m.:

      According to the randomization, patients will receive blinded batches with 20mg oxycodone,
      20mg oxycodone plus 10mg naloxone or oral placebo every 12 h, starting with 10 mg bid
      respectively 10mg/5mg and move to 20 mg bid (20mg/10mg) the other day. Epidural mixture
      infusion will be reduced in steps of 2 ml according to the NRS score to maintain a pain
      intensity lower than 3 at rest and lower than 5 during mobilization during 6 h. The epidural
      catheter will be removed when during 6 h the rate is 2 ml/h, and the patient has a NRS < 3
      and < 5 at rest and during mobilisation, respectively. If the epidural catheter cannot be
      removed because of the subcutaneous administration of low weighted molecular heparin (LWMH)
      (always around 20:00), the infusion will be stopped (0 ml/h) and the length of stay of the
      epidural catheter registered (length of stay of the epidural catheter= insertion of the
      catheter to rate of epidural mixture =0ml/h), and the catheter will be removed according to
      the investigators' internal guideline (at least 12 h after subcutaneous administration of
      LWMH). The time the epidural infusion was stopped will be recorded as removal of the epidural
      catheter.

      Objective

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the implementation of an oral opioid with or
      without naloxone in the early postoperative period in patients undergoing cystectomy and
      urinary diversion with intraoperative and early postoperative use of TEA. The investigators
      expect an unchanged early return of the bowel function and equal analgesia with a reduced
      length of stay of the epidural catheter (primary endpoint), thus potentially reducing
      epidural catheter associated complications and lowering costs (nursing and pain service).

      Methods

      Trial design:

      Randomized, double blind, parallel groups, single center, intervention placebo controlled
      study

      Setting:

      Single center: Department of Urology, University Hospital Bern, Inselspital.

      Selection of the trial subjects:

      A total of 90 patients (30 per group) undergoing cystectomy with urinary diversion with
      perioperative thoracic epidural analgesia will be studied.

      Phase 4 For clinical trials with drugs: Clinical study phase or phase of clinical development
      (e.g. Phase 1, 2, 3 or 4; or according to ICH E8 para 3.1.3 Human Pharmacology, Therapeutic
      Exploratory, Therapeutic Confirmatory or Therapeutic Use); in case of Medical Device study
      rename and use e.g. "Phase of development".
    
  