
    
      Periorbital hyperpigmentation (POH) is a common dermatological condition, also known as
      periorbital melanosis, periocular hyperpigmentation dark circles under the eyes (DC),
      infraorbital discoloration, infraorbital darkening, or idiopathic cutaneous hyperchromia of
      the orbital region. It is a common cosmetic condition that occurs in both sexes and may be
      considered to be normal variants of pigmentation .

      Periorbital hyperpigmentation is a multi-factorial entity.The proposed possible causative
      factors include genetic or heredity, excessive pigmentation, periorbital edema, thin and
      translucent lower eyelid skin, venous congestion with hemosiderin deposition, orbital
      structural problem and shadowing due to skin laxity & tear trough. Other factors such as
      underlying systemic, metabolic, hormonal diseases, nutritional deficiencies, drugs, allergic
      reactions, atopic dermatitis, sleep disorders, stress, alcohol consumption, smoking, frequent
      cosmetic use, frequent eye rubbing and lack of correction for errors of refraction like
      myopia are also implicated to POH .

      Periorbital hyperpigmentation is classified according to Ranu et al into five categories
      based on the causative factors 1. Constitutional type: seen as typical brownish curved band
      on lower eyelid or both. 2.Postinflammatory type: irregular patches of brown or grey
      pigmentation associated with features of lichenification.3. Vascular type: erythema or
      prominent capillaries or telangiectasia. 4. Shadow effect type: tear trough and eye bags due
      to sagging skin around eyes. 5. Others: anaemia, hormonal disturbances, nutritional
      deficiencies and chronic illnesses .

      Periorbital hyperpigmentation is graded into four groups according to the severity of the
      case to be treated;

        -  Grade1: characterized by faint pigmentation of infraorbital region.

        -  Grade 2: pigmentation is more pronounced.

        -  Grade3: deep dark color, all four lids involved.

        -  Grade 4: grade 3 + pigmentation spreading beyond infraorbital fold .

      The diagnosis of POH is mainly clinically, however, a thorough history and clinical
      assessment is necessary to identify the contributing etiologic factors. The cutaneous
      examination should be evaluated to detect the involvement of eyelids, extend beyond the
      periorbital region, color of hyperpigmentation, presence of any dermatological disease or
      scar, presence of any visible bulging, skin laxity, tear trough, superficial visible
      vasculature, in infraorbital region presence of pigmentation in other areas .

      Eye lid stretch test or manual stretching of the lower eyelid skin can help to differentiate
      between true pigmentation and shadowing effect .

      Wood's lamp examination is done to differentiate between the epidermal and dermal
      pigmentation.The variations in epidermal pigmentation become more apparent under Wood's
      light. For dermal pigmentation, this contrast is less pronounced .

      Dermatoscopy: It is a non-invasive diagnostic technique for the in vivo observation of
      pigmented skin lesion allowing a better visualization of surface and subsurface structures
      and being easy and feasible to use. It can be used to differentiate the type of POH whenever
      there is doubt while examining with naked eyes. The dermatoscopic findings of POH are- a)
      Vascular type: diffuse erythema pattern or multiple thin blood vessels or diffuse vascular
      network, b) Pigmented type: a pattern of multiple dots with different sizes and colors or a
      diff use network of pigments and c) Mixed type: Combination of vascular and pigmented type .

      Treatment of POH:

      There are a number of treatment options available for POH. Among the available treatment
      options for POH include:

        1. Topical Applications: The various topical bleaching agents are hydroquinone, kojic acid,
           a triple combination, azelaic acid, arbutin, topical vitamin C. Out of these topical
           agents the most widely used is hydroquinone, used in a strength of 2% to 6% .

        2. Chemical Peelings: Chemical peelings could be used alone or in combination therapy with
           topical treatments. Glycolic acid 20% is the most commonly used peeling in the treatment
           of POH. Lactic acid 15% + TCA 3.75% combination is very effective treatment option for
           POH .

        3. Lasers: lasers have been used increasingly in cosmetic dermatology. Periorbital
           hyperpigmentation has been successfully treated with various noninvasive lasers that
           target pigment and vascularity. Various lasers that have been used for treating dark
           circles are: Q switched ruby laser (694 nm), Q switched alexanderite laser, and Nd:Yag
           laser (1064nm).

        4. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP): PRP is a generic term used to describe a plasma suspension
           obtained from whole blood, prepared so as to contain platelet concentrations higher than
           those normally found in circulating blood.

      The mechanism of action of PRP is based on the fact that platelets contain many growth
      factors in their alpha granules. These factors have a well-known role in the process of
      tissue repair. Thus, the concentration of these substances in injured tissues could be
      beneficial to providing more agility to the regeneration processes .

      PRP treatment is mainly effective for wrinkles, laxity, and secondary PIH-related dark
      circles. PRP can stimulate dermal fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis (Kim DH et
      al, 2011). Transforming growth factor-β1 and epidermal growth factor in PRP are suggested to
      inhibit melanin production via delayed extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation and
      inhibition of prostagandin-E2 expression/ tyrosinase enzyme activity, respectively (Yun WJ et
      al, 2013). In addition, PRP improves fat graft survival and can be used in combination with
      autologous fat grafts for dark circles
    
  