
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial comparing the effectiveness and safety of boceprevir and
      telaprevir.

      Recruitment of current eligible subjects will occur during their regular appointments at the
      Hepatitis C clinic. Eligible patients will have already been cleared for Hepatitis C
      treatment through their screening period which is including blood work, liver biopsy, urine
      collection/analysis, pregnancy screening and behavioral/mental health screening. On one of
      their standard visits to the Hepatitis C clinic, the health care provider(who is also
      research staff) or research staff will provide a consent form that the patient may take home
      and read more about the study.

      On the day of enrollment, which will also be the first day of treatment, health care
      providers within the Hepatitis C clinic will describe the study to the patient or refer them
      to one of the research for completion of these tasks. The consent form will be explained in
      detail at this meeting, and the patient will have the opportunity to ask questions and make
      comments about the study.

      Study subjects will initially be stratified into 6 groups (1a. treatment naives without
      cirrhosis and b. with compensated cirrhosis ; 2a. prior treatment experienced non-responders
      without cirrhosis and b. with cirrhosis; 3a. prior treatment experienced relapsers without
      cirrhosis and b. with cirrhosis). Patients in each of these groups will be randomized using
      random number table and allocation concealment will be achieved by using serially numbered,
      opaque, sealed envelopes into one of two study groups. The first group will receive
      boceprevir with Peg-IFN and ribavirin as indicated by package insert, and the second group
      will receive telaprevir with Peg-IFN and ribavirin as indicated by its package insert. All
      other stratified groups will receive protease inhibitor therapy as indicated by the FDA
      product labeling.

      Safety and effectiveness assessments will be conducted at study entry, PI therapy week 0, 2,
      4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 42 and 48, if applicable. Those are SOC visits during the
      treatment period and they will include blood tests, complete review of systems, and physical
      exams. Patients in all groups will be assessed for sustained viral response (SVR) at 12 and
      24 weeks after the last dose of the medication is administered.

      Identical to SOC, safety and effectiveness assessments will be determine by health care
      providers and the adjudication committee, the latter of which will be unaware of the
      treatment arm of the patients. Members of the adjudication committee will be independent of
      the treating clinicians, and will be responsible for adjudicating the following outcomes:

        -  Viral response

        -  Adverse effects

        -  Decision regarding treatment discontinuation, based on adverse effect or virological
           failure
    
  