
    
      Material and Methods: A two-blinded cross-over randomized clinical trial will be conducted
      with 48 patients from a Military Organization at Bento Gonçalves city, southern of Brazil.
      Male patients, aged between 18 to 25 years old, having at least 20 teeth, without previous
      history of periodontitis (CAL ≥ 3mm), and good systemic health will be included if they do
      not have orthodontic appliances or dental implants, or dental caries or restorations at
      cervical surface. Data collection will performed by two trained, calibrated and blinded
      examiners, and will comprehend a brief interview regarding oral hygiene and deleterious
      habits, full-mouth exams (6 sites/tooth) of Plaque Index (PI), Pocket Probing Depth (PPD),
      and CAL, and clinical pictures (from 1st and 2nd premolars and 1st molar area in all
      quadrants) under disclosing solution (2Tone®) to evaluate GF. After baseline data collection
      the participants will be randomized in one of the experimental groups according the
      toothbrush bristles stiffness: G1) soft; or G2) medium. No oral hygiene instruction will be
      provided to groups, and the patients will not be informed about the type of brush that will
      be provided. Re-exams will be conducted at 30, 60, 90, 100, 130, 160 and 190 days. At day 90
      the 1st phase will be finished, and the participants will have a 30-days period of wash-out.
      At day 100, the 2nd phase will start, and the participants will change the groups. At day
      190, the study will be finished. The participants will be oriented to return the toothbrushes
      used at the end of each experimental phase.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome will be the number of GF observed over the study period. Also,
      the incidence, size and duration of the GF will be compared regarding the variables: type of
      bristle, self-reported toothbrushing frequency, toothbrush deformation, and deleterious
      habits. Chi-square test and ANOVA for repeated measures, with post hoc tests, will be used to
      compare the frequencies and mean numbers of GF observed between and intra-groups. Uni- and
      multivariate regression models will be conducted to determine associations between the
      outcome and independent variables. The mean number of new fissures, GF that decreased, and GF
      that stabilized over time will be compared inter-groups as secondary analysis.
      Intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted, considering the individual the unit of
      analysis and a α-error of 0.05.
    
  