
    
      Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease, affecting primarily
      the spinal column and iliosacral joints. In addition, an increased risk for cardio-vascular
      disease and osteoporosis has been described in patients with AS. Patients with AS may suffer
      from severe impairment in physical functioning, i.e. spinal stiffness, pain and fatigue,
      which reduces their daily activities, and quality of life. As AS mainly affects young people,
      work capacity may be reduced, which, together with medical treatment costs, results in a
      considerable burden for the society.

      Current treatment guidelines for AS (ASAS/EULAR 2006) propose drug treatment, mainly
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and in severe cases inhibitors of TNF alpha. In
      addition, mobility exercise as the cornerstone of functional training is recommended in all
      patients with AS. The efficacy of mobility exercise was confirmed by the third update (2007,
      unpublished) of the Cochrane review regarding Physiotherapy in AS. However, the review also
      suggested that mobility exercises have no effect on important quality-of life related
      outcomes, such as pain, fatigue, or cardiovascular fitness.

      Reduced physical activity due to pain, fatigue and reduced cardiovascular fitness may put
      patients with AS at increased risk for immobility-induced bone loss and vitamin D deficiency
      due to limited outdoor activities. Finally, both inactivity and vitamin D deficiency may
      contribute to the elevated risk for cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis in patients with
      AS.

      Cardiovascular training may increase cardiovascular fitness, reduce pain and fatigue, and
      decrease bone loss. The intervention may also enhance vitamin D status by increasing the
      amount of physical activity performed outside. Vitamin D has been found to reduce bone loss
      and improve cardiovascular health.
    
  