
    
      PATIENT POPULATION Consecutive patients with first STEMI, candidates for PPCI (typical
      cardiac chest pain, within 12h of symptom onset, with ST segment elevation of more than 1 mm
      in at least two contiguous leads) and proximal coronary artery culprit lesion will be
      considered for randomization.

      Exclusion criteria are cardiogenic shock. previous myocardial infraction, previous PCI and
      coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), left bundle branch block, active bleeding,
      administration of thrombolytic agents for the current episode, recent stroke (during last
      month), indication for oral anticoagulant therapy, severe or untreated infections and the
      impossibility of CWP measurement.

      Verbal assent will be obtained, with the agreement of two qualified cardiologists. Full
      consent will be obtained after the procedure, in accord with the protocols followed by
      several recent studies.

      This is a triple-blind clinical study. The physicians performing the procedure, the subjects
      and the biostatistician will be blinded to the treatment administered.

      The study will take place in a high-volume university hospital center that provides 24-hours
      emergency cardiac care in a region with 1.3M inhabitants: "Niculae Stãncioiu" Heart Institute
      - Cardiology Department. The hospital is affiliated to "Iuliu Haţieganu" University of
      Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca.

      STUDY PROTOCOL Patients will receive a standard dual antiplatelet therapy regimen protocol
      with ticagrelor (180mg) and aspirin (300 mg) loading before PPCI and will be treated with
      intravenous heparin 100UI/kg during the procedure. Coronary catheterization and intervention
      will be performed using a 6-F guiding catheter via radial or femoral access.

      According to the type of the culprit lesion, three different techniques will be used:

        1. Coronary occlusion: the lesion is crossed with a pressure guidewire (Verrata Pressure
           Guide Wire, Volcano Corporation) - CWP is recorded if TIMI flow remains 0.

        2. Coronary occlusion: the lesion can not be crossed with the pressure guidewire - the
           lesion is crossed with a standard coronary guidewire, a dual-lumen microcatheter
           (NHancer Rx Dual Lumen Micro Catheter, Interventional Medical Device Solutions) is
           positioned distal to the occlusion, backflow is obtained and CWP measurement is
           performed, through the micro-catheter only if the occlusion persists. A pressure
           guidewire is introduced through the over-the-wire lumen of the micro-catheter and CWP is
           again recorded.

        3. Coronary stenosis (circulated vessel): the lesion is crossed with a pressure guidewire
           and CWP is measured during the inflation of the predilatation balloon or during stent
           balloon inflation in case of a direct stenting procedure.

      Following CWP measurement, blood samples are collected from a peripheral vein for hsCRP,
      IL-6, IL-18 and IL-1Ra determination.

      The first 50 patients will not receive study treatment. They will undergo CWP measurement
      followed by percutaneous revascularization. Cardiac MRI will be performed 3-5 days after the
      procedure. A cutoff for CWP in predicting MVO, interstitial oedema and intramyocardial
      haemorrhage will be derived.

      Based on the above mentioned cutoff, 188 patients with continuous elevation of the pressure
      line will be randomized, by a 1:1 model, either to cortisol therapy or to placebo.

      Group A (GA) will be randomized to hydrocortisone during the first 5 days, and Group B (GB)
      will be randomized to placebo. Following CWP determination, patients in GA will have an
      intravenous injection of 500 mg of hydrocortisone followed by an intravenous infusion of 500
      mg of hydrocortisone in 250 ml of 5% sugar solution over eight to ten hours. This treatment
      will be repeated daily for the next five days. This protocol was used by Barzilai et al.
      which reported a significant mortality reduction with therapy.

      PCI will be performed according to standard practice, at the discretion of the operator,
      following CWP measurement. Heparin will be given as an initial bolus of 100 U/kg during the
      procedure and if necessary, additional boluses will be administered to achieve an activated
      clotting time of 300sec.

      Appropriate secondary prevention will be performed with statins, angiotensin-converting
      enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers and dual anti platelet therapy for 1 year.

      CARDIAC MAGNETIC RESONANCE (CMR) IMAGE AQUISITION AND ANALYSIS Patients will undergo CMR
      three to five days after randomization for the evaluation of the primary endpoint (MVO,
      interstitial edema and hemorrhage) and selected secondary endpoints (infarct size, left
      ventricular ejection fraction and volumes). A standard protocol will be used on a 1.5T
      scanner.

      In brief, infarct size and MVO will be assessed by late enhancement in short-axis images
      covering the left ventricle approximately 15 min after injection of gadolinium chelate. An
      inversion-recovery turbo gradient-echo sequence will be used for image acquisition. A
      hypo-intense core within the hyper-enhanced infarcted area will be defined as MVO. For
      determination of infarct-related myocardial edema/area at risk, short-axis slices covering
      the LV using a T2-weighted triple- inversion recovery turbo spin-echo sequence before
      contrast administration will be obtained. Assessment of LV function and volumes will be
      performed in short-axis slices from base to apex acquired by a standard steady-state free
      precession technique.

      MVO and infarct size will be expressed as percentage of LV mass, given by the sum of the mass
      of MVO and late gadolinium enhancement regions for all slices divided by the overall mass of
      the LV myocardial cross-section slices. If present, myocardial salvage index will be
      calculated as area at risk minus infarct size divided by area at risk multiplied by100.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS The primary endpoint will be the extent of MVO, interstitial edema and
      hemorrhage assessed by CMR in the modified intention-to-treat population. The correlation
      between CWP, interstitial edema and surrogate parameters of inflammation from peripheral
      blood samples will be analyzed. Secondary CMR endpoints will include infarct size, myocardial
      salvage, LV volumes and ejection fraction. LV ejection fraction and volumes will be
      determined both at discharge and 6 months after the procedure. For enzymatic infarct size
      determination, high-sensitivity troponin T after 24 and 48 h will be measured. Clinical
      endpoints of all-cause and cardiovascular death, myocardial re-infarction, target vessel
      revascularization, stent thrombosis and stroke will be recorded at 6 months.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The number of patients that would be needed to detect a difference of
      21% between GA and GB for the clinical end-point, with a α of 0.05, a β of 0.20 and a 1:1
      ratio was calculated using the formula provided by Whitley and Ball. The necessary number of
      patients, under the risk of dropout of 10%, led to a number of 94 patients per arm.

      Intention-to-treat analysis will be applied in the analysis of both primary and secondary
      end-points. Statistical analyses will be performed using "Statistical" software (StatSoft
      v.8, OK, USA). Quantitative variables will be summarized as mean and standard deviation for
      normally distributed data and median and interquartile range for abnormally distributed data.
      Groups will be compared with the Student-t test for independent samples in case of normally
      distributed quantitative variables. Otherwise, the comparison will be performed with the
      Mann-Whitney test. Categorical variables will be summarized as frequencies and percentage
      with 95% associated confidence intervals. Groups will be compared with the Chi-square or
      Fischer exact test, as appropriate. Statistical analysis will be conducted at a significance
      level of 5%.
    
  