
    
      tDCS is a form of non-invasive brain stimulation and is a potentially useful tool to enhance
      cognitive function. This study uses an at-home intervention of tDCS and cognitive training
      and examines its potential usefulness at improving executive function in ALL survivors.

      Investigators will use tDCS to apply a low electrical current to the participant's scalp in
      the area of the brain associated with fluent and flexible thinking. The current may make that
      area of the brain work better for a short period of time. During this time, the participant
      will play computer games designed to train the brain to work more fluently flexibly.
      Researchers at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital want to see if pairing the electrical
      stimulation with the brain games at home is a feasible method to improve cognitive abilities
      in long-term survivors of childhood ALL.

      In the first part of this study, the short-term effect of tDCS intervention will be evaluated
      in the clinical setting using a randomized cross-over trial. The survivors will be randomized
      to receive either the tDCS intervention or Sham on day 1, with the other treatment given on
      day 2. Neurocognitive testing will be conducted within two hours of completing stimulation
      each day.

      In the second part of this study, the feasibility and potential efficacy of
      self-administration of the tDCS intervention paired with cognitive training will be evaluated
      over 5 weeks. Research participants will be taught to use the mobile tDCS device and will be
      provided one to take home. The device will be programmed by the investigators in advance to
      control the intensity and duration of the stimulation. The research participants will use the
      device twice per week as directed. Within two hours of completing each tDCS session
      participants will complete 20 minutes of cognitive training using a mobile app installed on
      an iPad. Neurocognitive testing will be conducted pre- and post- intervention.
    
  