
    
      Background: Previous studies have shown a significant association between endothelial
      dysfunction and CAD and cardiovascular risk factors. Since the endothelium is a systemic
      organ, endothelial dysfunction is a systemic vascular disorder which bring about a reduction
      in nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability accounting for distraction of the platelet function.
      Thus, we expect to find an association between platelet function and endothelial function
      assessed by the brachial artery FMD in healthy subjects and in CAD patients. Moreover, as
      platelet function, normally blocked by an effective anti-thrombotic therapy, is linked to the
      progression of atherosclerosis which, by itself is an influential process on endothelial
      function, we expect to find an association between endothelial function and the success of
      anti-thrombotic therapy.

      Aim: To determine the association between platelet function and endothelial function assessed
      by brachial artery FMD in healthy subjects and in CAD patients, and to determine the
      association between anti-thrombotic therapy and endothelial function.

      Methods: The proposed study is a prospective one, and will be held on consecutive individuals
      undergoing the non-invasive brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD) ultrasound for
      endothelial function at the endothelial function laboratory of the Sheba Medical Center. The
      study group will be divided into healthy subjects group and coronary artery disease (CAD)
      patients group, both of which will be analyzed in respect to age, cardiovascular risk factors
      and the results of the platelet and endothelial functions tests. The association between
      platelet and endothelial functions will be then assessed in the healthy subjects group and in
      the CAD patients group.

      The assessment of endothelial function is relatively simple and non-invasive method of short
      duration. Implementing this simple method to comprehend the platelet function will enable
      clinicians to better monitor and control the platelet inhibition in healthy subjects (for
      primary prevention) and in CAD patients (for secondary prevention). In addition, the FMD
      method can be useful in the evaluation of the success of the (antithrombocytic) treatment,
      the prognosis and the risk-stratification in hospitalized patients with acute coronary
      syndromes.
    
  