
    
      The treatment in this study is one of the standard treatments suggested by the NCCN
      guidelines. Bladder is preserved when neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy is performed
      after transurethral resection of bladder tumor and complete remission is achieved through the
      cystoscopy. If complete response is not achieved, additional chemotherapy is performed. In
      case that complete response is not achieved through the cystoscopy after additional
      chemotherapy, cystectomy is performed. If complete response is achieved, the bladder is
      preserved.

      Before treatment, the following are obtained; Medical history and physical examination,
      Tissue acquisition through transurethral resection of bladder tumor, Blood Test (CBC),
      Chemistry Test (SMA), staging through pelvic CT or MRI, cystoscopy, PET-CT or chest CT.

      Cisplatin based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is conducted 4 times during the radiotherapy.
      AFter radiotherapy, the gemcitabine/cisplatin or gemcitabine/carboplatin treatment is
      performed. The target delineation is performed in 3mm simulation CT for radiotherapy. To
      consider the uncertainty of breath, the 4D CT is taken. GTV includes primary lesions and
      lymph node based on diagnostic CT, MRI, and PET-CT. CTV covers the entire bladder with
      microscopic margin of GTV. PTV1 is defined as extending 1.5cm from the entire bladder. PTV2
      is defined as extending 1.5cm from GTV. Radiotherapy is performed using 3D conformal
      radiotherapy, intensity-modulated radiotherapy, volumetric modulated Arc therapy.
      Radiotherapy is administered daily, five times a week according to the NCCN guidelines. Each
      treatment is performed with bladder empty. radiotherapy is performed 20 fractions in total.
      For the first 15 fractions, 2.65Gy administered for PTV1 including the entire bladder. For
      rest 5 fractions, 3 Gy for PTV2 is administered. Totally, 55 Gy is administered.

      If complete response is not achieved, the surgery and timing of surgery are determined by the
      urologist according to the location and severity of the primary cancer. The biopsy if
      performed using cystoscopy. If the findings are complete response, no additional treatment is
      performed, and if not, radical cystectomy is performed.

      The treatment response is evaluated based on standard treatment process. During the
      treatment, the regular check up is conducted to evaluate the acute toxicity regarding
      treatment. After bladder preserving treatment, the pelvic CT, MRI and cystoscopy is used for
      evaluation.

      The acquired specimens are ;used for RNA sequencing and organoid construction. The RNA
      sequencing is used to analyze the differentially expressed based on treatment response to
      neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
    
  