
    
      Many psychiatric disorders are associated with altered sensory experiences arising from
      within the body. Examples include increased experience of sensations or urges in muscles,
      skins, joints or visceral organs in Tic/Tourette's Disorders, OCD patients with symptoms of
      "not just right experiences" or disgust sensitivity, and other disorders such as
      trichotillomania or excoriation disorder. In OCD, these sensory phenomena occur in
      approximately half of patients, are associated with earlier age of onset, and may be harder
      to treat with classic cognitive-behavioral approaches to OCD. Of interest, sensory phenomena
      in OCD are associated with Tourette's syndrome and respond to pharmacological treatments
      primarily used for tics. As such, abnormal sensory processing may be a basic mechanism that
      links various psychiatric disorders.

      The process of attending to body sensations is referred to as interoception, abnormality of
      which may be related to sensory phenomena. Research has revealed a cortical interoceptive
      circuit involving insula, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and sensorimotor cortex.
      Ondansetron (OND) is a good candidate for the modulation of the above-described interoceptive
      circuit. It is a selective 5-HT3 (serotonin) receptor antagonist that acts on both peripheral
      and central receptors. OND has long been used to treat nausea and vomiting due to
      chemotherapy, radiation therapy, anesthesia, and opioid-induced emesis. It has also been used
      alone or as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of both OCD and Tourette's disorder, showing
      some efficacy in small clinical trials. The mechanisms by which ondansetron improves symptoms
      in OCD and tic disorders are unknown, although the investigator's earlier study found that
      single doses of ondansetron reduce activation of insula and somatosensory cortex in healthy
      controls. As a follow-up to this work, the current protocol will compare the effects of 24
      mg/day of ondansetron vs. placebo for 4 weeks in patients with OCD or Tic Disorders on
      symptoms and brain functioning.
    
  