
    
      This is an observational, non interventional, prospective study. Patients with relapsed or
      refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior line of therapy and who
      receive carfilzomib with dexamethasone according to the approved dose and schedule will be
      included in this observational study. No specific treatment intervention related to the study
      is going to be performed. No specific harms or benefits are expected due to study
      investigations.

      Objectives and Purpose: The present study will assess patients with multiple myeloma
      receiving the proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib (CFZ), in order to investigate, in vivo, a
      wide spectrum of human atherosclerosis indices, from cardiovascular risk factors to
      subclinical atherosclerosis at multiple successive stages in a human model under conditions
      of global UPS inhibition, and correlate with cardiovascular complications associated with
      carfilzomib therapy, in patients receiving carfilzomib with dexamethasone.

      Primary objective: To investigate cardiovascular complications and the role of the UPS
      inhibition on atheromatosis and vascular function and inflammation, in patients with relapsed
      or refractory myeloma who are receiving carfilzomib and dexamethasone.

      Secondary objective(s): To outline the clinical significance of carfilzomib toxicity in
      hemodynamic parameters and vascular function and structure in humans

      Duration of the study: Patients will receive therapy until disease progression or as per
      physician's decision regarding the patient's best interest and according to the approved
      indications. Study accrual and collection of data will be completed in two years. The study
      can be terminated for any reason and at any time by the Sponsor.

      Population: The study will include patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who
      have received at least one prior line of therapy (2) and who according to physicians'
      decision are treated with carfilzomib dexamethasone in the approved indication, doses and
      schedule. Briefly, patients aged 18 years or older with relapsed or refractory multiple
      myeloma, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 to 2, at last one prior
      treatments, will be included.

      Carfilzomib treatment: According to the approved indications patients will be given
      carfilzomib at a dose of 20 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 of cycle 1; and thereafter at a dose of 56
      mg/m2, in a 30 min intravenous infusion, on days 1,2,8,9,15 and 16. Dexamethasone (40mg IV)
      will be administered 24-48 hours before first CFZ infusion in order to assess the individual
      vascular effects of each drug separately; subsequently dexamethasone will be given IV at a
      dose of 20 mg on days 1,2,8,9,15 and 16, and orally on days 22 and 23 of a 28-day cycle. The
      rationale for using these doses is based on the results of the ENDEAVOR study and the
      approved indications and dosing of KYPROLIS. Intravenous hydration (250-500 mL before and
      after dose administration) is going to be given during cycle 1 and at the investigator's
      discretion thereafter.

      Sample size: This is an observational study with non interventional design. Sample size
      calculation is made on the basis of previous data indicating that at least 2% absolute
      difference in Flow mediated dilatation (FMD) (corresponding to 20-30% relative difference) is
      considered significant and clinically relevant. With the null hypothesis being that CFZ/Dex
      therapy is associated with <10% relative difference in FMD and the alternative hypothesis
      being that a ≥30% difference is considered as significant, and with an a=0.05, a sample of 40
      patients is required for 90% power of detecting these differences (all tests are 2-sided). A
      dropout rate of 15% is assumed. A total number of 46 patients is thus calculated to be
      enrolled.

      Studied parameters History record: A detailed history will be obtained from every subject and
      all possible risk factors that could be associated with an increased risk of cardiac and
      vascular adverse events including thorough clinical examination along with ECG and cardiac
      echocardiography to ensure that every patient has an ejection fraction ≥40% thus being
      eligible for enrollment.

      Assessment of arterial stiffness: Arterial stiffness in the aorta by measurement of pulse
      wave velocity (PWV).

      Central blood pressures and reflected waves in the aorta: Non-invasive estimation of aortic
      pressure waveforms and reflected waves by pulse wave analysis (PWA) will be performed. The
      following indices are measured: a. augmentation index (AI, percentage) normalized for the
      heart rate of 75 bpm, expressed as a percentage of the aortic pulse pressure, b. central
      systolic and diastolic pressures (cBP), c. time to the beginning of the reflected wave (in
      milliseconds) and d. blood pressure amplification calculated as the ratio of peripheral pulse
      pressure: central pulse pressure.

      Endothelial function by ultrasound measurement of endothelium-dependent flow-mediated
      dilatation (FMD): Endothelial function will be assessed by Flow Mediated Dilatation (FMD)

      Carotid and Femoral Intima-Media Thickness (IMT): Carotid intima-media thickness (ccIMT) will
      be measured at the distal 1.0 cm of the common carotid proximal to the bifurcation. Femoral
      IMT (fIMT) will be measured on each side, scanning a 1cm-long arterial segment proximal to
      the femoral bifurcation, defined as the common femoral artery segment and the average value
      of IMT of the far wall will be estimated.

      Ankle Brachial Index (ABI): The ABI is a simple, non-invasive diagnostic test for
      lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease (PAD) with high validity of the test for stenosis
      ≥50% in leg arteries (sensitivity ≈95% and specificity ≈100%).

      All the above mentioned vascular measurements will be performed at each time point, that is
      on baseline and days 1,2,8,9,15 and 16 of cycle 1 and on days 1,2 of cycle 2 and 3 before and
      2 hours after drug administration. The B-Mode ultrasound of the carotid and femoral arteries
      will only be performed at baseline. On cycle 6 all vascular measurements will be repeated to
      assess the chronic effect of proteasome inhibition on vascular function and atherosclerosis.

      24-hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM): Patients will have their blood pressure
      monitored for 24 hours during the 1st day of cycles 1, 2, 3 and 6.

      Cardiac Ultrasonography: Study participants will undergo a baseline echocardiographic
      examination before the initiation of the treatment.

      Study of Proteasome activity: In order to examine the molecular and cellular effects of
      therapeutic inhibitors in blood cells of MM patients, we will proceed to isolation of Red
      Blood Cells (RBCs) and Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs). The blood samples which
      will be used in this research will be collected between specific time points of therapeutic
      proteasomal inhibitors administration. The first day of the treatment (no drug
      administration) will be used as a control time point.
    
  