
    
      Currently, treatment of acute symptoms in schizophrenia is less than ideal, up to one-third
      of patients with schizophrenia do not respond to current treatments, and poor drug
      tolerability can decrease a patient's ability to remain on treatment. Paliperidone ER doses
      in the range of 3 mg/day to 12 mg/day have been approved for the treatment of patients with
      schizophrenia. A lower dosage form of paliperidone ER be efficacious and may reduce the risk
      of certain adverse effects. This study will evaluate the efficacy of 1 fixed (ie, it does not
      change during the study) dosage of paliperidone ER (1.5 mg/day) compared with placebo. One
      fixed dosage of paliperidone ER (6.0 mg/day) will be given to some patients as an active (it
      has already been shown to have efficacy) control. This is a multicenter, double-blind
      (neither the patient nor the study-site personnel know which treatment the patient is
      receiving), randomized (patients are assigned to a treatment group by chance),
      placebo-controlled (some patients will receive placebo and no active drug), parallel-group
      (patients in all groups follow the same study design) study in adults who were diagnosed with
      schizophrenia at least 1 year before screening and who are experiencing an acute episode. The
      study starts with an up-to-5-day screening phase to find out if the patient is eligible for
      the study. The screening phase includes a 3- to 5-day washout (the medication dosage is
      tapered down and finally stopped) of any medications that are being taken by a patient but
      that are not allowed during the study. A 6-week double-blind treatment phase follows and
      finishes with an end-of-study visit. A post-study visit to collect additional safety data
      will be scheduled for 1 week after a patient receives his or her last dose of study drug. The
      length of the entire study is about 8 weeks. Patients who withdraw from the study before
      completing the double-blind treatment phase will complete the end-of-study visit procedures
      at the time they withdraw and the post-study visit 1 week after receiving their last dose of
      study drug. For all patients leaving the study, the investigator will make every effort to
      see that they receive adequate continuity of care. At baseline (the visit just before a
      patient takes the first dose of study drug), all patients will be randomly assigned to 1 of
      the 3 possible treatment groups to receive paliperidone ER 1.5 mg/day, paliperidone ER 6
      mg/day, or placebo once daily for 6 weeks. Patients must be voluntary inpatients at the time
      of randomization, and they must remain in the hospital for a minimum of 8 days. Efficacy will
      be measured using the following rating scales: the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale
      (PANSS), the Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S), the Personal and Social Performance
      Scale (PSP), and the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form Health Survey-36 (MOS SF-36). Safety
      will be evaluated using physical examinations, ECGs, clinical laboratory testing (hematology,
      serum chemistry, and urinalysis), testings for pregnancy, and monitoring for adverse events
      including extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS),
      Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale (BARS), and Simpson-Angus Rating Scale (SAS). The study
      hypothesis is that Paliperidone ER at 1.5 mg per day will be effective in the treatment of
      schizophrenia as measured by the change in total PANSS score between baseline and endpoint in
      comparison with placebo. Oral paliperidone ER 1.5 mg or 6.0 mg tablets or matching oral
      placebo tablets taken once daily in the morning for 6 weeks.
    
  