
    
      Metachromatic Leukodystrophy Disease (MLD) is one of a group of genetic disorders called the
      leukodystrophies. These diseases impair the growth or development of the myelin sheath, the
      fatty covering that acts as an insulator around nerve fibers. Myelin, which lends its colour
      to the white matter of the brain, is a complex substance made up of varying lipids (75%) and
      proteins (25%). The leukodystrophies are caused by genetic defects in myelin production or
      metabolization of the compounds of the myelin sheath. Each of the leukodystrophies is the
      result of a defect in the gene that controls one (and only one) of the enzymes responsible
      for creating or degrading a part of the myelin. MLD is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme
      arylsulfatase A. MLD is one of several lipid storage diseases, which results in the toxic
      build-up of fatty materials (lipids) in cells in the nervous system, liver, and kidneys.
      There are three forms of MLD: late infantile, juvenile, and adult. Onset of the late
      infantile form (the most common MLD) is typically between 12 and 20 months following birth.
      Affected children have difficulty walking after the first year of life. Symptoms include
      muscle wasting and weakness, muscle rigidity, developmental delays, progressive loss of
      vision leading to blindness, convulsions, impaired swallowing, paralysis, and dementia.
      Children may become comatose. Most children with this form of MLD die by age 5. The juvenile
      form of MLD (between 3-10 years of age) usually begins with impaired school performance,
      mental deterioration, and dementia and then develop symptoms similar to the infantile form
      but with slower progression. The adult form commonly begins after age 16 as a psychiatric
      dis-order or progressive dementia. Symptoms include impaired concentration, ataxia, seizures,
      dementia, and tremor. Due to consanguinity autosomalrecessive disorders such as MLD have
      higher prevalence in Arabian countries.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood (plasma) of affected patients that allow to diagnose in the future
      the disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity. In a pilotstudy
      glycosylsphingosin-sulfatid has been determined as a sensitive and specific biomarker. This
      is a metabolic product likely to be involved in the pathophysiology of the disease. Therefore
      it is the goal of the study to validate this new biochemical marker from the blood (plasma)
      of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients by an early diagnose and thereby
      with an earlier treatment. Examining blood samples will allow to determine whether
      measurement of the identified marker lyso-Gb1-Sulfatid is feasible in blood samples and will
      further promote early detection of MLD.

      Though MLD is a pan-ethnic disorder, the prevalence of this autosomal-recessive disorder is
      elevated in countries with a higher frequency of consanguinity. Therefore, we estimate that
      every 400th newborn in Arabian countries may be eligible for inclusion due to high-grade
      suspicion of MLD, while approximately every 2000th newborn in a non-Arabian country may be
      eligible.
    
  