
    
      The restless legs syndrome (RLS) (also known as Willis Ekbom Disease) occurs in about 1/3rd
      of patients with iron deficiency anemia (IDA). Treatment correcting the IDA is expected to
      also be effective for reducing or eliminating the RLS with IDA. Two accepted treatments for
      IDA (oral ferrous sulfate, intravenous ferumoxytol) will be compared for efficacy and speed
      to response for treatment of RLS occurring with IDA (RLS-IDA). In this study 70 RLS-IDA
      patients will be randomly assigned 35 each to oral or IV iron treatment using double-blind
      procedures. Primary outcome with be determined at 6 weeks of treatment with a follow-up at 12
      months after treatment. Non-responders at 6 weeks after treatment may, if they qualify, have
      an open-label IV iron treatment and they will be followed with the same evaluations used
      after the first set of IV iron treatments.

      Both oral and IV iron are considered standard treatments for IDA. These same treatments also
      reduce RLS symptoms. The treatment doses are those accepted for treatment of RLS and also
      appropriate for treatment for RLS-IDA. Choosing doses equivalent to those for the treatment
      of RLS without IDA will allow a comparison with that literature. The investigators will
      therefore use for oral iron ferrous sulfate 325mg taken twice a day matching the dose used in
      the study of oral iron treatment for RLS without anemia. For IV iron investigators will use
      ferumoxytol, provided by the sponsor, two doses of 510 mg spaced 2 to 7 days apart. This is
      the FDA approved dose for treatment of IDA with end stage renal disease.

      The study is a randomized, comparative open label study to evaluate effect size and time
      course of treatment response for RLS-IDA over 6 weeks with a 46-week follow-up extension. Two
      medications and placebos will be used, as described above, with equal random assignment to
      both groups.
    
  