
    
      In older adults, falls are costly, consequential and correlated with both physical and
      cognitive decline. Most falls occur when standing or walking, especially when completing
      these tasks in complex environments or while simultaneously performing additional cognitive
      tasks. To this end, older adults with worse cognitive "executive" function have worse
      mobility and are more likely to fall.

      tDCS (transcranial Direct Current Stimulation) holds promise as a therapy to improve dual
      task standing and walking and other "high-level" aspects of mobility in older adults. tDCS is
      a low cost technique, is very safe with only minimal side effects, is portable and is very
      easy to administer. However, tDCS must be administered numerous times per week for several
      consecutive weeks in order to induce lasting therapeutic benefit. As each tDCS session must
      currently be administered in clinical or laboratory settings, such interventions are not
      currently available to many older adults--especially those who 1) live far away from the
      clinical/laboratory, and/or 2) have physical and/or cognitive limitations that make it
      difficult to organize and utilize transportation.

      In this project, we propose to demonstrate the feasibility of remotely-monitored, caregiver
      (or spouse)-administered, home-based tDCS intervention to improve mobility in ambulatory
      older adults with recent falls. We will do so by completing a three-phase feasibility study
      in ambulatory older adults at risk of falling due to loss of balance, together with an
      identified caregiver, using commercially-available tDCS equipment designed for home use. We
      will utilize a tDCS system called the Starstim Home Kit® (Neuroelectrics Corp). The Starstim
      Home Kit enables researchers and clinicians to "prescribe" home-based tDCS to end users.
      Following in-person training sessions, users take home a pre-configured and personalized
      Starstim system. Phase 1 will involve development of home-based tDCS training materials
      designed for older adults. Phase 2 will consist of a small, pilot trial to determine numerous
      factors needed to design a larger, well-controlled trial of home-based tDCS within this
      population. Phase 3 will further explore feasibility of home-based tDCS, including compliance
      and retention with the study protocol over a longer time-period.
    
  