
    
      The aim of this study is to attest whether a short-term treatment with high-dose statin (one
      day prior and before intervention, rosuvastatin 20mg/day) can have a positive impact over the
      occurrence of periprocedural myocardial infarction during percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI). Patients with stable or unstable (with negative troponin) angina pectoris receiving
      statins (or not, except rosuvastatin 40mg a day) therapy referred for coronary angiography
      and subsequently PCI will be enrolled and randomized (ratio 1:1) to pre-treatment with
      rosuvastatin (20mg 12 hours prior + 20mg immediately before PCI - Rosuvastatin group), or
      immediate PCI (control group). Serum concentration of troponin I will be measured prior to,
      12 hours and 24 hours after PCI.

      Power of study (200 vs 200 pts; p1 = 0.2; p2 = 0.33; alfa = 0.05, n1 = 200, n2 = 200; power
      0.84).

      The primary end-point will be the TnI concentration ≥ 1.5 times the ULN. The secondary
      end-point witl be the TnI concentration ≥ 3 times ULN.

      The Cox regression model will be used to identify the predictors of primary end-points (age,
      diabetes, smoking, symptomatic peripheral artery disease, statin pre-treatment, level of
      total cholesterol, pre-treatment with clopidogrel, multi-vessel disease, unstable angina,
      hs-CRP, therapy with beta-blockers, treatment of complex coronary lesion).

      The patient included shall fulfill all the criteria: 1) significant coronary artery stenosis
      or occlusion indicated for percutaneous coronary intervention and 2) signed informed consent.

      The criteria excluding the inclusion in the study are: 1) positive troponin I (≥ 1 ULN), 2)
      previous inclusion in this study, 3) renal insufficiency, 4) chronic treatment with
      rosuvastatin 40mg or more, and 5) disagreement to be included in this study.

      This study will be multicenter. The Motol University Hospital will participate as the project
      coordinator.
    
  