
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The results provided: a) a better understanding of the evolution of inflammation in clinical
      conditions leading to lung injury; b) a better understanding of the mechanisms of the initial
      injury and its propagation; and c) information that will help predict the course and outcome
      in individual patients. These data should be useful in guiding the choice and timing of
      specific therapeutic interventions.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was a subproject within a Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) in Acute Lung
      Injury. Leonard Hudson was the subproject principal investigator. The epidemiological aspects
      focussed on refining clinical criteria that predicted patients at high risk for the onset of
      ARDS, and identifying these patients as early as possible before the onset of lung injury.
      The major hypothesis was that uncontrolled and sustained alveolar inflammation increased the
      severity of ARDS and prolonged its course, and that sustained inflammation was more likely to
      occur when ARDS followed sepsis syndrome than multiple trauma. The investigators also tested
      the hypothesis that the pattern of the inflammatory response in blood and lungs was an
      important determinant of whether lung inflammation persisted or resolved. Important
      components of the inflammatory response studied included; 1) a coordinated sequence of
      cytokines in blood and lung lavage fluid; 2) the expression of adhesion molecules on blood
      leukocytes; 3) circulating markers of diffuse endothelial injury (VWF and ELAM1); 4) products
      of the arachidonic acid cascade; 5) the induction of endogenous proteins that modified the
      host response to bacterial products such as endotoxin; and 6) inflammatory cell populations
      and proteins in the lung. Patterns of inflammation were correlated with clinical risks,
      critical clinical events, and outcome measures.

      The study was renewed in 1999 to : develop clinical prediction tools that provide individual
      risk assessment for the onset and outcome of lung injury; determine the incidence and outcome
      of acute lung injury / adult respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS) in populations beyond a
      single institution; determine the relationship between inflammatory responses and injury to
      the lung endothelial and epithelial barriers; and investigate determinants of host
      susceptibility that modulate the occurrence of ALI/ARDS in patients at risk.
    
  