
    
      Malaria in pregnancy (MiP) is considered a major public health issue with substantial risks
      for mothers and their babies. Intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy using
      sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP) is adopted as a part of antenatal care (ANC) to prevent
      malaria and reduce the risk associated with MiP. However, SP-resistance is increasing with
      the emergence of Plasmodium falciparum dihydropteroate synthase (Pfdhps) and P. falciparum
      dihydrofolate reductase (Pfdhfr) resistant genes challenging the benefits and effectiveness
      of IPTp-SP. Still, evidence has become available supporting the emergence of a novel
      Pfdhps-I431V mutation. The I431V mutation is found only in West and Central African
      countries, however, its impact on SP resistance has not been evaluated. We are hypothesizing
      that the new mutation may confound the existing SP-resistance resulting in an apparent
      reduction in the protective effect of SP during pregnancy within the region.

      The study will recruit adult pregnant women and will assess the presence of malaria infection
      at delivery. The study will seek new mutations in vivo using full sequencing. This molecular
      tool will also be used to look at the prevalence of novel Pfdhps-431V mutation among pregnant
      women undergoing monthly IPTp-SP. Attempts will be made to re-evaluate the prevalence of
      other Pfdhps and Pfdhfr resistance alleles among the study population. The significance of
      the resistance genes on the protective efficacy of SP will be described.

      The present study is an observational study to be conducted among all booked pregnant women.
      The pregnant women must have received at least three therapeutic doses of
      sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine as part of routine antenatal care (ANC) before delivery. sion and
      Pregnant women who consented to participate will be tested for the presence of malaria
      parasite during the third trimester and at delivery. 80-100 µL blood samples will be saved as
      dried blood spot on Whatman® filter paper from the individual with P. falciparum malaria
      positivity Antenatal care (ANC) contact schedule with proposed timelines for implementation
      of malaria in pregnancy interventions designed by WHO will be followed in enrolling subjects
      from 26 weeks of pregnancy. The study will be conducted at the antenatal
    
  