
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare, by intention to treat analysis, feasibility and efficacy of 4 courses of
           docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil as preoperative or postoperative chemotherapy in
           patients with locally advanced operable gastric carcinoma.

        -  Evaluate the predictive values of some biological and molecular tumor parameters on
           response to chemotherapy, metastasis and survival in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to study center, tumor site (affecting the Z-line (cardia carcinoma Siewart II and
      III) vs rest of the stomach), and nodal status (positive vs negative). Patients are
      randomized to either preoperative chemotherapy followed by surgery (arm I) or surgery
      followed by postoperative chemotherapy (arm II).

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour followed by cisplatin IV over 4 hours
           on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-14 every 3 weeks. Patients are
           evaluated after 2 courses and patients with progressive disease proceed to immediate
           surgery. Otherwise, treatment continues for a total of 4 courses in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Between 3-5 weeks following day 1 of the
           last course of chemotherapy, patients undergo gastric resection.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo immediate gastric resection. Beginning 3-6 weeks after surgery,
           patients receive 4 courses of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed before the first and third courses of chemotherapy, before and
      after surgery, and then at 1, 3, and 6 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 240 patients (120 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  