
    
      Justification for research and project plan Background In the fifty years since the emergence
      of thermal imaging technology, Thales in Glasgow has built up a world leading capability in
      the design, manufacture and supply of Thermal Imaging cameras. In addition to the cameras,
      Thales in Glasgow has a particular expertise in developing image processing algorithms
      (conventional and artificial intelligence based) to allow the cameras to perform critical
      user tasks beyond mere imaging.

      COVID-19 [SARS-COV-2] has placed a huge challenge on the world. In response to the crisis,
      Thales is engaged in a number of initiatives, including one aimed at the possible application
      of thermal imaging cameras to detect people with a fever and hence those who may be suffering
      from COVID-19. This initiative has received encouraging feedback from prospective users
      around the world who are looking, not only at the immediate issue in the hospitals, but also
      forward to a time beyond the current lockdowns, when cost effective techniques for surveying
      groups of people for potential COVID-19 sufferers will be required. This surveillance, for
      example, could be in hospitals, at airport gates, in buildings or outside in streets. As part
      of the initiative Thales Glasgow has been performing analysis and experiments using cameras
      looking at faces to confirm what temperature differences can be measured.

      What Thales lacks is real world thermal images of patients suffering fever and access to
      clinicians who can advise on the medical aspects of the work. This research would fill these
      two voids.

      Benefit and Rationale Existing thermal camera based fever detection systems suffer from two
      main issues that restrict their current application: Cost and Sensitivity.In order to achieve
      the required sensitivity, existing systems often require Black Body (BB) calibration sources
      to be visible in the scene. These BB sources are often more expensive than the cameras (circa
      one to two orders of magnitude more expensive). Thales believe they can achieve the required
      sensitivity without the need for BB sources by using advanced thermal camera correction
      algorithms.

      The variability in skin emissivity makes conversions from irradiance as measured by a thermal
      camera, to absolute skin temperature inaccurate. Previous work place the emissivity of human
      skin between 0.990 and 0.999, however earlier research suggests that the value is 0.971 ±
      0.005(SD). Typically in existing systems, this inaccurate, absolute temperature is used along
      with a simple threshold algorithm to find skin above a certain temperature leading to both
      false positives and false negatives.

      Significant statistical correlation between the temperature of multiple facial features and
      measured human temperature has been observed. Their research found that for most facial
      features there was a correlation between multiple aspects of the facial view and recorded
      oral and tympanic temperature, with correlations of 0.5 or greater observed for multiple
      aspects of both the front and side of the face, with the ear offering the greatest
      statistical correlation.
    
  