
    
      Free tissue transfer is a commonly performed procedure, especially at tertiary care
      hospitals. In free tissue transfer, "spare tissue" from one area of the body (donor site) is
      re-implanted to an area that is need of reconstruction (defect site). When relocated, the
      "spare tissue" is given vitality and blood supply at its new location by microscopically
      sewing and connecting its feeding artery and vein to an artery and vein in or near the defect
      site. Hence, this operation is referred to as "microvascular free tissue transfer" or "free
      flap". Defect sites most commonly result from tumor or cancer removal and trauma related
      injuries. Free flaps are frequently used to reconstruct breast tissue after mastectomy, head
      and neck cancer resections, extremity injuries, and chronically infected wounds. The
      indications, utilization, and expertise in free flap surgery continue to grow, providing
      patients with enhanced outcomes of otherwise difficult cancers and wounds.

      Since its original description in 1984 the ALT microvascular free flap has become an
      increasingly integral part of head and neck reconstructive surgery.1, 2 ALT free flaps have
      been shown to be a reliable method for several reconstructive procedures with minimal donor
      site morbidity.2-4 The ALT free flap is composed of skin, subcutaneous tissue, and fat of the
      anterolateral thigh. The blood supply to this area is from the lateral circumflex femoral
      artery and vein. These vessels along with the tissues of the anterolateral thigh are
      carefully dissected and removed as a single unit to be re-implanted in a different part of
      the body.

      Multiple options exist for soft tissue free flap donor sites similar to the ALT. However, a
      distinct advantage of the ALT free flap over others is the minimal donor site morbidity that
      the patient undergoes. Patients are able to fully ambulate and function after the surgery,
      and are left with only a well-healed scar line. Despite its many advantages, postoperative
      fluid collections continue to be problematic in the ALT donor site. Studies have reported
      seroma rates in ALT donor sites as high as 5% although this likely underestimates the true
      incidence of clinically significant postoperative fluid collections and wound complications
      in this patient population.2 ALT free flaps require a large amount of tissue dissection and
      removal, creating a large potential space in the lateral thigh that often requires prolonged
      postoperative suction drainage and pressure dressings in efforts to minimize fluid
      accumulation.

      Research in optimal postoperative management for the ALT donor site is lacking. Current
      management without the use of Arista often requires a surgical drain for 7-14 days, which can
      delay patient discharge and expose patients to increased risk of postoperative wound
      infections. There is a paucity of data on methods to reduce ALT donor site drain output and
      seromas. Surgeons often use a combination of closed suction surgical drains and pressure
      dressings to try and reduce the amount of fluid collection in the thigh donor sites. Although
      this does provide some advantage, if these techniques are required for a prolonged time,
      unnecessary hospital stay and patient morbidity are attained. According the Healthcare Cost
      and Utilization Project, an average inpatient hospitalization in 2009 cost $2,000 per day,
      and is increasing.5 If the use of a single bottle of Arista could reduce just 1 hospital day
      per patient it could save at least $80,000 dollars a year at our department alone. Further,
      the associated morbidity and health care costs of potential seroma or infected seroma
      complications may be avoided.

      A randomized controlled trial aimed at evaluating improved methods to reduce postoperative
      drainage from ALT donor sites could provide critical information on how to best serve our
      patients, eliminate unnecessary hospital stay, and reduce overall cost. Once studied in a
      controlled single flap environment, these methods could be then expanded to other or all free
      flap donor sites.

      According to the manufacturer, Arista uses Microporous Polysaccharide Hemospheres (MPH)
      technology to catalyze the clotting cascade and effectively dehydrate tissue to initiate
      hemostasis in broad areas. Major advantages of Arista are that it has been shown to be safe
      and effective across multiple surgical disciplines, is completely absorbed in 24-48 hours,
      and contains no human or animal components.6-8

      Sindwani et al. was the first to report effectiveness and safety of Arista as a hemostatic
      agent in otolaryngology demonstrating its application in controlling postoperative bleeding
      after endoscopic sinus surgery.8 Zhang et al. demonstrated success rate of 100% in the
      prevention of seromas in patients undergoing resection of malignant tumors in multiple
      locations, including the lower extremity.7 Arista was recently shown to be useful in reducing
      postoperative chest tube output and hemostasis time in patients undergoing cardiothoracic
      surgery.6

      These previous works support the idea that Arista could be effective in reducing
      postoperative fluid collection and drainage time in free flap donor sites. However, this
      would be a new application of Arista with wide applicability that has not been previously
      described.

      1.1 Research Rationale and Possible Influence On Clinical Practice

      Reconstructive surgery has evolved in a recent era of increased attention to patient
      satisfaction and cost savings. The ALT free flap has been proven to be highly successful;
      however, optimal management of the donor site postoperatively is an area in need of
      additional gains via research. Decreasing free flap donor site drain output and earlier drain
      removal could improve the quality of life of our patients, significantly decrease the cost of
      their care, and potentially decrease drain-associated infections. If this study were to
      demonstrate Arista to reduce postoperative donor site drainage and seroma rates and/or a
      decrease in hospital length of stay resulting from early surgical drain removal, it could
      dramatically affect the way we take care of our patients.

      This study seeks to critically evaluate current clinical practice paradigms to better
      understand the influence of Arista use in free flap donor sites. A prospective,
      multi-institutional, randomized, controlled, single-blinded trial is the clearest methodology
      to evaluate the possible benefits of Arista. Additionally, study in the ALT free flap alone,
      a single and commonly performed free flap, limits bias and confounding variables. No clinical
      trial of this level has been performed on this topic; thus, our proposal is novel and the
      findings of the study are potentially important.
    
  