
    
      The study infant will undergo cardiac catheterization and myocardial biopsy before pulmonary
      artery banding and at appropriate intervals during follow-up surveillance by the
      interventional cardiologist. Patients will be "listed" for heart transplantation, and rPAB
      will be applied in lieu of mechanical circulatory support or as an alternative to already
      existing mechanical circulatory support, in the form of extracorporeal mechanical oxygen
      (ECMO). Myocardial biopsies will be flash frozen for storage and eventual probing for cell
      type (mature or stem) as part of a separate study.

      The addition of afterload rPAB to a normal-functioning right ventricle (in the setting of
      end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy) shifts the inter-ventricular septum toward the midline,
      thus significantly improving left ventricular geometry and function. It permits the infant or
      young child to operate from a much improved position on Starling's curve with gradual
      resolution of congestive heart failure and the potential for lethal ventricular dysrhythmia.
      An abundance of progenitor myocytes known to exist within the myocardium of this patient age
      group may then contribute to "permanent" left ventricular restoration.

      A sternotomy incision is used for application of the rPAB. The band is tightened under
      echocardiographic control until the inter-ventricular septum becomes a midline structure.
      Myocardial function is augmented with inotropic and vasodilator agents. These agents are
      weaned off gradually over a period of 2-4 weeks. The infant is separated from mechanical
      ventilation within the first post-rPAB week, and enteric feeding is resumed. The infant is
      discharged on oral medications, and is kept under frequent clinical surveillance.

      As the infant grows, the rPAB becomes relatively more obstructive to right ventricular
      outflow. Based on a finding of increasing right ventricular dilation, onset or worsening
      tricuspid valve regurgitation, or a gradual late increase in plasma B-type natriuretic
      peptide (BNP) levels, the band may be loosened in stages as a balloon catheter-based
      procedure. Band enlargement may be accomplished in stages, ultimately opting for a mild
      residual right ventricle-main pulmonary artery pressure gradient of 15-30 mmHg.

      The infants' short- and long-term surveillance will include clinical examination, height,
      weight, cardiac catheterization, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, chest x-ray, and plasma
      BNP levels.
    
  