
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial comparing "spine surgery analgesic pathway" with "usual
      care" in improving postoperative quality of recovery and pain management in spine surgery
      patients. At the time of surgery office visit or at the time of preoperative assessment by
      anesthesia care team, risk factor for suboptimal pain management will be identified and
      documented. Patients will be assessed at the time for surgical office visit for their risk
      for severe post-operative pain. Patients with 2 or more risk factors will be classified as
      high-risk for severe postoperative pain and the patients with less than 2 factors as low
      risk. After obtaining informed consent spine surgery patients will be randomized 1:1 in one
      of the 2 study groups on the day of the surgery:

        1. "Usual care" group A

        2. "Care pathway" group B

      If the participant is randomized to the "spine surgery analgesic pathway" group the
      participant will be evaluated by the Acute Pain Management Service (APMS) before the surgery
      for their specific pain management needs. The participant will also get some additional
      medication for pain in preoperative and intraoperative period. Before surgery the participant
      will receive Acetaminophen and Gabapentin pills. During the surgery, once the participant is
      asleep the participant will receive an infusion of ketamine and lidocaine through the
      participant venous line. After the surgery the participant will receive pain medications as
      per current standard protocol including acetaminophen and gabapentin. Pain management team
      specialist will follow for pain control after a surgery as needed.

      If the participant is randomized to the "usual care" group the participant will be given
      placebo preoperatively; the rest of the time pain medication will be provided in a routine
      manner as per the anesthesia care team and the surgical team. Pain management team specialist
      will follow for pain control after a surgery as needed.

      The primary outcome will be assessed on post-operative day 3: The participants will complete
      a short survey about quality of recovery.
    
  