
    
      Approximately 24 patients with active non-infectious uveitis, in at least one eye, requiring
      intensification of systemic immunosuppressive therapy were enrolled and randomized to receive
      intravitreal LFG316 or conventional therapy (investigator's discretion). Only one eye (the
      study eye) were treated with LFG316 and the other eye (fellow eye) were treated at the
      investigator's discretion.Throughout the study, the fellow eye might have been treated as
      needed; except that certain systemic medications were prohibited. There was 1 screening and 8
      scheduled visits over 85 days for a total of 9 site visits for all patients.

      At Day 85, patients receiving LFG316 treatment who met the criteria for a 'responder', were
      offered an additional 6 months of LFG316 treatment on a PRN basis. Additional 3 scheduled
      visits were attended by LFG316-responder patients during the extension period. However,
      patients could have unscheduled visits as needed and as determined by the investigator.
      Safety evaluation and ocular assessments were performed throughout the study duration.
      Patients in the treatment extension phase, who experienced a flare post their last dose and
      required treatment, might have received a dose of LFG316. These patients were assessed for a
      response at their next PRN visit as scheduled by the investigator. Visit frequency was
      determined by the investigator. If they continued to respond to LFG316 therapy, they might
      have remained in the PRN treatment arm. They might have received up to 7 additional doses of
      LFG316 in the PRN period. Throughout the trial LFG316 were not administered more frequently
      than monthly. Patients in the extension phase, who discontinued treatment prematurely were
      asked to return approximately 1 month after their last dose. Low molecular weight
      non-steroidal immunosuppressive medications were allowed up to the baseline day as long as
      the dose had not changed in the 3 weeks prior to baseline, except for corticosteroid doses
      which might have changed.
    
  