
    
      Based on very limited evidences, ASGE recommended that endoscopic procedures may be performed
      on patients taking aspirin. However in a survey of ASGE members regarding their endoscopic
      practice, 81% would consider discontinuation of aspirin before colonoscopy and 66% would not
      perform snare polypectomy if patients had not discontinued aspirin. Although a large
      prospective randomized control trial would be the ideal way to address this issue
      theoretically, the investigators hypothesized that there are no differences of the post
      polypectomy bleeding rate in patients whether continuous taking aspirin prior to polypectomy
      or not.

      In this study, we classified the patients into two groups; the patients who can stop taking
      aspirin before colon polypectomy will be enrolled into group 1, and the patients who take
      both thienopyridines and aspirin for their underlying disease and should keep take aspirin
      during colon polypectomy will be enrolled into group 2. The patients of group 1 stop taking
      aspirin 7 days before polypectomy.

      thromboembolism. Exclusions are as follow; patients taking anti-thrombotic agents, patients
      have low a platelet count (<80,000/mm3) and/or prolongated PT/aPTT, patients who have chronic
      renal disease (creatinine>3mg/dl over 6 months), patients who have GI malignancies, patients
      who are over ASA classification class III, over 2 score of HAS-BLED and over 1 of CHAD2
      score. The expected enrolled patients number is 500 patients (250 in each group).

      All cases of polypectomy are performed with identical methodology; resection after
      epinephrine mixture injection under blended or mixed current wave. The data includes the
      patients information such as sex, age, body weight, BMI and vascular disease history such as
      hypertension, diabetes, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, COPD, modified
      HAS-BLED score and CHADS2 score. The data of polyp related factor include number of polyps,
      bleeding status(acute, early, delayed/minimal, moderate, sever), endoscopist (staff or
      fellow), bowel preparation status, polyp character (shape, location, pathology) and
      procedures for bleeding (clipping, APC, epinephrine injection, band ligation etc.).

      All procedure will be performed with the endoscopist blinded to the patient status of whether
      the patient is taking aspirin continuously or not.
    
  