
    
      Thoracic surgery such as posterolateral thoracotomy is associated with severe postoperative
      pain. Pain control is particularly important, as adequate analgesia allows rapid mobilisation
      and prevents complications related to immobility. Over the last years, thoracic epidural
      analgesia has become increasingly popular and is now considered the gold standard after
      thoracotomy. Thoracic epidural analgesia improves pain relief and also significantly
      decreases the incidence of morbidity and mortality following pulmonary resection. It also
      reduces the length of stay in the hospital and long-term pain 6 months after surgery. This
      method is now offered to a majority of patients undergoing a thoracotomy in our hospital.

      The placement of a catheter in the thoracic epidural space remains a challenge for the
      anesthesiologist. Suboptimal placement of the catheter within the epidural space can result
      in inadequate pain relief. The distance at which the catheter must be advanced in the
      thoracic epidural space remains unknown. Insertion distance could influence the initial
      quality and distribution of sensory blockade, its duration, or both. Therefore, this study is
      designed to compare three catheter insertion distances, in order to help determine which is
      best for pain relief after a thoracotomy.

      Methods :

        1. Insertion of the epidural catheter :

           Patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups :

             -  Group 1 : 3 cm insertion

             -  Group 2 : 5 cm insertion

             -  Group 3 : 7 cm insertion

           The anesthesiologist will insert the epidural catheter at T6-T7 before the induction of
           anesthesia for surgery. The usual medication will be used to make catheter installation
           comfortable. Standard non-invasive monitoring will be used.

           Correct placement of the epidural catheter will be assessed by infusing a bolus of 5 mL
           of lidocaine 1.5% with epinephrine 1 : 200,000. After induction of anesthesia and after
           placing the patient in the lateral decubitus position, the epidural infusion
           (bupivacaine 0.1% and fentanyl 2 mcg/mL) will be started at a rate of 0.1 mL/kg/h.
           Adjustments will be made between 4 to 16 mL/h with boluses of 0.1 mL/kg (maximum 7 mL)
           of solution as needed. Surgery will be performed under general anesthesia using a
           standardised protocol.

        2. Post-operative analgesia :

           Pain will be assessed using a verbal numeric rating scale (NRS), where 0 refers to " no
           pain " and 10 refers to " the worst pain imaginable ". Pain at the surgical site and
           post-thoracotomy shoulder pain will be assessed separately. Post-thoracotomy shoulder
           pain will be treated with acetaminophen 975 mg every 6 hours and nonsteroidal
           antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or opioids as needed.

           Patients experiencing moderate to severe pain at the surgical incision site will receive
           a bolus of 0.1 mL/kg (maximum 7 mL) of epidural solution, and the infusion rate will be
           increased in 2 mL/h increments, to a maximum infusion rate of 16 mL/h. The infusion rate
           will be adjusted to maintain a pain score at the surgical site of 3 or less on the
           numeric rating scale. One hour after arrival in the recovery room, NRS during cough, at
           rest, and upon palpation, as well as loss of cold sensation will be assessed by a member
           of the research team who is blinded to the patient's group assignment. Total bupivacaine
           and morphine doses will be recorded.

        3. Follow-up

      At 24 hours after surgery, NRS during cough, at rest, and upon palpation, as well as loss of
      cold sensation, will be assessed by a member of the research team who is blinded to the
      patient's group assignment. Total bupivacaine and morphine doses will be recorded. Catheter
      distance at the skin will be verified for displacement.
    
  