
    
      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, two-arm, parallel-group, single-center, pragmatic, randomized clinical
      trial.

      Population:

      The target population comprises all adult patients aged 18 years and older who present with
      uncomplicated acute type B aortic dissection. The study sample will include 436 subjects of
      both genders and any race or ethnicity.

      Procedures:

      Eligible and consented patients will be enrolled into the study if all eligibility criteria
      are met and will be randomly allocated to one of the two study arms: BMT vs BMT+TEVAR

      Study Duration:

      The study is expected to accrue patients over the course of 5 years and total follow up per
      patient for 5 years. Overall duration of the study is anticipated to be about 10 years for
      completion of all study endpoints.

      Endpoints:

        -  Primary Outcome: To determine all-cause mortality among both study arms.

        -  Secondary Outcomes: To assess any major morbidity events (rupture, aortic intervention
           or reintervention, progression to complicated dissection, aneurysm formation,
           malperfusion resulting in organ failure, and aorta-specific mortality), as will quality
           of life measures, temporal discounting assessment and outcomes comparison in an
           observational cohort of patients who decline to be randomized due to a strong treatment
           preference.

      Risks and Benefits:

      Since this study involves only usual care and FDA-approved treatments, the investigators do
      not expect any additional physical risks to patients beyond those associated with usual care.
      One discernible risk involved in study participants is an unintentional disclosure of
      sensitive patient health information.

      The participants of this study do not stand to benefit directly from taking part. However,
      the investigators hope that the results obtained from this study would provide useful
      information that would help delineate a standard and economical management protocol for acute
      Type B aortic dissection in future.
    
  