
    
      Protocol Title：A Comparative Study on Internet Medical Models and Conventional Medical Models
      for the Management of Patients with Hypertension in China Study Indication:Hypertension
      Number of Site:16sites Study Duration (from the initiation of the first site to the end of
      the follow-up for the last subject): 12 months Duration of Treatment and Management: 6 months
      Planned Number of Subjects:958 subjects, 479 in each group(blood pressure management in
      Internet medical model, Conventional medical model) Internet Medical Model:Using Internet
      blood pressure management model: home blood pressure self-monitoring + Internet diagnosis +
      Maintained or adjusted anti-hypertension drug(s) treatment.

      Conventional Medical Model:Using Conventional blood pressure management model: home blood
      pressure monitoring + face-to-face diagnosis in clinic + Maintained or adjusted
      anti-hypertension drug(s) treatment.

      Inclusion Criteria：

        1. Male or female, 45 to 75 years old (including 45and 75 years);

        2. Two measurements of resting systolic blood pressure ≥ 140mmHg and/or diastolic blood
           pressure ≥ 90mmHg on different days during screening;

        3. Female subjects of child-bearing potential who are willing to adopt one of the following
           methods for contraception during the study:

             -  Oral contraceptive, either combined or progestogen alone.

             -  Injectable progestogen.

             -  Implants of levonorgestrel.

             -  Oestrogenic vaginal ring.

             -  Percutaneous contraceptive patches.

             -  Intrauterine device or intrauterine system showing that the expected failure rate
                is less than 1% per year as stated in the product label.

             -  Double barrier method: condom and an occlusive cap (diaphragm or cervical/vault
                caps) with a vaginal spermicidal agent (foam/gel/film/cream/suppository).

        4. Subjects who can understand and perform home blood pressure monitoring as required by
           the study;

        5. Subjects who voluntarily participate in the study and sign informed consent form.

      Exclusion Criteria：

        1. Two measurements of resting systolic blood pressure ≥ 180mmHg and/or diastolic blood
           pressure ≥ 110mmHg on different days during screening;

        2. Subjects with the history of cerebral stroke within 6 months prior to screening;

        3. Subjects with the history of myocardial infarction within 6 months prior to screening;

        4. Subjects with the history of heart failure;

        5. Subjects with the history of atrial fibrillation;

        6. Subjects with the history of coronary artery revascularization;

        7. Subjects with other serious diseases, such as tumor;

        8. Subjects diagnosed as the secondary hypertension;

        9. Subjects with congenital or acquired organic heart disease;

       10. Pregnant or lactant subjects;

       11. Subjects with severe mental disease;

       12. Subjects with abnormal liver and renal function: ALT or AST>2 X upper limit value; Or
           creatinine > 2X upper limit value

       13. Subjects who were previously diagnosed with diabetes that is currently poorly
           controlled: FBG>10mmol/L;

       14. Subjects who are unable to conduct blood pressure self-test;

       15. The subject has any other known condition at screening that would compromise subject
           safety, might affect life expectancy, or making it difficult to successfully manage and
           follow the subject according to the protocol.

      Efficacy Evaluations：

      Primary Efficacy Endpoints:

        -  Blood pressure control rate of subjects in the two groups at Month 6 Secondary Efficacy
           Endpoints：

        -  Blood pressure control rate of subjects in the two groups at Month 3

        -  Blood pressure value of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6

        -  Change of blood pressure of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6

        -  Variability of blood pressure of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6

        -  Treatment compliance of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6

        -  Medical expense of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6

        -  Treatment satisfaction of subjects in the two groups at Month 3 and Month 6
    
  