
    
      Study to compare the rate of complete response (CR) and duration of CR, in patients with
      relapsed or refractory AML to two, three, or four prior induction regimens that may have
      included intensive chemotherapy (e.g., "7+3" cytarabine and daunorubicin), epigenetic therapy
      (i.e., azacitidine or decitabine), or targeted therapy (e.g., FLT-3, IDH-1/2, BCL-2,
      monoclonal antibody), who will receive DFP-10917 versus non-intensive reinduction (LoDAC,
      azacitidine, decitabine, venetoclax + LoDAC or azacitidine or decitabine) or intensive
      reinduction (high and intermediate dose cytarabine regimens) as a second, third, or fourth
      salvage treatment.

      Experimental Arm DFP-10917 Dose: 6 mg/m²/day administered by continuous infusion for 14 days
      followed by a 14-day resting period per 28-day treatment cycle. If a patient experiences a
      significant treatment-related AE, the patient may undergo one dose reduction of DFP-10917 to
      4 mg/m²/day x 14 days for subsequent treatment cycles

      Control arm: Non-Intensive Reinduction (LoDAC, Azacitidine, Decitabine, Venetoclax + LoDAC or
      Azacitidine or Decitabine) or Intensive Reinduction (High and Intermediate Dose Cytarabine
      Regimens), depending on the patient's prior induction treatment as well as the patient's
      clinical condition and comorbidities. Control treatment is to be selected only from among the
      following. Institutional practice for administering these treatments are permitted, but the
      dose and days of drug administration should be followed as below.

      Non-Intensive Reinduction:

        -  LoDAC: 20 mg Cytarabine administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection, twice daily (BID)
           for 10 days, plus best supportive care per 28-day treatment cycle

        -  Azacitidine: 75 mg/m²/day administered by SC for 7 consecutive days (or 5+2), plus best
           supportive care per 28-day treatment cycle

        -  Decitabine: administered as continuous intravenous (CIV) infusion 20 mg/m² x 5 days plus
           best supportive care per 28 day treatment cycle

        -  Venetoclax + LoDAC or Azacitidine or Decitabine: In combination with LoDAC, Venetoclax
           will be administered via a daily ramp-up to a final 600 mg once daily dose. During the
           ramp-up, patients are to receive TLS prophylaxis and may be hospitalized for monitoring.
           Cytarabine will be administered subcutaneously at a dose of 20 mg/m² once daily on Days
           1-10 of each 28-day cycle beginning Cycle 1 Day 1. In combination with Azacitidine or
           Decitabine, Venetoclax will be administered via a daily ramp-up to a final 400 mg once
           daily dose. Azacitidine will be administered intravenously or subcutaneously at a dose
           of 75 mg/m² on Days 1-7 of each 28-day cycle beginning on Cycle 1 Day 1. Decitabine will
           be administered via IV at a dose of 20 mg/m² on Days 1-5 or 1-10, as per institutional
           practice, of each 28-day cycle beginning Cycle 1 Day 1.

      Intensive Reinduction:

        -  High DAC = cytarabine at doses of 1-2 g/m²/day for up to 5 days, with a maximum total
           dose 10 g/m² per course

        -  FLAG = Days 1-5: fludarabine 30 mg/m² IV over 30 minutes, Days 1-5: cytarabine 1 2
           grm/m² over 4 hours daily x 5, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 5 mcg/kg or 300
           mcg/m² until Polymorphonuclear Neutrophil (PMN) recovery, with or without idarubicin
           Days 1-3 at 8 mg/m² IV daily x 3 (FLAG-Ida)

        -  MEC = Days 1-6: mitoxantrone 6 mg/m² IV bolus, etoposide 80 mg/m² IV over 1 hour, and
           cytarabine 1 grm/m² IV over 6 hrs (Etoposide may be deleted per institutional
           guidelines, i.e., HAM regimen)

        -  CLAG/M or Ida = cladribine 5 mg/m² on Days 1-5, cytarabine 2 g/m² on Days 1-5,
           granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 300 μg on Days 0-5 (G-CSF starts 24 hr prior to
           chemotherapy), and mitoxantrone 10 mg/m² on Days 1-3 or Idarubicin 10 mg/m² on Days 1-3

        -  Intermediate DAC = cytarabine 20 mg/m² IV daily x 5

      The selection of control arm treatment will be determined by the investigator depending on
      the patient's prior initial induction and salvage treatment regimen(s), as well as the
      patient's clinical condition and comorbidities. The investigator will select the patient's
      control treatment from among the non-intensive or intensive regimens prior to study treatment
      randomization in order to balance treatment allocation between the experimental and control
      treatment arms.
    
  