
    
      This cross-sectional clinical study will evaluate the color difference (∆E00), and CIELAB
      coordinates (L*, a*, and b*) of endodontic treated teeth in the 3 conditions (baseline,
      homologous tooth versus ≤ 1 month after tooth endodontic treatment); (baseline, homologous
      tooth versus > 1 to 12 months after tooth endodontic treatment); (baseline, homologous tooth
      versus > 12 up to 5 years after tooth endodontic treatment). The following pairs of variables
      will be considered in the comparisons: filling material (AH Plus and Endofill/Fillcanal/MTA
      Fillapex); cut at cervical level (dental cervix and 2mm in the apical direction); and
      location tooth (anterior and posterior teeth).

      The response variables will include the color difference (∆E00), estimated by the CIEDE2000
      color difference metric (ΔE00) obtained from readings made on the homologous tooth of the
      endodontic treated (baseline) and tooth endodontic treated (after) with a spectrophotometer.

      All individuals who came to a private dental clinic between January 2010 and December 2018
      and who received endodontic treatment will be considered for participation in this study. The
      following inclusion criteria will be used to evaluate and enroll potential participants:
      individuals at least 18 years old; who received anterior or posterior (pre-molar) endodontic
      treatment and who present homologous tooth with pulp vitality and at least 1/3 of the
      remaining coronary, without endodontic treatment, intraradicular retentor or crown making
      dental color assessment impossible. Besides, will be excluded questionnaires filled
      incorrectly or lack of data regarding, the day, month and year of endodontic treatment
      finish, sealer used, the pulp condition at the time of the first consultation (irreversible
      pulpitis or pulpal necrosis) and periapical radiography, obtained with the use of
      radiographic positioner, preserved and with a clear image. All individuals who agree to
      participate in the study will sign a consent form based on the Declaration of Helsinki, after
      receiving information about the study objectives, risks, and benefits associated with the
      alternative treatment options and procedures. One examiner will be trained and calibrated
      prior to data collection. Kappa statistics will be used to assess intra-examiner reliability.
      Clinical, radiographic and color information will be collected.
    
  