
    
      The project description has been shortened to fit the format of clinicaltrials.gov.

      Background:

      To improve communication of risk messages, they must be communicated in a way that is
      understandable and relevant to the patient. Every individual is different and therefore
      communication tools must be personalised and easy to understand. This is important as low
      health literacy is present among close to half of the European population and is associated
      with poor health outcomes, low self-management and underestimation of personal Cardiovascular
      Disease (CVD) risk. Since the risk of CVD is the product of a complex combination of multiple
      individual risk factors, there is a need for communicating complex information in an easily
      understandable way. Several tools for calculating and communicating CVD risk have been
      developed, but rigorous testing of their communicative effects is lacking.

      Inadequately controlled blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of CVD, and more
      frequent contacts with GPs. Intention to change behaviour is related to the patients'
      perception of risk. Consequently, better ways for GPs to communicate CVD risks and motivate
      patients for risk-reducing strategies are warranted. Efficient communication requires
      information to be presented in formats that encourage decision-makers, i.e. patients, to
      automatically extract specific meanings or overall messages. Use of graphical illustrations
      with distinct features has previously been shown to be an effective and user-friendly tool to
      communicate risk, especially to people with limited health literacy. A visual decision aid
      could be a way to improve the blood pressure consultations and to assure that GPs are
      supported to provide patients with the relevant information. It is suggested that using a
      decision aid will also systematise the consultation and make it more reproducible.

      The present study will use the internet-based risk communication tool Your Heart Forecast
      (YHF) to evaluate, whether it can influence patients' understanding of risk and treatment
      adherence. This will be done paying special attention to patients' blood pressure, lipid
      levels, empowerment and health literacy. The rationale behind the tool is to help improve
      patient-doctor interaction and communication so that the patient can gain an improved
      understanding of his/her CVD risk, and the modifiability of risk. Patients with hypertension
      have been chosen as a case study since high blood pressure is one of the main modifiable risk
      factors for CVD, as opposed to i.e. age, gender, ethnicity and family history.

      YHF is a risk-communication tool, which communicates CVD risks as personalised, interactive
      and dynamic visual graphs. Following input from personal health-related data, the GP can, by
      using YHF, interactively guide the patient through:

        -  Their currently predicted 5-year absolute CVD risk

        -  The age at which they would achieve their currently predicted CVD risk if they had
           ideal/achievable risk factor control (the heart age)

        -  Their predicted CVD risk as they get older (the heart forecast)

        -  Their future CVD risk if their current risk factors are improved. As it has previously
           been demonstrated that single event interventions do not have an effect if not followed
           up, YHF will be introduced in a package deal. YHF will function as the primary
           intervention and repeated reminders via e-mail will be the secondary component. Patients
           in the intervention group will, after the consultation with the GP, receive emails every
           other week, as part of a general health literacy educational program.

      Aim:

      The aim is to evaluate the effect of using the YHF visual communication tool on changes in
      blood pressure and adherence to CVD preventive medications. Further, by means of
      questionnaires, it is the aim to study whether changes in health-literacy, adherence, patient
      empowerment and risk communication are associated with changes in blood pressure, lipid
      levels and/or lifestyle choices. By means of qualitative interviews, it will be investigated
      whether the use of the program heightens motivation, increases awareness of risk or creates
      unwarranted effects like causing the patients to be anxious.

      Primary research question:

      • Will the introduction of YHF during an annual blood pressure control consultation lead to
      improved general health literacy, improved medication adherence and empowerment after 12
      months?

      Secondary research questions:

        1. Will blood pressure be reduced among patients in the intervention group compared to the
           control group after 12 months?

        2. Will lower health literacy and/or low empowerment at baseline be associated with higher
           blood pressure at baseline?

        3. Will health literacy and/or empowerment be improved after 6 and/or 12 months among
           patients enrolled in the intervention group?

        4. Will increased health literacy and/or empowerment be associated with healthier lifestyle
           including diet, exercise and smoking habits after 12 months?

        5. Will there be subjective feelings of increased motivation or sickening after introducing
           the intervention?

        6. Will CVD risk be lower among patients in the intervention group compared to the control
           group after 12 months?

      Methods

      Trial design:

      This study will use a mixed methods approach with a combination of a randomised controlled
      trial (RCT) and qualitative semi-structured interviews. The protocol has been developed using
      the SPIRIT checklist as a guideline.

      Two pilot practices will be enrolled as if they were intervention practices. In these 2
      practices, patients will be assessed 3-6 months before the project practices. A subgroup Q,
      of 5-15 patients from the pilot group, will be selected for qualitative interviews.

      GPs in the control group, will not be introduced to YHF and will follow their patients in the
      blood pressure control program as usual.

      Study population Participants All general practices in the Region of Southern Denmark will be
      invited to join the study. 30 GPs of those willing to participate, will, with due respect for
      geographical location and practice type, be representatively selected for participation.

      Both incident and prevalent hypertensive patients will be included within an inclusion period
      of 6-12 months.

      Sample size Sample size calculation is based on blood pressure as the primary outcome. For a
      two-sample pooled t-test of a normal mean difference with a two-sided significance level of
      0.05, a sample size of 120 participants per group is required. This is to obtain a power of
      at least 90%, to detect a difference of 5 mmHg between the means at baseline and after 1
      year. To adjust for expected drop-outs, 30 participants will be added per group and at least
      300 patients will be enrolled in the trial. To account for cluster-effects when randomising
      on practice-level, the sample size will be further increased by 10-15% to reach 340 patients.
      More participants will be needed for subgroup analyses on sociodemographic and therefore, the
      aim is to reach a total of 600 participating patients. The pilot practices will provide
      information regarding the prevalence of patients with inadequately controlled blood pressure
      willing to participate, as well as more specific knowledge on the needed number of practices
      included, making the final sample size calculation uncertain at this point.

      Randomisation Participating GPs will be randomly divided into two groups A and B, using the
      randomisation tool built into REDCap.

      Participants will be given unique Trial Participant Numbers (TPNs). TPNs will be generated by
      PREDICT (the software behind Your Heart Forecast) when patients are included and will be
      given consecutively starting from 0001. The number will be given a prefix A or B depending on
      which group (intervention or control) the participant's general practice belongs to. Subgroup
      Q will be 5-15 participants chosen deliberately from the pilot group, to ensure it represents
      the intervention group for use in the qualitative interviews.

      Practical procedure General practices will be actively involved in the RCT as follows. After
      identifying the list of patients from the statistics module, the practice will review the
      patients with regards to the inclusion/exclusion criteria. After reviewing, an invitational
      letter will be sent out to the first 25 of the remaining patients on the list. The invited
      patients can then opt out or show up at the appointment and receive the oral and written
      trial participant information. Patients will not need to go to the practice more times than
      usual, but the practice will need to use extra time to give trial information. The practice
      will be compensated for this extra time used.

      The day after the inclusion, the participant will receive an email with a link to a
      questionnaire, which must be completed before the subsequent appointment with the GP. The
      first page of the questionnaire will be the informed consent form.

      With the large number of patients with known hypertension and the compressed method of
      inclusion, it is expected that GPs will have enough use of the program Your Heart Forecast,
      to maintain the skills and knowledge to use the program, which they will be taught by the
      research group before inclusion.

      The RCT will consist of a 12-month intervention period, except for participants in subgroup Q
      who will be interviewed 6 months after enrolment (t6) and subsequently excluded.

      The intervention group will receive an educational e-mail, which also includes a reminder of
      the project and YHF, every 2 weeks. The e-mails' health educational content will reflect
      available information from the Danish Heart Association's web page (www.hjerteforeningen.dk).

      Data:

      The questionnaire (q1) will include questions to evaluate socioeconomic and sociodemographic
      variables, baseline health literacy, risk perception and self-efficacy (PAM-13), smoking
      status, comorbidity and medication.

      The second patient questionnaire (q2) is very short and will focus on whether the patient was
      surprised about the risk score, if any changes in the medication were made and how the
      general experience of the YHF was.

      Data regarding number and content of contacts to the GP will be obtained from the patient´s
      medical records and the affiliated accounting system including prescription databases for
      estimating compliance. All telephone-, email-, clinic- and home consultations are registered.
      Contacts from three years prior to the intervention and up until two years after, will be
      obtained.

      Patients in the intervention group will receive their personal profile in the YHF to make it
      possible for them to access and use the program at home in between the blood pressure
      consultations at their GP. All data entered in YHF will be stored in accordance with Danish
      law by the software provider, with whom a data management agreement has been made.

      Base-line measurements will be used to identify subgroups of participants. Qualitative data
      will be obtained via semi-structured interviews, transcribed and analysed with systematic
      text condensation. The qualitative interviews will seek to shed light on possible
      explanations for the hypothesized effects on self-management, lifestyle choices, blood
      pressure and contacts to the GP.
    
  