
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values
           of dihydrouracil/uracil (UH_2/U) ratio measured before starting treatment on grade 3-4
           capecitabine-related toxicity in women with metastatic breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To prospectively test the value of the germinal genotype of thymidylate synthase (TS)
           and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) as predictors of resistance to
           capecitabine.

        -  To evaluate the practical feasibility of such pre-therapeutic screening.

        -  To determine the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values
           of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase genotyping on grade 3-4 capecitabine-related toxicity
           in the first and second courses.

        -  To evaluate the predictive gain provided by genotyping relative to phenotyping alone.

        -  To evaluate the influence of TS and MTHFR gene polymorphisms on clinical response and
           duration of response.

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and its metabolites and their
           relationship with UH_2/U and genotype.

        -  To evaluate the total cost of pre-therapeutic phenotyping alone and the combination of
           phenotyping and genotyping.

        -  To exhaustively analyze the 23 exons of the dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) gene
           in patients who developed toxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected 8-15 days before the start of treatment and periodically on the
      first day of treatment for dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase phenotyping (dihydrouracil/uracil
      ratio and high performance liquid chromatography analysis), genotyping (4 most relevant
      single nucleotide polymorphisms), and pharmacokinetic analysis.
    
  