
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and
           recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of enzalutamide in combination with venetoclax in
           patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase Ib)

        -  To characterize the safety and tolerability profile of enzalutamide in combination with
           venetoclax in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).
           (Phase Ib)

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of venetoclax in combination with enzalutamide in patients with
           metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) that are enzalutamide-naive, as
           measured by 12-month progression free survival rate. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess PSA50 response as well as circulating tumor cell (CTC) response in patients
           who received venetoclax + enzalutamide. (Phase II)

           -To estimate the proportion of patients who received venetoclax + enzalutamide and
           remain radiographic progression free at 6 months. (Phase II)

        -  To estimate the time to first skeletal-related event (SRE) and the time to first
           symptomatic skeletal event (SSE). (Phase II)

           - To estimate the time to clinical progression. (Phase II)

        -  To estimate the time to initiation of new systemic treatment for prostate cancer. (Phase
           II)

        -  Assess the effect of venetoclax + enzalutamide on overall survival. (Phase II)

      PHARMACOKINETIC OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of enzalutamide and venetoclax when
      given in combination to patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

      II. Comprehensive analyses of venetoclax levels to assure that they are in the therapeutic
      range.

      EXPLORATORY BIOMARKER OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify non-inherited biomarkers that are predictive of response to study treatment
      (i.e., predictive biomarkers), are associated with progression to a more severe disease state
      (i.e., prognostic biomarkers), are associated with acquired resistance to study treatment,
      are associated with susceptibility to developing adverse events, can provide evidence of
      study treatment activity, can increase the knowledge and understanding of prostate cancer
      biology or study treatment mechanism of action, or can contribute to improvement of
      diagnostic assays.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) and enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-28.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year and then every 3
      months.
    
  