
    
      Hyperpolarized noble gas magnetic resonance (MR) lung imaging is a relatively new imaging
      method that allows depiction of both lung function and morphology. Hyperpolarized gases are a
      new class of MR contrast agent which, when inhaled, provide high temporal and spatial
      resolution MR images of the lung airspaces. Since no ionizing radiation is involved,
      hyperpolarized gas MR imaging is ideal for the evaluation of lung diseases especially in
      children. With hyperpolarized gases, the nuclear spins of the gas atoms are brought into
      alignment outside of the MR scanner via a process called optical pumping; this yields high
      polarizations and permits visualization of the lung airspaces with MR imaging (despite the
      low physical density of the gas in the lung). Two non-radioactive (i.e. stable) isotopes of
      noble gases helium-3 and xenon-129 can be hyperpolarized. Until recently, higher
      polarizations could be achieved with helium-3 than with xenon-129, so in humans, helium-3 was
      more commonly used for hyperpolarized gas MR imaging of the lungs. Recently, the technology
      has been developed to provide large quantities of highly polarized xenon-129. Helium-3 gas is
      also extremely expensive and since there are limited reserves of the gas, difficult to
      procure for research. Unlike helium-3, since xenon-129 is naturally present in the
      atmosphere, it is less expensive and easier to procure for imaging.

      Several applications of xenon-129 MR imaging are under development, including
      diffusion-weighted and relaxation-weighted imaging. These techniques take advantage of the
      fact that the rate of loss of xenon-129 polarization is significantly influenced by the local
      blood flow and concentration of molecular oxygen, as well as the restriction of xenon-129
      diffusion by small airway space dimensions. These data can be used to create maps of the lung
      reflecting regional ventilation/perfusion and micro-airway sizes. Other data that can be
      obtained with xenon-129 MRI include the volumes of ventilated and unventilated lungs which
      can subsequently be analyzed to determine the homogeneity of gas distribution within the
      airspaces. These data can be used to study the structural and functional changes taking place
      in the lungs associated with pulmonary diseases like CF and asthma. It might provide a
      diagnostic tool that is able to detect pulmonary diseases more sensitively than the current
      gold standard measurements of spirometry and plethysmography, and thus prevent irreparable
      and irreversible damage to the lungs in the early stages of disease.
    
  