
    
      At the moment, few data on the epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 infection in patients suffering
      from hematological malignancies are available. However, the COVID-19 pandemic presents unique
      challenges and opportunities on hematological malignancies. The future trajectory of this
      pandemic appears to be growing and hematology communities must continue to prepare for its
      spread In this project, we will implement cooperation between all members of the hematology
      departments both within the EHA and outside it, in order to evaluate the epidemiological data
      on the incidence and outcome in patients with hematological malignancies infected with
      SARS-CoV-2.

      We will provide useful information to inform the individualized plan for patients with
      hematological malignancies.

      We aim to evaluate the epidemiology and outcomes of patients with HM infected with
      COVID-19,estimate the incidence and type of disease, assess the acute and long-term mortality
      rate and estimate the overall mortality rate of cases.

      This is a cohort retrospective/prospective survey. In the retrospective phase of the study,
      participating centers will retrospectively review episodes of COVID-19 disease that occurred
      in patients with hematological malignancies identified at their institutions from February
      2020 to December 2020. In the prospective phase of the study, the researchers will include
      episodes of COVID-19 disease from the start of the study through December 31, 2021.

      The study population will need to be over 18 with hematological malignancies and SARS-CoV-2
      An electronic database with anonymization will be created and available to collect all
      information with single access for each participating institution. The data collected will be
      demographic data,epidemiological factors, admission information, COVID-19 disease severity,
      history of hematological malignancies, disease status with past / current treatments, and 30
      days of diagnosis.
    
  