
    
      Objective

      This investigation will focus on two areas: 1) early communication impairments as predictors
      of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and later developmental delays, and 2) the relationship
      between communication and evidence of CNS function (sleep, EEG) and structure (MRI DTI and
      volumetrics) in young children at risk for ASD. The objective is to delineate early
      communicative impairments that predict ASD vs. other developmental delays and to examine how
      these impairments correlate with brain abnormalities in both structure and function.

      Study Population

      We will recruit 64 children [n=32 at 12 months of age (plus or minus 2 months); n=32 at 18
      months of age (plus or minus 2 months)] who are at-risk for ASD due to communication/language
      delays (at-risk group). The at-risk children will be matched at initial on chronological age,
      SES, and sex, to typically developing children (n=75) with no history of developmental
      delays. These 139 participants will hereafter be referred to as the toddler sample. At the 36
      month final visit, diagnostic status (e.g. ASD, non-ASD specific delays, catch up) will be
      determined for children in the at-risk group. In addition, 10 healthy adults, aged 18-40 will
      serve as control participants for the purpose of piloting the functional paradigms for the
      MRI portion of the protocol.

      Design

      We propose to conduct a prospective, longitudinal study of toddlers at-risk for ASD compared
      to typically developing toddlers. Children will complete behavioral testing and an overnight
      Sleep/EEG as well as MRI at either a 12 or 18 month initial. Follow-up visits that include
      behavioral assessment will occur at 24 and 36 months for all children (and at 18 months of
      age for the 12-month cohort). The Sleep/EEG and MRI will be repeated at the 36 month final
      follow-up.

      Outcome Measures

      Autism symptoms, language status, and cognitive development at 36 months will serve as the
      primary outcome measures.
    
  