
    
      Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, progressive, and demyelinating disease of the central
      nervous system that affects more than 2.5 million people worldwide and is more common in
      young adults. The most common clinical signs and symptoms include fatigue, spasticity,
      cognitive impairment, chronic pain, depression, decreased quality of life, and bladder and
      bowel dysfunction.

      Sleep disturbance is affecting more than 50% of persons with multiple sclerosis. Restless
      legs syndrome is one of the factors causing sleep disturbance in persons with multiple
      sclerosis. Studies have showed that the incidence of restless legs syndrome in persons with
      multiple sclerosis is about five times more than the general population.

      In order to increase and maintain the quality of life of persons with multiple sclerosis, the
      disease-related progressive symptoms need to be managed. Therefore, persons with multiple
      sclerosis need long-term rehabilitation. This situation reduces the motivation of the people
      over time and makes the continuity of treatment difficult. Developments in rehabilitation
      technology aim to contribute to the treatment process as well as to increase the active
      participation of individuals with chronic diseases.

      Current literature has shown that video-based physical activity training as
      non-pharmacological therapy may be an effective method for symptoms such as balance, walking,
      fatigue, cognitive functions in persons with multiple sclerosis, but the effects on restless
      legs syndrome are not known.

      The main aim of the study is to investigate the effects of 8-week video game-based physical
      activity training in persons with multiple sclerosis with restless legs syndrome.

      Persons who followed by the outpatient Multiple Sclerosis Clinic of Dokuz Eylül University
      Hospital will participate in the study. A total of 68 participants will randomly be divided
      into 4 groups as exergaming group and control group with restless legs syndrome, exergaming
      group and control group without restless legs syndrome.

      A video game-based physical activity training will apply to exergaming groups by a
      physiotherapist for 2 days/week. The control groups will continue their routine treatment
      during the study. After the study, the treatment options will be offered to the participants.
      Assessments will done at baseline, after 8 weeks (post-treatment) and at 8 weeks (follow-up).
      Assessments will be done by assessors who are blinded to the group allocation.
    
  