
    
      The language understanding of other people is based on linguistic decoding mechanisms
      (phonological, semantic, syntactic ...) but also more on subtle mechanisms for the
      recognition of emotions and intentions. Interact with another one requires understanding its
      language but also to infer emotions and intentions. There are patients with schizophrenia
      suffering from social cognition disorders that impair social interactions; These patients
      often have difficulty in extracting the non-verbal emotional content of language and have
      difficulty inferring the thoughts and intentions of others. Recently, we have suggested a
      link between such deficits and the hypofunction of the medial prefrontal cortex.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a noninvasive neuromodulation technique that increases
      or decreases the focal cortical excitability depending on stimulation parameters. This
      technique is now commonly used as a therapeutic tool. It has been tried with some success in
      patients with schizophrenia in some indications:

        -  To reduce the auditory verbal hallucinations stimulating the temporal cortex

        -  More rarely, to reduce the negative symptoms stimulating the dorsolateral prefrontal
           cortex So far, the medial prefrontal cortex was not considered as a possible target as
           the scalp to cortex distance prevent from using conventional stimulation coils. Recently
           new coils have been developed that permit stimulation of deeper cortical regions.

      We hypothesize that the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation with a theta burst
      intermittent protocol known to increase the cortical excitability and aiming the medial
      prefrontal cortex with a special antenna will improve social interaction capabilities of
      schizophrenic patients.

      This ambitious and innovative assumption shall be first supported by a study of feasibility
      which is the subject of this trial.

      Moreover, changes in the anatomical and functional connectivity, in brain metabolism and in
      cortical excitability will be observed after stimulation thanks to a multimodal imaging and
      the study of P50 wave.

      In this pilot study, involving 20 patients, we plan to assess the social cognition deficits
      before and after 10 sessions of magnetic stimulation (2 sessions per day for 5 consecutive
      days) using a neuronavigation system and Magstim® stimulator. In order to assess the
      feasibility and specificity of the stimulation of medial prefrontal cortex (MPC), the effects
      of this treatment will be compared to the effects of the same treatment aiming the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), also involved in aspects of negative symptoms of
      schizophrenia, and placebo effects induced by sham stimulation (using a sham coil). The
      recording of the P50 wave will be just before and after the 1st session and just after the
      last stimulation session. An MRI anatomical, functional and spectroscopic be performed before
      and 30 days after the treatment. A control group of twenty healthy subjects will perform the
      same MRI acquisitions.
    
  