
    
      The study will take place in two secondary schools (one private and another government) in
      Entebbe sub-district. The study will take place among students in Class S2 aged. The study
      will consist of i) A stakeholder workshop to finalise the intervention including a Theory of
      Change workshop ii) Introduction of the intervention package to all S2 students and assess
      outcomes over 9 months (into the next school year), to assess retention (including those
      repeating year S2).

      iii) Provision of daily diaries to a random sample of 50 students per school. A research
      assistant will make unannounced visits to the schools approximately every month to check the
      diaries and will collect them 2 weeks before the end of term (to avoid loss or damage).

      iv) Cross-sectional surveys at baseline and endline in all girls in S2 to assess menstruation
      knowledge, attitudes, management practices and school absenteeism.

      v) Cross-sectional surveys at baseline and endline for all boys in S2 to access menstruation
      attitudes and school absenteeism.

      vi) Endline in-depth interviews (IDIs) will be conducted with 30 female students, 10 teachers
      (male and female) and 10 parents, sampled purposively (e.g. by attendance for girls) to
      assess perceptions of the interventions and impact on self-reported school absence vii) End
      line focus group discussions (FGDs) with two groups of girls in each school to assess their
      perceptions of the intervention and its impact on school attendance as well as one group of
      boys in each school to assess their perceptions of the intervention.

      viii) Analysis of vouchers assessing uptake of analgesics ix) School examination data to
      assess performance x) Strengths & Difficulties questionnaire to assess psychosocial issues
      xi) Second stakeholder workshop will be held to discuss findings and plan for the future
      trial. This will include representatives from schools that are potential sites for the future
      trial.

      Outcomes of the study: Primary outcome is school attendance using menstrual daily diaries for
      menstruating girls. School attendance will be compared using diaries, class registers, direct
      observation check visits and retrospective self-reported school attendance at the endline
      cross-sectional survey.

      Secondary trial outcomes for the girls will be: 1) Knowledge and attitudes towards
      menstruation and MH evaluated using baseline and endline questionnaires with closed
      questions. Information will include menstruation knowledge and attitudes in boys and girls,
      and practices in girls; 2) Acceptability of re-usable pads (AFRIpads): In this trial
      development study, the study will provide girls with re-usable pads and collect further
      qualitative and quantitative data on the MH management methods practiced. To include girls'
      attitudes towards using the re-usable pads including privacy for changing and washing the
      re-usable pad. Ability to do usual activities and comfort or discomfort of use, ease of
      washing, drying and storing the re-usable pads, accessibility of water and soap, use of other
      MH methods alongside the re-usable pad, and feedback on the training given by WoMena the
      implementing partner.

      3) Psychosocial issues: In the main trial the investigators will assess whether the
      intervention affects psychosocial outcomes through multiple methods including the
      quantitative interviews, the 25-item Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (self-report
      version; (http://www.sdqinfo.com) for 11-17 year-olds, and through qualitative methods. The
      SDQ consists of 25, 3-point Likert scale items from 0 'not true' to 2 'true', with a midpoint
      of 1 'somewhat true'.
    
  