
    
      The objective of this study is to establish bioequivalence between the Integrated E-TRANS
      (fentanyl HCl) System and the Separated (Two-Part) E-TRANS (fentanyl HCl) System. The target
      indication is the short-term management of acute postoperative pain in adult patients
      requiring opioid analgesia during hospitalization. This is a single-center, open-label (all
      people involved know the identity of the intervention), randomized, 2-period, 2-treatment,
      2-sequence, crossover (participants will receive different interventions sequentially during
      the study) interventions study. Each volunteer will be randomly assigned to a sequence. There
      will be a washout period of 6 to 14 days between treatments. Volunteers will remain at the
      study site during fentanyl treatments and for the 34 hours following completion of each
      treatment. Approximately 60 healthy volunteers will be enrolled to ensure that 40 volunteers
      have completed pharmacokinetic evaluations in both treatments. Each volunteer will receive
      both Treatment A and Treatment B (either Treatment A followed by Treatment B or Treatment B
      followed by Treatment A.) Treatment A is 80 consecutive doses of Ontegrated E-TRANS
      (fentanylHCL) 40mcg System, each delivered over 10 minutes for a total delivery time of over
      13.33 hours. Treatment B is 80 consecutive doses of Separated (Two-Part) E-TRANS (fentanyl
      HCL) 40 mcg System, each delivered over 10 minutes, for a total deliver time of over 13.33
      hours. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis (analysis of the amount of drug in the
      blood at specific time points) will be collected from each volunteer during all fentanyl
      treatments and up to 34 hours after termination of each treatment. The skin site to which an
      E-TRANS (fentanyl HCl) System has been applied will be monitored for the development of
      topical (skin irritation) adverse events at 1 and 24 hours after removal of the system(s).
      Safety evaluations to be performed include adverse event monitoring, laboratory assessments,
      alcohol testing, serum pregnancy testing for women of child-bearing potential, urine drug
      screening, physical examination, electrocardiogram, continuous pulse oximetry to monitor
      oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and
      temperature. The study will continue for up to approximately 3 weeks, including the washout
      periods of 6 to 14 days in between treatments, excluding the screening period. Treatment A:
      Integrated E-TRANS (fentanyl HCl) 40 mcg System 80 consecutive doses, each delivered over 10
      minutes over 13.33 hours Treatment B: Separated (Two-Part) E-TRANS (fentanyl HCl) 40 mcg
      System 80 consecutive doses, each delivered over 10 minutes over 13.33 hours. Volunteers will
      be randomly assigned to either receive either Treatment A followed by Treatment B or
      Treatment B followed by Treatment A.
    
  