
    
      Background: Flow mediated dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery has been widely used as a
      non-invasive measure of endothelial function. FMD independently predicts future
      cardiovascular events and can be readily influenced by pharmacological, dietary or lifestyle
      interventions.

      Need for a review: Differences in methodology, guidelines (to control for moderating factors)
      and analysis techniques contribute to large variation in FMD between laboratories, limiting
      the widespread use and interpretation of FMD data.

      Objectives: To identify methodological and technological factors that contributes to the
      variability (i.e. repeatability) of the brachial artery FMD. This will allow for development
      of quality guidelines for FMD measurement based on systematic data analysis.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE Chemical Abstracts, Biosis and The Cochrane Central Register of
      Controlled Trials will be searched using appropriate search terms.

      Study selection: Observational cohorts and control groups of intervention studies with ≥ 50
      subjects.

      Methods: A list of quality criteria for scoring of FMD data will be defined both by expert
      consensus and by thorough review of the literature. Subsequently, a database of brachial
      artery FMD data (from published data and available individual data) will be compiled. The
      investigators will investigate which of the quality criteria significantly contribute to the
      variability of FMD by multiple meta-regression analyses. This data set will also allow us to
      investigate which quality criteria have the strongest impact on the variability of the FMD,
      to further refine the list of quality criteria.
    
  