
    
      The study is designed as a prospective, randomized, controlled, multi-center trial. Patients
      will be enrolled during an index hospitalization for Acutely decompensated Heart Failure
      (ADHF) and will be followed for a minimum of 3 months or a maximum of 9 months (until the
      last patient has completed the 3- month follow-up). Patients will be blinded to ReDS readings
      values.

      Recruitment will take place either during a heart failure hospitalization (see acceptance
      criteria below) or within 10 days after discharge from a qualifying heart failure
      hospitalization.

      The Remote Dielectric Sensing (ReDS) device provides noninvasive measurement of lung fluid
      content. It comprises a wearable vest with embedded sensors and a bedside console. A
      measurement reading is provided within 90sec. Results are shared with the treating physician
      via a secured web portal.

      Study objective is to determine if a significant decrease in the rate of heart failure
      re-hospitalizations occurs during the entire follow-up period when ReDS guided treatment is
      used as an adjunct to standard of care (SOC).

      Patients will be randomized between two groups before hospital discharge to: ReDS with SOC
      vs. SOC.

      Patient that are randomized to the treatment arm will perform daily ReDS measurement at home.
      Treating physician will follow up on patients' measurements through a secured dedicated web
      site. Notification messages will be automatically sent by the system to the physician if
      certain thresholds are crossed (thresholds are physician adjustable). Medications will be
      adjusted according to defined guidelines.

      Patients that are randomized to the control arm will be followed up and medically managed
      according to standard of care guidelines.

      Both arms scheduled clinical visits and phone follow up:

        -  A follow up phone call, per current treatment guidelines, will be attempted within 2
           days of hospital discharge to obtain information regarding medication reconciliation,
           Heart Failure (HF) symptoms and other HF management issues (e.g., dietary restrictions).

        -  An outpatient clinic visit will be scheduled after a week of hospital discharge.

        -  Study follow-up visits at 1 and 3 months. Follow-up will be continued for enrolled
           subjects at 6 and 9 months until the last subject has pass through the 3-month follow-up
           window.

             -  At each study follow-up visit, patients will undergo complete physical exam, vital
                signs, collection of readmission and standard blood tests and QOL questionnaire.
    
  