
    
      Chronic pain affects over 100 million Americans with an annual cost of about $600
      billion/year. Almost half of the chronic pain conditions are attributed to musculoskeletal
      conditions.

      Musculoskeletal pain is typically identified with palpation over tender areas initially
      identified by the patient and then verified by the physician. There are typically areas of
      muscles that when palpated, pain is experienced by the patient. These points are known as
      Trigger Points. There are several ways to manage trigger points. Muscle relaxers are the most
      common pharmacological approaches to manage trigger points, but they can cause significant
      sedation for patients. Some non-pharmacological methods such as physical therapy may also
      provide some relief of musculoskeletal pain. However, physical therapy requires active
      participation from patients in addition to lifestyle modifications. Additionally, for some
      patients, the severity of their musculoskeletal pain precludes them from effectively
      participating in physical therapy. For those patients, trigger point injections may provide
      enough relief to effectively participate in physical therapy. Trigger point injections is a
      procedure where an area identified is first injected with a local anesthetic then the needle
      is repeatedly inserted in and out (needling). The exact mechanism of action is not clear, but
      it does provide significant relief for most patients with musculoskeletal pain. Interestingly
      enough, while trigger point injections are a very common procedure and are performed by
      almost all pain physicians, there is great variability in the method it is performed. There
      is currently no clear guidance as to how light or intense the "needling" aspect of the
      procedure should be. On one end of the spectrum, some pain physicians perform 1-2 needle
      passes. On the opposite end of the spectrum, other pain physicians perform 40-50 or more
      needle passes. The literature is not very clear as to which is better in terms of the number
      of passes. In fact, the range of passes from one study to the other may account for some
      inconsistencies of the outcome associated with performing trigger point injections. The
      greater the number of passes, the greater the risk for possible side effects. On the other
      hand, pain relief may be directly proportional to the number of passes. The investigators
      currently do not have such information. The purpose of this study is to understand the
      relationship between the intensity of the needling aspect of trigger point injections and
      pain relief. In this study, patients will undergo the typical standard of care treatment for
      musculoskeletal pain with randomization regarding the number of passes during needling. The
      investigators will evaluate the patient response using paper surveys over 2 months following
      their procedures.
    
  