
    
      Background:

        -  Lung and esophageal cancers as well as malignant pleural mesotheliomas exhibit
           epigenetic perturbations that may impact the clinical course of these neoplasms.

        -  To date, epigenetic alterations in primary thoracic malignancies and neoplasms
           metastatic to the chest have not been evaluated in a systematic, longitudinal manner.

      Objectives:

        -  To permit evaluation of patients referred to the Thoracic Surgery Branch, NCI in order
           to identify individuals who will be suitable candidates for clinical research protocols.

        -  To obtain tumor and adjacent normal tissues as well as serum and urine samples from
           patients with primary or metastatic malignancies involving the lung, esophagus, pleura,
           and mediastinum to support preclinical research endeavors in the Thoracic Surgery
           Branch.

        -  To perform focused germline testing of genes modulating drug metabolism, possible future
           whole genome sequencing studies, possible ex vivo generation of autologous tumor cell
           lines and EBV-transformed B cell lines for research. Tumor tissue obtained during
           previous protocol participation and cryopreserved may undergo this process if the
           patient consents on this trial.

        -  To permit standard treatment for patients who are not eligible for investigational
           therapy on a current Thoracic Surgery protocol, but who present a novel and unique
           clinical training opportunity, or who manifest a clinical condition that requires
           immediate intervention to prevent compromise to the patient's well-being.

        -  To permit long term follow up of patients with thoracic malignancies including the
           collection of tissue and fluids to support preclinical research particularly to
           ascertain if gene expression and DNA methylation profiles coincide with response to
           therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with potentially malignant or suspicious lesions or with biopsy proven, lung or
           esophageal cancers, malignant pleural mesotheliomas, mediastinal or chest wall
           neoplasms, thymoma/thymic neoplasms, or pulmonary metastases from cancers of nonthoracic
           origin.

        -  Patients who have an ECOG performance score of 0-2.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 2 years and older. Note: Patients greater than or equal to
           2 years of age and under 18 years of age may only participate in research sample
           collection if the tissue acquisition is performed during a clinically indicated surgical
           procedure, and the sampling of tissue, blood or urine does not add risk to the
           clinically indicated procedures.

      Design:

        -  This protocol is designed to:

        -  Facilitate screening of patients for investigational protocols in the Thoracic Surgery
           Branch, NCI, and to obtain tissue samples to enable evaluation of epigenetic events in
           primary and metastatic thoracic malignancies, as an extension of ongoing laboratory

      research in the Thoracic Epigenetics Laboratory.

        -  Allow for the establishment of tumor cell lines and EBV-transformed B cell lines to
           support immunologic evaluation of the patient s response to other clinical trials.

        -  Patients will be screened to determine appropriate diagnostic and treatment
           interventions. Where appropriate, patients will receive standard staging, surgical
           intervention, and follow up care. Tissue, blood, and/or peritoneal/pleural effusion
           samples obtained during surgery/biopsy or clinic visits will be processed and either
           stored for analysis or cultured for generation of tumor cell lines and EBV-transformed B
           cell lines for research. After recovery from biopsy or surgery patients will continue to
           be followed, blood and urine samples may be collected as well as tissue when
           appropriate.

        -  No investigational treatment will be administered on this protocol. In circumstances
           approved by the Section Chief, a patient may be deemed ineligible for investigational
           therapy, yet may undergo standard of care treatment at the NIH Clinical Center on this
           study.

        -  It is anticipated that the protocol will enroll a maximum of 1100 patients.
    
  