
    
      This study will be a single center, double-masked collection of data taking place at the
      Flaum Eye Institute. Informed consent will be obtained from all subjects after a thorough
      explanation of the nature and possible risks of the study. Flaum Eye Institute electronic
      health records of existing patients will first be screened by an optometrist or
      ophthalmologist to verify that they do not fall under the exclusion criteria. Some study
      communication regarding scheduling will be done over the phone or email. The screening will
      be similar to a standard eye exam (without eye dilation) and will include a slit lamp
      examination as well as visual acuity and basic vision evaluation.

      The study eye will be chosen based on inclusion criteria; if both eyes qualify, the eye with
      worse best corrected acuity will be chosen. A new lens will be manufactured for the subject
      after the screening visit and will be given to the subject during the following study visit.
      This is done to ensure fully neutralized spherical refractive effort and positional
      stability. If screening evaluation reveals that the current lens does not fully neutralize
      spherical refractive error or that the current lens is not positionally stable, a baseline
      lens will be manufactured that corrects this. The subject will be allowed to keep the old
      lens if he or she so chooses.

      At the second visit, the patient's vision and fit will be evaluated with the optimized
      baseline BSS lens. Visual acuity and device fit will be evaluated and recorded. If the BSS
      device fit is still not optimized, then a new device will be made , and the second visit
      evaluation will be rescheduled. Once the baseline lens design is determined to be
      satisfactory, the patient will have their wavefront aberration measured with a wavefront
      sensor. Investigators will dilate the pupil pharmacologically with phenylephrine (2.5%) and
      tropicamide (1%) and take wavefront measurements of the optical aberrations of the subject's
      eye wearing the baseline lens using a portable, non-invasive wavefront analyzer designed to
      measure highly aberrated eyes (Ovitz, P10/EyeProfiler). The investigators will then design
      and manufacture a study lens that is identical in design to the baseline BostonSight BSS lens
      except for a custom front surface designed to neutralize the optical aberrations measured
      with the wavefront analyzer. This HOA-optimized lens will be created prior to the third
      visit.

      At the third visit the patient's vision and fit will be evaluated with the new HOA-optimized
      lens. A designated study team member will measure visual acuity and over-refraction of the
      patient. If an adjustment is needed for the lens, then a new device will be made, and the
      third visit evaluation will be rescheduled.

      Once well-fitting baseline and HOA-optimized test lenses are established, both lenses will be
      remade and presented to the evaluator designated study team member in charge of evaluation
      and subject together in a masked fashion. During a fourth visit, the patient's vision will be
      extensively evaluated using standard non-invasive optometric measurements with each of the
      two lenses. First the patient will undergo a basic evaluation with each lens to ensure that
      the fit is correct. The patient will then undergo basic visual acuity; high and low contrast
      visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and subjective vision scoring with each lens. The
      subject's wavefront aberration will also be measured again with each lens.
    
  