
    
      Limb transplantation surgery, the transfer of the limb(s) from a deceased human donor to a
      patient with amputation of one or more limbss, is an experimental reconstructive procedure
      that has the potential to significantly improve the lives of amputees.

      Limb transplantation is similar to face transplantation in that the tissues transplanted
      include skin, tendons, muscles, ligaments, bones and blood vessels. The transplant team at
      Brigham and Women's Hospital includes a wide variety of medical and surgical specialties. The
      team hopes to build upon the success of their first face transplantation to provide amputee
      patients with the significant benefits of limb transplantation.

      Toward this goal, BWH is actively seeking qualified candidates for the limb transplant
      research study. We will be studying a small group of people to learn more about:

        -  How to advance the science of limb transplantation

        -  How to support and limit transplant rejection issues

        -  How people do after limb transplantation

      We describe limb transplant surgery as a life-giving procedure because it has the potential
      to dramatically improve, that is to restore, both a patient's mental and physical health and
      his/her ability to function and integrate in society. However, as with any other type of
      organ transplantation, this improvement will require the patient to make a lifetime
      commitment to taking medications that suppress the body's immune system.

      Conventional reconstruction methods are always considered first, but they may provide less
      than optimal results for certain patients. There are many sophisticated prostheses that
      satisfactorily replace the basic function of a missing limb. However, replacing limbs (in
      whole or in part) with prosthetics remains suboptimal in that prostheses do not provide
      sensation and do not have a natural appearance. Limbtransplant surgery, however, has the
      potential to deliver these desired functional and aesthetic benefits. Functionally, limb
      transplant surgery can provide a patient with new limbs that, after extensive rehabilitation,
      allow him/her to perform daily activities and, in most cases, return to work. Furthermore,
      the ability to restore a near-normal aesthetic appearance of the limb(s) can lead to
      tremendous psychological benefits, including elevated confidence and mood.

      From the time we begin our search for a qualified limb transplant recipient to the continuing
      care we provide following surgery, a significant amount of time, expertise and attentiveness
      is contributed toward making the procedure a progressive success. Limb transplant candidates
      go through an extensive screening process that is likely to last several months. This
      screening includes a psychiatric and social support evaluation and a series of imaging tests
      to help determine a patient's physical and mental readiness for the procedure. If, upon
      completion of the screening process, it is determined that a patient is a suitable candidate,
      we will place the patient on a transplant waiting list. We will then begin working with the
      New England Organ Bank (NEOB) team to find a donor who matches the recipient's tissue
      requirements - for example similar age and correct blood type. This search could take many
      months, and, if a suitable donor is not found within one year, we will speak with the patient
      to determine whether he/she is willing to continue waiting.
    
  