
    
      Approximately 50 pediatric orthopaedic surgeons from pediatric centers in the US and other
      countries have agreed to participate in this database as members of the International Perthes
      Study Group (IPSG). TSRH will be the lead center. Those who agree to participate will seek
      IRB approval from their own institutions. Data will be collected prospectively and entered
      into REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), a browser-based research database. Patient
      Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) questionnaires will be completed
      via an online testing system, the NIH funded Assessment Center.

      1-6 Cohort: For the 1-6 age patient group, patients presenting in an early stage of the
      disease (stage I or IIa), the surgeons who treat patients with one of the following treatment
      regimens currently used in practice will be asked to participate in the study.

        1. Non-operative management (i.e., no osteotomy but can include soft tissue release)

        2. Operative containment treatment (femoral or pelvic osteotomy or Shelf acetabuloplasty).

      6-8 Cohort: For the 6-8 age patient group, patients presenting in an early stage of the
      disease (stage I or IIa), the surgeons who treat their patients with one of the following
      three treatment regimens currently used in practice will be asked to participate in the study
      2-4.

        1. Non-operative management (i.e., no osteotomy but can include soft tissue release);

        2. Operative containment treatment (femoral or pelvic osteotomy or Shelf acetabuloplasty).

      8-11 Cohort:

      For the 8-11 patient age group, patients presenting in an early stage of the disease (stage I
      or IIa), the surgeons who treat their patients with one of the following treatment regiments
      currently used in practice will be asked to participate in the study:

        1. Non-operative management (i.e., no osteotomy);

        2. Operative containment treatment (femoral or pelvic osteotomy or Shelf acetabuloplasty)
           followed by 6 weeks of postoperative non-weight bearing; and,

        3. Operative containment treatment (femoral or pelvic osteotomy or Shelf acetabuloplasty)
           followed by 6 months of postoperative non-weight bearing.

      >11 Cohort Registry:

      For the >11 patient age group, patients presenting in an early stage of the disease (stage I
      or IIa) we will collect prospective data from surgeons who are currently treating their
      patients with one of the following alternative treatment regimens 5,6:

        1. Non-operative management (i.e. no osteotomy);

        2. Core decompression or multiple epiphyseal drilling of the necrotic femoral head with
           post-operative non-weight bearing; or,

        3. Core decompression or multiple epiphyseal drilling of the necrotic femoral head with
           application of hinged hip distractor.

      Patients who present to an IPSG member or their group during the late stages of the disease
      (stage IIb or stage III) will also be arranged into four separate age cohorts, identical to
      the list above. We will collect prospective data from surgeons who are currently treating
      these patients with operative or non-operative treatment regimens.

      Regardless of the patient's stage at enrollment, the patient's age at diagnosis or assigned
      cohort, the following data will be collected: information regarding patient characteristics
      at presentation, physical exam findings, responses to Perthes patient and/or outcomes
      questionnaires, and results of radiographic and MR imaging. Participants will be assigned a
      unique study number. A secure web application, REDCap, will be used to capture and store
      research information including de-identified radiographic and MR images, clinical
      information, and Perthes patient and/or outcomes questionnaire responses.

      All patients willing to complete the PROMIS questionnaires will do so regardless of group,
      treatment, or stage of the disease. The administration of the instrument is facilitated by
      the use of an online testing platform, the NIH-funded Assessment Center. Data will be
      transmitted and stored on a secure and dedicated server for the purpose of this study.
    
  