
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of Velcade
      (bortezomib) in patients with lymphoid malignancies undergoing allogeneic peripheral blood
      stem cell or bone marrow transplantation.

      II. To determine the 1-year disease-free-survival (DFS) and the toxicity profile of Velcade
      (bortezomib) in patients with lymphoid malignancies undergoing allogeneic peripheral blood
      stem cell or bone marrow transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the incidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD) with historical controls.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

      Participants receive carmustine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day -6, cytarabine IV over
      1 hour twice daily (BID) on days -5 to -2, etoposide IV over 3 hours BID on days -5 to -2,
      and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -1. Participants also receive rituximab IV on days
      -13, -6, +1, and +8, and bortezomib IV over 1 minute on days -13, -6, -1, and +2.
      Participants receiving a matched unrelated or mismatched donor transplant also receive
      anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-6 hours on days -6 and -5. Participants then undergo
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation over 30-45 minutes on day 0 and receive
      filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) starting on day +7 until blood counts return
      to normal level. Participants receive tacrolimus IV starting on day -2 changing to orally
      (PO) before leaving the hospital for 6-8 months after the transplant. Participants also
      receive methotrexate IV over a few minutes on days +1, +3, and +6 and those receiving a
      matched unrelated or mismatched donor transplant also receive methotrexate IV on day +11.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months
      for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  