
    
      The concept and plan of study

        1. The attempt to clarify the grounds of heart exertional dyspnoea stenocardial pain in
           patients with well-controlled stage I or II hypertension according to ESH (European
           Society of Hypertension), without changes in epicardial coronary arteries in coronary
           angiography and normal resting echocardiography.

        2. MRI evaluation of coronary microcirculation and endothelial function assessed by
           flow-dependent vasodilation in hypertensive patients with and without heart failure
           symptoms.

        3. Comparison of modern echocardiographic methods and magnetic resonance imaging in the
           diagnosis of hypertensive patients with and without overt heart failure.

        4. Cystatin C as a new marker of organ damage in patients with hypertension and comparison
           of cystatin C with GFR assessed by MDRD and Cockcroft-Gault creatinine clearance on as
           renal function assessment indicators in patients with hypertension.

        5. Evaluation of new markers - cardiotrophin 1 and cystatin C, serum syndecan-4, collagen
           III N-terminal propetide [PIIINP], MMP-2, MMP-7,MMP-8, MMP-9 and NT-proBNP in the early
           diagnosis of heart failure.

        6. Potential markers of heart failure, modern echocardiography methods and magnetic
           resonance imaging in the detection of asymptomatic myocardial dysfunction in order to
           increase the effectiveness of prevention and treatment.

        7. Searching for the relationship between the type of hypertension (dipper or non-dipper)
           and the development of heart failure symptoms, and whether there are differences between
           the echocardiographic images of these patients?

        8. Selection of patients with hypertension, in whom an early introduction of
           pharmacological treatment of heart failure should be considered.

        9. The study will also help answer the following questions: (a) Which parameters best
           assess the overall cardiovascular risk? and (b) When the treatment of heart failure in
           patients with hypertension should start.

      The measurable effect of this research besides cognitive is to the possibility of reducing
      the proportion of patients who come to overt heart failure connected with hypertension
      through the optimization of preventive, diagnostic methods and to determine the optimum
      treatment in these patients.
    
  