
    
      The CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) Statement
      (www.consort-statement.org) is an evidence based guideline which aims to improve the
      reporting of randomized controlled trials. If trials are not well reported it is difficult
      for clinicians to use best evidence to inform clinical practice and patients may not get the
      best care. A number of different CONSORT extensions have been developed which specify
      additional information needed for more complex trials.We are conducting a multicentre
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate whether using a simple web-based tool (WebCONSORT)
      improves the completeness of reporting of clinical trials. To be eligible for inclusion in
      this study journals must publish reports of randomized trials and endorse the CONSORT
      Statement (e.g. refer to it on the journal website) but do not actively implement it (e.g.
      require authors to submit a completed CONSORT checklist at the time of manuscript submission.
      Participating journals ask authors to register their manuscript (at the revision stage of the
      manuscript) on the WebCONSORT website where he or she will be randomized into one of two
      groups (i.e. intervention and control). In the intervention group, authors will be directed
      to the WebCONSORT tool. The tool allows authors to combine different extensions relevant to
      their trial and generate a list of items and a flowchart specific to their trial design and
      the type of intervention tested. The checklist of items generated by the WebCONSORT tool
      should then be reported in the revised paper and the completed checklist and flow diagram
      submitted to the journal along with the revised manuscript.In the control group, authors will
      be directed to a different version of the WebCONSORT tool. This tool will include the
      flowchart part of the WEBCONSORT tool but not the main checklist or elements relating to
      CONSORT extensions. The primary outcome measure is the percentage of poorly reported
      methodological items in the submitted manuscript. Secondary outcomes include time spent on
      the WEBCONSORT website, rejection rate of studies, feedback from authors and compliance rate.
      It is anticipated that the web-based tool will lead to improvements in the reporting and
      transparency of trial findings, thus aiding their critical appraisal and interpretation by
      readers.
    
  