
    
      Adolescents with type 1 diabetes (T1D) are at high risk for elevated diabetes distress, which
      greatly impacts their adherence, glycemic control (A1C), and overall quality of life (QOL). A
      potential barrier to improving these experiences may be that adolescents have few
      opportunities to develop the personal resources needed to handle adversity and manage stress.
      The "Promoting Resilience in Stress Management" (PRISM) intervention is a manualized, brief,
      skills-based intervention delivered in 2, 45-60 minute one-on-one sessions, followed by a
      family meeting and supplemented by booster sessions and a digital app. PRISM was developed
      from Stress and Coping theory and targets skills in stress-management and mindfulness,
      goal-setting, positive reframing, and meaning-making. All of these skills are associated with
      improved patient outcomes in diverse groups of adolescent populations with chronic/serious
      illness, and findings from a feasibility trial in adolescents with T1D showed PRISM to be
      highly feasible and desirable in this population. Further, a recent pilot randomized
      controlled trial among adolescents with cancer suggest PRISM is associated with improved
      perceptions of resilience, lower psychological distress, and higher QOL. This application
      proposes to build on our prior experience and fill three critical knowledge gaps: (1) PRISM's
      impact on A1C among adolescents with T1D; and (2) PRISM's impact on diabetes distress,
      self-reported adherence, and other patient-reported outcomes including resilience and QOL.
      This funding opportunity seeks to test interventions targeting diabetes distress for impact
      on glycemic control. Thus, the investigators propose a multi-site randomized controlled trial
      among N=160 adolescents (n=80 PRISM, n=80 Usual Care; ages 13-18) with the primary trial
      outcome of glycemic control 6-months post-enrollment. Time-in-range will be evaluated for
      participants on continuous glucose monitors as an exploratory aim. Secondary outcomes will
      include diabetes-distress, and patient-reported adherence, resilience, and quality of life.
      The investigators hypothesize PRISM will promote better glycemic control and improved
      diabetes distress than usual care. This application offers an opportunity to expand the body
      of knowledge regarding methodologically rigorous and evidence-based interventions for
      adolescents with T1D. Ultimately, this research has the potential to offer a practical,
      skills-based curriculum designed to improve outcomes for this high-risk group.
    
  