
    
      Childhood eczema is a significant pediatric health crisis in Hong Kong. It not only has
      adverse psychosocial impacts on children, but also poses tremendous burden for their parent
      caregivers. The interdependence of family members calls for a systemic family-based
      psychosocial intervention.

      An integrative body-mind-spirit (I-BMS) intervention for families with children suffering
      from eczema has been developed, and its initial results are promising. Compared to the
      waitlist control group, parent caregivers in the I-BSM intervention group reported
      significantly more improvements in perceived stress, depression and well-being. Likewise,
      children in the I-BSM intervention group reported significantly more improvements in somatic
      eczema severity, generalized anxiety, social phobia and emotional regulation. It is not
      clear, however, if the I-BMS intervention delivered only to the parent caregivers would be:
      (1) as efficacious as the I-BMS intervention delivered to both the parent caregivers and
      children, and (2) more efficacious than the health education delivered only to the parent
      caregivers, in improving their emotional regulation and quality of life. This three-arm
      parallel randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to examine the efficacy of two I-BMS
      interventions (one delivered to both parents and children, one delivered to parents only),
      compared to a health education active control (delivered to parents only), in promoting
      adaptive emotional regulation and quality of life of children with eczema and their parent
      caregivers. This RCT also aims to examine the interdependent associations between children
      and their parent caregivers' baseline primary outcomes and the post-intervention changes in
      primary outcomes.

      One hundred and ninety-two parent-child dyads will be recruited through hospitals and
      non-governmental organizations in various districts in Hong Kong. Each dyad will complete an
      individual pre-group screening interview. Those who meet the eligibility criteria will be
      randomized in a ratio of 1:1:1 into one of the three arms, hence, each arm will have 64
      parent-child dyads. Arm 1 is I-BMS intervention delivered to both children and their parent
      caregivers. Arm 2 is I-BMS intervention delivered to parent caregivers only. Arm 3 is health
      education delivered to parent caregivers only. Each arm consists of six weekly three-hour
      sessions. A computer-generated list of random numbers will be used to perform randomization.
      The primary outcomes are changes over the measurement points in quality of life and emotional
      regulation. The secondary outcomes include changes over the measurement points in depression,
      anxiety, stress, parent-child relationship, holistic well-being, caregiver burden, and
      perceived eczema severity. Assessments will be administered at baseline, post-intervention,
      and 6-week follow up. Important adverse events, if any, will be documented. Mixed factorial
      ANCOVAs based on intention-to-treat principle will be conducted to examine the efficacy of
      the two I-BMS interventions.

      Seven hypotheses are generated. First, it is hypothesized that, after the intervention,
      participants in the two I-BMS intervention groups will report significantly more improvements
      in emotional regulation and quality of life than those in the health education active control
      group. Second, it is hypothesized that there is no significant difference between the two
      I-BMS intervention groups in terms of post-intervention improvements in emotional regulation
      and quality of life. Third, it is hypothesized that the post-intervention improvements in
      emotional regulation and quality of life will be maintained at 6-week follow-up for the two
      I-BMS intervention groups, but not for the health education active control group. Fourth, it
      is hypothesized that children's baseline quality of life is predicted by their own baseline
      emotional regulation and by their parents' baseline quality of life. Fifth, it is
      hypothesized that parents' baseline quality of life is predicted by their own baseline
      emotional regulation and by their children's baseline quality of life. Sixth, it is
      hypothesized that children's post-intervention improvements in quality of life are predicted
      by their own post-intervention improvements in emotional regulation and their parents'
      post-intervention improvements in quality of life. Seventh, it is hypothesized that parents'
      post-intervention improvements in quality of life are predicted by their own
      post-intervention improvements in emotional regulation and their children's post-intervention
      improvements in quality of life.
    
  