
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare response rate, time to response, duration of response, toxicity, and survival
      in the two regimens (vincristine sulfate, carmustine, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, prednisone
      [VBMCP] vs. VBMCP alternating with high-dose cyclophosphamide and then with recombinant
      interferon alfa-2b [r alpha2b-IFN]) in patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma.

      II. To determine the value of the ancillary laboratory studies to predict response and
      survival.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive VBMCP comprising vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) on
      day 1, carmustine IV on day 1, melphalan orally (PO) on days 1-4, cyclophosphamide IV on day
      1, and prednisone PO on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 35 days for 2 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION PHASE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive VBMCP as in the induction phase. Courses repeat every 35 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive vincristine sulfate, carmustine, and melphalan as in the induction
      phase, high-dose cyclophosphamide IV on days 1-4 and prednisone PO on days 1-4 during courses
      3 and 5. Patients receive VBMCP as in the induction phase during even numbered courses.
      Patients receive recombinant interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10,
      12, 15, 17, 19, and 22 during odd courses beginning course 7. Treatment repeats every 35 days
      for courses 3-5, every 21 days for even courses beginning course 6, and every 22 days for odd
      courses beginning course 7 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, treatment continues for up to 2 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  