
    
      BACKGROUND Treatment of gout can be either simple and straightforward in many cases, or
      extremely problematic in others. Current guidelines recommend the use of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and colchicine as first-line treatment. However, patients
      with gout typically have multiple comorbidities that often preclude the use of these drugs.
      The management of gout can be even more troublesome in the hospital setting. Hospitalized
      patients usually have significant comorbidities and receive multiple medications, which lead
      to a high frequency of contraindications to the above agents. Steroids are considered an
      alternative therapeutic option especially for "difficult-to-treat" patients such as
      hospitalized patients. However they associate with immunosuppression and metabolic side
      effects; therefore, their use in the inpatient setting may be problematic as well.
      Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) has long been used in gout. The interest in ACTH was
      revived in the mid-1990s when several studies showed that ACTH is equally effective and, in
      most cases, acts faster than NSAIDs and steroids and exhibits an excellent safety profile. It
      was previously thought that the anti-inflammatory action of ACTH was steroid related: if this
      was the case, then one could argue that treatment with ACTH would have no advantage over the
      systemic administration of steroids. However, experimental evidence challenges this view; it
      has been shown that ACTH mainly acts in a steroid independent manner. The investigators have
      been using ACTH as a first-line treatment for hospitalized patients since 1995. The
      investigators have reported their experience with ACTH in gout in hospitalized patients -
      ACTH is highly effective and associates with minimal side effects.

      AIM To assess 1) the clinical efficacy of ACTH in gout compared to betamethasone in
      hospitalized patients; 2) the safety profile of ACTH vs betamethasone; and 3) the effect of
      ACTH on immune responses and metabolic parameters. HYPOTHESIS Based on retrospective data
      related to the use of ACTH in gout, the investigators hypothesize that ACTH has comparable
      clinical efficacy to betamethasone in the treatment of acute gout but exhibits a better
      safety profile and associates with less immunosuppression than betamethasone. STUDY DESIGN
      The investigators plan to recruit 60 hospitalized patients with acute gout. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to either the ACTH or the betamethasone group on a 1:1 basis. All
      participants will provide written informed consent. The study protocol has already been
      submitted and approved by the Ethics Committee of the University Hospital of Patras. The
      following data will be recorded for each participant: 1) age; 2) gender; 3) admission and
      discharge diagnosis; 4) history of major comorbidities that represent contraindications to
      established gout therapies; and 5) history history of hyperuricemia and gout. Comorbidities
      that will be recorded: a) hypertension defined as having a blood pressure (BP) of ≥140mmHg
      systolic and/or ≥90 mmHg diastolic and/or receiving any antihypertensive therapy; b)
      cardiovascular disease defined as the presence of coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular
      accident or peripheral vascular disease; c) chronic kidney disease defined as an estimated
      glomerular filtration rate, measured by the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease
      formula of 60-90ml/min/1.73m2 (mild) or <60ml/ min/1.73m2 (moderate/severe); and d) diabetes
      mellitus (DM) defined as fasting serum glucose levels >126mg/ dl and/or the use of oral
      hypoglycemic medications or insulin. Particiopants will receive an IM injection of either 100
      IU of ACTH (Synachten Depot) or 6 mg of betamethasone (Celestone Chronodose, which is the
      most commonly used intramuscular steroid formulation in our country and frequently used for
      the treatment of gout in the hospital setting. In case of partial or no response,
      participants will receive a second IM injection of the same drug at the 24h time point.
      Participants will be assessed at baseline and at 24, 48, 72h and 5-day time points. The
      clinical efficacy will be assessed as follows:

        1. Intensity of pain will be recorded using a Visual Analogue Scale (0-10 cm) at 24, 48,
           72h and 5days time points. Pain VAS will be also recorded at the 6 and 12h time points
           (self reported by the patient on a special diary provided);

        2. Physician and patient global assessment (0-100 scale) at 24, 48, 72h and 5days time
           points;

        3. Tenderness, swelling and redness (0-3 scale) will be recorded at 24, 48, 72h and 5days
           time points. LABORATORY ANALYSIS The investigators aim to assess the effects of ACTH vs
           betamethasone on i) metabolic parameters and ii) immune responses. i) Metabolic
           parameters Serum and plasma samples will be collected at baseline and at the 24, 48, 72h
           time points from all study participants and will be stored at -70 oC. The investigators
           will assess the effect of ACTH vs betamethasone on several metabolic parameters
           concentrating on glucose homeostasis. The invstigators propose the measurement of the
           following molecules in serum samples collected at the time points specified above:

      1) Fasting glucose, insulin and C-peptide so we can explore the effect of ACTH vs
      betamethasone on glucose homeostasis; 2) Total cholesterol, LDL, HDL and triglycerides so we
      can explore the effect of ACTH vs betamethasone on lipid homeostasis; 3) Cortisol levels in
      patients treated with ACTH. So far, the effect of a single IM ACTH injection of 100IU on
      cortisol levels is not known. The investigators hypothesize however, that cortisol levels
      will raise soon following the ACTH injection and decline shortly thereafter, thus causing
      minimum immunosuppression. In betamethasone treated patients the investigators propose the
      measurement of both Cortisol (using an assay with no cross reactivity with betamethasone) and
      ACTH levels. The investigators hypothesize that betamethasone will have a more pronounced
      effect on the HPA axis than ACTH and therefore may associate with a more intense and
      long-lasting immunosuppression; 4) Tetracosactide (Synachten) levels and betamethasone levels
      in ACTH and betamethasone treated patients respectively. Tetracosactide will be measured by
      ELISA methodology in plasma samples (Elisa Kit from Peninsula Laboratories, San Carlos, USA)
      that reacts with the part 1-24 of ACTH (and thus Tetracosactide). Plasma samples will be
      prepared by total elimination of endogenous ACTH by cation exchange chromatography.
      Similarly, betamethasone levels will be measured by ELISA methodology. With these experiments
      the investigators will explore how long tetracosactide and betamethasone circulate in
      peripheral blood following a single intramuscular injection. The investigators will match
      these data with the data derived from the experiments presented above (cortisol levels) to
      explore the effect of tetracosactide (Synachten) vs betamethasone on the HPA axis. ii)
      Effects on immune responses The investigators will study the effects of ACTH vs betamethasone
      on key cells mediating immune responses, such as a) T cells and b) neutrophils. The
      investigators propose the study of 10 patients (5 in the ACTH and 5 in the betamethasone
      group) matched for age and gender. These patients will not have active infection. A) Effects
      on T cells The investigators will collect 20 ml of heparinized peripheral blood at baseline
      and at the 24h time point. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be separated using
      a standard Ficoll centrifugation protocol and will be immediately stored in liquid nitrogen.
      The investigators estimate to collect 20X106 PBMC's from each sample. When all samples have
      been collected, the investigators will use flow cytometry to assess the expression of several
      activation markers on T cells. PBMC's will be stained with fluorochrome- conjugated
      monoclonal antibodies against CD3, CD40L, CD69 and CD25 and their respective isotypic
      controls. CD40L, CD69 and CD25 are typical T cell activation markers. Flow cytometry will be
      used to assess the percentage of CD3+ CD40L+, CD3+ CD69+ and CD3+ CD25+ double positive
      cells. The investigators also propose to assess these activation markers on T cells following
      activation. PBMC's will be cultured in RPMI supplemented with 15% FBS and antibiotics
      (pen/strep) for 48h. PHA at a concentration of 1μg/ml will be added to culture medium to
      activate T cells. Following 48h of culture, cells will be collected by centrifugation and
      analyzed as above using flow cytometry. In this experiment the investigators also plan to
      measure IL-2 levels in the culture supernatants since IL-2 is the main cytokine produced
      following T cell activation. With these experiments the investigators will explore the
      effects of ACTH vs betamethasone on T cells which are key cells mediating adaptive immune
      responses. The investigators hypothesize that ACTH has less effects on T cells compared to
      betamethasone. If this hypothesis is conformed by the experiments presented above, it will
      provide indirect evidence that ACTH causes less immunosuppression than steroids. SIGNIFICANCE
      OF THE STUDY This will be the first study to assess the efficacy of ACTH in gout in the
      hospital setting in a prospective manner. The investigators have previously reported that
      ACTH is highly effective in these patients and exhibits an excellent safety profile; however,
      these data were retrospectively collected. Therefore, if the efficacy and safety profile of
      ACTH is verified in this randomized controlled trial, the use of ACTH for the treatment of
      gout in the hospital setting will be strongly supported. However, the investigators believe
      that the laboratory part of the study will provide even more valuable data. If ACTH is proven
      to cause less metabolic abnormalities and associates with less immunosuppression compared to
      betamethasone, then ACTH may become the treatment of choice in this setting. Considering that
      hospitalized patients are the most difficult-to-treat patients, this may lead to wider use of
      ACTH in the treatment of gout in the community as well.
    
  