
    
      Shoulder instability most commonly affects people in the late teens to mid thirties, which
      are the most active years, recreational and vocational. The resulting disability, time lost
      from work, as well as the effect on an individual's quality of life represent a significant
      clinical problem for the population and for the healthcare system.

      The normal anatomy in the unstable shoulder can be restored using arthroscopic or open
      surgical stabilization techniques. There is considerable controversy surrounding the issue of
      arthroscopic versus open shoulder stabilization. Advocates of arthroscopic procedures cite
      the following as advantages: faster recovery, less post operative pain, decreased operative
      time, improved cosmetics, greater return of shoulder motion and the more accurate
      identification of intraarticular pathology. Those in favor of an open procedure cite superior
      long term results showing fewer recurrences with an open stabilization.

      There are few published reports directly comparing arthroscopic versus open shoulder
      stabilization repairs. It is also difficult to compare the results of existing studies as
      they report on heterogeneous patient populations, using a variety of techniques on mixed
      pathologies, using different outcome scales and variable definitions of success and failure.
      This study will address this controversial issue by comparing the disease-specific quality of
      life outcomes in patients with traumatic unidirectional anterior shoulder instability
      undergoing an arthroscopic versus an open stabilization procedure.

      This study is designed as a prospective randomized clinical trial with a second prospective
      analytical cohort study arm. In the randomized arm, patients are assigned to arthroscopic or
      open surgery based on varied block, computer-generated randomization. The expertise-based
      randomization method is used in this study, whereby the surgeons perform either arthroscopic
      or open surgery, but not both. Therefore, a patient is not only randomized to a treatment
      group, but is also assigned to the expert surgeon for that treatment.

      Patients in the prospective analytical cohort study arm of the trial undergo shoulder
      stabilization (open or arthroscopic) with any surgeon and complete the same follow-up visits,
      however they have not been randomized. The outcomes of the prospective cohort will be
      compared to those of the randomized arm to determine if the expertise-based randomization
      method has an effect on patient outcome.

      Disease-specific quality of life is assessed using the validated Western Ontario Shoulder
      Instability (WOSI) Index. The index has 21 questions divided into 4 categories: physical
      symptoms, sport/recreation/work, lifestyle and emotions. This self-administered questionnaire
      utilizes a 100mm visual analog scale format to provide an overall score out of 100. A lower
      score reflects a better quality of life.
    
  