
    
      Approximately 20-25% of the total number of HIV-infected patients is co-infected with HCV
      which translates to 6-8 million persons worldwide. Combined treatment of HIV and HCV is
      complicated by the risk of drug-drug interactions as both the direct acting antiviral agents
      (DAAs) for HCV as the antiretroviral agents for HIV are substrates of cytochrome P450
      (CYP450) or various membrane transporters, and also have the capacity to influence these
      systems. A careful selection of the appropriate regimens and if needed adjusted doses is key
      for optimal treatment of both viral infections.

      Daclatasvir is a recently approved anti-HCV agent that is a CYP3A4 substrate but does not
      affect CYP450 itself. It is also a moderate inhibitor of various membrane transporters such
      as organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1), P-glycoprotein (P-gP), and organic
      cation transporters (OCT2).

      Atazanavir/ritonavir is one of the preferred antiretroviral agents in all international
      guidelines. Ritonavir is used as a boosting agents based on its inhibitory effects on CYP3A.
      This also inhibits CYP3A-mediated metabolism of daclatasvir and when atazanavir/ritonavir is
      combined with daclatasvir, it is recommended to reduce the dose of daclatasvir from 60mg QD
      to 30mg QD.

      Cobicistat has recently been approved as an alternative booster of atazanavir at a dose of
      150mg QD. It is expected that cobicistat will inhibit CYP3A mediated metabolism of
      daclatasvir in a similar manner as ritonavir does, but there are no clinical data to support
      this. As cobicistat lacks some of the adverse events associated with ritonavir use, the use
      of cobicistat, including as a booster of atazanavir, is likely to increase.

      This study aims to provide the evidence that 150mg of cobicistat will have the same effect on
      the pharmacokinetics of daclatasvir 30mg QD as 100mg of ritonavir, when given together with
      atazanavir 300mg.
    
  