
    
      Following glaucoma surgery, patients often experience decreased visual acuity (VA) which can
      partly be explained by induced changes to the optical properties of the cornea. Corneal
      astigmatism can be assessed using corneal topography, a non-invasive tool which provides an
      accurate estimate of corneal curvature in all meridians. Obtained keratometric measures
      (termed K values) can allow clinicians to quantify the amount of astigmatism before and after
      surgical intervention.

      Multiple studies have been previously published to evaluate induced postoperative astigmatism
      after trabeculectomy. However, only two studies have characterized the impact of GDDs on
      keratometric values. To the best of our knowledge, no study has yet attempted to quantify the
      amount of astigmatism induced by the XEN Gel Stent.

      Assessing the impact of the XEN implant on corneal astigmatism is important to better
      characterize the expected course of postoperative visual rehabilitation, the impact of novel
      glaucoma devices on corneal properties and the predictability of refractive outcomes after
      XEN implantation. Compared to traditional filtering surgery, the XEN Gel Stent is inserted
      without opening the conjunctiva and is implanted further from the corneal limbus (5 mm).
      These factors may allow for a reduced amount of surgically induced corneal astigmatism.

      We hypothesize that the XEN Gel Stent implantation induces less corneal astigmatism compared
      to traditional filtering surgery, such as the trabeculectomy and GDDs (BGI or AGV).

      The main goal of this prospective interventional comparative study is to assess the severity
      of postoperative corneal astigmatism induced by implantation of the XEN Gel Stent compared to
      that induced by traditional filtering surgery (trabeculectomy and GDDs).

      Secondary objectives are evaluation of visual acuity recovery as well as IOP reduction and
      other parameters between groups.

      Glaucoma surgery (XEN Gel Stent, trabeculectomy or GDD implantation) will be performed by the
      ophthalmologists in charge of the study according to standard procedures. For each patient,
      the most appropriate type of glaucoma surgery will be recommended by the ophthalmologist
      regardless of patients' participation in the study, as dictated by the specific nature of
      their glaucoma and following current standards of care.
    
  