
    
      1. Research design: The repeated measurements randomization control trial is used for the
           study design. We design a 45-minute course and 15 minutes Q&A to enable learners to
           integrate knowledge and experience to achieve meaningful and valuable learning
           experiences by exploring problems, summarizing and integrating information and
           expression. After the end of the study, quantitative analysis was used to compare the
           differences between the experimental group and the control group before and after the
           study and two weeks later to verify the effectiveness of different learning models. In
           order to avoid the difference between the retest effect and the practice effect, the
           second post-test will be performed two weeks after the pre-test to balance the bias
           caused by the test tool. They used different learning models. The experimental group
           used the e-book learning mode of sexual harassment prevention training, the control
           group used the sexual harassment prevention audio-visual learning mode, the dependent
           variable is the sexual harassment prevention knowledge, and the sexual harassment event
           coping skill, sexual harassment incident management and sexual harassment learning
           motivation.

        2. Randomization Process: The study used block randomization, and randomly assign
           participants who meet the selection criteria to the experimental group and the control
           group (1:1 ratio) by Random Allocation Software random assignment table. In addition,
           using the electronic form system, participants fill in the study number to replace the
           identifiable name, and then the research assistant uses the random distribution software
           to obtain a random assignment table, and use the table to allocate experimental and
           control group before the experiment. The sealed envelopes numbered 1 to 104 were
           arranged in the order of the groups. On the day of the study, the researchers take out
           the envelopes and assigned them to the participants according to the order of handing in
           the consents. Based on the group number (1 or 2) on the envelope bag, participants enter
           the designated meeting room for research.

        3. Sample size calculation: This study uses the repeated measures of G-Power 3.1.9 windows
           and between factors among groups to calculate the sample size. According to the
           predecessor study, the power value is set to .8, the alpha value is set to .05, and the
           effect size (ES) value is .25 (moderate ES). The number of samples was 43 in the
           experimental group and 43 in the control group, a total of 86. If the loss rate was 20%,
           the total requirement participants are 104. According to the literature, male nursing
           staff accounted for around 3%, so 4 of them were male nurses.

      sexual harassment coping skill
    
  