
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The metabolic syndrome is a common disorder posing a significant major risk for coronary
      heart disease and early mortality in the Western hemisphere. Central to its cardiovascular
      complications is the association of the syndrome with the specific abnormalities in plasma
      lipid and lipoprotein profiles including increased plasma triglycerides, decreased HDL
      cholesterol, and predominance of dense lipoprotein particles. In search for the genetic
      etiology of this lipid disorder, the investigators identified a quantitative trait locus
      (QTL) on human chromosome 7q36 strongly linked to variation in plasma lipid levels. They
      hypothesize that this QTL contains genetic variants that contribute to alterations in
      biologic pathways underlying the genesis of the lipid disorder.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will search for the genetic cause of the metabolic syndrome, a lipid disorder that
      poses a major risk for coronary heart disease. The investigators have identified a
      quantitative trait locus (QTL) on human chromosome 7q36 strongly linked to variation in
      plasma lipid levels. The investigators hypothesize that this QTL contains genetic variants
      that contribute to alterations in biologic pathways underlying the genesis of the lipid
      disorder. To test for this hypothesis, they propose a comprehensive approach utilizing
      established resources and expertise to identify the functional sequence variants within this
      QTL. Specifically, they will 1.) identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and their
      haplotype and linkage disequilibrium structure across the entire QTL region; 2.) Analyze
      association of informative SNPs with plasma triglyceride levels, LDL levels, and lipoprotein
      density fractions using variance component linkage/disequilibrium analyses; and 3.) Identify
      potentially functional sequence variants in associated genes or genomic regions using
      Bayesian quantitative trait nucleotide analysis. This comprehensive application of newly
      available genomic technologies, novel statistical approaches, the DNA and phenotypic
      information available, and the consortium of expertise assembled behind this project will
      ensure the successful elucidation of the genetic etiology of this lipid disorder and
      consequently the development of effective means for prevention and/or treatment of
      cardiovascular complications of the metabolic syndrome.
    
  