
    
      TITLE OF THE RESEARCH PROJECT A randomized, double-blind controlled trial of bupivacaine
      extended-release liposome injection for post-surgical analgesia in patients undergoing
      open-reduction internal fixation of the distal radius.

      PROJECT SUMMARY For patients undergoing open-reduction internal-fixaton (ORIF) of isolated
      distal radius fractures, administration of 66.5 mg of liposomal bupivacaine to operative
      field may decrease the need for post-operative narcotic pain medication.

      STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM Patients undergoing open-reduction internal-fixation (ORIF) of
      isolated distal radius fractures experience significant post-operative pain, most commonly
      mitigated by the use of narcotic painkillers. Among other issues, prolonged use of narcotic
      painkillers can lead to dependence and abuse. This potentially leads to post-operative
      narcotic seeking habits of adult orthopedic trauma patients.

      THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK There is much research supporting that administration of liposomal
      bupivacaine is an effective post-surgical analgesic. The investigators' hypothesis is that
      66.5 mg of liposomal bupivacaine injected at the operative field will decrease the need for
      post-operative narcotics, and will therefore reduce the risk of dependence and abuse.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVE

      -Assess the potential benefit of single-dose liposomal bupivacaine (Exparel) in the treatment
      of post-operative pain following open-reduction internal-fixation of isolated distal radius
      fractures.

      METHODOLOGY Patients admitted to University of Louisville Hospital with isolated distal
      radius fractures requiring ORIF will be eligible. Exclusion criteria will be as follows: 1)
      patients who have received narcotic pain medication within the past 6 months as confirmed by
      Kasper reporting 2) Patients compartment syndrome or acute carpal tunnel syndrome requiring
      surgical decompression 3) Patients with prior history of ipsilateral wrist surgery.

      Randomization will be performed using sealed envelopes, and each patient will be assigned a
      number that corresponds to either an Exparel 266mg solution (20 ml Exparel 1.3% plus 40ml of
      injectable saline) verses a 60ml placebo control injection (20ml inert liposomal suspension
      used in the manufacturing of Exparel without bupivacaine plus 40ml injectable saline) to be
      provided by Pacira. If inert liposomal solution is not a viable option, blinded/opaque
      syringes (either provided by Pacira (preferable ) or created by unblinded personnel) will be
      used to dispense 60 mL of sterile saline. The corresponding solution will be known to the
      participating, unblinded pharmacists who will provide the solutions and keep participant
      records, and not to the surgeons.

      The amount of narcotic pain medication used in the recovery room and during the hospital
      admission will be recorded. Patients will also be provided study logs to record their daily
      usage of prescribed pain medication once discharge home. Follow-up phone calls will be made
      to each patient 72 hours post-operatively, and the amount of narcotic tablets used will be
      recorded. Patients will then be seen in the clinic 1 week postoperatively, and the total
      narcotic pain medication usage will again be documented. Passive wrist range of motion (ROM)
      tolerance and overall satisfaction will also be assessed at this visit. Demographic data
      including age, gender and handedness will be recorded for each patient. The primary outcome
      measure will be the total post-operative narcotic pain medication use. Secondary outcome
      measures will be passive wrist ROM, and overall satisfaction.

      All subjects will be treated ethically. This includes true informed consent, explanation of
      the study by a co-investigator, and time to ask questions about the study. Patient intake
      data will be kept on paper forms initially and kept in a desk behind a locked research office
      in the department of orthopaedics that is accessible only to staff. This data will be entered
      into a password protected computer in the same office and the papers will then be shredded.
      Once feasible, all PHI will be removed from the data set. A key for the PHI will be in a
      separate excel file on this same computer.

      PLAN FOR ANALYSIS OF RESULTS To detect a 30% difference in narcotic pain medication
      requirement, a Cohen's d = 0.4 (small/medium effect) will be required.

      TIMETABLE The study will begin once IRB approval is obtained and will continue for 1 year.
    
  