
    
      The study is planned to be performed on 72 patients between the ages of 18-70 who were
      diagnosed and followed up in the Department of Prosthodontics of the Faculty of Dentistry of
      Yuzuncu Yil University. Patients with complete disability and indication of total prosthesis
      are included in the case group. In addition, individuals with systemic disturbance of
      salivation, radiotherapy-chemotherapy patients who are known to be able to facilitate Candida
      growth will be excluded from our study. The complete prosthesis made of
      polymethylmethacrylate material will be delivered to the patients. Before delivery, the
      polished surfaces of the relevant prosthesis, its vertical size, whether the patient is
      suitable for use or not, and the delivery of the prostheses that have passed the relevant
      controls will be considered appropriate. Patients will be asked to come for follow-up at 1
      week and 1 month after the delivery of full dentures. The patients will be delivered with one
      of the glutaraldehyde, sodium hypochlorite or chlorhexidine digluconate solutions as the
      cleaning solution determined by the researchers during the initial delivery of their
      prostheses. Patients will be asked to clean with this relevant solution twice a day, in
      accordance with the specified times. At the 1 st and 1 st month follow-up, the prosthesis
      will be taken for the determination of the Candida number and species and the following
      procedures will be applied. Delivered prostheses will be taken in a 250 ml beaker (containing
      100 ml of distilled water). Then, with the help of a swab, it will be contacted to the inner
      surfaces and edges of the prosthesis to allow mixing into the distilled water in possible
      biofilm layers.

      Then, the prosthesis will be removed and the distilled water will be homogenized by mixing
      thoroughly with the help of a stirrer. Later Zhou et al. According to the method used; 1 ml
      of distilled water will be transferred to falcon tubes. Pre-cultural Falcon tubes will be
      kept on ice for up to 1 hour.

      Prior to culture, samples will be diluted with sterile distilled water (1: 1, 1:10, 1: 100).
      And be mixed well using a vortex mixer. Then take 0.5 ml of these diluted liquids to be
      planted in Sabouraud Dextrose Agar. After 48 hours of incubation (microscopic and macroscopic
      evaluation), the number of colony forming units (CFU) of distilled water will be counted
      using two researchers. Then, Candida lara will be identified by an API test which will
      include 19 carbohydrate assimilation tests and negative control.

      The same processes will be repeated after the disinfection process with ozone or microwave to
      compare the effectiveness of the disinfection process. Thus, the daily recommended by
      physicians for the daily cleaning process, the suppression of reproduction and reproduction
      of Candida species, and a new method proposed by physicians to be applied as a new method of
      ozone and microwave and how much efficiency of sterilization on the Candida number will be
      compared on the basis of the effects will be compared.

      Statistical analysis will be done and interpreted.
    
  