
    
      INTRODUCTION Myocardial ischemia is common in critically ill patients. When the cause of
      myocardial ischemia and subsequent necrosis is a mismatch between the delivery and
      consumption of oxygen in the myocardium and not acute coronary artery thrombosis, we are
      talking about type II myocardial infarction (type II MI) (1). The most common cause of such
      MI is infection - sepsis. The infection increases oxygen consumption in the heart muscle,
      which can lead to acute ischemia when the coronary reserve is reduced (chronic stable
      coronary disease). This is manifested by troponin leakage, ischemic changes in the
      electrocardiogram (ECG), or impaired contraction of the heart muscle. In critically ill
      patients, acute coronary artery thrombosis may also occur due to hyper coagulability, which
      cannot be identified without urgent invasive coronary diagnostics.

      Due to the lack of data on the efficacy of acute percutaneous revascularization, these
      patients are generally treated medically. The cause of the increase in oxygen consumption is
      treated. Usually invasive diagnostics is performed only in case of severe hemodynamic
      instability, very high levels of troponin, or clear newly formed segmental wall contraction
      disorders visible on ultrasound. Delays to invasive diagnostics are generally longer than the
      time frames recommended for invasive diagnostics in the treatment of type I MI without the ST
      segment elevation in ECG (NSTE-ACS).

      HYPOTHESES

        1. Obstructive coronary artery disease suitable for percutaneous revascularization is
           present in most patients with type II MI.

        2. Type I MI (acute coronary artery thrombosis) is misdiagnosed in some patients.

        3. Echocardiogram and a 12-lead electrocardiogram are not reliable in predicting coronary
           artery disease.

        4. Urgent coronary angiography is safe in patients with type II MI.

        5. Percutaneous coronary revascularization (if indicated) reduces the size of myocardial
           necrosis and may improve survival in the critically ill patients with type II MI.

      METHODS A prospective randomized trial in critically ill patients with type II MI will be
      performed. All patients will undergo coronary angiography in the first 24 hours after the
      diagnosis. If acute coronary artery thrombosis is found, PCI will be done according to the
      latest European Society of Cardiology guidelines for NSTE-ACS (2). In the case of
      non-obstructive coronary artery disease or a normal coronary angiogram, standard treatment of
      the underlying disease (pneumonia, sepsis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, etc.) will
      be continued. Patients with stable obstructive coronary artery disease will be randomized
      into two groups - interventional and control group. The first group of patients will undergo
      immediate percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (of all obstructive lesions or until 300
      mL of contrast is reached), the second group will receive only medical treatment and a
      delayed PCI if needed before hospital discharge.

      Serial serum high sensitivity troponin I levels will be monitored at pre specified time
      intervals (baseline, after 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 72 hours) and the "area under the curve"
      of troponin concentration will be calculated, serving as a rough estimate of myocardial
      necrosis size. At predetermined intervals, cardiac function will be evaluated with
      echocardiography (baseline, day 3-5). Intensive care unit stay and hospitalization duration
      will be recorded as well as survival at 30 days and 6 months.

      Mortality rates in patients with type II MI treated in ICU are high (up to 40%). The
      invertigators anticipate that the intervention could reduce myocardial necrosis (troponin
      area under the curve) by 20-30% (primary goal) and absolute mortality by 5-10% (secondary
      goal). In order to achieve a study power of 80% and a statistically significant difference
      between groups with p <0.05, 70 patients should be included in each group. According to
      current hospitalization data at the Department of Intensive Internal Medicine Ljubljana, such
      a number of patients would require 18-24 months of enrolment.

      In the course of the study, potential complications would be carefully noted, notably the
      potential for additional bleeding due to arterial punctures and the use of additional
      anticoagulation and antiplatelet drugs in the invasive group. Kidney function will be closely
      monitored and the contrast volume will be limited to 300 mL.

      The study will be carried out in critically ill patients who, in general, are not able to
      give informed consent for inclusion in the study at the time of enrolment. Therefore, the
      invertigators will seek for legal representative's agreement or patient's consent after
      mental improvement.

      EXPECTATIONS Obstructive coronary disease is expected to be found in majority of patients
      with type II MI. In some patients concomitant coronary thrombosis is expected, which would be
      missed by standard diagnostics.

      The investigators believe that a routine invasive approach and PCI of obstructive coronary
      lesions could reduce the infarct size and thus improve the prognosis of patients with type II
      MI without significant complications in their treatment.

      The study will provide important data on the safety and efficacy of early coronary
      angiography in patients with type II MI, as it is currently only occasionally performed on
      the basis of extrapolations from studies conducted in patients with NSTE-AKS.

      RESEARCHERS STATEMENT The researchers involved are trained in research work and are able to
      identify in a timely manner any complications that could endanger the health or life of the
      persons in the study and are able to act properly. The department takes care of the
      professionalism of the work and the safety of persons in the study. All researchers will
      adhere to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki on biomedical research in human
      beings, the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights
      and Dignity of the Human Being in relation to the Use of Biology and Medicine (Oviedo
      Convention) and the principles of the Slovenian Code of Medical Deontology.

      There is no conflict of interest in the presented study.
    
  