
    
      -  It is well recognized that the importance of non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease
           during its progression and many patients are suffering from this. The deterioration of
           cognitive function is especially known as a crucial prognostic factor. According to
           recently released cohort study, majority of patients go through dementia in advanced
           Parkinson's disease.

        -  Dementia correlates to decreased cognitive function, and Behavioral and Psychological
           Symptoms of Dementia (Neuropsychiatric symptom, BPSD) as well. Neuropsychiatric symptom
           composed of abnormal behavior and psychological symptoms: abnormal behaviors include
           combativeness, wandering, agitation, akathisia, inappropriate sexual behavior, following
           caregiver, shouting, cursing, insomnia and binge eating while psychological symptoms
           include anxiety, depression, hallucination, and illusion. Neuropsychiatric symptom is
           evaluated depending on information given by caregivers, and symptoms are likely to be
           temporary or changing constantly. Two thirds of patients is found to have
           neuropsychiatric symptom when they are diagnosed as dementia, 65 % in nursing home and
           70~90% in advanced dementia states. Neuropsychiatric symptom attributes important role
           for mortality, mortality, and cause to enter nursing home.

        -  Besides, neuropsychiatric symptom also plays important part as care-giver burden. It
           gives heavier burden on caregiver rather than on patients, and increases depression and
           anxiety of caregivers. Specific correlation with patient's neuropsychiatric symptom to
           burden of caregiver is known as agitation, depression, aggression, repetitive behavior,
           anxiety, and disinhibition. There are, however, various results related to race, region,
           subjects, and investigator.

        -  Study on neuropsychiatric symptom in patients with Parkinson's disease dementia has not
           been thorough yet, and there even has not been any study done on this in Korea yet.

        -  The investigators will study prevalence of neuropsychiatric symptom in PDD patients and
           burden of caregiver.
    
  