
    
      Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disorder that occurs most commonly in women
      of reproductive-age and is associated with thrombosis and adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs),
      such as fetal loss and preterm birth due to severe preeclampsia (PE) or placental
      insufficiency (PI). Traditional therapy for APS during pregnancy has been a heparin agent and
      low dose aspirin. However, in PROMISSE, a prospective observational study of 724 patients,
      44% of pregnancies in women with APS and LAC resulted in APOs despite treatment with heparin
      and low dose aspirin.

      The APOs in women with APS and LAC are due to failure of adequate vascularization of the
      developing placenta and subsequent inadequate blood flow to the placenta and fetus. Mouse
      models of APS show that poor placental vascularization in APS is a result of inflammation in
      the placenta. This inflammation leads to recruitment of neutrophils and release of more
      inflammatory mediators and anti-angiogenic factors. In the mouse model tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha is a critical downstream effector of abnormal placental development and fetal
      damage, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha blockade during pregnancy restores angiogenic
      balance, normalizes placental vascularization, and rescues pregnancies.

      Based on our observations in PROMISSE and the favorable results of tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha blockade in our mouse models, we hypothesize that tumor necrosis factor-alpha
      blockade will significantly decrease the rate of fetal death and preterm delivery due to PE
      and PI in women with APS and LAC. The study investigators aim to determine whether tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha blockade during pregnancy, added to a regimen of heparin and low dose
      aspirin, (1) reduces the rate of APOs in women with clinical APS and LAC, and (2) alters
      angiogenic markers of poor placental vascularization. Investigators will conduct an open
      label trial of certolizumab (a tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitor that does not cross the
      placenta). The regimen of heparin and low dose aspiring is a standard of care treatment for
      this patient population and is not considered part of the research intervention.
    
  