
    
      South Africa is home to the world's largest antiretroviral therapy (ART) program, but
      sustaining high retention along the HIV care continuum has proven challenging in the country
      and throughout the wider region. Population mobility is frequent in South Africa and mobility
      likely disrupts retention in HIV care. In the absence of a facility-linked national
      electronic health data system, clinic switching as unreported transfers also obscures the
      true magnitude of loss to follow-up, hindering national evaluation efforts. Postpartum women
      in South Africa are known to be at high risk of dropping out of HIV care after delivery and
      are frequently mobile, partly due to cultural traditions of returning to one's rural home
      after giving birth. To address these challenges to retention in care, the investigators will
      enroll 30 peripartum, HIV-positive women as potential users to assess the acceptability and
      feasibility of deploying in a real-world setting a novel mHealth application to improve
      retention in HIV care. The app will operate on users' own smartphones and will serve two
      primary functions: 1) as a service tool to inform postpartum, HIV-positive women of ART
      services in their area so that they may access continued HIV care, even while traveling, and
      2) as a research tool to prospectively characterize travel and mobility patterns of these
      women. During this pilot study, women will be passively followed for 90 days following app
      installation at enrollment. After 90 days, they will be interviewed to determine
      acceptability and feasibility, and electronic user data will be analyzed. This information
      will be used to develop an app poised for nationwide adoption. The research team comprises
      leaders in the study of HIV implementation science, maternal/child health and biomedical
      informatics, with experience designing effective mobile health (mHealth) interventions in
      low-resources settings. This pilot study aims to engage potential users to test a smartphone
      application that both improves linkage to HIV care and provides essential research data to
      inform future health system strengthening efforts.
    
  