
    
      Pregnant women will be scheduled to be seen in the clinic every 4 weeks during their
      pregnancy and then 1 and 6 weeks following delivery. In addition, pregnant women will be
      instructed to come to the study clinic for all their medical care and avoid the use of any
      outside medications. Children will be scheduled to be seen in the clinic at 1, 4, 6, and 8
      weeks of age and then every 4 weeks until they reach 52 weeks of age. Parents/guardians will
      be instructed to bring their children to the study clinic for all medical care and avoid the
      use of any outside medications. The study clinic will remain open 7 days a week from 8 a.m.
      to 5 p.m. Study participants not seen in the clinic for their every 4 week routine visits
      will be visited at home and requested to come to the study clinic as soon as possible.
      Pregnant women and children will receive standard of care as designated in the Uganda
      Ministry of Health guidelines. Routine antenatal care will include screening and treatment
      for sexually transmitted infections, blood pressure assessment, urine dipstick for
      proteinuria, prescription of iron, folate, multivitamins and mebendazole. Routine care in
      children will include immunizations, vitamin A supplementation, and management of anemia
      using Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) guidelines. During routine
      assessments subjects will be asked about visits to outside health facilities and the use of
      any medications outside the study protocol. Standardized assessment of adherence will be done
      for study drugs administered at home and insecticide treated net use. A routine history and
      physical exam will be performed using a standardized clinical assessment form. Blood will be
      collected by finger prick for thick smear (in very young children, heel sticks may be
      substituted for finger pricks), capillary plasma (for routine visits where phlebotomy is not
      done in pregnant women only) and filter paper samples. If a pregnant woman or parent/guardian
      of a child reports a fever in the last 24 hours or the patient has a documented temperature >
      38.0˚C tympanic, the patient's thick blood smear will be read immediately and if positive the
      patient will be diagnosed and treated for malaria. If the thick blood smear is negative, the
      patient will be managed by study physicians for a non-malarial febrile illness. If the
      patient is afebrile and does not report a recent fever, a thick blood smear will not be
      obtained, except when following routine testing schedules. In pregnant mothers, thick blood
      smears other than those done when a mother has fever will not be used for clinical care of
      study participants. Phlebotomy for routine laboratory tests (CBC and ALT) to monitor for
      potential adverse events from study medications, storage of plasma and for immunology studies
      will be performed every 8 weeks in pregnant women. Phlebotomy for routine laboratory tests
      (CBC) and immunology studies will be performed at 12, 28, and 52 weeks of age in children.
      For pregnant women, study drugs will be administered at the time of each routine visit. ECGs
      will be performed to measure the QTc interval in all pregnant women just prior to the 1st
      dose of study drugs and 2-3 hours after their 3rd dose of study drugs at 20, 28 and 36 weeks
      of gestation. In addition a finger prick capillary plasma sample will be collected just prior
      to performing the ECGs after the 3rd dose of study drugs at 20, 28, and 36 weeks of gestation
      in pregnant women.
    
  