
    
      This is a prospective interventional clinical study. All enrolled patients have multifocal
      and refractory epilepsy that voluntarily will accept to participate in the study signing a
      consent informed form. All patients are from the epilepsy clinic our Institute that meet the
      criteria. All patients will be randomized and divided in 5 groups (45 patients); placebo
      group, active group of one session 30 minutes, active group of one session of 60 minutes,
      active group of 30 minutes for 3 consecutively days and 30 minutes for 5 consecutively days.
      After the selection, the patients will record their EEG of 30 min in order to register the
      basal epileptic activity and determine the most epileptic area, where the intervention will
      be applied. Then, an EEG will be realized after the intervention, one month after and two
      months after.

      The equipment used to apply the therapy is approved for medical use in our country. The
      equipment is Nicolet, Endeavor used at low amplitude for direct electrical nervous
      stimulation mode. The intensity to apply will be 2 milliampere. The stimulation mode is
      continuous with frequency of 3 Hz. The site of application depends on the basal EEG findings,
      nevertheless, it is ruled by the international EEG 10/20 system.

      The cathodal electrode is applies with disposable needle of 12 mm long and 0.5 mm wide, while
      the anodal electrode is applied with conventional cup electrodes with a 2mm hole in the
      center an a recording surface of silver chloride /silver. After the intervention the patient
      is asked about any adverse effect form the therapy application and the EEG is realized as the
      investigators described before. The patient will receive a follow up dates at one and two
      months. The patient must make a calendar with the frequency of seizures and must not change
      the actual medication.

      Placebo. This group receives the same procedures just that in this case the machine produces
      a 60 second stimulus at the beginning so the patient can feel the initial electric stimulus.

      The investigators will record the frequency of the seizures and analysis of the epileptiform
      activity in the EEGs in the baseline, after therapy, 1 month and 2 months of follow-up. As
      well the safety profile of the tDCS.
    
  