
    
      Lapatinib in combination with capecitabine is a standard of care treatment for ErbB2+
      metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients who have progressed after anthracyclines, taxanes and
      trastuzumab treatment. Results from the lapatinib pivotal trial showed that the addition of
      lapatinib to capecitabine increased median time to progression (TTP) even among heavily
      pre-treated patients (median of 4 prior lines of therapy). A recent ad hoc subset analysis of
      this trial suggested that earlier administration of lapatinib-capecitabine in MBC patients
      who progress after trastuzumab may produce better clinical outcomes. The TYCO study was
      designed to evaluate if early switch to lapatinib-capecitabine in patients with ErbB2+ MBC
      who have progressed on trastuzumab-containing regimen improves TTP in comparison with a later
      start (after several lines of therapy). Secondary objectives include Overall Response Rate
      (ORR), 1 year Overall Survival (OS), and description of reported serious adverse events. This
      is an international, multicenter, prospective, observational (non-interventional) study in
      269 ErbB2+MBC patients whose disease has progressed after treatment with trastuzumab. Two
      cohorts will be compared; Group 1: patients receiving lapatinib-capecitabine immediately
      after first trastuzumab progression, and Group 2: patients receiving lapatinib-capecitabine
      after two or more lines of treatment after first trastuzumab progression. Eligibility
      criteria include females aged 18 or more with confirmed ErbB2+ MBC who have progressed after
      a previous trastuzumab-containing regimen, eligible to start standard therapy with
      lapatinib-capecitabine at approved conventional doses, as per local label approval. The study
      duration is of 12 months with data collection at baseline and approximately every 3 months
      thereafter. Patient evaluations will be conducted per standard patient care in each center
      and TTP will be determined by the treating physician (clinically or radiologically).
      Enrollment started in February 2010 and completion of accrual is estimated for December 2011.
    
  