
    
      Randomized Trial of KEEP-P, a Preventive Intervention for Foster Preschoolers (KEEP-P).

      Preschool-aged foster and other high-risk children are at increased risk for numerous
      negative outcomes. However, there is very limited use of evidence-based interventions for
      these young children. Major barriers to progress in this area include a lack of available
      evidence-based programs for high-risk children across the preschool years and the tendency
      for the few existing evidence-based interventions to be resource intensive in terms of
      funding and the level of staff expertise required to be implemented with fidelity. Readily
      scalable, evidence-based interventions for foster and other high-risk preschoolers are
      clearly needed to reduce the widespread disparities. The goal of the proposed study is to
      conduct a randomized clinical trial of a new, low-cost, manualized, group-based intervention
      for caregivers of preschool aged children. The investigators propose to evaluate two versions
      of the intervention: (a) a basic version that employs a curriculum consisting of 12 weekly
      psychoeducational caregiver support groups and (b) an augmented version that consists of the
      caregiver support groups with extended curriculum including with the addition of information
      about recent findings in early brain development and the elements of the Filming Interactions
      to Nurture Development (FIND) video coaching program. Across four waves of data collection
      (baseline, immediately postintervention, and 12 and 18 months postbaseline), the
      investigators will examine the extent to which the two intervention conditions show improved
      parenting, reduced rates of disrupted placements, and improved child outcomes. The
      investigators will conduct multivariate modeling to examine mediating mechanisms underlying
      the hypothesized immediate and longer- term intervention effects.

      Finally, the investigators will conduct a comprehensive economic evaluation to examine the
      incremental costs associated with implementing the intervention and the benefits realized in
      the intervention conditions in terms of increased positive outcomes for children.
    
  