
    
      The era of immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI) has changed the treatment regimen for incurable
      non-small cell lung cancer. With that the hope of a more long-term survival has been
      introduced. ICI is given as standard therapy for selected NSCLC patients with incurable
      advanced or metastatic (stage IV) disease. For this group of patients clinical trial reports
      present a 3 year overall survival rate of around 30%. Checkpoint inhibition is also known as
      programmed death 1 (PD-1) or programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors and the PD-L1 tumor
      proportion score is currently the only clinically applicable biomarker used for this patient
      selection. New prognostic and predictive biomarkers are therefore warranted.The real life
      unselected NSCLC patient eligible for treatment with immunotherapy (check point inhibition)
      may be both older, with more comorbidity, more widespread disease and in poorer performance
      status than patients treated in clinical phase III trials. In this prospective single center
      study, clinical patient data, peripheral blood and baseline pre-treatment tumor biopsies are
      collected from NSCLC patients treated in any given treatment line with nivolumab,
      pembrolizumab or atezolizumab. Besides baseline samples consecutive blood samples will be
      collected for cytokine profiling and measurement of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and micro
      RNA analysis. Baseline MRI of the brain screening for brain metastases and an extended
      CT-scan of thorax, abdomen and the lower extremities will be performed screening for venous
      thromboembolism (VTE). This along with comorbidity screening tools and quality of life
      assessments will provide detailed mapping of both patient and disease characteristics of
      potentially more frail patients including those with untreated brain metastases. By also
      registering immune related adverse events (irAE) prospectively in this study and doing
      additional blood samples in case of grade 3-4 toxicity, identification of biomarkers as
      predictors for effect and toxicity is durable. Hopefully this will contribute to more
      optimized treatment courses for those NSCLC patients to come.
    
  