
    
      Rationale: The proposed study stems from a CIHR project and is driven by the results of
      knowledge translation (KT) activities. The investigators developed the first sex-specific
      risk prediction models for major depressive episode (MDE) using data from over 10,000
      Canadians. The models include age, personal and family history of MDE, childhood trauma, and
      predictors that may change over time. Using the models, individuals can answer the question:
      what is my risk of having a MDE in the next 4 years? Knowing this personalized risk
      information may assist health professionals in communicating with patients and planning
      preventive actions; disclosing the information may also empower consumers to actively engage
      in self-help. In the past 5 years, the KT activities with over 500 stakeholders informed that
      the investigators need to clearly delineate the benefits (enhanced risk perceptions and
      self-help) and potential risk (increased psychological distress and impaired function) of
      disclosing the information before implementing the tools.

      The goal of this study is to produce evidence about the benefits and potential risks
      associated with risk disclosure (i.e., the expected outputs). The primary objectives are to
      compare those who do and do not receive personalized depression risk information in (1)
      accuracy of risk perceptions, the use of self-help strategies, and (2) changes in
      psychological distress and functional measures over one year among those who are at high risk
      of MDE. The secondary objective is to examine the differential impacts of the disclosure on
      the outcomes by demographics and levels of baseline risk. To achieve these objectives, the
      investigators propose a 3-year randomized controlled trial (RCT) with an embedded qualitative
      component.

      The proposed study will be a RCT with an embedded qualitative component. The RCT will have
      one interventional arm (receiving personalized depression risk information) and one control
      arm. The personalized depression risk will be generated using the sex-specific prediction
      algorithms for MDE that we developed in Canadians aged 18+ years old. Because the prediction
      algorithms are sex-specific, the investigators propose to recruit 350 men and 350 women at
      baseline. After baseline assessment for eligibility, participants will be randomized into
      intervention and control groups, in men and women separately. To obtain in-depth information
      about how the personalized depression risk information is processed by participants and how
      the information affects them emotionally, the research team will conduct qualitative
      interviews 1 month after the personalized risk information is disclosed. To understand how
      the personalized risk information affect participants' health behaviors, the investigators
      will conduct another round of qualitative interviews at 12-month.

      Recruitment: The target population of future preventive studies are high risk individuals in
      the general population, who reside in different regions across the country. For the proposed
      study, a feasible approach for recruiting eligible participants is the random digit dialing
      method (RDD). In the past 10 years, we have used the RDD for recruitment in CIHR-funded
      longitudinal studies and an ongoing national RCT funded by the Movember Foundation.
      Recruitment, screening and baseline assessment will be done by a telephone interview firm
      identified through a competitive bidding process.

      A random sample of land line and cell phone numbers will be selected. When a household is
      reached, the person who is 18+ years will be assessed for eligibility. If a household has 2+
      persons aged 18+ years, one will be randomly selected. The interviewers will explain the
      study objectives and procedures and answer questions. Potential participants will be ensured
      about confidentiality, that participation is voluntary and that they may withdraw at any
      time. Oral consent will be obtained before assessment of eligibility. Outcome measures will
      be assessed at baseline, 6 and 12-month.

      Baseline Assessment and Randomization Screening: Once a potentially eligible participant is
      identified, the interviewer will confirm the participant's age and administer the World
      Health Organization's Composite International Diagnostic Interview - Short Form for Major
      Depression (CIDI-SFMD) and the sex-specific prediction algorithms. Interviewees who are in a
      MDE or are below the risk thresholds based on the risk calculators, will be excluded.
      Individuals with MDE will be encouraged to contact family doctors and information about local
      mental health resources will be provided. For those who are at low risk, the web site of the
      sex-specific risk prediction algorithms (www.predictingdepression.com) will be provided so
      they may monitor their risk in the future.

      Baseline assessment: In eligible participants, the interviewer will administer the
      Non-specific Psychological Distress Scale (K10), Self-help Strategy Use Scale (SSUS), and ask
      questions about absenteeism and perceived risk of MDE. Our pilot study showed that the
      screening and baseline assessment take 20 to 25 minutes.

      Randomization will be carried out in men and in women separately. Eligible participants who
      complete the baseline telephone interview will be randomized into intervention and control
      groups. The randomization will be conducted and managed by the project coordinator affiliated
      with the project. 350 random numbers (between 0 and 1) will first be generated for men and
      women separately using Excel ("RAND()") for 350 study identification numbers (ID), ranging
      from 1 to 350. The 350 random numbers will then be sorted at the descending order and
      categorized into 2 equal groups:

        -  the ID numbers in the first group (n = 175) will be allocated to the control group

        -  the ID numbers in the second group (n = 175) will be allocated to the intervention group

      Intervention and Control: For the participants in the intervention group, the personalized
      risk will be disclosed and the interviewer will inform them that they will be contacted again
      at 6 months and 12 months. The interest in receiving such personalized depression information
      has been confirmed by our recent pilot study using the same sampling method. The team's pilot
      data (n = 200) showed that 100% of high-risk individuals were interested in knowing their
      risks. Participants in the intervention group will also be informed that some may be
      contacted in one month for a 30-minute qualitative interview. A package including the
      following materials will be mailed to intervention participants: (1) thank-you letter, (2) a
      website containing general information about MDE, and self-help strategies. (3) $20 incentive
      as appreciation of their participation. For participants in the control group, the project
      coordinator will inform them that they will be contacted again at 6 and 12 months. Their
      personal risks will be provided at the 12-month interview. The control group participants
      will receive the same package as those in the intervention group.

      Blinding and follow-up assessments: The telephone interviewers will securely transfer
      encrypted baseline data to the PI on a bi-weekly basis. The group assignment data will be
      transferred in a separate file. The follow-up assessments will be conducted at the telephone
      interview laboratory at the Mathison Mental Health Research & Education Center. One month
      before the scheduled follow-up interviews, letters will be sent to participants to remind
      them of the upcoming interview. After the 12-month interview, participants' group status will
      be linked with interview data by study ID numbers.

      Over the study period, investigators will be blinded to participants' group status. The
      interviewers who conduct randomization, will not be involved in follow-up interviews. The
      interviewers who conduct the follow-up interviews in Calgary will not have access to
      participants' group status. Given the description of study objectives, participants may know
      their group status. Therefore, it is possible that some participants in the control group may
      try to find more information about personalized depression risk. At the follow-up
      assessments, the research staff will ask if they have used any risk prediction tools over the
      study period. At the follow-up assessments, if participants develop a MDE, they will be
      encouraged to contact family doctors and information about local mental health resources will
      be provided.

      Qualitative Interviews: To obtain in-depth information about how disclosing personalized
      depression risk affects participants' decision processes, mental health and health behaviors,
      the investigators will conduct two rounds of qualitative interviews via telephone, 1 month
      after these participants receive the personalized depression risk and at 12 months. Each will
      include a initial random sub-sample of 20 men and 20 women from the intervention group. The
      qualitative interviews strengthen this study as the researchers will use the findings to
      "triangulate" our quantitative results and to guide interpretation of the quantitative
      results. The interviews will be audio recorded. Qualitative interviews will be transcribed
      verbatim then analyzed inductively for themes. As per Berg themes will be chosen to "reflect
      all relevant aspects of the messages." The analysis will follow the interpretive practices of
      constant comparison and attempt to uncover patterns both within and between interviews. Nvivo
      10 software will be used to support thematic analysis. It is expected to achieve theoretical
      saturation with the initial sample. However, if new themes continue to emerge in final
      interviews, more interviews will be conducted until no new themes emerge.

      Risk and mitigation: The investigators acknowledge concerns about the changes in response
      rates in telephone surveys due to cell phone use and telemarketing. Including eligible
      participants across the country will enhance the generalizability of the study. Given the
      vast geographic area of Canada, RDD is the only feasible method. The goal of this study is to
      recruit participants for a RCT, rather than selecting a representative sample. In a RCT,
      selection bias is not a serious concern as long as the bias is the same across the
      intervention and control groups. To mitigate the risk, the interviewers will also access the
      validated cellphone database. However the use of cellphone numbers is associated with
      increased costs. Another potential risk of the proposed study is attrition which may incur
      selection bias. The population-based cohort studies on mental disorders in the workplace,
      conducted in our lab, showed that we could achieve 77% response rate at one year follow-up
      without any financial incentives. The strategies for reducing attrition will include
      appropriately designed introductory scripts, a minimum of nine call back attempts spaced over
      weekdays and times of day and provision of $20 incentive for each completed interview.
      Finally, those deemed low risk but who go on to develop MDE will be excluded from the RCT at
      the screening stage, which is a limitation. the investigators have planned to provide the
      risk prediction algorithms so that they can monitor their risks in the future.
    
  