
    
      The initial intake visit will include an overall assessment of the situation with the subject
      and family members or caregivers by the study physician and description of the group therapy.
      If the subjects and family members or caregivers want to continue, they will be asked to
      visit with the psychologist individually (subject first, then family member or caregiver,
      then both) in order to confirm their insight into the disease process and assess their
      readiness and appropriateness for the group therapy.

      All concerns regarding confidentiality and details to be discussed during the group therapy
      sessions will be reiterated to subjects and family members or caregivers individually. They
      can then choose to participate or not. If they choose not to participate, they will be seen
      in 1- 3 months to complete the all tests / questionnaires detailed as in the measurements
      section

      Subjects and family members or caregivers agreeing to participate in group therapy will be
      required to attend four weekly group therapy sessions in order for them to be considered as
      group therapy recipients. If they choose to terminate the group at any time, they will be
      free to do so and will be asked to complete all tests / questionnaires detailed as in the
      measurements section

      GROUP INTERVENTION FORMAT:

      Group therapy sessions will be conducted on a weekly basis over a four week period. The group
      therapy sessions will last approximately one hour. The group will not have a rolling
      admission meaning members will be required to attend all scheduled group sessions.

      Measurements used:

        -  QOL assessment using Sickness Impact Profile (a 136 item questionnaire)

        -  Sleep assessment using Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Questionnaire (PQSI) and Epworth
           Sleepiness Scale (ESS)

        -  Assessment of Depression and Anxiety using the Beck Questionnaires

      Structure of the Groups:

      Each group will begin with a review of what was learned in the group before and a review of
      the concrete goals/homework that the participants set from the last group. The group can work
      together to identify barriers and strategies.

      Second portion of the group will focus on acquiring specific skills. These skills include
      Qigong (gentle movements), body scan, progressive relaxation, and loving-kindness meditation
      At the conclusion of the session, subjects, family members or caregivers core skills to be
      targeted as detailed below will be evaluated by the psychologists running the group.

      Core Skills to be Targeted:

      I. Stress Management II. Dealing with Depression III. Adjusting to Anxiety IV. Family Health
      and Changes in Roles
    
  