
    
      Juvenile recurrent parotitis (JRP) is an inflammatory disease characterized by recurrent
      painful swelling of the Parotid gland in the pediatric age. A watchful waiting treatment
      strategy was acceptable for most children; however, recent studies claimed that a
      sialoendoscopic intervention may stop the recurrent flare-ups.

      Moreover, the accessibility to this treatment modality and furthermore to the skillful
      operators are yet limited in many medical centers.

      Juvenile Recurrent Parotitis is defined as a non-obstructive, non-suppurative inflammatory
      disease characterized by unilateral or bilateral parotid gland swelling recurring at least
      twice before puberty. It is the second most common salivary gland disease in children after
      mumps, in young children it is difficult to differentiate between the two. The clinical
      symptoms of JRP include intermittent and usually unilateral (might also be bilateral, usually
      with symptoms more prominent on one side) swelling of the parotid gland which occurs in quite
      a sudden pattern (over a course of houres or even minutes) and may persist for days or weeks,
      usually associated with local pain and erythema of the overlying skin, and systemic
      manifestation such as malaise and fever. The first episode typically occurs between ages 3-6,
      more often in males than females.

      The etiology of JRP is still obscure, though a variety of causative factors have been
      proposed as contributing to JRP, such as dental congenital malformations, congenital duct
      malformation, genetic factors and immunological anomalies.

      In addition to the conservative follow-up treatment modality, management with operative
      endoscopic treatment is another considerable option, that is now gaining stronger evidence of
      efficacy.

      The procedure of sialoendoscopy has an increasing value of diagnosis and treatment of JRP, as
      it provides direct visualization of the ductal system and the abilty of treatment via lavage
      and irrigation of medical agents, such as steroids. There are a few reports indicating better
      outcomes (e.g. fewer exacerbations) using this modality

      The Objective of our study:

      To determine the effectiveness of sialoendoscopy vs. conservative therapy ('watch and wait')
      alone for Juvenile Recurrent Parotitis

      Research Endpoints:

      The study's endpoints will evaluate frequency and severity of flare-ups before and after
      treatment and Quality of Life parameters as evaluated according to life-quality
      questionnaires.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  age 3-18 y/o

        -  at least 2 documented incidents in at least 12 months period

      Exclusion criteia:

        -  previous parotis interventions e.g. sialography/sialendoscopy/parotidectomy

        -  parotitis due to any other known cause (e.g. bacterial infection, autoimmune disease
           etc.)
    
  