
    
      Most countries face the issue of vaccine hesitancy, with sizeable fractions, or sometimes the
      majority, of the public opposing some vaccines. The problem is particularly acute in the case
      of COVID-19 vaccination: first, a high uptake of COVID-19 vaccines is necessary to reach and
      sustain herd immunity; second, and to the best of our knowledge, no country is currently
      planning on making COVID-19 vaccination mandatory, making public approval essential.
      Unfortunately, hesitancy towards COVID-19 vaccines is high in many countries.

      Vaccine hesitancy also concerns healthcare workers (HCWs) who are at the frontline of the
      COVID-19 pandemic and identified as a priority target group for COVID-19 vaccines.
      Furthermore, HCWs can be relays of information concerning vaccination and thus play a key
      role as mediator in the promotion (or not) of this vaccination. However, vaccine intentions
      against COVID-19 are not fully known among different categories of HCWs and are likely to
      evolve with knowledge about the safety and efficacy of vaccines as well as the evolution of
      the epidemic. Consequently, it is crucial to understand the evolution of these vaccine
      intentions and their determinants in HCWs in order to better target interventions to promote
      this vaccination, in a context where scientific data are themselves evolving quickly.

      The study population will be made up of HCWs. For the purposes of this study, a "healthcare
      worker" is defined as an individual who currently works in a setting where individuals
      receive healthcare (i.e. individuals do not have to work directly with patients, but may have
      any role within a setting where individuals receive healthcare, such as administrative
      office, housekeeping, food service, etc.). ESPERES_COVID-19 will be offered to all the HCWs
      of the Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) establishments and to other public or
      private health establishments (lucrative or not) in the Ile-De-France region and to
      establishments in other French regions, in order to diversify the contexts.

      Each participant is self-included and collects his own data via a web interface. This cohort
      is open, meaning that eligible people can be included until the end of the study (no limited
      inclusion period). This cohort will start in 2021 and is scheduled for an initial duration of
      24 months but may be extended as part of amendments.

      Participants will be regularly asked to answer online questionnaires lasting at most 20
      minutes. The frequency of these questionnaires will not exceed one questionnaire every 2
      weeks (and will generally be more spaced out). During their follow-up in the cohort,
      participants may be asked, depending on their characteristics, to participate in studies
      nested in the cohort.

      All data from ESPERES_COVID-19 will be gathered in a health data repository. The statistical
      analyses planned in the research protocol will be performed by the pharmaco-epidemiology
      center (CEPHEPI), under the responsibility of Dr Candice ESTELLAT and Pr Florence TUBACH. The
      CEPHEPI is backed by the public health department of the hospital group Pitié-Salpêtrière -
      Charles Foix, AP-HP.

      A calculation of the sample size is not justified for this study as it aims to answer several
      research questions in a cohort. However, a number about 15,000 participants in
      ESPERES_COVID-19 are expected.
    
  