
    
      Mammographic density is one of the strongest risk factors for breast cancer. It is predictive
      of breast cancer risk for at least 10 years in the futue and has been suggested as a
      surrogate marker of breast cancer risk. Several states now mandate release of mammographic
      density data to women. However, except for anti-hormonal therapies (e.g., tamoxifen), no
      interventions have been proven to reduce breast density. Thus, testing promising,
      well-tolerated interventions that might affect mammographic density is of substantial
      interest. Several lines of evidence suggest that vitamin D may play a role in breast density
      and breast carcinogenesis. Vitamin D reduces proliferation and promotes differentiation and
      apoptosis in breast cells in culture. However, no large-scale randomized studies have
      examined the impact of vitamin D on mammographic density. We propose to examine the
      randomized effects vitamin D3 on mammographic breast density in the NIH sponsored VITamin D
      and OmegA-3 TriaL (VITAL), an ongoing randomized, double blind, trial testing vitamin D3
      (2,000 IU/day cholecalciferol) and omega-3 fatty acids (840 mg eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA]+
      docosahexaenoic acid [DHA]) in the primary prevention of cancer and cardiovascular disease in
      a multi-ethnic population of over 24,000 men and women. In this ancillary sub study,
      mammograms will be obtained on 4000 women age 55-67 years (25% African-American), from
      baseline (pre-randomization) and after 1 and 4 years of randomized therapy. Centrally
      processed quantitative mammographic density and texture variation will be measured. We will
      determine if randomized vitamin D treatment is associated with change in mammographic
      features, and whether effects are modified by baseline mammographic density, and baseline
      25(OH) vitamin D levels. In addition, tissue samples from women in VITAL undergoing breast
      biopsy/surgery, for both nonmalignant and malignant conditions, will be collected.
      Quantitative morphological measures, as well as gene expression assays targeting vitamin D
      activation and breast carcinogenesis pathways, will be performed on collected tissues among
      women on randomized vitamin D3 compared with placebo. This ancillary study provides a timely
      opportunity to test comprehensively the effects of vitamin D3 on mammographic features and
      breast tissue biology in a randomized setting at minimal additional cost.
    
  