
    
      (B)Examination:

        1. External examination: should be done to rule out causes of watering other than punctal
           stenosis (facial palsy, lacrimal pump failure, swelling in lacrimal sac area and regurge
           test)

        2. Slit lamp examination: for tear meniscus, lid margin, conjunctiva and punctual orifice

        3. Fluorescein dye disappearance test: performed with a drop of 2% fluorescein in lower
           conjunctival sac, patient is instructed not to wipe the eyes. After 5 minutes, presence
           of staining in the tear film is assessed with cobalt blue filter.

        4. Probing and lacrimal syringing, if patent confirms punctal stenosis to be the cause of
           epiphora rather than block in the lower lacrimal drainage system.

        5. Anterior segment optical coherence tomography examination (AS-OCT) for the lower
           punctum: measuring the outer puntcal diametre, inner punctal diameter and punctal depth.

      Examination of the lower punctum was performed using Spectral Domain OCT machine; RTVue
      model-RT100 CAM system (Optovue Inc., Fremont, CA, USA) version 6.2, by attaching the
      cornea/anterior module lens (CAM). CAM lens has a wide-angle, high-magnification lens of 10
      mm working distance. The axial resolution was 5 μm, and the lateral resolution was 8 μm. The
      scan beam has wavelength of 840 ± 10 nm. The two red external illumination (light emitting
      diode ) LED on headrest were approximated on each side of the lower punctum for proper
      illumination and imaging of the punctum. Gentle eversion of the medial part of the lower lid
      was performed to expose the lower lid punctum, so the vertical canaliculus was brought to be
      at an axial plain without undue stretching or pressure to the lower lid. Line scan was the
      used examination scan, containing 1020 A-scans/line, and is 8mm in length.

      Measurements of the external punctal diameter, internal punctal diameter, and punctal depth
      were performed on the B-scan image of the lower punctum (by selecting it from the Review
      window), using distance measurement tool. External punctal diameter was measured as a line
      connecting highest points on the medial and lateral punctal walls. Internal punctal diameter
      was measured as a horizontal line just above the narrowing. The distance between the line
      representing the external punctal diameter and the floor of the punctum was calculated and
      referred to the punctal depth

      Results:

      Data wil be collected and statistically analysed
    
  