
    
      A platinum based chemotherapy (Cisplatin or Carboplatin) plus Etoposide is the standard of
      care in NEC originating from the gastro-intestinal tract and lung, based on retrospective
      studies. In these clinical studies and in clinical practice the median number of cycle
      administered is six due to dose depending toxicity of platinum and to the concept of maximum
      response.

      The expression of mTOR pathways was evaluated in gastroenteropancreatic - Neuroendocrine
      tumor (GEP-NEC).

      The Investigator found that 6/9 (67%) of poorly differentiated GEP-NEC evaluated expressed p
      mTOR. Interestingly this expression was not observed in small cell carcinoma (10).

      Recently, was demonstrated that the mTOR pathway is overexpressed in NEC (11). Based on the
      activity of Everolimus in the treatment of patients with well and moderately differentiated
      p-NET and on the evidence that even poorly differentiated forms express the pathway of m-TOR
      is conceivable that Everolimus could be active even in NEC. In particular we want to test the
      hypothesis that a maintenance therapy (or an early second line) with Everolimus 10 mg/daily
      in non progressive patients after first line chemotherapy could improve outcome prolonging
      progression free survival (PFS).

      The NORDIC NEC study recently published retrospectively analyzed 305 patients with metastatic
      GI NEC (or unknown primary predominantly with GI metastases).

      In this large retrospective study patients with Ki-67 < 55% are less responsive to platinum
      based chemotherapy but have a longer survival than patients with Ki-67 > 55%; then Ki-67 <
      55% is a positive prognostic factor and a negative predictive factor to platinum based
      chemotherapy (7).

      These data indicate that GI-NEC might be not consider as a unique entity, even if they are
      all classified as G3 according to WHO 2010 classification.

      In this randomized Phase 2 trial the investigator want to evaluate the activity of Everolimus
      10 mg/daily as maintenance therapy in patients with NEC and Ki-67 < 55%.

      In fact this subgroup of NEC patients could benefit mostly from a maintenance treatment with
      Everolimus 10 mg/daily since they are less chemo responder and they show better prognosis as
      G1-G2 NET.

      There is not a standard second line therapy for NEC patients treated with platinum based
      doublet, nevertheless Temozolamide and Capecitabine (TX) represent a regimen used in this
      setting, based on small and retrospective series (8). Therefore in our study we recommend
      that all patients at first progression (even if out of the study) will receive TX
      (Capecitabine 750 mg/m2 po BID days 1-14 plus Temozolomide 200 mg/m2 po quaque die (QD) days
      10-14 q28) in order to homogenize second line treatment. However, second line treatment is
      chosen by single investigators.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the activity of a maintenance therapy (or early second
      line) with Everolimus 10 mg daily in patients with stable disease, partial response or
      complete response after 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy with Cisplatin or Carboplatin plus
      Etoposide or alternative first line chemotherapy administered according to clinical practice.

      The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS) defined as the time between
      randomization and the first evidence of progressive disease or date of death, whichever
      occurs first. Documentation of disease progression will be defined as per Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) criteria based on investigator assessment. The
      censoring date for a patient who is known to be progression-free would be the date of the
      last tumor assessment.

      Secondary objectives are :

        -  Overall survival (OS) defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause

        -  Safety profile: Safety of the treatment will be evaluated by serious and non serious
           adverse events (AEs). AEs will be graded according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for
           Adverse Effects (CTCAE v4.03)

        -  Evaluation of prognostic/predictive factors on tumoral tissue of patients treated with
           maintenance everolimus 10 mg/daily. The expression of mTOR and kinases involved in its
           pathway will be assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC)

        -  Detection and count of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from peripheral blood samples by
           VERIDEX® and correlation between CTCs number and outcome of patients in terms of PFS and
           OS

        -  Detection of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and correlation between ctDNA levels and and
           outcome of patients in terms of PFS and OS. Evaluation of mTOR pathway genes mutations
           on ctDNA

      This study population will comprise subjects diagnosed with GEP-NEC or large-cells
      neuroendocrine carcinoma of the Lung with Ki67< 55% with stable disease, partial of complete
      response after 6 cycles of first line chemotherapy.

      Adverse Event: An AE is any noxious, unintended, or untoward medical occurrence that may
      appear or worsen in a subject during the course of a study. It may be a new intercurrent
      illness, a worsening concomitant illness, an injury, or any concomitant impairment of the
      subject's health, including laboratory test values (as specified by the criteria below),
      regardless of etiology. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in the
      frequency or intensity of a preexisting condition) should be considered an AE. A diagnosis or
      syndrome should be recorded on the AE page of the case report form (CRF) rather than the
      individual signs or symptoms of the diagnosis or syndrome.

      Disease progression is not to be reported as an AE. An overdose, accidental or intentional,
      whether or not it is associated with an AE, or abuse, withdrawal, sensitivity or toxicity to
      an investigational product should be reported as an AE. If an overdose is associated with an
      AE, the overdose and adverse event should be reported as separate terms.

      All subjects will be monitored for AEs during the study. Assessments may include monitoring
      of any or all of the following parameters: the subject's clinical symptoms, laboratory,
      pathological, radiological or surgical findings, physical examination findings, or other
      appropriate tests and procedures.

      All AEs will be recorded by the Investigator from the time the subject signs informed consent
      to at least 30 days after the last dose of CT or until the last study visit, whichever period
      is longer. Adverse Events and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be recorded on the AE page
      of the CRF and in the subject's source documents. All SAEs must be reported to PIs within 24
      hours of the Investigator's knowledge of the event by facsimile, or other appropriate method,
      using the SAE Report Form, or approved equivalent form. All SAEs will be also reported to
      Novartis safety desk within 15 days of learning.

      Serious adverse events will be summarized.

      Safety analyses: All pats who receive at least 1 dose of study drug will be evaluated for
      safety and toxicity. Adverse event (AE) terms and severity grades will be assigned by the
      investigator using CTCAE v. 4.03.

      Safety analyses will include listings and/or summaries of the following:

        -  Treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs), including seriousness, severity and possible
           relationship to study drug

        -  Dose adjustments

        -  CTCAE grades for laboratory and non laboratory parameters

      Number of Patients: Thirty pts (20 in experimental arm and 10 in the control arm) will be
      randomized

      Statistical method: This is an open-label study. Patients who meet all inclusion/exclusion
      criteria for enrollment will be allowed to enroll in the study. Those patients entering the
      study during all the trial will be allocated to arm A or arm B. Assignment to treatment will
      be determined prior to Cycle 1 d1 using an interactive response system by mail at a central
      location. Patients will be sequentially allocated to arm A or arm B with a 1:2 ratio.

      This is a phase II study not powered for statistical comparison between arm A and B. The
      number of patients is sufficient for an exploratory analysis of the activity of Everolimus as
      maintenance therapy in this setting of patients. Only if the results in this analysis will be
      encouraging, a second step of the study will be powered for a comparison between arm A and B.
    
  