
    
      Introduction

      Technical skills (TS) and non-technical skills (NTS) are two sets of skills required by
      Crisis resource management (CRM). Sudden cardiac arrest is a time-critical emergency
      situation in which both skills are needed - it's handled by a team rather than by individual
      health-care workers.

      Because of the relatively rare nature of cardiac arrests in many wards and clinics, regular
      resuscitation training is necessary. However, the main part of the training is traditionally
      emphasized to technical skills. The recent research findings of the authors suggest that the
      TS and NTS seem to associate in a real life resuscitation. The authors wanted to investigate
      if pre-allocated tasks and positions (a pit crew model) helps to perform better ALS
      performance and helps to maintain the skills in simulated ALS situations.

      Simulation-based education (SBE) is a key tool for teaching CPR. It has demonstrated its
      effectiveness in promoting skill acquisition and has been suggested as an ideal tool for
      teaching medical skills allowing learners to engage actively in their learning process while
      doing no harm to their patients but its effectiveness on improving anesthesiologists NTS is
      unclear as the matter has not been studied. SBE is particularly good method to create
      trainees a realistic medical crisis situation (scenario) created within a physical space
      (simulator) replicating the real environment where trainees goal is to solve the problem, do
      the diagnose and treat the patient. Afterwards, the simulation debriefing is an crucial part
      of the whole letting trainees and the instructor to finish the learning process.
      Traditionally such training has been a standard in professions characterized by high risk
      caused by 'human factor' such as in aviation and other high risk industries. On the other
      hand the benefit for maintaining resuscitation skills learned after single SBE is modest thus
      short - only a few minutes a week - but frequent SBE appears to facilitate transfer of new
      knowledge and skills into clinical practice. SBE has been shown to improve the satisfaction
      of learners and skill performance in the simulated environment but it's still unclear whether
      it improves the patient outcome. Simulation training is expensive though so other teaching
      methods like mental practice and e-learning could be useful alongside it.

      Catchpole and colleagues aimed to improve the quality and safety of handover of pediatric
      patients from surgery to intensive care using the analogy of a Formula 1 pit stop and
      expertise from aviation. They introduced a new handover protocol which led to improvements in
      all aspects of the critical situation. Based on he same idea, a novel resuscitation tactic
      model (a pit crew model) was developed which predetermines the roles and responsibilities of
      each resuscitation team members.

      Purpose and hypothesis

      In this study, advanced life support (ALS) skills are trained to medical students (26
      persons), student nurses (52 persons) and student paramedics (26 persons). A pit crew model
      is taught for every other four-person resuscitation team (intervention group) and for every
      other group not (control group). The hypothesis is that the pit crew model could improve the
      quality of advanced life support immidiately after the ALS education (primary outcome) and
      help to maintain the ALS metrics during the follow-up period (secondary outcome).
      Additionally, we analyze if the pit-crew model help team physician to take hands free
      earlier.

      Methods

      The students are divided into 26 four-person resuscitation teams: one medical student, one
      student paramedic and two student nurses. Each resuscitation team participates on an ALS
      course which is based on the 2015 European (the test group) Guidelines for Resuscitation. The
      participants are randomized in two study arms: intervention and control. The intervention
      group receives ALS education according the pit crew model while the control Group received
      traditional ALS training. In the end of the ALS course, the resuscitation team performs a
      simulated resuscitation situation which is video-recorded. The TS and NTS are later analyzed
      by the medical professionals using detailed instrument. The hands-on ratio and the time when
      the team physician takes hands-free analyzed visually from the videos. Later, after six
      months of the ALS course, the participants will run through a simulated CPR-situation again
      and the data will be collected as the the same way.

      Ethics The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Turku University (31/2016).
    
  