
    
      The emergence and spread of drug resistance are major problems in the control of malaria.
      Resistance to chloroquine in P. vivax was first detected in 1989 then spread to other parts
      of the world. In Indonesia, resistance of P. vivax to chloroquine has emerged in many parts
      of the country, ranging from over 50% failure rates in Papua to 20% failure rates in Nias,
      North Sumatera. Artemisinin derivatives are the most potent and rapidly acting antimalarial
      drugs available nowadays and also seem to be effective for treatment of vivax malaria, but
      the number of studies evaluating this is limited. If artemisinin combination therapies (ACTs)
      are combined with drug that can eliminate parasites in the liver, such as primaquine, this
      will further optimize the treatment of P. vivax infections. The addition of a course of
      primaquine will provide radical cure from relapse, and importantly will reduce the
      transmission of infection because of its gametocyticidal effects. Since 2008, Indonesian
      government has deployed artesunate-amodiaquine (AS-AQ) as the first line treatment for
      uncomplicated vivax malaria and promotes radical cure by adding primaquine (PQ). For more
      than 50 years, Indonesia has used standard dose of primaquine (0.25mg/kg for 14 days)
      sometimes without prior test of G6PD status of the patients because the screening test is not
      usually available especially in remote areas. Unfortunately, there is no data to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of this standard dose.

      Patients with fever or history of fever in preceding 48 hours who are attending the public
      health centre in study area (study centre) will be examined. Thick and thin blood smear will
      be taken, stained and examined under light microscope. Slides will be carefully read
      (according the procedure) for P. vivax malaria. The patients will be assessed by the trial
      doctor, if they meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria, they
      will receive detail explanation on study & enrolment condition by trial staff. If they agree
      to participate in the study, they will sign the informed consent form and will be randomized
      to receive either AS-AQ plus PQ or DHP plus PQ. Essential laboratory tests (hemoglobin, and
      methemoglobin) will be performed, and filter blood paper for G6PD genotyping will be
      collected. No patients will be screened for G6PD status. Oral treatment dose will be given
      under close observation, those who vomit within half an hour will be re-dosed; if they vomit
      again they will be withdrawn. Patients will be managed as outpatient and be asked to return
      to the clinic daily, on fourteen consecutive days, days 1-14) to receive physical
      examination, laboratory test and study treatment and adverse events monitoring, and then
      weekly on days 21, 28, 35, 42 or any day if feel unwell. Patients who missed their
      appointments on scheduled day after day 3 will still be included in the study if they appear
      on the next day (24 hours), or will be visited at home. Patients who develop any acute
      hemolytic attack symptoms or reduction on hemoglobin during treatment will be closely
      observed and transfer to hospital for blood transfusion if needed and withdrawn from the
      study.

      After days 42, patients will be visited at home every month (± 1 week from scheduled day will
      still be accepted) for up to 1 year. Each patient will be given serial number and an
      appointment card marked with the dates of follow-up.
    
  