
    
      Yellow fever (YF) is a potentially fatal disease causing some 29,000 - 60,000 deaths in
      Africa alone in 2013. Vaccination with the YF vaccine is the most effective way of preventing
      YF and a single full dose of vaccine provides life-long protection. Indeed, over half a
      billion doses of the YF vaccine have been successfully used worldwide since its introduction
      over 80 years ago in the 1930s, including in children <2 years of age. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) recommends that YF vaccine be administered to all people ≥ 9 months of
      age. It should be noted that four YF vaccines are prequalified for use by WHO. Between 2007
      and 2016, more than 105 million people have been vaccinated against YF in 14 African
      countries, including millions of children 9-24 months of age. Each year 6 million doses of YF
      vaccine are placed into an emergency stockpile to assist in the rapid response and control of
      outbreaks. During 2016, large outbreaks of YF in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo
      (DRC) depleted the stockpile multiple times and led to critical shortages in YF vaccine.
      Given the acute vaccine shortage, the World Health Organization (WHO) reviewed available data
      and determined that the use of fractional dose YF vaccination was a safe and effective option
      for mass vaccination to control outbreaks. Fractional 1/5th dose of YF vaccine manufactured
      by BioManguinhos, 17DD, was then used in a campaign targeting 8 million people in DRC's
      capital city of Kinshasa. However, only persons aged 2 years of age and older were given the
      fractional dose as there were no data regarding its use in children. To optimize vaccination
      coverage and vaccine use in outbreak responses, studies of fractional dose YF vaccine
      effectiveness in children less than 2 years of age were assessed as a research priority by
      the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE).

      To address this critical information need, the investigators will conduct a randomized
      clinical trial comparing fractional dose 17DD YF vaccination to the full dose among children
      aged 9-23 months in Uganda. Exclusion criteria will include children who have previously
      received YF vaccine or who have contraindications or precautions to YF vaccination.

      Enrolled participants will be randomized to one of three arms:

      A. One-fifth fractional dose (0.1 ml) administered subcutaneously B. One-half fractional dose
      (0.25 ml) administered subcutaneously C. Full dose (0.5 ml) administered subcutaneously

      The one-fifth and one-half doses of YF vaccine were both recommended for further research by
      WHO and YF vaccine experts.

      Three large public health centers that provide vaccination through the Ministry of Health of
      Uganda's Expanded Programme on Immunization will be selected in Kampala and nearby districts
      as study sites. Blood samples (3 ml) will be collected from participants before vaccine
      administration as well as at follow-up visits 4 weeks and 12 months after vaccination.
      Presence of YF virus-specific neutralizing antibodies in the collected specimens will be
      determined using the plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT). Seroconversion will be
      defined as seronegative participants (<1:10 titers) at enrollment who become seropositive
      (≥1:10) at 4 week follow-up. An immune response will be defined as either participants that
      seroconvert or participants who demonstrate a four-fold or greater change in titers between
      the baseline and 4 week specimens, e.g. a change from 1:20 to 1:80. The proportion of
      children seroconverting in each of the fractional dose arms will be compared to the full dose
      arm using a non-inferiority test. The safety profile also will be described for both
      solicited and unsolicited adverse events following immunization (AEFIs).

      The investigators will collect data on all illnesses encountered by study participants during
      the first 28 days post-vaccination to assess potential AEFI as recommended by the WHO. Since
      almost all AEFI occur during the first 2 weeks post-vaccination, parents/guardians will be
      interviewed at 2 weeks to determine if there are any signs and symptoms that could be
      consistent with a serious AEFI known to be associated with YF vaccination. In addition,
      parents will be asked to take their child's temperature twice during the day and complete a
      structured diary card to document all of their child's signs and symptoms for pre-specified
      and un-specified adverse events during the first 2 weeks. This will be reviewed by study
      staff at the 2 week visit as described above. At the 4 week visit, parents/guardians will be
      asked about illnesses during the interval between their 2 week and 4 week visits as described
      above. In addition, parents will be reminded and instructed at all interactions during the
      first 28 days after vaccination to call study staff anytime on the 72-hour study phone line
      and bring their child directly to the study hospital if they develop any condition(s)
      requiring medical attention during the first 28 days after vaccination. Any adverse events
      observed will be reported to the national reporting system.
    
  