
    
      Background:

      Atrial fibrillation is the most common arrhythmic disorder and ablation of AF has become an
      important part of AF treatment. AF is associated with a large number of somatic symptoms like
      chest pain, fatigue, lightheadedness, palpitations, physical limitations, shortness of
      breath, irregular rhythm and heart rate but also with psychological comorbidities such as
      anxiety and depression [1]. In recent years, the severity of these comorbidities has become
      more apparent in AF patients. For instance, Sears and colleagues found a positive correlation
      between the number of AF symptoms reported and the number of negative emotions experienced
      [2]. Since there is prospective data on the effects of AF ablation on long term mortality and
      morbidity, reduction of AF related symptoms and improvement of quality of life (QoL) is still
      a major goal of AF ablation [3,4].

      Mindful meditation (MM) is a basic form of meditation that involves focusing on one thing
      internally or externally. Being fully present in the moment is the goal of MM. Practicing MM
      teaches relaxation and concentration on experiencing bodily sensations such as breathing
      patterns. Mindfulness is independent of environmental stimuli; it is a state of mind that can
      be achieved at any time [5]. Studies show that, with practice, this form of meditation can
      provide both long- and short-term positive effects with respect to reduction in anxiety and
      depression[6,7]. Immediate and transferable benefits for AF patients include self-regulated
      attention, heightened perception of internal states, reduced stress and anxiety symptoms, and
      increased overall well-being.

      Mindfulness training can heighten meta-cognitive processing, which can improve a person's
      ability to control adverse thoughts and feelings. Consistent mindful meditation training can
      induce neuroplasticity[7,8].

      The amygdala is a crucial brain structure that is hyperactive during perceived stressful
      conditions [8]. Being able to utilize skills to control emotions in stressful situations will
      be beneficial in controlling psychological hyperactivity. Studies show after
      mindful-attention training there is a decrease in amygdala activity even when in a
      non-meditative state [6]. This is proof that skills obtained during meditation have lasting
      positive neural effects. In another study, Holzel et al. found that after eight weeks of MM
      training, there was a significant correlation between a decrease in subjective stress and a
      decrease in amygdala's gray matter density. Therefore, a reduction in stress output is
      positively correlated with gray matter density. MM training induces brain changes in the
      amygdala and resting state connectivity, which have impacts on cognition such as an increase
      in attentional control and executive function [9].

      Neurofeedback training (NFT) is a method where participants are hooked up to an EEG which
      allows participants to see how active their brain is and monitor neural changes in real-time.
      NFT is proven to significantly enhance the positive effects of MM training and have a
      positive effect on depression[10,11].

      The present study is going to investigate the psychological and physiological benefits of
      mindful meditation (MM) training in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) using a system for
      real-time-neurofeedback.

      Rationale for study design:

      Although there is growing evidence that there might also positive prognostic effects
      especially on stroke risk [12,13] treatment of AF related symptoms is still one of the major
      targets of AF ablation. Lakkireddy and colleagues showed that yoga could improve symptoms and
      QoL as well as anxiety and depression scores [14] in AF patients, illustrating that
      alternative therapy can be highly effective in AF and be a valuable addition to somatic
      therapy like AF-ablation.

      In this study investigators want to investigate the effects of mindfulness meditation that is
      supported by the MUSE™ headband which is a device that provides neurofeedback during the
      meditation. This way investigators seek not only to improve the effects of the meditation but
      also will be able to monitor therapy compliance via the implemented software.

      Since patients with AF are a very heterogeneous group and AF burden, comorbidities as well as
      symptom perception can differ significantly investigators chose to investigate the less
      diverse group of patients with symptomatic AF that are scheduled for AF ablation. By applying
      prospective randomization investigators avoid the risk of a significant bias in baseline
      patient characteristics and comorbidities.

      Study design and aims:

      A total number of 60 patients waiting for an AF ablation for symptomatic AF will be included
      into this prospective, randomized pilot study. All patients will undergo assessment of QoL,
      anxiety and depression using 3 self-reporting scales for QoL, anxiety and depression at
      baseline and after 12 weeks. The scales are listed in Appendix A.

      At baseline patients will be 1:1 randomized to be either part of the intervention (Group 1)
      or control (Group 2) group. Patients in Group 1 will be supplied with the MUSE™ headband
      (InteraXon Inc., Toronto, Canada) that is a tool for mindfulness meditation with
      neurofeedback. Patients in Group 2 will not undergo any study-related treatment.

      The aim of this study will be to investigate the effects of mindfulness meditation with
      neurofeedback on QoL, anxiety and depression in patients awaiting AF ablation. The results of
      the study will also be the basis of future studies further investigating the

      Statistical analysis:

      The primary endpoint will be expressed as mean or median test result where applicable. The
      secondary endpoint will be measured by the individual duration of use of the device in group
      1. The Shapiro-Wilks-test will be used to test for normality of distribution and the
      Mann-Whitney-U test will be applied for comparison of means.

      Study-timeline and Budget:

      Our institution is a high volume centre for AF ablations that performs 300-350 procedures per
      year. Because of the non-invasive character of the MUSE-device investigators expect a high
      recruitment rate and plan to complete enrollment of the 60 patients within 6 months. With a
      follow-time of 3 months investigators expect to complete patient inclusion and follow-up
      after 9 months. Data analysis will take approximately 4 weeks resulting in a total study
      duration of 10 months.

      InteraXon Inc. will provide 30 MUSE™ headbands for the study time.
    
  