
    
      The accuracy of two view digital x-ray mammography (2DDM), the standard test for breast
      cancer screening, is limited because of the effect of superimposition of normal breast
      structures onto a two dimensional image. The mammography signs of breast cancer may be
      obscured, particularly in women with dense fibro glandular breast tissue, resulting in delay
      in diagnosis of cancer. National interval cancer data shows that up to 4000 women per annum
      (2.88 per 1000 screened) are diagnosed with breast cancer in the interval between screens.
      Conversely, superimposition of normal tissues may produce features on mammography which are
      suspicious for cancer and lead to unnecessary recall for further diagnostic tests. National
      screening data for 2012/2013 show that of 2.3 million women screened, 79000 (3.4%) without
      breast cancer were recalled to specialist diagnostic assessment clinics.

      DBT is an x-ray mammography technique which involves acquiring multiple low dose projections
      over a limited angular range (less than 50 degrees). These projection images are
      reconstructed into a set of images consisting of parallel planes, typically 1mm apart
      throughout the breast. Three dimensional information is provided for the reader, overcoming
      many of the interpretation problems associated with 2DDM. Several studies have demonstrated
      improvement in the accuracy of DBT in the diagnostic setting. Published data from studies of
      DBT combined with 2DDM in screening have demonstrated increased rates of invasive cancer
      detection, cancers detected at a smaller size and decreased false positive recall rates.
      However, there may be increased costs associated with the technology, image data storage and
      longer reading time.

      As a result of recent technical developments, a two dimensional mammography image can be
      produced by processing the tomosynthesis image data. Synthetic 2D (S2D) trial data show that
      the accuracy of DBT + S2D may be the same as that achieved with DBT + 2DDM.

      The primary aim of this trial is to assess the impact of the addition of DBT to 2DDM in
      routine breast cancer screening compared to 2D mammography. 100 000 women will be recruited
      over twelve months using NHS screening sites with DBT ready mammography equipment. At each
      site, through a clinic randomisation process, half the trial participants will undergo
      standard 2DDM (the control group) and half will undergo 2DDM and DBT (the study group).
      Synthetic 2D images will be produced for all women in the intervention group. A secondary
      objective of the trial is to compare the accuracy of DBT + 2DDM with DBT + S2D. For each
      woman in the intervention group, one reader will view DBT + 2DDM, and the other reader will
      view DBT + S2D. This will enable a non-inferiority test to be applied to DBT + S2D vs DBT +
      2DDM.

      The investigators plan to use DBT in addition to 2DDM in the intervention group because:

        -  Most previous trials demonstrated increased sensitivity and specificity by using DBT in
           combination with 2D imaging rather than as a replacement.

        -  By using both 2D and DBT in the study group, the investigators will be able to review
           the display of the same cancer in the two techniques.

      One concern about using DBT in conjunction with 2D imaging is the increase in radiation dose.
      The investigators conservatively estimate the mean glandular radiation dose of 4mGy in the
      control group and 9mGy in the study group. In other words, DBT imaging requires slightly more
      than double the dose of 2D imaging. A recent study of Yaffe & Mainprize 2011 has shown that
      benefits of screening with mammography greatly exceed the detriment due to the radiation.
      Using similar calculations the investigators estimate that the ratio of lives saved and lost
      due to radiation in the 2DDM screening arm will be in the range 150-300 to 1. The higher dose
      in the study group is expected to lead to greater benefit and greater detriment. In order for
      the extra benefit to exceed the extra detriment of using DBT in the study group there will
      need to be a very small (0.45% to 0.9%) increase in lives saved. In practice the
      investigators expect a larger benefit that this.

        -  Health need: the effectiveness of 2DDM in detection of invasive breast cancer has
           improved over the last twenty years as demonstrated by a decrease in interval cancer
           rates (cancers occurring between routine three yearly screens). This improvement is a
           result of the introduction of two view mammography, digital mammography and improvements
           in film reading performance. However, the most recent published interval cancer rates of
           2.85 per 1000 women screened demonstrates the limited sensitivity of 2DDM in cancer
           detection. Published data from studies of DBT and 2DDM in screening in Europe and North
           America demonstrate an increased invasive cancer detection rate of 40-48% compared to
           2DDM alone. Data from this study will demonstrate whether such an improvement in
           sensitivity is achievable in the NHSBSP, whether cancers can be detected at a smaller
           size, and prognostic features of screen detected and interval cancers will be used to
           model whether there would be a greater reduction in breast cancer mortality from
           screening with 2DDM plus DBT compared to 2D alone. Data will also demonstrate the effect
           on false positive recalls in the NHSBSP. Published results show that this may be
           decreased by 15-20% with the use of DBT.

        -  Economic analysis: The study will demonstrate whether replacing standard 2DDM with DBT
           (and S2D) represents an efficient use of NHS resources, either because DBT reduces
           overall cost or because the additional health benefits of greater sensitivity and
           specificity justify the additional cost.

        -  Sustained interest: DBT may have a major impact on the effectiveness and the cost of
           screening. Data from this study will help decide the optimum strategy for using DBT in
           routine screening in the NHS.

        -  Development of research area: results from this study will help identify which groups of
           women will benefit from screening with DBT.

        -  Scientific knowledge: this study will advance our understanding of the effect of DBT on
           the characteristics of screen detected cancers, whether more biologically significant
           cancers are found when smaller and at an earlier stage, and whether more low grade
           cancers are diagnosed, increasing the problem of over diagnosis.
    
  