
    
      HF is a life-threatening condition in which the heart can no longer pump enough blood to the
      rest of the body. It is important for individuals with heart failure to closely monitor their
      symptoms, seek out medical attention when appropriate, and effectively self-manage their
      condition. However, people with HF are often frail, poor, and socially isolated. These
      factors may limit their ability to access clinic-based services and self-manage their
      condition. Research has shown that group health care visits with other HF patients and peer
      support for self-care behaviors are effective at improving heath care outcomes. This study
      will use an interactive voice response (IVR) system, which is a low-cost telephone system
      that allows calls to be made through a central 1-800 number, thereby eliminating the need to
      distribute home phone numbers or pay for long distance calls. Through the IVR system,
      participants will receive and provide peer support by sharing and discussing HF
      self-management techniques. The IVR system will also facilitate patient communication with
      care managers. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of the peer-to-peer IVR program in
      combination with group health care visits led by HF nurses at reducing hospitalization and
      death rates among HF patients. Participants will be drawn from a community health care system
      that primarily serves large numbers of racial minority and socioeconomically vulnerable
      people.

      This study will enroll 288 moderate- to high-risk HF patients from St. Joseph Mercy Health
      System in Ypsilanti, Michigan. Participants will be paired up with another HF patient, based
      on gender and illness severity. Each pair will be randomly assigned to receive either usual
      care or usual care plus the nurse-led group visits and the IVR program. Participants using
      IVR will receive training in peer communication techniques and participate in an initial
      nurse-led interactive group visit. They will then be asked to communicate at least weekly
      with their partner using the IVR system. The IVR system will also automatically send reminder
      calls to participants and allow them to leave voice mail messages for their partner and their
      care manager. At Months 1, 3, and 6, participants will take part in group visits led by
      nurses to discuss HF self-management strategies. Study staff will monitor participants' use
      of the IVR system, including the dates, duration, and recipients of all phone calls. At
      Months 6 and 12, all participants will complete questionnaires and undergo a medical record
      review to assess hospitalization and death rates, quality of life, self-management behaviors,
      social support, satisfaction with HF care, and depression symptoms.
    
  