
    
      Studies among adult and pediatric populations have suggested vitamin D supplementation may be
      efficacious for mitigating the bone loss seen with tenofovir-based antiretroviral therapy
      (ART). Because patients with HIV face significant pill burden, competing priorities and
      health care associated costs, we seek to explore a pragmatic approach to prevention. The
      investigators propose a randomized controlled, double-blind, placebo intervention trial to
      assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of an intermittent high-dose vitamin D3
      supplementation regimen given quarterly at the point of care for adult patients receiving
      free ART through the China National Free AIDS Treatment Program. The period of
      supplementation will be limited to the first 48 weeks after treatment initiation when
      ART-associated bone loss is most pronounced. This will be followed by supplementation of all
      participants with vitamin D3 from 48 to 96 weeks to compare the impact of early vitamin D3
      supplementation (at ART initiation) versus late vitamin D3 supplementation (at 48 weeks) on
      change in BMD.

      Furthermore, despite the rapid rise in access to ART in China, infrastructure to diagnose and
      manage osteoporosis is not always easily accessible for patients with HIV in China due to
      limited availability of dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), the gold standard for BMD
      measurement. Therefore, the current proposal also seeks to bridge this gap by exploring the
      potential applications of quantitative ultrasound (QUS), a portable and low-cost method of
      assessing BMD that has been demonstrated to reliably predict fracture, in HIV care settings.

      A total of 400 treatment-naïve Chinese adults diagnosed with HIV from 3 study sites in
      Beijing will be enrolled and followed with serial DXA exams to evaluate the primary aim.
      These 400 patients plus another 200 participants from 3 additional study sites from Fuzhou,
      Shenzhen, and Guangxi province, will be evaluated with serial QUS ultrasound examinations for
      the secondary aims. Serum and urine samples will be collected and stored at pre-specified
      time points.
    
  