
    
      All patients undergoing anterior resection (rectosigmoid), low anterior resection,
      abdomino-perineal resection, total proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, sigmoid
      colectomy, and coloanal anastomosis will be included in the study. All patients will undergo
      standard pre-operative work-up prior to the operation. As part of the operative note, the
      level of the anastomosis must be documented.

        1. All patients will have foley catheters removed between 0600 and midnight of
           post-operative day 3 (Day 0 being the day of operation).

        2. All patients will undergo bladder ultrasound prior to catheter removal.

        3. All patients will undergo bladder ultrasound by nursing staff six hours after catheter
           removal, and after voiding the first time after catheter removal, or if the patient
           experiences symptoms of urinary retention.

      6. Patients who meet definition of urinary retention (>100cc post-void residual) will undergo
      intermittent straight catheterization every six hours or with symptoms. For those who refuse
      intermittent straight catheterization, a indwelling urinary catheter will be inserted and
      left in for 24 hours before removal.

      7. For patients who have low urine output indicating under-resuscitation, indwelling
      catheters will be re-inserted and removed when ongoing resuscitation measures are completed.

      8. For patients who are actively undergoing fluid resuscitation on post-operative day 3 will
      not have their urinary catheters removed until resuscitation and monitoring is complete.

      9. Patients who report symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) and/or are already on
      medications for BPH will be continued on those medications starting on post-operative day 1.

      10. Patients who have persistent urinary retention when they are otherwise ready to be
      discharged home will be sent home with a leg bag and follow up in urology clinic for voiding
      trial in 1-2 weeks.

      11. Urinalysis/urine culture will be performed for symptomatic patients.
    
  