
    
      Hyponatremia is defined as a serum sodium concentration below the lower limit of normal and
      is the most frequently encountered electrolyte abnormality in hospitalized patients.
      Generally speaking, most cases of hyponatremia are mild. However, as the serum sodium falls
      below 130 mEq/L, the possibility of significant morbidity and mortality increases, and most
      clinicians will initiate corrective therapy for serum sodium values approaching 130 mEq/L and
      lower. The reasons for treating hyponatremia relate both to the symptoms, which may be quite
      disturbing to patients, as well as to potential outcomes including permanent neurological
      damage and death. there is also growing awareness of the association between hyponatremia and
      increased mortality in patients with heart failure.

      A common theme underlying the occurrence of hyponatremia whether in the setting of congestive
      heart failure, hepatic failure with ascites, or the syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic
      hormone (SIADH) is the non-osmotic secretion of arginine vasopressin (AVP). The presence of
      excess AVP leads to fluid retention and hyponatremia. Agents that antagonize AVP, causing
      proportionally more water diuresis than solute excretion, could offer a significant treatment
      option for patients with hyponatremia, compared to fluid restriction alone. Treatment of
      hyponatremia, particularly in clinical settings such as decompensated congestive heart
      failure, is difficult as conventional diuretics cause neurohormonal activation and further
      stimulate the inappropriate release of vasopressin, leading to additional retention of free
      water and aggravation of hypoosmolality. Similarly, for cirrhosis with ascites and SIADH,
      conventional diuretics are either minimally effective or completely contraindicated. An
      alternative approach to symptom relief and treatment of hyponatremia may be the use of
      vasopressin antagonists, which increase free water clearance with proportionally less effect
      on sodium excretion. Tolvaptan is an oral vasopressin antagonist with relative affinity for
      the V2 receptor which has been shown to induce a diuresis with proportionally more free-water
      than sodium loss.

      The current study is being undertaken in order to evaluate whether tolvaptan, an oral AVP
      inhibitor, will be effective in correcting mild to moderate hyponatremia, and to elucidate
      the effect of this correction on the subject's well-being.
    
  