
    
      PER 5/30/95 AMENDMENT: In HIV-negative patients, intermittent anti-TB therapy has been shown
      to be as effective as daily therapy, but the optimal duration of therapy in HIV-infected
      patients has not been established.

      ORIGINAL: In some areas of the country, resistance to one or more of the drugs commonly used
      to treat TB has emerged. Thus, the need to test regimens containing a new drug exists.
      Furthermore, the optimal duration of anti-TB therapy for HIV-infected patients with TB needs
      to be determined.

      PER 5/30/95 AMENDMENT: Patients who have received an acceptable induction regimen prior to
      study entry and have been found to be susceptible to isoniazid and rifampin with no
      pyrazinamide resistance are randomized to receive either isoniazid or rifampin plus vitamin
      B6 biweekly for 18 or 31 weeks. Patients are evaluated at months 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10, and
      every 4 months thereafter. Minimum follow-up is 1.5 years.

      ORIGINAL: In the induction phase, patients enrolled in "drug-susceptible" areas (defined as
      metropolitan areas with a resistance rate for isoniazid therapy of less than 10 percent)
      receive four drugs: isoniazid (plus pyridoxine), rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.
      Patients enrolled in "drug-resistant" areas (resistance rate for isoniazid of 10 percent or
      higher) receive the four-drug regimen with or without a fifth drug, levofloxacin. After 8
      weeks of induction, patients with multi-drug resistance are removed from study regimens; all
      other patients enter a continuation phase. Pansusceptible patients (showing susceptibility to
      all first-line anti-TB drugs) receive two study drugs for an additional 18 or 31 weeks;
      patients with isoniazid-resistant (or intolerant) TB receive two or three study drugs for an
      additional 44 weeks, while those with rifampin-resistant TB receive two or three study drugs
      for an additional 70 weeks. Patients are evaluated every 2 weeks in the induction phase and
      every 12 weeks in the continuation phase. Minimum follow-up is 2 years.
    
  