
    
      The overall goal of this study is to develop a novel rehabilitative method, in chronic
      stroke, which minimizes residual deficits by maximally utilizing the potential for cortical
      plasticity.

      Despite extensive rehabilitation, approximately 60-80% of patients with stroke experience
      residual dysfunction of the upper limb. Deficits are believed to linger due to
      neurophysiologic imbalance between the ipsilesional (stroke-affected) and contralesional
      (intact) motor cortices. Specifically, the ipsilesional motor cortex loses its normal
      inhibitory control over the contralesional areas, which, in return, intensify their
      inhibitory influence upon the former. Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy (CIMT) represents a
      family of techniques that alleviates residual deficits by rectifying these neurophysiologic
      imbalances. By reinforcing use of the paretic upper limb in daily life during restraint of
      the non-paretic limb, CIMT initiates use-dependent neuroplastic reorganization implicating
      the ipsilesional motor areas, which demonstrate return-of-activity and regain territory in
      the surviving regions, mitigating the exaggerated inhibitory influence exerted by the
      contralesional areas.

      Despite promising evidence, however, clinical utility of CIMT is limited due to its
      labor-intensive protocols and inadequate gains. Our objective is to address gaps in existing
      clinical rehabilitative research. The investigators propose to 1) combine CIMT with targeted
      stimulation of the ipsilesional motor cortices, 2) Use a novel, noninvasive method of
      stimulation, called transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), 3) Use multimodal imaging
      to determine comprehensive mechanisms of recovery in patients. Our central hypotheses are 1)
      ipsilesional motor cortices would be an ideal site for delivering stimulation during CIMT, 2)
      tDCS will be easy, safe and inexpensive to apply and will target multiple maps concurrently
      during rehabilitation as demonstrated in our elemental research. 3) structural and functional
      imaging methods will demonstrate complementary cortical, corticospinal and cortico-muscular
      markers of recovery.
    
  