
    
      This will be a cohort designed study in pre-term infants (<32 weeks of gestation) comparing
      bovine fortified (using any one of the commercially available fortifier products) human milk
      with Prolact-Plus (human) fortified human milk in which the former cohort will be obtained
      retrospectively and the latter obtained prospectively in each participating institution. The
      number of infants to be included in this study is a minimum of 50 in each group who complete
      the 30 days on study. (If a baby drops out of the study prior to 30 days of evaluation, then
      they would be replaced in order to achieve that number.) This sample size was not determined
      statistically, but rather is based solely on the desire to obtain a reasonable amount of data
      to evaluate the new human fortifier in this setting. However, from the perspective of a
      non-inferiority evaluation of an endpoint such as feeding intolerance, consider the
      following. Assuming a rate of 15% for this outcome for the retrospective cohort, then with 50
      subjects per cohort, the study would be able to demonstrate a lack of inferiority of the
      human-based fortifier with a delta of 20% using a power of slightly greater than 80% and a
      one-sided 2.5% significance level. (By a "delta of 20%" it is implied that a theoretical
      feeding intolerance rate for the Prolact-Plus of no worse than 35% would result in a
      conclusion of lack of inferiority with the given levels of significance and power.)
      Conversely, if the human-based fortifier is able to reduce the feeding intolerance rate from
      15% to about 1%, then with the sample sizes in this trial, this would be doable with 80%
      power and 5% significance (two-sided). (Thus, the trial, in theory, also could demonstrate a
      dramatic reduction in this rate.) The retrospective data will be obtained from available
      medical charts at the participating institution and the selected infants should reflect the
      most recently treated (within the 12 month period prior to the initiation of the prospective
      phase of this protocol) and the numbers should be similar in kind to the number treated
      prospectively in that institution.
    
  