
    
      The goal of this project is to determine the feasibility and optimal parameters of a novel,
      comprehensive approach to gait training in individuals with chronic stroke. Current
      post-stroke gait training follows two distinct approaches that target different domains of
      gait dysfunction (as defined by the International Classification of Functioning, Health, and
      Disability). Biofeedback-based gait training is typically employed to treat walking pattern
      impairments (e.g., kinematic deviations relative to able-bodied controls); whereas, aerobic
      exercise intensity-based gait training is the current gold-standard to treat walking activity
      limitations (e.g., slow walking speeds). Here, the investigators propose to test the impact
      of combining these approaches into a single intervention to work toward the development of a
      more effective, comprehensive approach to gait rehabilitation for persons post-stroke. The
      central hypothesis is that individuals with chronic stroke have the capacity to use
      biofeedback to reduce kinematic gait deviations while walking at a range of recommended
      aerobic exercise intensity zones. Aim 1 will identify the gait biofeedback variable that
      elicits the largest reduction in interlimb asymmetry in persons post-stroke. Aim 2 will
      determine the capacity for persons post-stroke to make biofeedback-driven reductions in their
      interlimb asymmetry while walking at three different aerobic exercise intensities.
      Participants with chronic stroke in Aim 1 will each complete three experimental sessions and
      participants in Aim 2 will complete 1 experimental session. Biomechanical analyses and
      physiologic assessments will be used across both aims to test our working hypotheses. The
      investigators expect to show that biofeedback of paretic propulsion leads to the greatest
      reduction in interlimb asymmetry and that participants have the capacity to make
      biofeedback-driven interlimb asymmetry reductions while walking at all three aerobic
      intensities, but the magnitude of reduction will be the largest at a moderate aerobic walking
      intensity. The proposed work is innovative because it will be the first to test the relative
      effects of different gait biofeedback variables on whole lower extremity kinematics in
      persons post-stroke and test a novel combination of two well-established gait training
      approaches (biofeedback- and intensity-based) for neurologic patient populations. This is a
      critical next step in moving the post-stroke gait rehabilitation field forward. If
      successful, this line of work stands to significantly improve the current standard of care in
      gait rehabilitation post-stroke.
    
  