
    
      The objectives of this project are to: 1) Return clinically actionable genomic results to
      participants and track outcomes. Among living FHS/JHS participants who have consented to
      gRoR, we will contact those in whom a detrimental actionable variant is discovered in one of
      the genes noted on the ACMG recommended secondary findings list (estimate 2% of
      participants). 2) Improve high-throughput methods for identifying valid pathogenic variation.
      Refine and apply methods for high throughput screening of FHS/JHS genomes in a manner that
      retains high sensitivity for the detection of detrimental variants in ~3500 Mendelian
      disease-associated genes while reducing the false discovery rate of variants that are not
      pathogenic/likely pathogenic. 3) Explore aggregate penetrance for Mendelian diseases. Review
      phenotype data from a subset of FHS and JHS participants and compare this to genotypic data.

      Data to be gathered include outcome and phenotypic data on the individuals who agree to gRoR
      and who learn that they have detrimental variant in one of the ACMG listed genes. These data
      will be self-reported through surveys and available medical records will be reviewed.
      Additional phenotypic data may be collected and reviewed for other non-actionable mendelian
      disease genes to explore genomic penetrance.

      Research participants who are identified with a detrimental variant in an actionable gene may
      receive direct health benefits from learning this information; however, returning genomic
      results to healthy individuals not presenting for a medical indication may pose unexpected
      harms related to variant directed increases in screening and management. This study is
      focused on exploring the benefits and any potential harms related to returning genomic
      information in population-based cohorts. It will also allow us to better understand the
      penetrance of these variants in two populations not selected for disease status and will
      allow us to compare outcomes in a primarily African American population vs a Caucasian
      population. Developing methods to streamline variant analysis will help improve laboratory
      efficiency and will progress the field of variant curation and analysis.
    
  