
    
      The spectrum of disorders associated with arterial hypertension (AH) encompasses chronic
      uncomplicated hypertension and the hypertensive crises, including hypertensive urgences and
      emergencies. Hypertensive crises accounted for more than 25% of all patient visits to a
      medical section of an emergency department, with hypertensive urgences (HU) accounting for
      two-third of these cases. Hypertensive crises, without prompt treatment, are often associated
      with morbidity and mortality. We propose to conduct a population-based case-control study of
      HU in areas of the Russian Federation. We will include about thirty study centers and one
      data coordinating center and will recruit study participants over a period of one years. We
      plan to conduct in-person interviews with 1,500 cases and 1,500 controls to elicit
      information on demographic background and history of exposures. We intend to test about 20-25
      risk factors of HU thus calculated target number of subject is 3000 pts. We're going to get
      access to hospital lists in each study center. From the database we'll select patients with
      AH and recruit every third participant who came to hospital or/and policlinic. Every selected
      participant will be asked to respond to some questions by phone and be divided into two
      groups. Participants who have HU two weeks before the call will be questioned about level of
      arterial pressure and treatment during HU. Participants with often HU (every week or more)
      will be included into first group (prevalent cases, group A). Participants with seldom HU
      (every month or less) will be included into second group (controls, group B). Cases and
      controls will be selected from the same population of AH patients. Questionnaire contains
      information about age, gender, tobacco use, data about HU (frequency, treatment and its
      complications), antihypertensive and concomitant treatment, level of blood pressure,
      regularity of taking antihypertensive drugs, associated clinical conditions (cerebrovascular
      disease, heart disease, renal disease, peripheral vascular disease), PCI, CABG, if it be
      possible we intend to collect information of factors influencing prognosis (fasting plasma
      glucose, dyslipidaemia, serum creatinine, serum uric acid, left ventricular hypertrophy).
    
  