
    
      Emotional disorders are the most prevalent mental disorders and they affect the lives of
      millions of people across the globe. There is an important body of research showing the
      efficacy of cognitive-behavioral treatments (CBT) for anxiety and depressive disorders
      (emotional disorders). However, the dissemination and implementation of evidence-based CBT is
      still one of the principal challenges for research and clinical practice. Over the past two
      decades, different approaches on how to improve the dissemination and implementation of
      evidence-based treatments have emerged. In this sense, one important line of research is the
      transdiagnostic approach to the treatment of emotional disorders. Transdiagnostic treatments
      "apply the same underlying treatment principles across mental disorders, without tailoring
      the protocol to specific diagnoses". Broadly, transdiagnostic treatments are based on the
      premise that the commonalities of psychological disorders outweigh their differences, and
      that the observed differences (symptoms) are specific manifestations of broader, underlying
      common psychopathological processes. A number of meta-analyses have shown the efficacy of
      transdiagnostic treatments. This approach has implications for treatment and clinical
      practice. For instance, comorbid presentations can be targeted more appropriately, and the
      costs of training are lower because only one protocol is needed for a range of disorders.
      Traditionally, transdiagnostic treatments have focused on the regulation of negative affect
      or neuroticism and less attention has been paid to the regulation of positive affect.
      However, more recent approaches have emerged that acknowledge the importance of targeting
      positive affect in addition to negative affect to improve treatment outcomes. Our research
      group has developed a transdiagnostic protocol that incorporates a component for the
      regulation of positive affect, with results that support its efficacy in a sample of
      community patients.

      Another approach that could enhance the dissemination and implementation of evidence-based
      CBT as well as considerably reduce the costs is the use of the Internet to deliver
      treatments. A number of systematic reviews have shown that Internet-delivered treatments are
      effective and that they work as effectively as face-to-face psychotherapy. In the context of
      Internet-delivered treatments, one possibility is the combination of face-to-face and
      Internet-delivered therapy, also known as blended treatments. The main advantage of blended
      treatments is its lower cost in comparison with traditional face-to-face psychotherapy.
      Moreover, blended treatments might be a good alternative for those patients less likely to
      benefit from guided or unguided Internet-delivered treatments (with no face-to-face contact).
      On the other hand, group psychotherapy can also help to reduce the costs of therapy. The
      literature has shown that there are no differences between individual and group CBT for
      anxiety and depressive disorders.

      In spite of the advantages of group CBT, in the specific field of transdiagnostic treatments,
      research has mainly focused on individual transdiagnostic treatments. Moreover, to our
      knowledge, no studies have been published that combine blended and group delivery formats to
      provide transdiagnostic treatments for emotional disorders. The combination of these two
      treatment approaches to deliver a transdiagnostic treatment might be a highly cost-effective
      treatment strategy for these disorders. This ultimately could contribute to the dissemination
      and implementation of evidence-based transdiagnostic CBT.

      The goal of this study is to conduct a feasibility trial of a blended transdiagnostic group
      protocol for the treatment of emotional disorders. The treatment is a transdiagnostic CBT
      protocol with strategies for the regulation of both negative and positive affectivity.
    
  