
    
      Surgical procedures

      Flap will be elevated following the crestal and releasing incisions (if necessary).

      After having completed the cleaning, the surgeon will perform the osteotomy. After the use of
      the final drill ᴓ3.2 the surgeon will take the measurement of the buccal and palatal/lingual
      walls height.

      If wall discrepancy is 1.5-2mm the site will be included in the study. Clinical photographs
      of probe within the osteotomy have to be taken. The osteotomy will be prepared with the
      conical drill, therefore the implant will be inserted in a special manner - lower part of the
      sloped collar will be located at the buccal aspect of the osteotomy preparation. At the
      buccal aspect the implant will positioned at the crestal bone level, while at the palatal
      aspect it will be either at the level of the bone crest or 0.5 mm below.

      The flap will be sutured with 5/0 or 6/0 non-absorbable Ethilon sutures using the mattress
      and single interrupted sutures. Clinical photographs of the treated site after flap suturing
      will be taken.

      Post-surgical instructions and follow-up

        -  Ibuprofen 400 mg 2-4 times per day will be prescribed in case of pain. In case of
           gastric problems it will be replaced by Paracetamol 1 g (max 4 g per day).

        -  Patient will be reminded to go on with the antibiotic prophylactic therapy as previously
           described.

        -  Chlorhexidine mouthwash 0.12% for 1 minute twice a day for 3 weeks will be provided.

        -  Suture removal after 2 weeks.

      Check-ups and maintenance Appointments will be scheduled at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 6. Clinical
      photographs will be taken. During these appointments the presence of suppuration and flap
      dehiscence will be recorded dichotomously as presence/absence.

      Uncovering procedure will be scheduled at 8 weeks post-op. After crestal incision and gentle
      flap elevation the height of denudated buccal implant surface (if present) will be measured
      using a periodontal probe. Then the healing abutment will be screwed in and single
      interrupted sutures will be placed with the use 5/0 or 6/0 non-absorbable Ethilon sutures (if
      necessary). Suture removal is planned 7 days after procedure. Clinical photographs will be
      taken.

      Temporary crown will be delivered 3 months post implant placement. Clinical examination (PES,
      PI) will be performed. Photographs and control CBCT will be taken.

      Final prosthetic reconstruction will be delivered 6 months post-op. Clinical examination
      (PES, PI) will be performed as well as clinical photographs will be taken.

      1 year evaluation Clinical examination (PES, PI) will be performed. Clinical photographs of
      the study site will be taken. Control CBCT will be taken.

      In case of any complication observed during any of the scheduled visit or during an emergency
      visit, intraoral radiographs and clinical photographs will be taken and the CRF will be
      filled in.
    
  