
    
      This is a randomised controlled clinical trial. Recruiting 31 patient with periimplantitis at
      one or more implants in need for surgical treatment.

      Randomisation to test group (EMD) with surgical treatment and additional application of
      enamel matrix derivative (Emdogain®) or surgical treatment alone in the control group
      (non-EMD).

      Treatment of existing periodontitis performed before recruitment. Baseline examination
      including samples of microbiota and peri-implant fluid followed by surgical treatment. Access
      surgery to remove chronic inflammatory tissue and clean the implant surface from biofilm and
      implant stone with hand instrument and ultrasonic device with special tips for implants,
      followed by polishing the implant surface with a gauze, super floss and rinsing with saline.
      Allocation with a performed block randomisation at the stage of surgery, after cleaning of
      implant surface. Application of enamel matrix derivative (Emdogain®) or not, just before
      closure of flap. After surgery rinsing with chlorhexidine 0.2% twice a day in 6 weeks. No
      systemic antibiotic used in this study.

      Supportive care program, including hygiene instructions and professional cleaning
      supragingival at implants and teeth at 2 weeks, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after treatment.

      Examination with measurements of pocket depth and bone levels at radiographs at baseline just
      before surgery and 12 months and prevalence of bleeding on probing, pus or recession as well
      as full mouth plaque score and full mouth bleeding score at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

      Microbial sampling performed with endodontic paper points at baseline and 2 weeks after
      surgery as well 3, 6 and 12 months from implant site with at baseline the deepest pocket.

      Sampling of the peri-implant fluid from the peri-implant pocket at baseline, 3, 6, and 12
      months from implant site with at baseline the deepest pocket.

      Removal of bridges performed to give accessibility at baseline examination/surgery and at 12
      months.
    
  