
    
      CRT is a promising treatment modality for medically-refractory New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) class III or IV heart failure (HF) patients with intraventricular conduction delay
      (QRS > 130 ms). The randomized trials also suggest that a substantial minority of patients do
      not benefit, either echocardiographically or clinically, from CRT. In the MIRACLE trial, for
      instance, 35% of patients did not clinically improve after CRT. Objective reverse remodeling,
      typically defined as >15% reduction in the end-systolic volume, occurs in approximately 60%
      of patients. Most echocardiographic studies to date have reported only short- and
      intermediate-term results.

      The objectives of the LOCATE-Pilot study are as follows: 1) to determine the proportion of
      patients undergoing CRT or CRT with defibrillator (CRT-D) with interpretable pulsed-wave
      tissue Doppler echocardiographic signals to quantitate and localize mechanical dyssynchrony;
      2) to determine how frequently the LV lead can be successfully implanted in the most delayed
      basal segment (area of maximal delay); 3) to determine whether TDI guidance of CRT improves
      the proportion of patients with an echocardiographic response to treatment (reverse
      remodeling) at 6 months; 4) to determine whether TDI guidance of CRT improves the proportion
      of patients with a clinical response to treatment (6 min walk time, major clinical vascular
      events, or Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Quality of Life score); 5) to confirm that
      echocardiographic targeting of LV lead implantation is safe and does not hamper efficiency in
      the electrophysiological laboratory; 6) to validate the peak velocity delay (PVD) as a
      predictor of CRT response using pulsed-wave Doppler tissue imaging.

      The LOCATE-pilot is a randomized, prospective study of 60 patients undergoing implantation of
      a Medtronic market approved CRT system. All patients will undergo a comprehensive baseline
      echocardiographic study in which a 6-segment model will be used to quantify dyssynchrony by
      the pulsed-wave Doppler technique. Myocardial viability will be assessed by conventional 2D
      criteria and nuclear perfusion data when available. Patients will be randomized to 1 of 2
      groups with 30 patients per group on an intention-to-treat basis: 1) Control group: the
      implanting physician will have no knowledge of the baseline dyssynchrony assessment and use
      the current standard of care in the LV lead implantation; and 2) Echo-Guided group: the
      implanting physician will have full knowledge of baseline echocardiographic study and will
      use the dyssynchrony and viability data to guide final LV lead placement.

      For this pilot study, patients will be followed for 6 months with a repeat Echocardiogram at
      6 months. The primary endpoint of the study is indexed end systolic volume decrease >15% by
      biplane Simpson's technique.
    
  