
    
      This is a residential pilot trial to evaluate the effect of zonisamide (ZNS) on cocaine
      reinforcement, craving and relapse. Cocaine addiction remains a major social and medical
      problem that imposes a significant burden on our society, as more than a half million cocaine
      dependent individuals are seeking treatment every year. Medications that act to antagonize
      the glutamate system and/or increase the GABA-system are new targets in the search towards
      effective cocaine treatment. ZNS is part of a new line of antiepileptic agents that act both
      as glutamate antagonists and to enhance the Gamma-AminoButyric acid (GABA) system.
      Topiramate, a similar agent, showed a positive signal in a pilot trial for cocaine
      dependence. ZNS has the advantages of a longer half-life requiring only once a day dosing
      and, being better tolerated, it requires a shorter induction phase and can be administered at
      higher doses. We hypothesize that ZNS in moderate to high doses will attenuate the central
      effect of cocaine and improve the neural perturbations resulting from cocaine use, thus
      decreasing cocaine craving. Healthy, adult cocaine dependent volunteers will be enrolled on
      our residential unit for 44 days for this double-blind within subject study. The
      pharmacodynamic interactions between ZNS and cocaine will be measured in cocaine
      self-administration procedure offering alternative reinforcers with monetary values. Cocaine
      reinforcing effect will be evaluated over a range of doses, and subjective and objective
      outcomes on mood and behavior will be collected. In addition, the effect of ZNS on ad-lib
      smoking will be studied on the days when no other procedure interferes with smoking
      behaviors. Neurocognitive and psychomotor effects of ZNS treatment will also be studied with
      an extensive test battery on the day of the week when no cocaine is administered. This study
      will explore the potential therapeutic effect of ZNS for the treatment of cocaine dependence
      while providing necessary safety assessments required for possible future outpatient clinical
      trials.
    
  