
    
      This is a cohort study. It involves baseline, 1st follow up visit and 2nd follow up visit. At
      baseline visit, all participants will go through a list of assessments and questionnaires and
      blood taking. Follow-up visit(s) will be scheduled every one to two years, in which the same
      set of assessments and questionnaires will be administered.

        1. Clinical assessments and questionnaires

           Different clinical assessments would be administered depending on the group that the
           participant belongs to:

             -  Hoehn and Yahr Stage and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) for
                iPD, PSP and SVD patients with parkinsonism features

             -  Unified MSA Rating Scale (UMSARS) for MSA

             -  Levodopa Equivalent Dosage for medication burden for parkinsonian syndromes
                patients

             -  Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R), body
                weight and forced vital capacity (FVC) for MND group

             -  Montreal Cognitive Assessment Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA), Olfactory Identification
                Test (OIT) and Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test for all groups

           Video taking would be administered to record participants' eye movement if necessary.
           For example, video of eye movement is useful to rate MSA patients' ocular motor
           dysfunction, such as gaze-evoke nystagmus.

           Patients with parkinsonian syndromes will fill in a set of questionnaires, including
           demographic information, medical history, history and current medications, wearing-off
           questionnaire, impulsiveness questionnaire, Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire (BPAQ),
           rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder questionnaire (RBDQ), Epworth Sleepiness
           Scale (ESS), Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire (MEQ), Insomnia Severity Index (ISI),
           Beck's Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSSI), Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's
           Disease-Autonomic questionnaire (SCOPA-AUT), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
           (HADS), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ9), lifestyle and life history, and occupation
           history.

        2. Blood sampling Blood taking would be carried out at Prince of Wales Hospital and will be
           processed and transported to the laboratory according to standard procedure.

           Venous blood samples are collected into 6 EDTA tubes and 1 Heparin tube. The volume of
           total blood samples will not exceed 23ml. Serum is obtained within 1 hour by
           centrifugation at 3,000 rpm for 10 min and stored at -70°C until laboratory evaluation
           for proteomics, SERS and other biochemical and genetics studies.

        3. Sub-studies Selected participants in the cohort groups, especially those with early
           disease onset and/or familial cases, would proceed to sub-studies which include brain
           MRI, brain PET, lumbar puncture and/or skin biopsy. Subjects are voluntary to join one
           or more sub-studies.
    
  