
    
      Insomnia is characterized by difficulty in initiating sleep, difficulty in maintaining sleep,
      early morning awakening and non-restorative sleep, which should be relatively frequent (>/= 3
      times/ week), persistent (>/= 2-4 weeks) and severe enough to affect daytime functioning. It
      is among the most common mental disorders. Epidemiological surveys in Western countries found
      a high prevalence of insomnia syndrome (9.2-13%) and insomnia symptoms (11.4% to 38%). In
      Hong Kong, a prevalence of 11.9% was reported for community adults. Given such high
      prevalence, insomnia is evidently one major health concern across diverse communities,
      including Hong Kong. Furthermore, the disorder runs a chronic and debilitating course if
      untreated.

      Interrelationships between insomnia and mental health are now well established in the
      epidemiological literature, with insomnia shown to be frequently comorbid with mental health
      concerns, such as depression or anxiety and risk of suicide. Insomnia symptoms have
      repeatedly been shown to increase the risk of subsequent depression. Also, it is shown that
      augmenting an antidepressant medication with a brief, symptom focused, cognitive-behavioral
      therapy for insomnia is promising for individuals with depression and comorbid insomnia in
      terms of alleviating both depression and insomnia. It is clear that insomnia is not only a
      disorder of high personal suffering, but is also associated with high and recurring societal
      costs. These facts strongly argue for the need of effective treatments to relieve personal
      suffering, caring burdens, and societal economic costs.

      Fortunately, there are effective treatments available for insomnia, particularly
      cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT). In a number of meta-analysis of insomnia treatments, CBT
      is effective and consistently performs better than placebo and other control conditions in
      improving nighttime insomnia symptoms, including sleep latency, total sleep time, wake after
      sleep onset, and insomnia symptoms. CBT for insomnia (CBTi) packages include stimulus
      control, relaxation, sleep restriction and their combination meet APA criteria for
      empirically validated treatment for insomnia based on the strength of results from a number
      of empirical studies.

      Unfortunately, while effective psychological treatments exist, there is only limited manpower
      to provide the intervention. Western studies showed that 15-25% of children and adults were
      suffering from mental health disorders, but only 20-30% of them had access to treatment.
      Locally in Hong Kong, we are facing an almost identical situation. About 15% of children and
      adults suffered from mental health disorders, but again only 15-30% of them had access to
      mental health services. Obviously, a shortage of mental health professionals such as
      psychiatrists or clinical psychologists is a worldwide phenomenon. In Hong Kong, our
      situation regarding the availability of clinical psychologists (CPs) in providing
      psychological treatment is even worse. We have a ratio of approximately 1 CP to 18,000 in the
      Hong Kong population, far below the ratio of 1 in 3,500 in the USA.

      Most governments, including those of richer countries like USA, will admit that they will
      never have the resources to increase the number of mental health professionals like
      psychiatrists and CPs to meet the societal demand. Instead, a more viable solution is to look
      for greater cost-efficiency in delivering services. Recent meta-analyses find the
      effectiveness of group psychological treatment (mostly CBT) for insomnia as largely
      comparable to that of traditional one on one therapy. Group therapy is thus advocated as a
      less-intensive, cost-effective way to offer evidence-based treatment.

      Based on Morin, we developed a treatment protocol for CBTi, incorporating both education and
      individualized feedback. The protocol implements all of the key procedures in one-on-one CBTi
      such as sleep restriction, stimulus control, managing dysfunctional beliefs about sleep,
      behavioural experiments, increasing energizing behaviours, all of which target the
      maintaining factors of insomnia. Patients would be assigned a therapist to follow up on them
      via either brief (5-10 minutes) telephone calls. Compared to traditional face to face CBTi,
      the protocol requires 32% of the therapist's time of the latter, i.e., a 68% drop in the
      therapist's time.

      There is a paucity of study in the effectiveness of cognitive behaviour therapy for insomnia
      in Hong Kong Chinese, let alone CBTi in group. This proposal aims at developing a CBTi
      protocol for treatment of insomnia in Hong Kong to increase the access of evidence-based
      treatment to local Chinese insomnia adults. This involves protocol development, test-run and
      a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a waitlist control group and a short-term follow-up
      of three months.
    
  