
    
      Severe infectious disease may be the cause for admitting a patient to an ICU, but more often
      they constitute a complication of the intensive care and turn out to be caused by nosocomial
      pathogens.

      Nosocomial infections are associated with a high lethality. The appropriate antibiotic
      therapy determines in part the outcome of the patients. Especially this antibiotic therapy
      implicates a number of problems for the physician.

      He has to ensure that the chosen antibiotics are effective against the most common and
      presumed pathogens and that the reached concentrations of antibiotics in plasma and
      epithelial lining fluid are reliably and permanently above the minimal inhibitory
      concentration (MIC) for the given pathogens.

      All the antibiotics included in our clinical trial are so called "time dependent"
      antibiotics. They are most effective if there concentrations reach a certain level (MIC) at
      the infected site (epithelial lining fluid in our study) over the entire period of treatment.

      To achieve this aim, many authors already suggested that the continuous infusion might solve
      the problem of too low antibiotic plasma and ELF levels. Studies about pharmacokinetics of
      continuous infused antibiotics, which were conducted in healthy volunteers or patients with
      normal organ function, cannot be assigned to critical ill patients. Rationales for this
      statement are that data about plasma and tissue levels of antibiotics in critical ill
      patients are highly influenced by modified volume of distribution, elimination half-life
      period and impaired tissue perfusion compared to healthy volunteers. These physiological
      variances implicate that the response to the antibiotic treatment remains doubtful. Under
      these pathophysiological conditions, data about antibiotics plasma and ELF levels may provide
      additional information in order to adjust the dosing regime of antibiotics.

      Studies conducted in critical ill patients showed that under the circumstances of continuous
      infused antibiotics, the reached levels in plasma are above the MIC. However there is little
      data about penetration into ELF of continuous infused antibiotics.

      Our study intends to provide data about plasma and ELF levels of continuous infused
      antibiotics in steady state, determine a penetration coefficient for these antibiotics into
      ELF and to compare the reached levels in ELF to the MIC.

      To demonstrate the efficiency of continuous infused antibiotics, we will conduct quantitative
      microbiological measurements before and after treatment if applicable.
    
  