
    
      According to the World Alzheimer's Report 2018, 50 million people worldwide suffer from
      dementia and it is estimated that this number will triple by 2050.

      Very often people with dementia suffer from comorbidities accompanied by chronic,
      inflammatory and neuropathic pain, often under-diagnosed through psychological and behavioral
      symptoms of dementia such as agitation and aggression. The therapy of neuropsychiatric
      symptoms of dementia is currently based on the use of atypical antipsychotics that are
      actually present in the short term and may induce important side effects.

      This study evaluates the efficacy of defurocumarinized bergamot in the treatment of agitation
      in severe dementia patients. Bergamot essential oil (BEO), able to modulate the endogenous,
      peripheral and central opioid system involved in painful states, has developed in models of
      inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain; it is also effective when administered by inhalation.
      To solve this problem, this clinical trial will use defurocumarinized bergamot loaded in a
      nanotechnological system of essential oil release in the pharmaceutical form of an odourless
      cream indistinguishable from placebo cream.

      Participants in the study will be divided into 2 parallel groups, one treatment group and one
      placebo, to evaluate the clinical efficacy of defurocumarinized bergamot loaded in a
      nanotechnological system of essential oil release in the pharmaceutical form of a cream in
      the treatment of agitation, in in Over-sixty-five-year-old patients of both sexes diagnosed
      with severe dementia.

      The rationale of this clinical trial is based on three fundamental points:

        1. Preclinical research has proven, beyond any doubt, a powerful analgesic activity of BEO
           on inflammatory and neuropathic pain;

        2. at present the essential oils needed in aromatherapy for agitation management do not
           show strong analgesic activity, documented by extensive preclinical evidence;

        3. clinical trials that have assessed the efficacy of aromatherapy in neuropsychiatric
           symptoms associated with dementia suffer from the severe lack of a double-blind
           according to the most rigorous criteria of clinical trial evaluation. To solve this
           problem, this clinical trial will use defurocumarinized bergamot loaded in a
           nanotechnological system of essential oil release in the pharmaceutical form of an
           odourless cream indistinguishable from placebo cream.
    
  