
    
      Advanced cholangiocarcinomas (CCAs) are aggressive tumors with median survival time after
      diagnosis of less than 12 months, and five-year overall survival (OS) of ~5% with systemic
      chemotherapy. Currently available systemic therapies for CCA are largely ineffective, thus
      the rationale for the proposed research is to investigate targeted delivery of chemotherapy.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel in
      patients with advanced CCA. This is based on the premise that nab-paclitaxel binds to SPARC
      (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine) through its interaction with albumin, leading
      to an increase in intra-tumoral concentration of gemcitabine through decreased deoxycytidine
      deaminase (CDA) enzyme. We hope to improve on the OS of patients with advanced CCA through
      the use of the synergistic combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine to specifically
      target the SPARC protein in the peri-tumoral stroma. We aim to provide critical data to
      further develop pharmacologic strategies to target the desmoplastic stroma in order to
      increase chemotherapy responsiveness of CCAs.

      We will also examine whether circulating tumor cell (CTC) levels with targeted gene
      expression analysis and stromal SPARC levels correlate with patient outcome and thus serve as
      prognostic biomarkers. We will evaluate the role of Human Equilibrative Nucleoside
      Transporter 1 (hENT1), CDA and tumor fibrosis as additional prognostic and predictive
      biomarkers in CCA. This clinical trial hopes to improve on the poor prognosis of patients
      with advanced CCA by establishing the activity of a platinum-free doublet, nab-paclitaxel
      plus gemcitabine that has shown clear clinical benefit in pancreatic cancer which has close
      biological parallels to CCA.

      A maximum of 70 patients will be enrolled to attain 67 eligible/evaluable patients. Stage I
      will enroll 37 patients. If 21 or more patients are alive and progression-free at 6 months,
      the study will proceed to Stage II and an additional 33 patients will be enrolled.

      Procurement of archived tissue, if available, from a previous diagnostic biopsy is mandatory
      for enrollment. If not available, this will not preclude participation in the trial, nor will
      additional biopsies be performed for research purposes only.

      Optional blood samples will be requested.
    
  