
    
      Stroke is a devastating disease and one of the primary causes for death and long term
      morbidity imposing a heavy burden on patients, relatives and the health care system. Except
      for fibrinolytic therapy, which is only possible in a minor fraction of patients, there is no
      widely approved medication for the treatment of acute stroke.

      Cerebrolysin has been approved for the treatment of stroke in over 45 countries worldwide.

      Since the approval of Cerebrolysin, stroke therapy has evolved, namely, with improved overall
      care, stroke units, more targeted rehabilitation, and the increasing availability of
      fibrinolytic therapy (rtPA, Actilyse) in specialized centers throughout the world. More
      recently, interventional therapies with various thrombus retrievers have emerged.

      In addition the Cerebrolysin treatment in stroke has evolved with different time windows,
      dosages and lengths of therapy being given in a pragmatic way by physicians within the
      specification of Product Characteristics for Cerebrolysin (SPC). The main aim of this study
      is to capture these variables of the Cerebrolysin treatment and its comedication in order to
      give guidance to further research. This research may consist of an extension of the current
      registry or targeted research in one or several subgroups of patients responding to
      Cerebrolysin treatment.

      It is therefore the overall aim of this registry study to monitor the effectiveness and
      safety of Cerebrolysin therapy against the background of the now established and evolving
      stroke therapies. In the concomitant control group these therapies alone or in combination
      will be compared to the addition of Cerebrolysin in these patients. Of particular interest is
      the treatment in stroke units, with rtPA and systematic rehabilitation.

      An open observational treatment design has been chosen to collect data to capture the
      therapies as applied in real clinical practice and to avoid the selection bias typical for
      controlled studies excluding the majority of patients from participation. In order to
      overcome the observational bias as major and inherent limitation of open trial designs, a
      remote and blinded assessment will be done: after three months treatment the patients'
      assessment of the modified Rankin Scale (mRS, a widely accepted primary outcome parameter)
      will be -after specific informed consent- video-taped and subsequently assessed by at least
      two independent and blinded assessors experienced in the remote assessment of the mRS.
    
  