
    
      Neonatal sepsis is a major contributor to an estimated 2.6 million annual deaths and accounts
      for approximately 3 % of all disability-adjusted life years. The consequences of NS can be
      minimized by early initiation of antibiotic therapy. Due to high NS rates, the vulnerability
      of the organism in the neonatal period and concerns about consequences (considerable
      mortality, association with other acute or chronic complications), antibiotic therapy is
      com¬monly started in clinical practice even though non-spe¬cific clinical signs develop. This
      is in spite of the fact that antibiotic overuse is linked to major negative outcomes. The
      reliable and early diagnosis of NS is therefore essential but, unfortunately, rather
      difficult.

      Probably the most widely used "biochemical" marker of NS, C-reactive protein (CRP), is one of
      the so-called late markers. Its sensitivity is mainly low in the early stages of infection;
      its reliability increases, particularly with serial measurements. In that case, its
      negativity practically rules out the presence of NS. It is not completely specific for NS.
      Procalcitonin (PCT), an intermediate marker, is relatively specific, providing prognostic
      information as well; it decreases rapidly in response to effective therapy. However, its
      complex postnatal "physiological" dynamics makes its measurements difficult, particularly in
      early-onset sepsis.

      CD64 is normally expressed in very low concentrations by unstimulated neutrophils. It is
      considerably upregulated on the trigger of bacterial invasion and has been shown to be
      involved in the process of phagocytosis and intracellular killing of pathogens. More
      importantly, neutrophils from preterm infants express CD64 during bacterial infections to the
      same degree as those from term infants, children, and adults. So in newborns, neutrophil CD64
      have been found to be promising markers for diagnosis of early and late infections.

      Among several candidate receptors, triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1)
      appears to play a relevant role in the modulation of innate immunity, amplifying or
      attenuating Toll-Like Receptor (TLR)-induced signals. TREM-1 is a receptor of the
      immunoglobulin superfamily, expressed on human neutrophils and monocytes. In the early phase
      of infection, the engagements of Pattern Recognition Receptors (PRRs) by microbial components
      induce up-regulation of TREM-1. After recognition of a still unknown ligand, TREM-1
      associates with a signal transduction molecule called DAP12, triggering the sustained release
      of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-1b) and chemokines (IL-8 and monocyte
      chemotactic protein), which may result in prolonged survival of neutrophils and monocytes at
      the inflammatory site.
    
  