
    
      The proposed clinical trial will consist of two parallel studies. In the first part of the
      study, we will evaluate the analgesia and adverse effects of celecoxib, a COX-2 inhibitor in
      comparison to naproxen and placebo of patients with temporomandibular disorders (TMD).
      Celecoxib, is in oral anti-inflammatory and analgesic agent that acts by selectively
      inhibiting cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and is not expected to cause the typical
      gastrointestinal, and platelet-related side effects associated with inhibition of the COX-1
      enzyme. Decrease in pain, dysfunction and improvement in quality of life will be assessed at
      base line and after 6-week follow-up. Successful demonstration of an enhanced therapeutic
      effect or reduced toxicity may provide a basis for clinical use of selective COX-2 inhibitors
      in patients with painful TMD.

      In a second group of carefully selected patients, we will evaluate the short-term effect
      etanercept (Enbrel) in comparison to placebo in patients who had pain and tenderness to
      palpation in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ osteoarthritis) of at least three month
      duration and who had not responded to conservative treatment. Etanercept is a biologic
      modifier that binds specifically to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha). The mechanism of
      action of etanercept is competitive inhibition of TNF binding to cell-surface TNF receptors
      (TNFR), preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF biologically inactive.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned to either etanercept or placebo administration. At
      baseline and at 6-week follow up individual outcomes will be assessed such as pain,
      mandibular range of motion along with the analysis of the sample synovial fluid level of TNF
      alpha. By studying the joint fluid levels of TNF alpha, we will learn more about the
      development of the local inflammatory process in the joint, which will help in predicting the
      prognosis for patients with these TM joint disorders. Positive findings will also provide
      clinical implications of etanercept in patients with painful TMJ osteoarthritis.
    
  