
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) is highly prevalent worldwide and is the second most commonly diagnosed
      cancer in men globally and is the 5th leading cause of cancer death in men. 1 In some Asian
      areas, even n with widely used serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) diagnostic testing, more
      than 50% men with newly diagnosed PC are deemed to have high risk disease. 2 However, the
      current use of serum PSA as a diagnostic marker is unsatisfactory. Many patients has elevated
      serum PSA is actually due to other causes and also the level of serum PSA do not correlate
      with the staging and grading of prostate cancer. 3 Moreover, the use of serum PSA required
      blood taking which is invasive and non-convenience for large scale screening. Therefore,
      newer markers is needed for more simple and accurate diagnosis of prostate cancer.

      One example of such cancer biomarkers are natural polyamines. Interests on these analytes
      have been starting in 1971 when Russell reported a considerable increase of urinary
      polyamines such as putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm) in patients with
      various types of solid tumors and leukaemias. 4 Afterwards, polyamine studies focusing on
      specific cancers continued, like cervical cancer, 5 colorectal cancer 6 and breast cancer, 7
      etc. In investigators' recent study, investigators have explored the potential roles of
      urinary polyamines as prostate cancer biomarkers were evaluated. Patients with prostate
      cancer (PCa), benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients and healthy controls (HC) showing
      PSA>4.0ng/ml were enrolled in the study.8 Their urine samples were obtained, and the urinary
      levels of Put, Spd, Spm were determined by ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography
      coupled with triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (UPLC-MS/MS). Receiver operating
      characteristics (ROC) curve and Student's t- test were used to evaluate their diagnostic
      accuracies. Among the three biogenic polyamines, Spm had demonstrated a good diagnostic
      performance when comparing their levels in PCa patients with BPH patients (1.47 in PCa vs
      5.87 in BPH; p<0.0001). The results were in accordance with transrectal ultrasound prostatic
      biopsy (TRUSPB) results, with an area under curve (AUC) value of 0.83±0.03. Therefore,
      urinary Spm could have a potential to serve as a novel PCa diagnostic biomarker, which in
      turn could help to address the limited sensitivity and specificity problem of serum PSA test.

      Therefore, investigators would like to have a larger scale study, with inclusion of subjects
      from different geographic locations, to further assess the correlation spermine and other
      potential newer urine markers with diagnosis of prostate cancer and investigate their role as
      a potential non-invasive marker for prostate cancer risk stratification and prognosis
      prediction.
    
  