
    
      The study was approved by local Ethical Committee under protocol number CAAE:
      035541412.7.0000.5188, and each volunteer signed an informed consent form prior to enrollment
      in the study.

      The sample size calculation was carried out based on a previous study. To detect the
      bleaching effect with a power of 80% and a one-tailed alpha error of 5%, a sample size of 20
      subjects in each treatment group was necessary to detect a 20% difference between groups in
      shade change. A 20% addiction in subjects' number, taking into consideration potential loss
      or refusal, gave a total sample size of 75 subjects (25 in each group). The individuals were
      invited to participate in this clinical trial through advertisement exposed at the Federal
      University of Paraíba, Brazil.

      Basing on eligibility criteria, 75 volunteers were selected to the trial and randomized to
      one of the three groups of treatment: G1- brushing teeth with a conventional toothpaste; G2-
      brushing teeth with a silica whitening dentifrice containing blue pigment; and G3 - at-home
      tooth bleaching with 10% carbamide peroxide. The treatments will be detailed in another
      section. It was used a simple randomization to allocate the subjects, and a randomization
      table was prepared in the Excel Program by a member, not directly involved with the clinical
      part of the study.

      To mask the products used in the treatment groups, each toothpaste type was enveloped with an
      adhesive tape of a different color and the seal of the bleaching gel syringe was removed. The
      same examiner responsible for subject allocation did this procedure. Thus, testing with the
      toothpastes was double-blinded, where both evaluator and subject did not know which
      toothpaste was being used.

      The outcomes evaluated were: tooth shade, subjects' perception about tooth color appearance,
      and safety and acceptability of products tested, which were measured at baseline, 2-weeks,
      3-weeks and 4-weeks of the beginning of treatments.

      For statistical analysis, data were checked for normal distribution using the Kolmogorov
      Smirnov test, and then it was applied the appropriated parametric or non-parametric tests.
      Differences were considered statistically significant when p < 0.05.
    
  