
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label, single arm, first-in-man phase I trial to investigate the
      safety, feasibility and immunogenicity of the novel APVAC approach in patients with newly
      diagnosed GB.

      Primary Endpoints:

        -  Safety: Determine the safety and tolerability profile of patient-tailored APVAC vaccines
           when administered with immunomodulators concurrent to maintenance temozolomide (TMZ)
           cycles.

        -  Feasibility: Determine duration and success rates for APVAC1 and APVAC2 processes and
           for vaccinations with APVAC drug products.

        -  Biological activity: Descriptive analysis of induced T-cell responses after vaccinations
           with APVAC1 and APVAC2 drug products plus immunomodulators.

      Secondary Study Objectives:

        -  Identification of biomarkers putatively predictive for immunological response and/or
           associated with clinical success or failure. Analyzed biomarkers may include
           non-cellular parameters measured from tumor, plasma or serum, and cellular parameters
           measured from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), leukapheresis samples or
           isolated tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs).

        -  Description of potential clinical activity of the APVAC drug products. Descriptive
           analysis of clinical outcome in patients will be reported including OS and PFS.
           Correlation analysis of these parameters with immune response data may provide first
           hints on clinical activity of the vaccine.

      After the standard chemoradiotherapy with TMZ has been completed and as soon as the start of
      the first maintenance TMZ cycle the vaccination phase begins. It starts with the first APVAC1
      vaccination, followed by additional APVAC2 vaccinations at a later time point and ends with
      the Last Endpoint Evaluation Visit (LEEV) of a patient.

      Single vaccinations with APVAC vaccines consist of an intradermal (i.d.) injection of the
      personalized APVAC drug product into the skin of the thigh, shoulder or abdomen followed by
      subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of 1.5 mg poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®) in close proximity to the
      vaccination site. The second immunomodulator GM-CSF (75 μg) will be applied i.d. to the APVAC
      vaccination site 10-30 min before injection of the APVACs.
    
  