
    
      Substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are neuropeptides that are
      assembled in the cell bodies of the trigeminal nerve and are transported through axonal flow
      to the nerve endings in human dental pulp, mainly in type-C nerve fibers and free nerve
      endings, where they are released to fulfill important biological functions.

      SP plays an important role in pulp tissue reparation because it stimulates angiogenesis using
      direct mechanisms by modulating the growth of endothelial cells and fibroblasts through the
      activation of growth factors such as VEGF and IGF-1 and stimulates cell migration and
      proliferation to form mineralized tissue as a defense mechanism. It also uses indirect
      mechanisms such as binding to granulocytes or macrophages, which allow cells with angiogenic
      potential to be attracted.

      CGRP has a key role in pulp reparation because of its angiogenic potential, which is linked
      to endothelial cell stimulation via the cAMP-PKA pathway, promoting cell proliferation. It
      boosts VEGF expression and stimulates focal adhesion kinase involved in the stabilization and
      maturation of blood vessels. It can stimulate growth factors that act on fibroblasts, such as
      HGF, IGF-1, and bFGF, and it can also produce an effect on odontoblast-like cells by
      increasing BMP-2 expression and allowing cell proliferation after 24 h. This shows that it
      can contribute to mineralized matrix formation

      Angiogenesis is mediated by several growth factors, such as the VEGF. VEGF is released in the
      pulp tissue as a response to a harmful stimulus to counteract emerging hypoxic areas
      regulating oxygen and nutrients supply to cell populations by forming new blood vessels. VEGF
      is present in endothelial cells, mast cells, macrophages, lymphocytes, undifferentiated
      mesenchymal cells, fibroblasts, and odontoblast-like cells, and it controls neurogenic
      inflammation and reparation processes in combination with SP due to its angiogenic potential.

      SP, CGRP, VEGF expression can be altered by the masticatory function, occlusal trauma,
      orthodontic movements, or a combination of occlusal trauma and orthodontic movements, which
      often takes place in patients under orthodontic treatment.
    
  