
    
      Stimulation of labour with synthetic oxytocin is increasingly used all over the world.
      Synthetic oxytocin is used in cases of dystocia of labour, with the objective of attempting
      labour progression until achieving vaginal birth. The use of oxytocin could have potential
      adverse effects on the mother and the fetus, such as uterine tachysystole, which can lead to
      uterine rupture and fetal distress . There is a risk of fetal hypoxemia and acidemia if the
      contractions are very frequent and prolonged. The risk of instrumented delivery is even
      higher when oxytocin is used when labour is progressing normally. There is a significant
      association between oxytocin use to stimulate labour and severe perineal lacerations,
      postpartum urinary retention, postpartum hemorrhage and delayed onset of breastfeeding. The
      World Health Organization (WHO) defines dystocia of labour as four hours without progress
      during the active labor and is recommended to medically intervene . When health professionals
      that assist women in labour (Midwives and Obstetricians) do not follow the clinical
      guidelines on intrapartum care, labour dystocia and oxytocin use, and oxytocin is used
      routinely without medical indication, ends in the erroneous use of oxytocin. According to the
      evaluation of Strategy of Attention to Normal Childbirth (SANC), the National Health System
      in Spain, which sets standards of quality in obstetric practice, showed a rate of 53.3% of
      oxytocin use during labor in pregnant women with spontaneous onset of labour, which is high
      and is far from the expected standard (expected standard of 5 to 10%, as an indicator of good
      practice).

      According to the Romano and de Lothian study, a high use of oxytocin during labour would be
      related to the so-called "cascade of interventions", referring to different obstetric
      interventions that are used routinely and not based on scientific evidence which could
      interfere in the physiology of childbirth and in the skills of women to cope with labour and
      labour pain. The use of oxytocin has a limited and uncertain benefit , and may even be
      harmful in some specific situations during labor. Lothian suggests in his study that routine
      practices that are unnecessary in physiological births should be avoided, thus minimizing
      complications, and improving perinatal outcomes.

      An international consensus was published in 2017 to review the scientific evidence on care
      practices that facilitate a physiological delivery process and its relationship with the
      improvement of perinatal outcomes and maternal satisfaction.

      The increase in the use of oxytocin during childbirth in healthy women and with spontaneous
      onset of labour seems to be generalized worldwide, and national and international agencies
      demand an improvement in the care provided during childbirth in women with pregnancies of low
      obstetric risk, with the objective of limiting unnecessary interventions during childbirth
      and birth.

      In the same line, in 2018 an international initiative for childbirth (ICI) is promoted with
      12 steps towards a safe and respectful Mother-Family motherhood, ICI-Mother Baby Childbirth
      Organization (IMBCO) and International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), in
      which "step 6" recommends: Promote and provide clinical practice based on evidence that has
      proven to be beneficial and respect the normal physiology of labour. Allowing labour to
      develop at its own pace, avoiding unnecessary interventions.

      In Spain, although the guidelines on Normal Childbirth recommends not to perfuse oxytocin
      routinely during labour, since the evidence shows that this does not improve the results
      (SANC), the rate of 53% of oxytocin shows that it seems to be routinely used. Routine
      oxytocin use´s consequences are: increase in cesarean and instrumental deliveries, loss of
      fetal wellbeing intrapartum, uterine rupture, among others.

      The partogram is one of the conventional obstetric tools used in labour wards, specially the
      World Health Organization partogram with the four-hours action line, which is widely used and
      it serves to give a graphic content and a global vision of the evolution and medication given
      in a concrete women in labour, although a routine use of partogram is not recommended, and
      new studies are needed to stablish the effectiveness of the partogram. There are frequent
      professional errors using conventional partogram and this justify the need for a tool
      different from the usual ones. The algorithms of care in normal and in disrupted labour care
      of The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidelines are complex. The use
      of a tool for professionals that facilitate decision making by following the clinical
      practice guidelines could ensure the guidelines are followed-up properly and improve quality
      of care, patients safety related aspects and improve the results of childbirth for women and
      the neonates.

      The tool the investigators are developing is called A-BIRTHPERFORM and consists of the
      clinical guidelines algorithms to help decision-making based on scientific evidence. The
      algorithm takes into account the specific labour phase and the women characteristics ( first
      or second stage of labour, and if in second stage of labour the algorithm differentiate if
      latent or active phase of this stage), the parity (nulliparous or multiparous women) and
      shakes into account whether the women uses epidural analgesia as pain relief during labour.
      It would be like an interactive partogram, where the professional will be guided through the
      appropriate algorithm of care during the labour process. There is evidence about the use of
      digital tools for professionals in different areas of health. In the area of maternity care
      the investigators have found evidence on digital tools for cardiotocographic interpretation,
      or as an aid for health professional for decision making on women admission to labour ward.
      The investigators have not found any evidence about this type of tool proposed, for its
      specific intrapartum care use. It seems to be a lack of research studies on digital tools in
      childbirth providing clinical and therapeutic advantages in birth results in relation to
      pre-technological care.

      A-BIRTHPERFORM could help reduce the use of oxytocin, decrease instrumented deliveries and
      severe perineal lacerations that seem to be directly related to the use of oxytocin . The
      digital tool aims to provide standardization and systematization to childbirth care and to
      serve as a communication tool between team members. Digital tools for health professionals
      have proven to be effective to support a better decision making and better results in
      patients and users of health services.

      For the development of A-BIRTHPERFORM digital tool the investigators are been supported by
      Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute (IMIM). A-BIRTHPERFORM will be tested to evaluate
      its comprehensibility, acceptability and viability. This tool aims to be an aid for
      clinicians, both in the monitoring and support during normal birth, and in complex situations
      helping to determine at each moment of the process how to intervene during labour, in case of
      labour dystocia for example, by artificially rupturing the membranes or by using oxytocin, or
      for arrested labour by performing an instrumented delivery or cesarean section.

      On the other hand, this tool allows the professional to freely access from any digital
      device, not necessarily located at the counter or reception of the maternal unit, which
      facilitates personal reflection on labour progress and with the team, in order to improve
      health results for women and their families.

      The purpose of the investigators is to assess whether A-BIRTHPERFORM improves perinatal
      outcomes compared with conventional partogram use.
    
  