
    
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and generalized Social Anxiety Disorder (gSAD) are pervasive
      major public health problems. These disorders are characterized by emotion dysregulation, an
      inability or inefficiency to regulate negative and positive affect as reflected in common and
      disorder-specific symptoms (e.g., attentional bias to negative stimuli,
      excessive/inappropriate negative thoughts, hyperarousal, anhedonia, emotional blunting). Such
      dysregulation is believed to result from an imbalance between top-down 'emotion regulating'
      (ER) frontal nodes central in inhibitory control of bottom-up subcortical
      'emotion-generating' (EG) nodes in a Fronto-Limbic Affect Regulation and Emotional Salience
      (FLARES) network. Therefore, successful treatment would be expected to 'normalize'
      neurofunctional disturbances in the FLARES network, which can be measured with fMRI and more
      distal units of brain function -- event-related potentials (ERPs) from
      electroencephalography, startle potentiation from electromyography (EMG), neurocognitive
      performance, and use of regulation strategies in daily life via self-report. The overarching
      objective of the proposed study is to understand how, when, and where CBT works and for whom
      to tailor treatment to improve clinical outcome.

      Without precisely identified "targets" and "predictors" of change, CBT response will continue
      to be unpredictably varied with few achieving meaningful clinical improvement placing them at
      risk for relapse and recurrence. Our proposal builds on published data from our lab and
      others and Preliminary Data which shows FLARES function, as assayed with fMRI, ERPs, EMG, and
      behaviors, is sensitive to change following CBT.

      Importantly, both baseline fMRI and non-fMRI units of brain-behavioral measures predict CBT
      response better than baseline clinical measures. Such knowledge can lead to more precise
      interventions aimed at capitalizing on 'strengths' or improving 'deficits' that may each
      exist before CBT and/or explain why CBT does not work for some patients. The dual development
      of fMRI ('mechanistic') and non-fMRI ('pragmatic') predictors and indices of therapeutic
      change is aimed at advancing precision medicine while increasing the clinical utility of
      'biomarkers' in the outpatient setting. With this objective, we propose to employ
      well-validated paradigms to test ER and EG in the context of negative stimuli, reward
      processes, and fear systems in MDD and gSAD to delineate common and disorder-specific
      mechanisms of change and predictors of CBT outcome. We will enroll 200 patients: 100 MDD
      (without comorbid gSAD), 100 gSAD (without comorbid MDD) and randomize them to 12 weeks of
      manualized CBT or 12 weeks of 'placebo' psychotherapy (supportive therapy) (1:1 ratio).
      Multiple units of FLARES function will be collected in all patients before (Week 0), during
      (midway/Week 6) and after treatment (Week 12) to ascertain CBT 'dose' effects, and in 40
      healthy controls for comparison. Pre-CBT predictors based on binary (responder/non-responder
      status) and continuous (extent of change) outcomes will be examined midway (Week 6),
      immediately after treatment (Week 12), and at 6-month follow-up.
    
  