
    
      Background

      41%- 48% of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is in remission, experience
      fatigue (1). Fatigue is associated with significant physical, emotional, psychological and
      social consequences (2). This can have wide-reaching implications for patients in their
      everyday lives, with issues around work productivity, academic achievement, close
      relationships, travel and leisure being profoundly affected. Based on data from the CCUK
      national lottery-funded research on fatigue, although 68% of responding IBD treating
      professionals felt that fatigue was adequately treatable less than half offer anything over
      and above checking the haemoglobin level and treat if low, with only around one third
      offering lifestyle related advice on diet, exercise and sleep (3). The CCUK funded research
      on fatigue and IBD led by Professor Christine Norton and Wladzia Czuber-Dochan has not only
      identified fatigue as a significant issue facing patients but has also developed an objective
      fatigue score to quantify it. Leading on from this the King's College team has studied the
      role of diet and exercise in fatigue.

      Aims of the proposed investigation

      Our study aims to address two key questions:

        1. Do patients with active IBD have higher fatigue scores than patients with inactive
           disease? This question will be addressed as we will be screening a selection of patients
           coming to the specialist IBD clinic. Some will have active disease when assessed and so
           will be excluded from further interventional study. Others with inactive disease will be
           recruited to the study, but we will be able to compare fatigue scores in both the active
           and inactive disease groups. In addition we will explore any association between fatigue
           scores and anxiety/depression, somatisation scores, quality of life, overlapping IBS
           symptoms and the faecal microbiome.

        2. Can the intervention of planned behavioural change improve the symptoms of fatigue in
           patients with inflammatory bowel disease in remission?

      We believe our study complements the existing work on fatigue by offering a structured
      psychoeducational intervention centred around a self-management booklet and group-work. The
      primary outcome of the study is to assess fatigue in an IBD remission cohort. The study will
      be undertaken by Lisa Warren under the supervision of Dr Anthony O'Connor and Dr John Hamlin
      with input from Debbie Pullen (mental health nurse specialist) and Anna Errington
      (occupational therapist, department of liason psychiatry).

      Secondary outcomes for a larger study that could cascade from this pilot would be to assess
      if there is a decreased risk of flare and an improved quality of life in patients in whom
      fatigue is adequately managed.

      Detailed plan of investigation and methodology

      All patients being screened for this study will be required to give informed consent. In
      order to recruit the proposed study numbers for the active intervention we estimate that we
      will have to screen approximately 100 patients. A large number of patients may be excluded
      from the active intervention study as baseline clinical and laboratory investigations,
      completed as part of their standard disease assessment, will suggest they have active
      disease. However data collected on these patients will still provide valuable information
      about fatigue in patients with IBD, such as any association between fatigue score and
      severity of active disease, or other parameters such as somatisation score (as assessed by
      PHQ15 form), quality of life (SIBDQ & SF36), overlapping IBD symptoms (Rome III criteria), or
      anxiety and depression (HAD score).

      Patients identified as being in remission will be offered the opportunity to be involved in
      the psychoeducational interventional study. The study will be explained with written
      information and any questions will be answered. If they agree to being involved they will be
      asked to complete the fatigue questionnaire in addition to questionnaires addressing
      anxiety/depression (HAD), somatisation (PHQ15), overlapping irritable bowel syndrome symptoms
      (Rome III), and quality of life (SIBDQ & SF36). In addition, patients will have the standard
      assessment of disease activity with symptoms, blood tests, and stool specimens. The stool
      sample will be sent for faecal calprotectin measurement which is a non-invasive and sensitive
      marker of bowel inflammation. The stool samples will then also be stored for future
      assessment of the faecal microbiome (the different bacteria in the intestine) in order to
      examine any association between this and disease activity, fatigue scores, or the other
      parameters assessed with the questionnares.

      Patients with active inflammation based on symptoms, blood tests, or stool calprotectin level
      will be excluded from the subsequent psychological intervention aspect of the study.

      Those with inactive disease will be randomized, by concealed envelopes, in to two groups. The
      first group will act as the control and continue current management. The active intervention
      group will complete activity diaries over the following two weeks. The active intervention
      will be an analysis of the activity diaries and agreement on behaviour changes designed to
      help fatigue. This will be supported by written information and three, monthly small group
      sessions to reinforce and support these changes.

      At the end of the study all patients will again complete the fatigue and other questionnaires
      outlined above and they will have their disease activity assessed by symptom scores, blood
      and stool tests. The baseline results and the final results will be analysed to see if there
      is any improvement in fatigue in the group undergoing the programme of support and behaviour
      change.

      This is only a small pilot study but, if it demonstrates that the intervention is feasible
      and may help with fatigue, then a larger study will be performed to try and confirm our
      initial findings. Our data will also help inform IBD specialists and their patients about
      factors which may play a role in the common symptom of fatigue.

      Our ultimate aim is to find a simple intervention to empower patients to deal with the
      difficult task of living with IBD and the fatigue that this can bring.

      Our active intervention study group will be patients with inactive disease only, in order to
      avoid confounding factors. Those patients with inactive disease will all complete activity
      diaries and half of these will be randomised to the active intervention.

      As there are no proven interventions to treat IBD-related fatigue we do not forsee ethical
      problems relating to the other half of patients being randomised to no intervention, other
      than their existing treatment.

      The psychoeducational intervention of behaviour changes centred around a self-management
      booklet will be made by our IBD clinical nurse specialist, with support from the mental
      health team who are trained in these interventions.

      Participants :

      We plan to recruit 20 IBD patients, 10 with Ulcerative Colitis (UC) and 10 with Crohn's
      Disease (CD) with disease in remission for the active intervention arm and 20 IBD patients in
      remission for the control group. Remission for CD will be defined as Harvey-Bradshaw Index
      (HBI) <5 and C-reactive protein (CRP) <5. For UC it will be defined as partial Mayo score ≤2
      and CRP <5. For both groups a faecal calprotectin (FC) of > 250ug/g will be regarded as
      indicating active disease and will exclude patients from the study. Patients will also be
      excluded if they are anaemic (Hb <14g/dL for males, 11.5g/dL for females). In the CD arm
      patients will be assessed for Vitamin B12 and Vitamin D status and excluded if B12 is less
      than 300 pmol/l or Vitamin D less than 30 ng/mL.

      Interventions :

      We intend to commence recruitment in January 2016 via our twice-weekly IBD out-patient
      clinics in addition to nurse-led telephone clinics. We aim to complete recruitment within 3
      months with the interventions scheduled to begin in February.

      At week zero the patients will be provided with information leaflets about the study and the
      process will be explained and questions answered. Those patients giving informed consent will
      be screened for baseline measurements including the CCUK fatigue score, in addition to
      completing the other questionnaires outlined in the methodology above. Baseline blood and
      stool samples will be taken to assess disease activity. Patients deemed to have active
      disease will be excluded from the rest of the study and their medical management optimised in
      line with local and national guidelines. Those patients meeting the inclusion criteria will
      be provided with activity diaries and asked to complete them over the following 4 weeks. All
      patients will have their baseline data analysed to study any association between fatigue
      scores and disease activity (as measured by HBI/Mayo score, CRP, FC), quality of life (as
      measured by SF36 & S-IBDQ), anxiety and depression (HAD) or somatisation (PHQ15).

      After excluding patients with active disease we will randomise the study population into two
      groups. Randomisation will be by allocation from concealed envelopes by a physician not
      involved in the study. The nature of the study itself means that it will not be blinded. As
      this is a pilot study and there is no existing data on the effect of this intervention on
      fatigue we have not performed a power calculation for study population size. The active group
      will have analysis of their activity diary and agree behaviour changes. This group will have
      three subsequent visits taking place on a monthly basis until week 20, consisting of small
      group work of 4 patients per session to reinforce behaviour changes. At week 20, the patients
      will come for a 6th and final visit at which response will be assessed. This will involve
      disease assessment with clinical indices, repeat blod and stool samples and completion of the
      same questionnaires as baseline. The control group will have standard medical management but
      will also be reviewed at week 20 and undergo the same assessments.

      Comparators :

      Age, sex and disease matched controls will be identified from our IBD clinic.

      Outcomes :

      At the sixth visit (week 20) Fatigue score (and other questionnaires as outlined above), CRP,
      FC and HBI or partial Mayo Score will be obtained.

      Timetable

      Potential application of results, including benefits for people living with IBD

      We feel that patients with fatigue when in remission currently do not have sufficient access
      to interventions designed specifically to manage fatigue as a symptom. In the CCUK fatigue
      study there was a clear message from professionals that they wished to have a greater array
      of evidence based interventions to offer patients under such circumstances. We believe our
      intervention, which offers supported non-pharmacologic self-management, will be empowering
      and worthwhile. We feel that this work would complement the sterling work undertaken by CCUK
      on fatigue in IBD in recent years. Interest has been expressed throughout the Yorkshire and
      Humber Royal College of Nursing IBD Network in using the booklet and method should it prove
      effective.

      Dissemination intentions

      We expect to publish our findings in abstract form and are hopeful that this pilot study will
      enable us to assess the feasibility of commencing an MSc or PhD project in facilitating group
      work for fatigue management in our IBD cohort. Dr Hamlin has been in conversation with
      Wladzia Czuber-Dochan from King's College and their group has discussed our proposal. They
      feel that this is an interesting project with no conflict with their existing studies. They
      also expressed an interest in collaborating with us on future studies should this pilot study
      provide some interesting preliminary data.

      Key references

        1. Van Langenberg DR and Gibson PR, 2010: Systematic review; fatigue in inflammatory bowel
           disease. Alimentary Pharmacol Therapy July 2010;32(2) 131-143

        2. Gasche C et al, 2004: Iron, anaemia and inflammatory bowel disease. Gut August 2004;
           53(8) 1190-1197

        3. CCUK Fatigue in IBD study http://www.fatigueinibd.co.uk/research/outcomes/
    
  