
    
      This is a randomised, 2 treatment, double blind design, with respect to the clinical assessor
      and subject, split mouth, crossover design with a negative control (patch with no
      microneedles).

      Potential participants will be invited to attend a screening visit. At this visit
      participants will be asked to read and sign a Participant Information Sheet and Consent Form
      prior to any study procedures being performed. They will be given ample time to decide if
      they wish to participate in the study.

      A dentally qualified clinician will record the participant's demographics, medical history,
      current/concomitant medications, perform an oral soft tissue examination and ensure the
      participant fulfils the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study. Two areas of the
      mouth will be identified for assessment during the study. The areas of the mouth will be
      identified as S1 or S2. Site S1 will be left or right palatal mucosa adjacent to the premolar
      area and S2 will be left or right upper buccal mucosa adjacent to the upper lateral incisor
      area.

      Participants who successfully fulfil all the necessary entrance criteria will be provided
      with training by study staff on how to use a VAS record sheet and randomised on to the study
      to receive treatment combination A or B at in a random order according to a predetermined
      randomisation schedule supplied by the study statistician. The screening visit and first
      treatment visit will occur at the same visit. The treatment possibilities are outlined below:

      Treatment A The application of a 5% topical lidocaine gel to one of the identified areas
      within the participants mouth using a microneedle patch. The microneedle patch will be
      applied to the oral mucosa of the identified site for 3 minutes, followed by infiltration
      with local anaesthetic to one of the identified areas within the participants mouth.

      Treatment B The application of a 5% topical lidocaine gel to one of the identified sites
      within the participants mouth using a patch with no microneedles. The patch with no
      microneedles will be applied to the oral mucosa of the identified site for 3 minutes,
      followed by infiltration with local anaesthetic to one of the identified areas within the
      participants mouth.

      The chosen sites will be: S1; left and right palatal mucosa adjacent to the premolar area or
      S2; left and right upper buccal mucosa adjacent to the upper lateral incisor area. Each
      participant at the first visit will have either S1 or S2 sites allocated for treatment. For
      example, Treatment A will be allocated to S1 left side and Treatment B to S1 right side or
      vice versa. At the second visit, 2 weeks (+/- 3 days) after the first visit, Treatment B will
      be allocated to S2 left side and Treatment A to S2 right side. Both sides of the mouth for S1
      or S2 will be treated at the same. After each treatment participants will be asked to make
      pain assessments relating to needle insertion into the oral mucosa and the giving of the
      local infiltration anaesthetic.

      It is envisaged that a sufficient number of potential participants will be screened in order
      to randomise 16 onto the study.

      Assessment methods: Pain assessments will be performed after application of the topical
      anaesthetic for 3 minutes. Each test will be performed sequentially i.e. 3 separate needle
      insertions, with pain assessments recorded by the participant using a Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS) and a verbal pain grading after each test. The level of pain at S1 or S2 will be
      assessed as follows:

      Test I. A short dental needle, mounted on a dental syringe containing a cartridge of 2%
      lidocaine hydrochloride and 1:80,000 adrenaline, will be used to penetrate the oral mucosa at
      the treated site and the patient asked to score the pain using a VAS rating scale and by
      verbal grading of zero, mild, moderate or severe.

      Test 2. The same needle will be inserted through the oral mucosa and down to contact bone.
      Pain will be assessed as in Test 1.

      Test 3. The same needle will be again inserted through the oral mucosa and the cartridge of
      local anaesthetic will be injected into the site. Pain will be again assessed as in Test I.

      Following enrolment on to the study, participants will be given written and verbal
      instructions on the VAS and how to complete it.
    
  