
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to determine if an informational workshop on pelvic
      floor disorders administered via a video intervention versus standard-of-care educational
      handouts will increase Spanish-speaking women's knowledge of pelvic floor disorders and
      decrease pelvic floor symptoms post-intervention.

      Hypothesis or Aim: A single 20 minute video workshop on pelvic floor disorders will improve
      Spanish-speaking women's knowledge of pelvic floor disorders compared immediately
      post-intervention and at 4 weeks postintervention compared to a control group receiving
      standard-of-care educational handouts who do not participate in the video workshop.

      Justification of the Study (Background): It is estimated that by the year 2050 in the United
      States, 58.2 million women will have at least 1 pelvic floor disorder. However, understanding
      of these disorders among patients is low. Prior studies assessing patient knowledge have
      shown that participants often did not understand basic urogynecologic terms such as urinary
      incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, and pelvic floor disorder and that the participants had
      poor knowledge of participants' conditions.

      Latinos will comprise 30% of the population in the United States by year 2060. In Hispanic
      women, barriers such as lower income, lower education, limited English language proficiency
      and lack of health coverage influence access to health care. In those with pelvic floor
      disorders, additional barriers such as poor understanding of general medical conditions,
      medical terminology, and female anatomy may lead to low understanding of participants'
      condition, treatment options, and therapies. Given this high prevalence estimate, educating
      and optimizing care for Hispanic women with such disorders is imperative with implications of
      having a significant societal impact.

      Pelvic floor health workshops have previously been shown to be effective in improving
      postpartum knowledge, performance of pelvic floor muscle exercises, and bowel-specific
      quality of life. Learning through a class focused on behavioral modification and pelvic floor
      muscle exercises for women with urinary incontinence, was shown to be an effective means to
      educate women about urinary incontinence management. Women's knowledge, symptoms, and
      quality-of-life scores significantly improved at 3 months after undergoing an educational
      pelvic health workshop on incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse.

      Currently, no studies have investigated the effects of a formal educational pelvic floor
      disorder workshop in Spanish on this knowledge or its impact on patient symptoms in those who
      suffer from pelvic floor disorders at baseline. The investigators research project proposes
      to close the gap between patient knowledge and scientific knowledge and potentially improve
      pelvic floor symptoms. The investigators' video workshop will empower women with knowledge
      and allow the women to make informed decisions surrounding the women's pelvic floor health.
      It will provide the women with tools to improve the women's own pelvic floor health. A pelvic
      floor health workshop targeted to Spanish-speaking women is an innovative concept which could
      lead to better patient care in a growing population. It may be the first step in prevention
      of future pelvic floor conditions.

      The target population is Spanish-speaking women, 18 years or older with 66 women being
      recruited.

      Sampling method: All participants will be randomized to two groups, the random allocation
      lists will be generated by a statistician unassociated with the study. The allocations will
      be loaded onto a computer and access by study team members via REDCap. Interactions between
      the study team members and the REDCap system will be logged, including the time and date, a
      patient identifier (patient letter code) and the treatment allocation.
    
  