
    
      BACKGROUND

      The transition to medical school and the subsequent years that follow are a period of
      increased stress on trainees. Research shows that there is a higher prevalence of depression,
      anxiety and burnout amongst U.S. and Canadian medical students compared to the general
      population. In addition, distress is consistently higher in medical trainees compared to the
      general population and in age matched non-medical students. A recent systematic review found
      the prevalence of depression or depressive symptoms in medical trainees to be 27.2% and
      suicidal ideation to be 11.1%. A separate systematic review found that the prevalence of
      anxiety in medical students was 33.8% globally. Increased levels of distress and anxiety lead
      to poorer academics and increased dropout rates, as well as a reduced empathy, enthusiasm,
      and quality of care.

      An intervention that has been gaining traction in recent years to manage the psychological
      strain placed on medical trainees is mindfulness training. A study of 140 second year medical
      students participating in a 10-week mindfulness-based stress reduction program reported
      significant improvement in mood and reduced psychological distress. Similar results have been
      found in randomised controlled trials with health care professionals as well as surgical and
      psychiatric residents. Furthermore, a 2017 systematic review of 19 papers looking at the
      effectiveness of mindfulness interventions in healthcare professionals found them to decrease
      stress, anxiety and depression while improving mindfulness, empathy and mood. These benefits
      may potentially continue over the long term based on results from a 2018 longitudinal study
      of mindfulness training in medical and psychology students. At the six year follow up with
      the intervention group, they reported increased well being, mindfulness, and problem-focused
      coping.

      Although in-person mindfulness training has shown several benefits, there are limitations to
      implementing these programs in the demanding schedules of medical trainees. In addition to a
      lack of time, flexibility, costs, anonymity, and accessibility may limit its effectiveness as
      well. A modality that may reduce these limitations is online mindfulness. This format allows
      flexibility with regards to when trainees would be able to access the material, it would be
      more cost effective and could be accessed from rural and remote areas as suggested in a 2020
      pilot study completed with Australian rural medical students. Results indicated significant
      reduction in perceived stress and increases in self compassion 4 months after the 8-week
      online mindfulness program. Online mindfulness interventions have been studied in several
      other populations and a 2016 meta analysis of 15 randomised controlled trials, found online
      mindfulness interventions to reduce depression, anxiety, and stress with an associated
      increase in well being and mindfulness.

      To date, there is limited research looking at online mindfulness as a tool for medical
      students and residents. The study being proposed here, would assess the impact of an online
      mindfulness intervention on medical trainees with regards to depression, anxiety, stress,
      burnout, and mindfulness.

      OBJECTIVE

      To explore the potential benefits of online mindfulness on depression, anxiety, stress, and
      burnout in medical trainees.

      To explore the changes in mindfulness level over the course of an online mindfulness program
      offered to medical trainees.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The investigators hypothesize that medical students and residents that participate in the
      online mindfulness program will report reduced depression, stress, anxiety, and burnout as
      well as improved mindfulness.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      This study is a prospective observational study.

      Procedure

      Following recruitment, all participants will complete a general demographic form as well as
      four scales that measure depression, anxiety, stress, burnout, and mindfulness. The same four
      scales will be completed by all participants at the end of the mindfulness training and 3
      months after the training.

      Online Mindfulness Intervention (OMI)

      All participants will be instructed by a mindfulness practitioner/coach online through 8,
      1-hour sessions over the course of eight weeks. Trainees will have the ability to retrieve
      the online sessions at their convenience. Weekly journals will be provided to measure
      attendance and frequency and duration of mindfulness practice.

      Instruments

      General Demographic Form: A researcher created demographic data form (age, educational level,
      prior experience with mindfulness, history of depression and anxiety) to be completed by the
      medical trainees at enrolment.

      Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale: 21 item Depression, Anxiety, Stress Scale to be
      completed by the medical trainees at three time points.

      Oldenburg Burnout Inventory for Students: 16 item scale to measure burnout in students
      completed at three time points.

      Mindfulness Scales: 15 item Mindfulness Attention Awareness Scale and the 13 item Toronto
      Mindfulness Scale will be completed by the medical trainees at three time points.

      Mindfulness Weekly Journal: Document recording the duration and frequency of mindfulness
      practice during the study to assess attendance to the online class.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Study data will be managed using Research Electronic Data Capture, a secure, web-based
      software platform, hosted at the University of Alberta. Group demographics will be compared
      with t-test, chi-square and Mann-Whitney U as appropriate. The scores of the four
      questionnaires will be analyzed with the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test for within group
      comparison. The Spearman correlation test will be used for correlation between the
      mindfulness scores and the stress, anxiety, depression, and burnout scores. 2-tailed p-values
      will be used.
    
  