
    
      Sample size Due to the exploratory nature of this study, no power calculation will be
      conducted. As the inclusion of participants will be consecutive, the anticipated number of
      included participants will be estimated based on the average monthly number of patients that
      begins the group based training during clinical practise at the centre. The average number of
      patients who is referred to the rehabilitation centre and who begins the HIFT training every
      month is 6 and thus, it is expected that a total of approximately 30 participants will be
      included in this study during a 22-week consecutive inclusion period that runs from august
      5th 2019 to January 5th. All participants will be asked to complete both baseline-, end
      point- and three-month follow-up assessment.

      Recruitment Due to the pragmatic design there will be no recruitment though advertisement.
      Recruitment will take place by asking eligible patients referred to CCHC, if they would like
      to participate in the study. This recruitment will take place during an initial
      rehabilitation planning session with a physiotherapist two days prior to the first HIFT
      session. Patients will be made aware that they have two days to consider participating in the
      study (informed consent material and written participant information can be found in appendix
      3).

      Methods: Data collection, management and analysis Data collection methods Plan for assessment
      and collection of outcomes All primary and secondary outcomes are participant-reported and
      will be administered through the online survey tool: SurveyXact. All included participants
      will receive an email with an electronic SurveyXact-invitation to the baseline questionnaire
      the same days as providing written consent to participate in the study. On the day of the
      final HIFT session (week 16), the participants will receive a similar SurveyXact-invitation
      with the end-point questionnaire. The three and 12-month follow up assessments will be
      administered in identical ways to the end-point assessment.

      Patient characteristics Demographic variables will be included in the baseline questionnaire.
      These will include self-reported information about: sex, body mass index, educational level,
      employment, smoking status and physical activity level, and will be collected together with
      information on cancer type, time since cancer diagnosis, time since active treatment and
      cancer treatment type (See table 1 for data collection time points of patient characteristics
      and patient-reported outcome measures).

      Registration of adverse events, plans to promote participant retention and complete follow
      up:

      Adverse events and reasons for drop out from discontinued participant will be collected by
      practising physiotherapists at CCHC.

      To minimize non-response and loss to follow-up participants will receive a reminder by email
      4 and 14 days after receiving the email with end-point and follow-up questionnaire if they
      haven't provided their responses.

      Data management All outcomes will be handled and stored electronically on a secure server for
      personal data, located at the University of Copenhagen.

      No personal data will be exported from SurveyXact without pseudonymization. Complete
      anonymization of all data will be done after the last follow up period. Data protection
      agency approval Reference number: 514-0306/19-3000

      Statistical methods Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize patient characteristics
      including age, sex, cancer diagnosis and type of treatment. Furthermore, leisure-time HIFT
      exercise and HRQoL at baseline will be summarized using the GSLTPAQ LSI score and the EORTC
      QLQ-C30 GH score respectively. Quantile Quantile plots and histograms will be used to
      evaluate distribution of standardized residuals. Continous data with normally distributed
      standardized residuals will be summarized using parametric statistics. Continous data with
      without normally distributed standardized residuals will be summarized as ordinal data, using
      non-parametric statistics. Categorical data will be summarized using frequencies and % of
      total.

      The EORTC QLQ outcomes will be conducted according to the EORTC QLQ-C30 scoring manual (ref
      fayes 2001). Numerical data for each outcome with normal distributed standardized residuals,
      will be analysed from baseline to end-point with parametric statistics (paired t-test with
      equal variance). Single-Factor Repeated Measures Design will be conducted with a repeated
      measures one-way analysis of variance with four within subject time levels: baseline,
      end-point, three month follow up, and 12-month follow up. Summary statistics will include
      mean and confidence intervals for each outcome.

      Numerical data for each outcome, without normal distributed standardized residuals, or
      ordinal data will be analyzed from baseline to end-point with non-parametric statistics
      (Wilcoxon signed-ranks test). Single-Factor Repeated Measures Design will be conducted with a
      Friedman two-way analysis of variance by ranks with four within subject time levels:
      baseline, end-point, three months follow up, and 12-month follow up. Summary statistics will
      include medians and interquartile ranges for each outcome, and visualizations will include
      bar charts with confidence intervals.

      The association between leisure-time HIFT exercise and HRQoL will be analyzed on each time
      point with a linear regression model. To test whether the associations varies, the
      coefficients from the linear regression analyses will be compared.

      Stata 15.1 (StataCorp, College Station, TX, USA) will be used for all statistical analyses
      and illustrations and an alpha level of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  