
    
      -  Pig jaws will be included in this study.

        -  Soft tissue surfaces were lightly covered with barium sulfate powder using a powder
           spray. CBCT was taken.

        -  A periodontal probe and a rubber stop were used for the measurement of trans-gingival
           probing thickness (TPT).

        -  After that, flap were elevated, and actual thickness of soft-tissue (actual thickness,
           AT) was measured.

      The Analytical phase:

        -  In order to assess soft tissue thickness and bone levels an electronic digital caliper
           (Shenhan Measuring Tools Co., LTD, Shanghai) will used for measuring the transgingival
           probing thickness on the pig jaws.

        -  A graduated Naber's probe will be used for measuring the transgingival probing
           thickness.

      Soft tissue thickness measurements:

        -  Intra-observer variability was tested under the supervision of the director.

        -  For the measurement of radiographic thickness (RT), wet soft tissue surfaces were
           covered with barium sulfate powder (SoloTop; Taejoon, Seoul, Korea), a radiopaque
           material used as a contrast medium.

        -  A probes and rubber stop were used for the measurement of transgingival probing
           thickness (TPT).

        -  A rubber stop was placed in contact with the surface to facilitate the measurement of
           tissue thickness, and then TPT was measured with digital calipers. All measurements were
           rounded to the nearest 0.01 mm.

        -  For the measurement of actual thickness (AT), an incision was made onto each marked
           area. After ﬂap elevation, actual soft tissue thickness was measured using the same
           method that was used for TPT.

      Radiographic examination

        -  The pig jaws will then be imaged with CBCT.

        -  CBCT scanning will be performed using a PROMAX R 3DMid CBCT device (Planmeca Oy,
           Helsinki, Finland) with scanning protocol 90 kVp, 8 mA and 13.58 seconds exposure time
           with a single 360 degree rotation ROMEXIS software. The jawes will be placed on the
           horizontal plate of the device. The midline and mandibular position will be adjusted
           using the laser guide
    
  