
    
      ATS is an ion channel disorder that causes episodes of muscle weakness and potentially
      life-threatening heart arrhythmias for which no treatment has been identified. The majority
      of ATS cases are caused by a mutation in the KCNJ2 gene; other cases result from unknown
      causes. The KCNJ2 gene mutation alters potassium channels in such a way that it disrupts the
      flow of potassium ions in skeletal and heart muscle. This can lead to the characteristic
      periodic paralysis and irregular heart rhythms. The purpose of this study is to better define
      the genetic basis, clinical features, and disease progression of ATS. The study will also
      establish clinically relevant endpoints for use in future clinical studies.

      This observational study will last 2 years and will involve three study visits. The first
      visit will entail a 1.5- to 3.5-day inpatient stay; the length of stay will depend on whether
      a participant has been taking medications for their symptoms of weakness. Participants will
      be asked to discontinue use of such medications during the inpatient stay. Participants will
      not be asked to stop any medications that they may be taking for heart symptoms. This first
      study visit will include a medical history, a quality of life questionnaire, a physical exam,
      and muscle strength testing. Nerve, muscle, and heart activity will also be measured, and
      blood will be drawn for laboratory tests and optional DNA analysis. The second and third
      study visits will take place 1 and 2 years after the initial study visit and will include the
      same evaluations. During the 8 weeks following each study visit, participants will record in
      a telephone diary any muscle and heart symptoms that they experience. During the 1 week after
      both yearly visits, participants will also undergo an outpatient heart rhythm evaluation. A
      study coordinator will contact participants once a month by phone over the course of the
      study to review symptoms.
    
  