
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center, randomized, open-label, 2-period cross-over study (16
      weeks per treatment period) to evaluate flexible dosing and daily push dosing of IGSC 20% in
      treatment-experienced subjects with PI. There is an additional, separate cohort of
      treatment-naïve, non-randomized subjects with PI who will not be part of the crossover.

      Treatment-experienced subjects entering the study will maintain the same IgG dose (mg/kg)
      received prestudy that will be normalized to the study-assigned dose-time interval (ie, there
      will be 1:1 correspondence regardless of prestudy route of administration [intravenous [IV]
      or SC]). Treatment-experienced subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio into 1 of 3
      parallel cohorts consisting of 18 subjects each as follows:

      Cohort 1 (daily push compared with every 2 weeks [biweekly] pump) will evaluate syringe daily
      push dosing versus every 2 weeks [biweekly] ambulatory pump administration. Subjects will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 sequences, either beginning with syringe daily push
      dosing for 16 weeks and then crossing over to ambulatory pump administration every 2 weeks
      for 16 weeks or the reverse sequence.

      Cohort 2 (daily push compared with once weekly pump) will evaluate syringe daily push dosing
      versus once weekly ambulatory pump administration. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio
      to 1 of 2 sequences, either beginning with syringe daily push dosing for 16 weeks and then
      crossing over to ambulatory pump administration once every week for 16 weeks or the reverse
      sequence.

      Cohort 3 (daily push compared with 2 times/week pump) will evaluate syringe daily push dosing
      versus 2 times/week ambulatory pump administration. Ambulatory pump dosing will take place on
      preselected days (eg, Monday and Thursday) not less than 3 days apart. The dosing days should
      remain constant for the duration of the study. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      1 of 2 sequences, either beginning with syringe daily push dosing for 16 weeks and then
      crossing over to ambulatory pump administration 2 times/week for 16 weeks or the reverse
      sequence.

      The treatment-naïve cohort will receive a loading dose of 5 consecutive daily doses of IGSC
      20% 150 mg/kg/day (Week 0, Days 1-5) followed by weekly infusions of 150 mg/kg starting Week
      1 (Day 8) through Week 32 (end of Treatment Phase).
    
  