
    
      Peristomal skin complications are thought to be common but the exact frequency and cause of
      these complications are unknown. We have sought to document the incidence of cutaneous
      peristomal problems and to find risk factors that might contribute to peristomal
      complications.

      A cross sectional study was conducted from September 2003 to January 2005. The study
      population included all persons with an ostomy living in Roskilde County, Denmark. We have
      attempted to include all persons with an ostomy by contacting the local municipalities
      administering individual aid. Danish law (law of social service section 4 chapter 19 ยง 97)
      states that every person with a chronic disease is entitled to reimbursement for any aid
      needed. For ostomy patients this means that they are entitled to free stoma care products
      from selected merchants and without restriction to type or manufacturer of ostomy product.
      All ostomy patients are automatically enrolled in the database at the local municipality in
      order to received reimbursement for product cost. It was therefore assumed that all ostomy
      patients were registered, as the law provides benefits without restrictions, and self-payment
      for alternative purchases would involve substantial additional and unnecessary private
      expenditure for the individual ostomy patient.

      A letter was sent to every ostomy patient by the municipalities, inviting them to
      participate. The ostomy patients willing to participate would then return the stamped and
      addressed envelope with their reply. For all patients who accepted the invitation, a physical
      examination was scheduled.

      At the time of the examination a detailed registration form was filled out to provide
      standardised records of known risk factors and other data of possible pertinence to the
      investigation.

      A careful physical examination was performed by a dermatologist, a stoma care nurse
      specialist and a resident. The majority of ostomy patients were seen at the dermatological
      department Roskilde University Hospital, but a few were seen at their homes due to advanced
      age or physical impairment. Personal details, medical histories, stoma appliances and daily
      stoma care routines were recorded along with a thorough examination of the peristomal area in
      regards to ostomy placemant, skin retraction, hernia, stoma height and width. A general skin
      examination was also undertaken. Each variable was recorded and further documented by colour
      photographs. To ensure that the participating patients correlated to the general population,
      a national computer based register of all ostomy patients in Denmark were compared to our
      patients in regards to ostomy type, sex, age and geographical location. Patients with a
      peristomal skin problem and a control (person without a skin problem) were selected from the
      cross-sectional study and invited for further examination. At this examination several non
      invasive test were conducted. These non invasive test included: D-squame tapes, Capacitans
      measurements , TEWL(transepidermal water loss) measurements , Tape stripping, Mecanical
      measurements of the skin and pH measurements.
    
  