
    
      Bispectral Index (BIS) monitors are FDA approved to gauge depth of sedation by analyzing
      segments of electroencephalogram (EEG) waves. The BIS monitor utilizes a proprietary
      algorithm to process the EEG information second by second, and outputs a number (0-100) that
      corresponds with a patient's level of consciousness. A level of 0 indicates no EEG activity;
      a level of 100 indicates awake EEG activity. Several studies demonstrated that BIS monitors
      may not be useful in paralyzed patients, as patients who were paralyzed and not sedated
      unexpectedly showed a large decrease in their BIS values following administration paralytic
      medications. Vivien et al found BIS values dropped an average of 24 points in already sedated
      patients when the patients were given paralytics. In the same year, Messner and colleagues
      paralyzed non-sedated volunteers and found a dramatic drop in BIS values until paralysis wore
      off or was reversed. Schuller et al repeated the Messner experiment and found similar results
      with 18 of 20 non-sedated volunteer's BIS values dropping to levels expected of patients who
      were sedated. These results suggest that BIS monitors are integrating electromyography (EMG)
      data into its algorithm to derive a BIS value. Our hypothesis is that a BIS monitor commenced
      after paralysis, thereby lacking exposure to any "awake" EMG activity, will result in a
      cleaner data set and more accurate representation of a patient's level of sedation. Studying
      in this manner will require the subject to wear two BIS sensors in a frontal montage. The
      manufacturer of the sensors gives no guidance as to which side of the forehead an individual
      sensor is placed, and no studies demonstrate BIS validity with the use of concurrent sensors.
      The purpose of the present investigation is to assess the measurement difference and
      variability associated with use of concurrent bifrontal BIS sensors. The data obtained will
      be used as a framework for a future study related to the use of paralytics and BIS
      monitoring.
    
  