
    
      Autologous stem cell transplantation has been shown effective in the long-term control of
      follicular lymphoma. Lymphoma, however, can progress after high-dose treatments. Lymphoma
      cells have been proved to contaminate bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC)
      collections and may contribute to relapse after autotransplant. The presence in peripheral
      blood and marrow of PCR-detectable cells bearing the bcl-2 rearrangement appeared to be a
      surrogate marker of disease and the achievement of a bcl-2 negative status is associated with
      a lower risk of recurrence. Several methods have been attempted to abolish graft
      contamination: in vitro treatment with cytotoxic agents, in vitro treatment with anti-B-cell
      monoclonal antibodies and complement, immunomagnetic beads, positive selection of CD34+
      cells. All these techniques usually produce loss of cells, are time-consuming and expensive,
      and neoplastic depletion is often partial with residual polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR)-positive cells in the graft.

      In the last years the chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody Rituximab has been shown to be
      an effective therapeutic option for low-grade lymphoma. Owing to the different mechanism of
      action, the synergism with cytotoxic agents, and the non-overlapping toxicity, Rituximab is
      an ideal drug for combination with chemotherapy. On this basis, Rituximab has been used
      during mobilisation procedures as a tool to obtain in vivo purging and collection of
      lymphoma-free progenitor cells. In addition, several studies have demonstrated that the
      efficiency of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) harvested is not adversely affected by
      Rituximab and that engraftment and all parameters of hematopoietic recovery are not
      compromised. The incorporation of Rituximab into sequential high-dose therapy programs
      produced high rates of clinical and molecular remission in patients with indolent lymphoma,
      indicating that the antibody has an additive effect on chemotherapy.
    
  