
    
      Given that this study represents an initial pilot of the use of self-guided information and
      therapy guides for people with facial palsy (and/or their friends and relatives), all
      eligible participants will receive the intervention (i.e. there will be no control group). As
      a result, this study will have a repeated-measures design.

      Eligible participants will be recruited by one of two means:

        1. Face-to-face of recruitment of OUH NHS patients during clinics at the Oxford Facial
           Palsy Service

        2. Recruitment of people with facial palsy, not under the care of the Oxford Facial Palsy
           Service, through relevant web and social media pages (e.g. the Facial Palsy UK Facebook
           page)

      Potential participants who have expressed an interest in the study will be provided with an
      information sheet, and be invited to provide written consent. Participants recruited through
      the Oxford Facial Palsy Service will proved written consent via Survey Hero, either in clinic
      or remotely online at a later if they wish for longer time to consider their involvement in
      the study. Participants recruited through Facial Palsy UK/social media will provide written
      consent via Survey Hero.

      Once participants have provided consent, they will be provided with an online screening
      questionnaire (in order to check for eligibility). Participants recruited in Oxford Facial
      Palsy Service clinics will complete the screening questionnaire on the researcher's laptop.
      Alternatively, if participants recruited in clinic wish to have more time to consider whether
      or not to participate, they will be able to complete online screening (and subsequent
      baseline assessments) remotely online. Participants recruited on social media will be emailed
      a link to the screening questionnaire.

      Eligible participants will then be invited to complete baseline questionnaires:

      People with facial palsy: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale; FACE-Q Satisfaction with
      appearance; FACE-Q Psychological function; FACE-Q Social function and Facial Disability
      Index. The Facial Disability Index will allow for control of improvement in facial palsy
      symptoms over time.

      Friends, relatives and partners: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and Adult Carer
      Quality of Life Questionnaire.

      Like the screening questionnaires, written consent and baseline questionnaires will be
      completed online.

      Eligible participants will then be administered the relevant self-guided information and
      therapy guide. For eligible carers/relatives this will be the guide entitled "Facial palsy:
      Advice for friends, family and partners". For eligible participants with facial palsy, this
      will be determined by their score on the screening questionnaire.

      Participants will then utilise the guide over a period of four-to-six weeks. Half-way through
      the intervention period (after 2-3 weeks), they will receive an email reminding them to
      complete the guide and will be provided a web-link to complete a questionnaire, designed for
      the purpose of the current study, measuring the participants' ratings of acceptability and
      usability of the guides (participant satisfaction questionnaire).

      At the end of the four-to-six week period, participants will be re-administered the baseline
      questionnaires, along with a questionnaire designed for the purpose of the current study
      measuring the participants' ratings of acceptability and usability of the guides (participant
      satisfaction questionnaire). Participants with facial palsy will also be re-administered the
      initial screening questionnaire. This will indicate whether the participant is eligible to
      complete a further guide. If this is the case, then their post-intervention questionnaires
      will serve as a new baseline and the participant will be invited to complete the new guide
      over a second four-to-six week period (followed by the same follow-up assessments as followed
      the first guide). This process will occur up to a maximum of six times (reflecting the
      potential for a participant to trial all six guides). If they do not wish to complete further
      guides then the participant will be thanked for their involvement in the study and their
      involvement will be registered as 'complete'.

      Friends, relatives and partners of people with facial palsy will only be required to complete
      pre and post questionnaires if they are actively involved in the study due to completing the
      friend, relative or partner ITG. Likewise, individuals with facial palsy are not required to
      complete questionnaires if they are not actively involved in the study (i.e. not trialing and
      ITG), but their friend or relative is.

      The investigators aim to trial the guides over a period of one year (May 2019 - May 2020).
      This will lead to the predicted sample size of 140 participants (120 with facial palsy, 20
      per each of the 6 guides; 20 friends and family). This target is based on there being
      approximately 3000 people who have access to the Facial Palsy UK website. Given that
      approximately one-third of people with facial palsy experience a significant level of
      distress; the investigators hope that our guides would be relevant to, and accessible by,
      around 1000 people. 140 is therefore a conservative estimate of the number of participants
      that the investigators will be able to recruit.

      Participants recruited from OUH NHS Foundation trust will be provided with an information
      sheet during their clinic appointment with the Oxford Facial Palsy Service. Written consent
      will be obtained in the clinic by a member of the research team.

      Participants recruited from social media will be provided with an information sheet via email
      and will provide written consent online.
    
  