
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)-a condition in
      which respiration and oxygenation are affected during sleep-can cause abnormal autonomic
      function and blood sugar (glucose) processing, which could lead to diabetes, or pre-diabetic
      conditions. The autonomic system controls heart rate, blood pressure, breathing, and other
      functions of the body. OSA and diabetes are commonly found in overweight individuals and both
      can cause increased risk of heart disease and strokes. OSA can be treated using nasal
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) which overcomes the obstruction to airflow that
      occurs in OSA.

      In this study, the scientists hope to determine if individuals with OSA have an increased
      prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes or pre-diabetic conditions, and if autonomic abnormalities
      observed previously in OSA are more severe or more common in people with OSA and diabetes or
      pre-diabetic conditions.

      Participants will undergo a sleep study and glucose studies to determine if they have sleep
      apnea and impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, or undiagnosed diabetes
      (collectively called impaired glucose regulation).

      Individuals with sleep apnea with and without glucose abnormalities will be age and BMI
      matched, and will undergo further autonomic and peripheral nerve testing. Individuals without
      diabetes will be followed for one year of CPAP treatment for their sleep apnea-with visits at
      3 month intervals to evaluate glucose and autonomic function. Individuals without sleep apnea
      or diabetes will also undergo autonomic and peripheral nerve testing. Participants will also
      complete questionnaires to assess their sleepiness and symptoms of autonomic function.

      Results from this study will help researchers determine if abnormalities of autonomic
      function seen in people with OSA are caused by OSA or by coexistent impaired glucose
      regulation present in people with OSA. In addition, results from the study will show if CPAP
      treatment improves autonomic dysfunction by correcting breathing abnormalities, or by
      secondary improvement of glucose regulation.
    
  