
    
      The ability of the buckwheat beverage to modulate postprandial sugar metabolism will be
      tested in a dietary study in healthy volunteers and people with T2D. Three groups will be
      recruited; healthy volunteers, individuals with T2D controlled by medication and individuals
      with T2D controlled by diet and lifestyle only.

      For the human volunteers who have T2D controlled by medication, there will be targeted those
      who have been prescribed metformin only.

      The volunteers will visit the Human Nutrition Unit (HNU) three times (a screening visit and
      two study visits) during the course of the study.

      A minimum of two weeks between the study visits will be allowed.

      Screening visit:

      Once the consent form has been signed, the volunteers taking part in the study will answer a
      specific health questionnaire and have their blood sugar level measured. The HbA1c (glycated
      haemoglobin) will be measured using the AS-100 (finger spot blood). We will follow the NHS
      guideline to establish the values for HbA1c. A normal HbA1c target is below 48 mmol/mol (or
      6.5%).

      In addition, for the volunteers with T2D, a consultant from the study research team will
      access the medical records to ensure their eligibility for the study. Permission will be
      obtained from the volunteers for this via the study consent form.

      Dietary study test meal and control meal:

      The test meal The buckwheat beverage is prepared from sprouted buckwheat flour without adding
      any extra sugar, spices or aromas. The test meal contains 100 g of the buckwheat beverage and
      75 g glucose dissolved in 300 mL water followed by 100 mL water.

      The control meal The control meal will be a standard OGT test containing 75 g glucose
      dissolved in 300 mL of water followed by 100 mL water.

      Both meals will be advised to be consumed within 5 minutes. The T2D volunteers which are on
      metformin will be advised to take their medication as usual. We will record the dose and time
      when the metformin will be taken by the volunteers.

      Dietary study visits:

      Following recruitment, screening and consent, the three groups of volunteers will start the
      study by random allocation to one of the test meals. On the study day, the volunteers will be
      advised to come to the HNU in the morning after an overnight fasting (10 h). A cannula will
      be inserted into the volunteers' arm and baseline blood will be collected. The cannulation
      and blood sampling will be performed by trained phlebotomists. Additionally a baseline urine
      sample will be collected. The urine sample either will be brought in by the volunteers in the
      morning or produced in HNU before the test meals. The volunteers will be served the control
      and test meal (depending on allocation) and advised that it is to be consumed within five
      minutes. Volunteers which are on metformin will be asked to take their medication as usual.

      For each study visit, blood will be collected at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 105, 120, 150,
      180 and 300 min. The blood will be collected in 4 mL lithium heparin tubes and 4 mL glucose
      (fluoride oxalate) tubes at each time point. A volume of 96 mL of blood will be collected at
      each study visit. Additionally a volume of 5 μL blood will be collected for each time point
      in order to instantly measure the glucose levels. At least two samples will be collected at
      t=0 in order to obtain a good baseline value.

      The movements of the volunteers will be restricted to minimum for the entire blood collection
      period. They will be asked to stay resting and comfortable position and relaxed for the
      entire (300 min) sampling period and to not leave the HNU.

      After five hours, once all the blood samples have been collected the cannula will be
      extracted from the volunteer's arm and lunch will be provided.
    
  