
    
      Breast-feeding is of such critical importance to the general health of the infant, as well as
      the mother-infant relationship, that special efforts should be made to retain this practice
      even during the HIV pandemic. Breast-feeding is associated with lower rates of infant
      gastrointestinal infections and protects against high infant mortality from respiratory and
      gastrointestinal diseases. These protective effects are greatest in the first 6 months of
      life. However, HIV is transmitted through breast-feeding. HIV-infected women whose
      circumstances permit them a choice between breast- and formula-feeding have been encouraged
      to formula-feed. But in developing countries there are HIV-infected women who cannot afford
      to formula-feed or who, knowing the risks, choose to breast-feed. In these societies,
      HIV-infected women who deviate from the cultural norm of breast-feeding risk exposing their
      HIV status and becoming prey to negative social implications. For this group of women,
      defining strategies that can reduce their risk of transmitting HIV to their infants is
      essential. Based on data from previous studies, this study proposes to test the hypothesis
      that NVP will reduce breast-feeding transmission of HIV.

      Pregnant HIV-positive women take an oral dose of NVP at the onset of labor. A second dose of
      NVP will be given 48 hours after the first dose if the woman remains in labor. Infants who
      initiate breast-feeding are randomized to 1 of the 3 study arms below and receive their first
      dose of NVP within 48 hours of birth.

      Arm 1 receives NVP once a week, Arm 2 receives NVP twice a week, and Arm 3 receives NVP
      daily. There is no placebo control group. The first 18 infants enrolled in each arm will
      contribute pre- and post- NVP dose blood samples for pharmacokinetics. The remaining infants
      will contribute data on safety and pre-dose NVP levels only. Infants return to the clinic
      weekly for visual assessment of NVP toxicity. Women are counseled to stop breast-feeding
      their infants by the end of 6 months. Infants receive their last dose of NVP at either 24
      weeks of age or 1 week after breast-feeding cessation, whichever occurs first, and have
      follow-up visits until the infant is 32 weeks old.
    
  