
    
      Risk of dementia is high after stroke but the mechanisms of post stroke dementia (PSD) are
      insufficiently understood. Specifically, there are few data on how vascular and
      neurodegenerative mechanisms interact in determining cognitive decline after stroke. The
      primary aim of the DEDEMAS/DEMDAS (Determinants of Dementia After Stroke) study is to
      identify predictors of PSD. A particular focus will be on biological markers (neuroimaging,
      biochemical markers derived from blood) and on interactions between vascular and
      neurodegenerative mechanisms. Patients with an acute stroke and without prior dementia will
      be followed for 5 years with assessments at baseline (< 72 h after onset of stroke), and at
      3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. In addition, DEDEMAS patients will have an annual
      telephone follow-up from year 6 to 10. Baseline assessments will include variables previously
      demonstrated to be associated with PSD as well as novel variables. Brain MRI (structural MRI
      and resting state fMRI) in combination with detailed neuropsychological testing and blood
      draws will be done at 6, 12, 36, and 60 months. Patients developing cognitive impairment
      (with or without dementia) and a subgroup of matched individuals without cognitive decline
      will be examined by brain FDG-PET and Amyloid-PET scanning. Lumbar puncture will be done on
      patients who develop cognitive impairment and thus have a clinical indication for the
      procedure. Efforts will be made to classify demented patients into diagnostic categories
      (Vascular Dementia, Mixed Dementia, Alzheimer's disease, other categories). Predictive
      factors for PSD will be identified using multiple Cox-proportional hazards models. Apart from
      providing insights into the mechanisms of PSD this study holds the potential to identify
      novel diagnostic markers and novel targets for preventive therapies.
    
  