
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to evaluate, in a controlled setting, the
      safety and efficacy of the recanalization of acute and subacute thrombotic (up to 6 weeks)
      femoropopliteal occlusions with the ClearLumen II Peripheral Thrombectomy System.

      Patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should also be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study and remain available for follow-up. A
      patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients informed consent, if
      there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after successful guidewire
      passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following tests and clinical data will be collected:
      informed consent for data collection, demographics, medical history, medication record,
      physical examination, clinical category of acute limb ischemia (Rutherford category) and
      resting ankle-brachial index (ABI).

      During the procedure, the occlusion needs first to be recanalized by conventional guidewire
      technique, since the ClearLumen II Peripheral Thrombectomy System is an over-the-wire system
      (0.035"). After assessment of the lesion by angiography via a common femoral artery approach
      (contralateral/ipsilateral) the occlusion is intraluminally crossed with the wire according
      to physician's discretion. Afterwards, the device is introduced and the catheter is
      activated. Then the catheter is slowly advances into the occlusion. Several passages of the
      occlusion may needed to clean out all wall-adherent thrombotic material. If residual
      underlying stenosis of >30% persists additional endovascular treatment can be performed
      according to the physician's discretion.

      The regular follow-up is necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the result of
      the procedure. Patients will be invited for a follow-up visit 1 month after the index
      procedure. The following data will be collected during this follow-up visit: medication
      record, physical examination, rutherford categorization, ABI and color flow doppler
      ultrasound.
    
  