
    
      The aims of our study are to:

        1. Demonstrate safety of remote ischaemic conditioning (RIC) in stroke patients;

        2. Demonstrate practicality of the intervention (RIC);

        3. Demonstrate the practicality of the study protocol and imaging modalities;

        4. Determining appropriate and measurable end-points: e.g. cerebral infarct reduction
           (MRI), reduction of cerebral oedema, functional assessment and quality of life survey;

        5. Provide preliminary data on likely effect size of the RIC intervention versus the sham
           procedure.

      Background and Rationale:

      Acute ischaemic stroke represents a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the UK.
      It is estimated that 110,000 strokes occur in England each year, with an incidence of between
      1-36/1000/year. Patients presenting with a proximal vessel occlusion in the anterior
      circulation have a particularly poor prognosis, with approximately 20% 90-day mortality and
      significant morbidity despite thrombolysis. Recently, endovascular recanalization with
      mechanical thrombectomy trials have brought about a paradigm shift in the optimal management
      of this high-risk group of patients; the interventional extraction of the occluding thrombus
      demonstrating significant benefits in MR-CLEAN(3), ESCAPE, EXTEND-IA (intra-arterial), SWIFT
      PRIME and REVASCAT (revascularisation) studies. Echoing primary percutaneous intervention in
      the management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction, endovascular recanalization represents
      rapid restoration of blood flow to the ischaemic cerebrum - with the promise of improved
      neurological salvage and functional outcome.

      Reperfusion Injury:

      Reperfusion is not, however, a benign process. Demonstrable in many organ systems including
      the brain (but studied most extensively in the heart), reperfusion leads to rapid restoration
      of intracellular pH, mitochondrial calcium overload and generation of reactive oxygen species
      - conditions that are prime for the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore
      (mPTP). The mPTP, a large capacitance pore that forms on the inner mitochondrial membrane,
      leads to mitochondrial disruption and the release of proteins that trigger cell death.
      Therefore modifying conditions of reperfusion/ triggering cellular protection pathways are
      the key targets for optimising tissue salvage associated with reperfusion following any acute
      revascularisation intervention.

      Remote ischaemic conditioning:

      The brain has been demonstrated to share many of the cytoprotective signalling pathways found
      in other organs such as the heart, and like the heart, can be protected by ischaemic
      conditioning(6). Ischaemic conditioning can be either applied either directly to the organ,
      or more conveniently to a remote tissue (such as an arm, through inflation of a blood
      pressure cuff), either prior to, during or immediately following the restoration of blood
      flow to the ischaemic tissue (pre-, peri- and post-conditioning respectively). The remote
      conditioning stimulus leads to the activation of cellular survival kinases (termed the
      reperfusion injury salvage kinase (RISK) cascade) that in turn leads to inhibition of mPTP
      opening, and thus cell survival.

      Ischaemic conditioning and neuro-protection:

      While the phenomenon of ischaemic conditioning was first described and best characterised in
      the heart, it is well recognised that the ischaemic conditioning can result in cytoprotection
      across many mammalian organs, including the brain. Indeed, contemporaneous with the seminal
      myocardial preconditioning paper by Reimer, Murray and Jennings in the dog, Schurr et al
      demonstrated ischaemic preconditioning could also protect adult rat hippocampal slices
      against injurious anoxia/re-oxygenation. Ischaemic conditioning of neuronal tissue has
      subsequently been demonstrated to be triggered and mediated by similar receptor and
      downstream signalling pathways (e.g. G-protein coupled receptors, RISK pathway activation and
      suppression of cell death pathways), and that remote ischaemic conditioning is also effective
      at significantly attenuating the volume of cerebral necrosis in rat experimental models of
      acute right middle cerebral artery occlusion stroke (typically reducing infarct size by
      40-60%). Similar results are observed in mouse (middle cerebral embolization, followed by
      thrombolysis with tissue-plasminogen activator) and in piglet, where the injurious effects of
      hypothermic circulatory arrest were attenuated, improving both functional and histological
      outcomes.

      With building evidence of efficacy against cerebral ischaemia/reperfusion injury in the
      pre-clinical basic science studies, there is enthusiasm to translate these encouraging data
      into an effective clinical strategy for the management of acute stroke in man. A recent
      prospective, open-label, blinded outcome proof-of-concept study in Danish patients undertook
      ischaemic per-conditioning in patients presenting with an acute stroke syndrome. With the
      conditioning stimulus performed in the ambulance, the ischaemic stroke diagnosis was
      made/confirmed later in hospital. In patients with confirmed ischaemic stroke, they found
      patients in the intervention arm had a better functional status by National Institutes of
      Health Stroke Scale score on admission and an overall smaller infarct, but the study was
      overall neutral on the pre-specified primary endpoint (penumbral salvage, defined as the
      volume of the perfusion-diffusion mismatch not progressing to infarction after 1 month).
      There are useful lessons and observations to be made regarding the design of this trial that
      influences the design of the trial proposed within this application. First, thrombolysis does
      not guarantee re-canalisation of the culprit artery, and where restoration of blood flow does
      occur, the time of onset of reperfusion may be unpredictable. Thus, restoration of blood flow
      may either not have occurred, or when it had, may have occurred outside the protective
      time-frame of the remote ischaemic conditioning stimulus (classical conditioning has a
      protective "window" of typically just 2-3 hours).

      Therefore, we are seeking to combine ischaemic conditioning with an effective endovascular
      re-canalisation procedure where the success and time of reperfusion are known. Second, in the
      Danish study, there would have been significant heterogeneity in aetiology of the presenting
      stroke symptoms that will include both anterior and posterior circulation occlusion and also
      small vessel disease. The pre-clinical efficacy of remote ischaemic conditioning is
      predominantly with models of anterior circulation occlusion and therefore, we have made this
      cohort of patients the focus of our study. And finally, there is emerging evidence that in
      order to ensure persistent infarct size reduction, it is critical to combine both initial
      ischaemic per-conditioning and subsequent post-conditioning to tackle both the acute
      reperfusion injury (the first 15 minutes of reperfusion) and the subsequent second phase of
      reperfusion injury (that occurs in the following hours and days). Thus our study is designed
      to combine both ischaemic per-conditioning and repeated post-conditioning over the following
      seven days to harvest the benefit of both conditioning strategies.

      Interestingly, a Chinese study (RIC to both arms daily for 300 days after the initial stroke)
      was shown to be safe and effective. While this study had a different outcome to ours
      (attenuating the rate of stroke recurrence following the initial presentation), the efficacy
      of the RIC intervention nonetheless provides further encouragement that RIC may be an
      effective intervention in this group of patients.

      In summary therefore, we are seeking to combine ischaemic conditioning with an effective
      endovascular re-canalisation procedure where the success and time of reperfusion are known,
      in a vascular territory that is known to benefit from RIC and are looking to combine both
      ischaemic per-conditioning and repeated post-conditioning over the following seven days to
      harvest the benefit of both conditioning strategies upon acute and inflammatory phases of
      reperfusion injury - encompassing the period over which peak cerebral oedema is typically
      observed.
    
  