
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Despite recent improvements in the quality of care, in-hospital
      cardiac arrest is still associated with a high probability of poor outcome. Patients
      resuscitated from vasopressor-requiring cardiac arrest frequently exhibit early
      postresuscitation hemodynamic instability that is poorly responsive to hemodynamic support
      with high vasopressor doses and intravenous fluids titrated to cardiac filling pressures of
      at least 12 mmHg. Furthermore, preceding studies indicate that postresuscitation disease is a
      "sepsis-like" syndrome characterized by plasma cytokine elevation, endotoxemia, coagulopathy
      and adrenal insufficiency contributing to postresuscitation shock. Steroids are currently
      being used for improving hemodynamics in septic patients, however, their effect on
      postresuscitation hemodynamics has not been thoroughly elucidated yet.

      OBJECTIVES To determine whether stress-dose steroid supplementation during and after
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) improves the hemodynamic parameters (arterial blood
      pressure, cardiac output, cerebral blood flow) in patients with in-hospital cardiac arrest.
      Furthermore to study the effects of steroid administration on the inflammatory response and
      organ failures, and to determine potential, corticosteroid-associated complications such as
      hyperglycemia, infections, bleeding peptic ulcers and paresis. In summary, we aim to directly
      assess the physiological effects and safety of steroids during and after CPR. The possible
      clinical usefulness of steroids during and after CPR - in the context of early
      postresuscitation hemodynamic support - currently corresponds to an important knowledge gap,
      as recently acknowledged by Guidelines Evidence Reviewers.

      METHODS SETTING Intensive/coronary care units, (ICUs/CCUs) of the Evaggelismos Hospital,
      Athens, Greece (1,200 beds) and of the Larissa University Hospital, Larissa, Greece (700
      beds).

      PATIENTS

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients who have experienced an in-hospital, vasopressor-requiring cardiac arrest, according
      to guidelines for resuscitation from 2015.

      Exclusion criteria are reported in the dedicated subsection.

      ETHICS AND INFORMED CONSENT The study will be conducted in concordance with European Union
      Clinical Trials Regulation No 536/2014 and the Helsinki Declaration. Due to the emergency
      situation, consent will not be requested for steroid supplementation during CPR. The
      patients' families and patients who regain consciousness and communication ability during
      follow-up will be informed about the study as soon as possible, and any objection will result
      in exclusion of the patient data from any subsequent analyses. Informed, written next-of-kin
      consent and non-written patient consent (whenever feasible) will be requested as soon as
      possible for stress-dose hydrocortisone in postresuscitation shock and continued
      participation in the study. If consent cannot obtained before patient death, the patient's
      next of kin will be informed of the study and their permission for inclusion of the patient
      data in the subsequent analyses will be requested. All consent procedures will additionally
      be documented on the patient's medical record.

      The original protocol version has been approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of
      Evaggelismos General Hospital on July 14 2016 (Approval No. 126/16-6-2016), and by the IRB of
      Larissa University Hospital on October 10, 2016 (Approval No. 46113/11-10-2016 - IRB
      Discussion No. 13/10-10-2016 Θ.6). Subsequent protocol amendments have been approved by the
      Evaggelismos IRB on January 24, 2017 (Approval No. 8/26-1-2017), and this has been
      communicated to the IRB of Larissa University Hospital.

      STUDY DESIGN We propose a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel- group clinical trial.

      RANDOMIZATION Research Randomizer version 4 (https://www.randomizer.org/) will be used by the
      study statistician for group allocation. For each study center, random numbers (range, 1-100)
      will be generated in sets of 4. Each random number of each set will be unique and correspond
      to 1 of the consecutively enrolled patients. In each set, an odd or even first number will
      result in assignment of the corresponding patient to the control or steroids group,
      respectively. In each study center, the group allocation rule will be known solely by the
      pharmacists who will prepare the study drugs.

      CPR AND POSTRESUSCITATION INTERVENTIONS We will enrol adult in-patients with cardiac arrest
      due to ventricular fibrillation/pulseless tachycardia not responsive to three direct current
      countershocks, or asystole, or pulseless electrical activity. Study treatments will be
      administered during the first CPR cycle postenrollment. Patients will be randomized to
      receive either methylprednisolone 40 mg (Steroids group) or normal saline placebo (Control
      group) on the first, postenrollment CPR cycle. Otherwise, advanced life support will be
      conducted according to the 2015 guidelines for resuscitation. After resuscitation, patients
      will be treated with either stress-dose hydrocortisone of 240 mg daily for 7 days maximum
      (Steroids group), or saline placebo (Control group). More specifically, at 4 hours after
      ROSC, patients will receive 100 mL/day (average pump infusion rate ~ 4.2 mL/h) of normal
      saline that will either contain the stress-dose of hydrocortisone (Steroids group) or solely
      saline placebo (Control group) for a maximum of 9 days. On days 8 and 9 the hydrocortisone
      dose of the Steroids group will be tapered to 120 mg and 60 mg, respectively, and finally
      discontinued on day 10 postrandomization. On ICU/CCU admission, patients will receive a
      central venous line, and an arterial line, either standard or as part of pulsatility index
      continuous cardiac output monitoring. Patients with a standard arterial line will also
      receive a pulmonary artery catheter, provided that attending physicians also agree to this.

      DOCUMENTATION AND PATIENT FOLLOW-UP CPR attempts will be documented according to the Utstein
      style. Hemodynamics and gas-exchange, electrolytes, glucose, central body temperature,
      lactate and administered fluids and vasopressor/inotropic support will be determined/recorded
      during CPR, and at ~20 min and ~4 hours as well as at 24, 48 and 72 hours after the return of
      spontaneous circulation (ROSC); ROSC will be defined as sustained presence of a palpable
      arterial pulse for at least 20 min. Postresuscitation cardiac output will be monitored for at
      least 72 hours post-ROSC, and postresuscitation cardiac function will be assessed by
      ultrasonography within the first hour after ICU admission and at 72 hours post-ROSC.
      Central-venous blood gas analysis will also be performed at the aforementioned time points
      and blood samples will be taken for the determination of cytokines at approximately 20 min
      and 4, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-ROSC.

      Follow-up during the first 10 days postrandomization will include 1) Determination/recording
      of hemodynamics and hemodynamic support, gas-exchange, fluid balance of the preceding 24
      hours, and arterial blood lactate and central venous oxygen saturation at 9 a.m.; 2) Daily
      determinations of serum pro-inflammatory cytokines, and 3) Daily recording (within 8-9 a.m.)
      of laboratory data, and prescribed medication.

      The results of 4 daily determinations (1 every 6 hours) of blood glucose will also be
      recorded to subsequently analyze the incidence of hyperglycemia (blood glucose exceeding 200
      mg/dL -11.1 mmol/L). Follow-up to day 60 post-ROSC will include organ failures, and
      ventilator-free days. Morbidity/complications throughout ICU/CCU and hospital stay, and times
      to ICU/CCU and hospital discharge will also be recorded.

      Study outcomes are reported in the dedicated subsection.

      PROTOCOL AMENDMENTS [Approved, January 24, 2017]

      Amendment: 1. Part A: Postresuscitation Cardiac Output (CO) has been moved from the primary
      to the secondary study outcomes (see also Outcome Measures' subsection). Reason for
      amendment: We ultimately anticipate to be able to collect such data in <50% of the patients.
      Part B: Furthermore, the measurement time point of "8 hours postresuscitation" will no longer
      be part of the protocol and this will apply for the total of the physiological measurements.
      This aims to limit attending investigator workload.

      Amendment 2: Further clarification regarding the "acceptable" time frame for ICU / CCU
      admission of successfully resuscitated patients. This is a very important logistical issue
      and will include measures (e.g. monitoring and medical service support and oversight) to
      optimize the quality of care until ICU admission and the specification of the "maximum
      acceptable time to ICU admission". In the VSE 1 and 2 studies, this time has been 12 hours.
      During 2016, the Evaggelismos Department of Intensive Care Medicine has experienced a
      reduction of 5 ICU beds (i.e. from 30 to 25) and 8 HDU (high-dependency unit) beds from 20 to
      12. Therefore, regarding cardiac arrest patients, we have decided to extend the target time
      limit for admission to 24 hours. Regarding CORTICA, any further delay is to be reported as an
      "unpreventable" protocol breach, and in the case of a possible extreme circumstance (e.g. a
      severe flu outbreak), any patients with a projected ICU admission time of more than 48 hours
      will be excluded. Hence, "a projected ICU admission time of more than 48 hours" will
      constitute an additional exclusion criterion.

      Amendment 3: Further clarification of the "terminal illness" exclusion criterion - life
      expectancy of no more than 6 weeks): (i) Patients with metastatic cancer [with confirmed bone
      and/or brain metastases], and/or primary / metastatic disease causing respiratory failure
      with/without additional organ-system failures [as defined by a corresponding Sequential Organ
      Dysfunction Assessment (SOFA) subscore of 3 or 4]; (ii) Patients with a pre-arrest worst SOFA
      score of >=15 (this corresponds to a probability of death of at least 90%); and (ii) Patients
      with immunosuppression and a new, hospital-acquired septic complication).

      Amendment 4: Addition of the following Exclusion Criterion: "Any deviation from the
      hospital's standard resuscitative procedure" (e.g. poor adherence to the standard Advanced
      Life Support algorithm such as an epinephrine dosing error or use of atropine, or
      "unjustified" interruption of chest compressions compromising CPR quality).

      Amendment 5: Addition of the following Exclusion Criterion: Pre-arrest diagnosis of an
      "active" peptic ulcer; that is, either preceding gastroscopic confirmation of a peptic ulcer,
      or clinical evidence of acute, pre-arrest gastrointestinal bleeding, attributable to peptic
      ulcer disease.

      Amendment 6: Follow-up during the first 10 days: The time of determination of cytokines will
      be 20 min, 4, 24, 48, and 72 hours post ROSC [as specified in the corresponding outcome
      measure], and 7 days post-ROSC (that is, the determinations of day 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, and 10 will
      be cancelled); Reason for change: Study cost reduction.

      STATISTICS Data will be reported as mean±standard deviation, or median (interquartile range),
      or number (percentage), unless otherwise specified. Distribution normality will be tested by
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Dichotomous and categorical variables will be compared by two-sided
      chi-square or Fisher's exact test. Continuous variables will be compared by two-tailed,
      independent samples t test or Mann-Whitney exact U test. P- values of multiple t-test
      comparisons will be subjected to the Bonferroni correction. We will use mixed model analysis
      to compare repeatedly measured variables between the two groups. Survival data will be
      analyzed by a previously employed methodology of multivariable Cox regression. Based on
      previously published data on the mean arterial pressure at 24 hours postresuscitation, to
      detect an effect size d of 0.761 with an α error probability of 0.015 and power 0.80, we need
      to enroll a total of 78 patients (39 in each group). A target enrollment of 100 patients with
      ROSC for at least 20 min will likely adequately compensate for possible dropouts or missing
      data. Expected results pertain to a steroid-associated benefit with respect to the primary
      outcomes, consistent with results on secondary outcomes.
    
  