
    
      Cerebrovascular disease is the third leading killer in the U.S., and contributes to decreased
      quality of life and increased long-term care spending. The risk of cerebrovascular disease is
      inversely associated with resting cerebral blood flow (CBF). Men exhibit a lower resting CBF
      and have twice the risk of cerebrovascular disease when compared to premenopausal women. The
      ability of cerebral vessels to respond to challenges is also inversely related to disease
      risk, and may be useful in identifying at-risk patients pre-clinically. However, these
      studies are often confounded by aging and/or comorbidities, and the associations provide
      little insight into physiologic mechanisms responsible for sexually dimorphic cerebrovascular
      disease risk. Conversely, animal studies use supraphysiologic levels of hormone treatment in
      primarily young animals, which limits the translational relevance of animal CBF mechanisms.
      While there is general agreement that estrogen is protective in healthy adults, the basic
      impact of sex, and physiologic fluctuations in sex hormones, on mechanisms of CBF control
      remains unclear.

      The overall goal of this research program is to investigate the mechanisms which actively
      control cerebral blood flow (CBF) in humans, particularly how men and women differ in control
      mechanisms on a regional basis throughout the brain circulation. The investigators propose to
      study CBF control mechanisms in healthy younger (18-40 yrs) adult men and women. The overall
      hypothesis is that female sex and sex hormones contribute to larger stress-induced increases
      in CBF, due to greater prostanoid (COX) and nitric oxide (NOS) dilation.

      A key technological innovation of this proposal derives from multi-mode, high-resolution,
      flow sensitive MRI to quantify CBF at macro- and microvascular levels, at rest, and in
      response to environmental challenges. Additionally, the research design allows the
      quantification of sex differences in two vascular control mechanisms across all brain
      regions. Preliminary data demonstrate: hypoxic cerebral vasodilation is 60-100% higher in
      women compared to men, COX inhibition reduces dilation in women but not men, NOS inhibition
      reduces vasodilation more in women, and hypoxic vasodilation is increased in women during
      early luteal cycle, in part to greater COX-mediated vasodilation. Sex hormone suppression,
      followed by single hormone addition, will be used to systematically study the impacts on CBF
      control in both sexes.

      Substantial preliminary findings support these hypotheses, and integrated physiologic,
      pharmacologic, and MRI approaches are available to test them. This state-of-the-art approach
      will yield previously unattainable insight into not only maintaining CBF, but actively
      controlling it during physiologic demands for increased flow. These novel, high resolution,
      regionally-specific, sex-specific, and mechanism-specific findings will serve as a knowledge
      platform, for designing sex-specific CBF studies in high risk disease populations (e.g.
      diabetes, hypertension, Alzheimer's) which exhibit strong sex-specific etiology and important
      vascular contributions.

      Three Specific Aims will be addressed in this study:

      Aim 1: Test the hypothesis that healthy males exhibit reduced cerebral vasodilation compared
      to healthy females despite exhibiting similar vasodilation to hypercapnia.

        -  Aim 1A: Vasodilation to hypoxia will be markedly lower in males, more so in anterior
           brain regions.

        -  Aim 1B: Vasodilation to hypercapnia will be similar between sexes.

      Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that acute inhibition of COX or NOS will reduce sex differences in
      hypoxia-mediated cerebral vasodilation.

        -  Aim 2A: COX-mediates vasodilation primarily in females.

        -  Aim 2B: NOS mediates vasodilation more in females than males.

      Aim 3: Test the hypothesis that manipulating sex steroids can abolish or magnify sex
      differences in vasodilation.

        -  Aim 3A: Short-term suppression of sex steroids will abolish sex differences in resting
           and hypoxic CBF via greater losses of COX- and NOS-mediated vasodilation in females than
           males.

        -  Aim 3B: Short-term supplementation of unopposed testosterone in males will magnify sex
           differences by driving COX vasoconstriction (TXA2) and uncoupled NOS vasoconstriction.

        -  Aim 3C: Short-term supplementation of unopposed estradiol in females will magnify sex
           differences via increased NOS and COX vasodilation.
    
  