
    
      Lifestyle intervention is a fundamental aspect in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
      Implementation of lifestyle changes early after diagnosis often suffices to control metabolic
      dysregulation and may even have a durable impact. However, implementation of these changes is
      often difficult for multiple reasons including noncompliance as well as doubt on efficacy of
      sport and diet changes compared to drugs. Furthermore, most patients with type 2 diabetes
      remain asymptomatic for a prolonged period of time. Thus, they lack an immediate relief of
      symptoms and do not feel the benefit of changes in lifestyle. Often, untreated type 2
      diabetes first manifests itself with symptoms of polyuria and polydipsia. This offers a
      unique opportunity to demonstrate the potential of lifestyle changes. However, in daily
      practice, symptomatic patients with polyuria and polydipsia or with HbA1c levels >10% at
      diagnosis are typically referred to an emergency room, hospitalized and treated with drugs as
      a first line treatment.

      In the present study, we aim to implement a lifestyle intervention as a first-line treatment
      in recent onset type 2 diabetes. In the emergency room, the bed will symbolically be removed
      and the patient requested to perform a bicycle exercise. Non-ER patients will be invited to
      perform the bicycle exercise as soon as possible. We expect from this educational trigger
      that patients will realize the therapeutic power of sport. Preliminary interventions using
      this approach at our emergency room demonstrated the potential of such an intervention.
      However, internal and external validation, efficacy and safety of a lifestyle intervention in
      an emergency room remain to be shown in a multi-center controlled study.

      The primary endpoint of this study is achievement of metabolic control without anti-diabetic
      medication 3 months after study enrollment. For the purpose of this study, metabolic control
      is defined as an HbA1c below a target stratified for three groups according to HbA1c at
      baseline: HbA1c >14% a target of < 10%; HbA1c < 14% and > 10% a target of < 8%; HbA1c < 10% a
      target of < 7.5%.

      Patients will be randomized either to standard care or to a bicycle exercise followed by an
      intensive lifestyle intervention on top of non-pharmacological standard care.

      After rehydration, patients allocated to the intensified lifestyle intervention group will be
      instructed to perform 30 minutes of bicycle exercise at 60 % of the calculated maximum heart
      rate (according to Franckowiak et al.) followed by an intensive lifestyle intervention.
      Patients will be discharged if the clinical status is stable and no comorbidities require
      further hospitalization. Follow-up visits at the Clinic of Endocrinology for further
      instructions and consultation will be carried out after 2, 7, 30, 60 and 90 days, half a year
      and a year.

      In order to monitor blood glucose levels, patients will be instructed on visit 2 to take
      measurements at home and will be asked to send their fasting glucose levels of the first week
      to the study team for monitoring of the metabolic situation. This will also be done in the
      week before visits of day 30 and 90.

      The schedule for the intervention arm consists of 3 to 5 aerobic training sessions (duration
      15-40 minutes each) and 2 resistance trainings per week, as well as weekly motivational
      coaching via telephone by the study psychologist. Everyday activity will be objectively
      monitored using the patient's mobile phone and a blinded actigraph (activity tracker).
      Exercise sessions will be monitored by weekly phone calls and documented. To assess baseline
      physical activity all patients will fill in the SIMPAQ questionnaire at baseline and at 6
      months.

      Measurement of clinical parameters (heart rate, blood pressure), venous blood gas analysis
      (pH, pCO2, base excess, bicarbonate) at baseline and 120 min after beginning of bicycle
      exercise. Blood glucose levels at baseline and 30, 60 and 120 min after beginning of bicycle
      exercise. Blood glucose levels, vital parameters, concomitant medication after 2, 7, 30, 60
      and 90 days; HbA1c at baseline, 2 (only intervention group), 3 and 6 months and one year;
      physical activity at baseline, 3 and 6 months. In the intervention group additional
      self-measurements of blood glucose levels during the first week and within the week before
      visit at day 30 and 90 after randomization.
    
  