
    
      Through a number of large-scale clinical trials , Meta analysis, and clinical treatment
      guidelines confirm that clopidogrel and aspirin dual antiplatelet treatment strategies for
      acute coronary syndrome (ACS) undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions(PCI) of stent
      implantation surgery patients have a vital role . It can effectively suppress acute 、subacute
      stent thrombosis formation , reduce readmissions ratio , thus greatly improving the quality
      of life of patients . A large number of clinical practice reports, although the treatment
      strategies to reduce the incidence of adverse cardiovascular events ,it has increased the
      possibility of the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding complications . Proton pump
      inhibitors (PPIs) are often used to prevent gastrointestinal complications of dual
      antiplatelet therapy . 2008 American College of Cardiology (ACC) / American Society of
      Gastroenterology (ACG) / American Heart Association (AHA) jointly issued a consensus document
      , consistently recommended that the majority of clinicians application of dual antiplatelet
      and PPIs treatment for patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal bleeding that may
      exist at the same time ,in order to reduce the occurrence of gastrointestinal adverse events
      . But at home and abroad in recent years, there have been reports suggest that the
      interaction of PPIs with clopidogrel may exist , thereby reduce the latter 's anti- platelet
      effect , in order to make the incidence of adverse CV events increased about 25-64 % . In
      January 2009 , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced a safety review of an
      earlier report on the potential interaction of these two types drugs , particularly stressed
      the need to carry out a large number of clinical practice research further to clear both the
      interaction . PPIs antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel after PCI is not yet very clear ,
      clinical results on both interactions still exist many different academic perspectives and
      research defects , so still need to arouse sufficient attention , continue to carry out the
      relevant fields research .

      In order to further clarify the interaction of PPIs with clopidogrel anti - platelet effect ,
      the investigators designed a clinical randomized controlled trials of omeprazole and
      pantoprazole antiplatelet effect of clopidogrel .In this experiment , the investigator have
      taken a randomized NSTE-ACS hospitalized patients met the inclusion criteria were randomly
      divided into omeprazole and pantoprazole groups . On the day of admission , all patients
      taking clopidogrel loading dose 300mg + aspirin 300mg and the subsequent maintenance dose of
      clopidogrel 75mg + aspirin 300mg and omeprazole group taking omeprazole 20mg / d ,
      pantoprazole group taking pantoprazole 20mg / d. Respectively, on the day of admission (
      before medication ) , medication for 12-24 hours , medication after 72 hours , 30 days , each
      taken early morning fasting venous blood again , measuring AA 、ADP - induced platelet
      aggregation . And selected 30 days , 6 months and 12 months to record the patient's clinical
      adverse events ( including death , myocardial infarction , and any revascularization , stent
      thrombosis , recurrent angina , rehospitalization due to cardiovascular disease , bleeding
      events) . To assess the impact of PPIs on clopidogrel antiplatelet effect by observing 1 year
      follow-up results , and further explore the optimal combination of dual anti-platelet and
      joint PPIs course of treatment , appropriate dosage and the best time to provide reasonable
      for clinical programs to create a personalized treatment system , improve the patient's
      quality of life .
    
  