
    
      We will examine the effectiveness of a high-intensity functional training (HIFT) exercise
      intervention compared to Army Physical Readiness Training (APRT) and their related dietary
      instructions in improving body composition (percent body fat [%BF], fat mass, lean body mass,
      weight) and domains of Total Force Fitness (TFF; Army Physical Fitness Test [APFT], aerobic
      capacity, power, strength, and combat preparation and readiness) in a 6-month
      cluster-randomized clinical trial (CRCT) with 2 (+/- 1) month follow-up. We also will examine
      the effects of both exercise programs on cardiovascular disease (CVD) health risk (resting
      heart rate, blood pressure). We will conduct assessments at baseline, 6-months, and 2-month
      follow-up (+/- 1 month). We also will assess training time/volume, injuries, adverse events,
      adherence, and participant satisfaction and account for demographic and psychosocial
      variables.

      In our CRCT, we aim to recruit and randomize approximately 150 soldiers (n=15 clusters-staff
      groups/platoons-per condition with at least 5 soldiers nested within each cluster) comparing
      the effectiveness of HIFT versus usual care (APRT) on:

      Specific Aim 1 - changes in body composition including: percent body fat (%BF), fat mass, fat
      free mass, and body weight.

      We hypothesize that soldiers in the HIFT condition will be significantly more likely to
      decrease a. %BF and b. fat mass, and to increase c. fat free mass than those in the APRT
      condition; we expect both groups to d. maintain body weight.

      Specific Aim 2 - changes in fitness (e.g., APFT, power, strength), while accounting for
      actual physical training time in each condition.

      We hypothesize that soldiers in the HIFT condition will have significantly greater
      improvement in their performance on fitness tests when compared to those in APRT, despite
      significantly less total training time. These outcomes will help determine if
      functional-oriented training can result in better fitness and combat preparedness for Army
      personnel.
    
  