
    
      Real time continous glucose monitoring (RT-CGM) is a technology that measures people's sugar
      level all the time, using a sensor that is placed on the skin. The sensor can be worn for 10
      days and the small transmitter clicks into the sensor and sends the glucose readings
      wirelessly to a smartphone or a small handset, which displays the glucose level on the
      screen. It also has alarms to tell people when their sugar level is too high or too low. This
      study uses the Dexcom G6 RT-CGM system.

      RT-CGM devices have become smaller and can connect easily with mobile phones. We want to find
      out whether young people, in particular, find the technology useful and whether it improves
      how they self-managed their diabetes over a 6-month period.

      This is a randomised controlled cross over trial; participants are randomly assigned to the
      control group (standard care which is self-monitoring of blood glucose via fingerprick) or
      the intervention group (RT-CGM) for the first 6 months and then cross over for the 2nd 6
      months. Participants will be able to share their CGM data if they wish via Dexcom Clarity
      with the research/clinical team, who will support them in making treatment decisions in light
      of the data.

      All participants will be asked to take part in a semi-structured interview with a Diabetes
      Specialist Clinical Psychologist at baseline, including to address some of the barriers to
      self-management and a further interview at the end of the 6 months during which they use RT-
      CGM, to explore their experiences using it. All participants will be asked to complete
      validated psychology questionnaires at baseline, 6 months and 12 months. A blood test for
      HbA1C will be done at baseline, 6 months and 12 months. After 12 months, all participants
      will be invited to attend a focus group to provide feedback & share their experiences of
      using RT-CGM and raise themes brought up in psychology interviews to the whole group.
    
  