
    
      This study seeks to determine diarrhoea aetiology, calculate the incidence of
      moderate-to-severe ETEC-associated diarrhea, and describe the frequency of ETEC colonization
      factors and enterotoxin types in children under 3 years old in Zambia.

      These data are required for the design of an anticipated phase 3 trial of the leading ETEC
      vaccine (ETVAX®) that will be evaluated in Zambia from 2021 onwards.

      The following are the research questions that this study seeks to answer:

        1. What is the incidence of MSD with confirmed ETEC aetiology in children under three years
           old in Zambia?

        2. What are the prevalent colonization toxins and factors (CFs) in diarrhoeagenic isolates
           of ETEC infections in children in Zambia?

        3. What are the other common pathogens causing diarrhoea in Zambian children?

      This prospective, observational, longitudinal study is proposed at five health facilities in
      Lusaka. The proposed study sites are Chawama, George, Kanyama, Chainda, and Matero Health
      Facilities. These facilities are located within typical peri-urban settlements of Lusaka and
      serves communities with a cumulative total population of over 1 million people. The study
      will be done in two stages beginning with a household census in the study catchment area of
      the participating health facilities and then followed by the passive diarrhoea surveillance
      stage. A surveillance system for passive case detection of diarrhoea will be set up at each
      facility for the 12-months of the project to detect any seasonal variations of disease
      burden. Prior to commencement, several community sensitization activities will be conducted
      within the catchment areas of the health facility.

      A stool sample will be collected from each participant who presents to the health facility
      and is eligible for enrollment. All research samples will be collected at the study site and
      laboratory assays will be performed as per written SOPs and will be a part of the study
      documentation. All the samples will be processed in Zambia using the Novodiag® platform. The
      Novodiag® (Mobidiag Ltd, Finland) is a novel multiplex molecular platform that is based on
      real-time PCR and microarray technology and can identify various gastroenteritis causing
      bacteria, parasites and viruses as well as carry out antimicrobial resistance gene testing of
      organisms.
    
  