
    
      Recurrence of CDI following a course of standard antibiotic therapy is high, especially in
      the elderly patients over 65 years of age, in hospitalized and in the immunocompromised
      patients. As CDI is characterized by intestinal dysbiosis. Fecal Microbiology Transplantation
      (FMT) has been investigated as alternative treatment for CDI and has been determined to be
      effective and safe. One of the major challenges of offering FMT is the availability of
      suitable donors. A donor may no longer be able to continue to donate for a number of reasons
      and this may lead to temporary interruption of FMT in centers which offer the program. In
      order to continue to offer FMT whenever needed, we will investigate the efficacy of
      lyophilized FMT. The lyophilization (freeze-drying) process works by dehydrating a frozen
      donor stool sample to complete dryness, using controlled temperature and pressure gradients.
      This lyophilized process results in a powdered form of the sample. Studies have shown that
      lyophilized donor stool samples have similar microbial compositions as the same fresh
      sample.The technique of freeze drying has been used for decades for the industrial storage of
      microbes and has been used. Preliminary study of lyophilized stool for FMT has been performed
      in dogs. Preliminary efficacy data in dogs with inflammatory bowel disease suggest equal
      efficacy as compared to fresh stool, although controlled study has yet to be performed.
      Should the lyophilized FMT (L-FMT) demonstrate to be equally or more effective than frozen
      FMT, there would be significant advantages. As with frozen FMT, lyophilized FMT will allow
      patients to receive FMT immediately as it can take up to two weeks for a donor's screening
      laboratory testing results to be available. Lyophilized FMT will also be more cost effective
      as less number of donors will need to be screened given the prolonged shelf life of
      lyophilized FMT which can be kept at above the freezing temperature. 9 This will also allow
      wider distribution and accessibility especially to the regions with limited capacity to
      manufacture FMT.
    
  