
    
      Acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery is strongly associated with in-hospital mortality
      and morbidity. This is an area where effective treatments are lacking and trial are difficult
      to perform. To date no randomized controlled trial (RCT) has sufficiently estimated the
      impact of RRT timing of initiation on patient outcome, and the present prospective,
      controlled, interventional, single-center trial attempts to compare patient outcome with
      "early" versus "late" initiation of RRT. Previous studies in cardiac surgery setting have
      been retrospective ones and have been hampered by lead-time bias, and drop out patients. To
      overcome these biases all patients who underwent cardiac surgery were prospectively enrolled
      in the trial and were divided in two treatment groups: the "early" approach was used during
      the first 10-months, and the "late" approach during the next 10-months. To improve the
      information gained from this non-classical randomized study and to minimize bias, the
      investigators enrolled almost all patients with few exclusion criteria during two following
      short periods, used intention-to-treat analysis and treated all patients according to local
      protocols and international guidelines, except for RRT initiation strategy.

      Outcome parameters were hospital mortality, and ICU and hospital length of stay.

      "Early" therapy was started after 6 hours of urine output of less than<0,5ml/Kg/h, whereas in
      the "late" group RRT therapy was started on the basis of persistent (lasting more than 12
      hours) oliguria.

      Data obtained from the database were analyzed using "Statistical Package for Social Science"
      (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL). Continuous variables are presented as mean±SD, categorical variables
      were summarized as frequencies and percentages. The Student t test or Pearson X square test
      were performed to evaluate differences between groups and to analyze subgroups. For
      statistics, a p<0.05 was considered significant.

      Power calculation was based on previous reports13 on cumulative mortality following cardiac
      surgery. 50% reduction of mortality was hypothesized when the more conservative approach to
      cardiac surgery-AKI was applied. The suggested number of patients was about 900 patients per
      group.

      The main limitation of the present study include the non-classical randomization,
      nevertheless we conducted an interventional trial comparing two treatment strategies in two
      different groups of patients, prospectively followed and suitable for both treatments.
    
  