
    
      The study is a 2-arm, randomized, open, single center, clinical trial. Eligible patients with
      type 1 diabetes will be randomized to the AIDIT protocol or treatment as usual (TAU).

      All patients diagnosed with T1D and included in the study will receive standard of care. In
      addition, the AIDIT protocol will include 1) treatment with Azithromycin for 52 weeks using a
      protocol for children with cystic fibrosis, 2) repeated treatments with intensified
      supervised high dose insulin infusion, and 3) extra advice and support from the study
      dietician.

        1. Azithromycin Azithromycin will be administered orally. Azithromycin will be given three
           times per week for 52 weeks. The dose will be 500 mg for children with body weight ≥ 30
           kg and 250 mg if body weight < 30 kg.

        2. Intensified supervised high dose insulin infusions Participants will, in addition to
           Azithromycin, also be subjected to intensified anti-diabetic treatment to achieve
           increased beta-cell rest. This will be achieved by insulin lispro given as a supervised
           iv infusion for 72 hours within one week of diagnosis and by subcutaneous infusion 6-8
           hours during one day in study week 5, 9, 13, 17 (±1 week) and 25, 34, 43 (±2 weeks)
           after inclusion. The intensified treatments will aim to target a blood glucose level of
           4.0 ± 0.5 mmol/l. The efficacy of the intended maximal beta cell rest will be evaluated
           by measurement of plasma glucose and endogenous C-peptide. If C-peptide remains positive
           during the supervised infusion of insulin lispro this will be interpreted as that the
           insulin dose needs to be increased at the next treatment occasion to achieve beta-cell
           rest.

        3. Dietician support Participants will receive extra advice and support from the study
           dietician within the first week after randomization, and after 7 and 17 weeks.
           Personalized nutritional advice on intake of carbohydrates, fat and protein based on
           four-day food records will be given to in order to reduce insulin resistance and insulin
           need in accordance with ISPAD guidelines. By giving nutritional advices on less volume
           of the meals, especially of the fluid (maximum 300 ml per meal), and by trying to extend
           the meal time to at least 20 minutes, the reflux into ductus pancreaticus might be
           reduced.

      All patients will be offered an examination of their pancreas with MRI at 0 and 12 months
      after inclusion. In addition, plasma samples taken at inclusion and after 1.5 and 12 months
      will be analysed for the presence of cell-free DNA indicating ongoing cell destruction.
      Cell-specific methylation patterns of this cell-free DNA will be analysed to determine
      cell-type specific cell death.

      The effect of the addition of treatment according to the AIDIT protocol will be evaluated
      with a Mixed Meal Tolerance Test (MMTT) to explore the effect on preservation of beta-cell
      function.
    
  