
    
      Accurate estimation of intraocular pressure is an essential aspect in the diagnosis and
      management of glaucomatous eye disease. Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy and a
      leading cause of blindness in the United States. In glaucoma, vision is lost through
      apoptosis (programmed cell death) of retinal ganglion cells, a type of cell in the retina
      that transmits visual information to the brain. Diagnosis of glaucoma is usually based on a
      combination of progressive, characteristic vision loss (measured using visual field testing)
      and progressive optic nerve head damage (as detected through dilated fundus examinations or
      disc photography). While a high pressure inside the eye (ocular hypertension, OHT) is not
      sufficient for a diagnosis of glaucoma, it is the greatest single risk factor for disease
      onset.

      For decades, the gold standard for intraocular pressure measurement has been the Goldmann
      applanation tonometer. The Goldmann tonometer is calibrated based on a central corneal
      thickness of 500 micrometers. But, it is known that CCT varies between individuals and even
      between individual eyes. The various central corneal thicknesses (CCT)s are thought to
      influence the accuracy of IOP measurements and thus the diagnosis, screening, and treatment
      of patients with glaucoma. A study performed by Copt (1999) showed that ocular hypertensive
      patients have relatively thick corneas and normal tension glaucoma patients have relatively
      thin corneas. Thus it is thought that a thicker cornea creates falsely high IOP readings and
      a thinner cornea creates falsely low IOP readings. This was followed by a study performed by
      Lleo et al (2003) which showed that applanation tonometry and CCT positively correlated in
      normal eyes. More recently the following studies have also found a positive correlation
      between CCT and tonometry: Lui et al (2005), Tonnu et all (2005), Pourjavan et al (2005),
      Doyle et al (2005), Gunvant et al (2005), Brunsini et al (2005) and Rask et al (2005).

      To further evaluate the effect of CCT on IOP measurement, the method and instruments used to
      measure IOP were compared. In a clinical setting IOP's are measured by four instruments,
      Goldmann applanation tonometer, ocular blood flow pneumatonometer, pneumatonometer or
      Tono-Pen. Singh et al (2001) concluded that the effect of central corneal thickness on
      Goldmann applanation tonometry accuracy appears not to be clinically relevant. However, Bhan
      et al (2002) showed that in eyes with normal corneas, the ocular blood flow pneumatonometer
      appears to be more affected by variation in CCT than the Goldmann tonometer, and the Tono-Pen
      is least affected by CCT. A limitation of this study is that corneal curvature (a measure of
      astigmatism) was not performed prior to measuring IOP. High amounts of astigmatism can impact
      IOP readings obtained from the Goldmann tonometer.

      The PASCAL Dynamic Contour Tonometer is a new digital tonometer that provides a direct
      trans-corneal measurement of IOP and is sensitive enough to detect the ocular pulse amplitude
      (OPA) due to the patient's heartbeat. Supposedly, when using the principle of contour
      matching instead of applanation, the PASCAL eliminates the systematic errors inherent in all
      previous tonometers, such as the influence of corneal thickness and rigidity. Ku et al (2005)
      demonstrated that the Pascal tonometer was effective in reducing corneal thickness bias
      during IOP measurements.

      It has long been thought that there is a significant positive correlation of scleral rigidity
      to IOP, thus with increasing pressure in the eye, a resulting increase in rigidity is noted.
      (1960). A study completed by Pallikaris et al. (2005) investigated a possible correlation of
      rigidity to other ocular found no correlation between the two.

      The effect of CCT on IOP measurement is a clinical concern as erroneous IOP measurements may
      lead to misdiagnosis. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether IOP measurements by
      Goldmann applanation, pneumotonometryocular blood flow pneumotonometry, y, Tono-Pen and the
      PASCAL Dynamic Contour Tonometer are affected by central corneal thickness, and if so, to
      what extent.
    
  