
    
      Study design

      The COMPARE (Comparison of Oral anticoagulation Monitoring Practice: A Randomized Evaluation)
      study is an open, centrally randomized, multicenter, prospective, controlled study comparing
      two models of vitamin K antagonist (VKA) therapy management. Written informed consent is
      obtained from each patient and general practitioner before randomization.

      Setting and participants

      The study concerned patients referred to the anticoagulation clinic (ACC) of various
      University Hospitals in France. Eligible patients are consecutive patients who were starting
      a course of VKA therapy scheduled to last for at least three months.

      Randomization and interventions

      All eligible patients are evaluated by a physician specialized in vascular medicine or
      hematology. After their demographic characteristics and medical history had been recorded,
      they are randomized to one of the models of VKA therapy management, either UC management or
      ACC-based shared-care management. Randomization is stratified by center; the list of
      randomization is computer-generated according to a permuted block design with a block size of
      four, six or eight. General practitioners are informed of the outcome of randomization by a
      standardized letter. In patients randomized to the UC management group, the monitoring of VKA
      therapy is left to the general practitioner's discretion according to his/her preferences and
      habits. Patients randomized to the ACC-based shared-care management group receive a
      standardized educational package; moreover, each biological laboratory measuring INR values
      for the patients of this group is contacted to explain the importance of rapid restitution of
      the results. A computer-generated dose proposal is also given, both by telephone and by fax,
      to the general practitioners who follow up patients randomized to the ACC-based shared-care
      management group; however, they were free to accept or ignore this proposal. All patients
      receive a logbook in which to record their INR results.

      Study outcomes

      The primary study outcome is a composite of symptomatic and objectively confirmed
      thromboembolic or major bleeding events at 18 months. Thromboembolic events are acute
      myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral arterial occlusion, deep-vein thrombosis or
      pulmonary embolism. Major bleeding events are fatal bleeding, or any bleeding leading to
      functional impairment or requiring hospitalization. All-cause mortality is a secondary
      outcome measure. All outcomes are reviewed by a central, independent adjudication committee,
      the members of which were unaware of the patients' study group.

      The quality of anticoagulation control is evaluated in all randomized patients with at least
      two INR measurements. This parameter is assessed by determining (1) the percentage of INR
      within the target range, (2) the percentage of time during which the INR was within the
      target range in relation to the total length of the observation period, according to the
      linear interpolation method, and (3) the variability index (σ2).

      Statistical analysis

      This is a superiority study in which we hypothesize that ACC-based shared-care management
      would reduce the cumulative incidence of the primary study outcome by 50% compared with UC
      management. On the basis of previous non-controlled studies, we assumed that the cumulative
      incidence of the primary study outcome would be 10% in patients assigned to the UC management
      group. Given these assumptions, we calculated that the recruitment of 600 patients per group
      would allow confirmation of the statistical hypothesis with 90% power and a two-sided, type I
      error of 0.05.

      The statistical analyses will be performed on all randomized patients on an
      intention-to-treat basis.
    
  