
    
      Background:

      Body image is recognised as an important public health issue by governments, policy-makers,
      and health professionals. Poor body image is associated with engagement in unhealthy weight
      loss behaviours, depression, reduced academic performance, and has been established as an
      important risk factor in the development eating disorders. Within Western societies, poor
      body image is also common, with an estimated 25-61% of adolescent girls and boys being
      dissatisfied with their appearance. This underlines the importance of prevention and early
      intervention. As such, researchers, governments and health professionals are increasingly
      seeking effective evidence-based body image interventions that can be disseminated to the
      public, in a bid to reduce body image concerns and other adverse negative health related
      effects such as eating disorders. However, widespread dissemination of these programmes
      remains a challenge due to the difficulty of reaching individuals at risk, the traditional
      focus on females only, and the reliance on expert intervention facilitators.

      Although it can be difficult reaching those at risk with individual targeted prevention
      programs, school-based interventions provide a useful opportunity to reach large and diverse
      groups of children and young people, crossing all levels of risk and gaining access to those
      who may otherwise not receive necessary intervention. Effective school-based interventions
      are designed to reduce the presence or influence of risk factors for body image concerns
      (e.g., internalisation of appearance ideals, appearance pressures from friends, family and
      the media, appearance-related teasing and bullying, and negative emotions such as depression
      and anxiety) in an effort to promote healthy body image. Previous school-based work has
      demonstrated some success in reducing body concerns at the conclusion of program
      implementation and over meaningful follow-up periods, with evidence showing media literacy
      and cognitive dissonance approaches to be useful in this context. However, there is still
      room for improvement in the magnitude of effects for universal programmes, and the majority
      are still targeted at girls and led by expert facilitators. Consequently, further evaluation
      of different approaches in this setting is required.

      In addition, another factor which is still rather mixed within the literature, and has an
      impact on how universal programmes are delivered, is regarding the use of expert-led versus
      teacher-led interventions. Previous reviews have shown that programs are more effective when
      facilitated by dedicated expert interventionists. However, evidence from previous studies
      conducted by the investigators supports the notion that teachers can deliver a body image
      intervention effectively with minimal training. Hence, more research is needed to understand
      the effectiveness of teacher led interventions further, as successful task-shifting to
      non-expert providers has been identified as an important goal for disseminating mental health
      interventions at scale.

      Therefore, the aim of this research is to evaluate the efficacy and acceptability of adapted
      interventions based on mindfulness and cognitive dissonance, respectively, for delivery to
      adolescent girls and boys (aged 13-14 years) by trained teachers. They will be compared
      against an existing universal intervention with support for teacher-led delivery and a
      class-as-usual control group.

      Design:

      This study will be a parallel 4-arm cluster randomised controlled trial. Schools will be
      randomly allocated to receive either the cognitive dissonance, mindfulness, or Dove Confident
      Me interventions, or classes-as-usual (control). The intervention duration is the same for
      all experimental conditions, and students will be assessed on body image and related outcomes
      at baseline, post-intervention, and 6-month follow-up (with 12-month planned pending further
      funding).

      Participants, recruitment, and allocation:

      Sample size for our repeated measures design was determined a priori. Assuming a small effect
      size of Cohen's d = .2 based on previous research of teacher-led programmes, a medium
      intra-individual correlation between repeated measures of .5, and setting power at .80, the
      sample size required to detect significance at the 5% level under individual randomisation
      was 294 students per arm. Applying an inflation factor to account for school level clustering
      based on a small intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of .01 (informed by previous
      studies), increased this requirement to 585 students per arm. Based on an average of 100
      students from Grade 9 classes per school, the investigators aim to recruit 6 schools per arm.
      Thus the investigators aim to recruit 24 secondary schools in total (N = 2400 students) from
      Bristol and surrounding areas (UK).

      Schools will be initially invited to take part via email and phone, and via involvement in a
      wider programme aimed at facilitating greater participation in higher education run by the
      Widening Participation team at the host institution. Allocation will be undertaken using
      restricted randomisation based on minimisation in order to achieve balance in each of the
      arms with regard to key school characteristics (geographical region, socioeconomic status,
      proportion of students learning English as a second language). This is the recommended
      approach for cluster randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that recruit and allocate
      sequentially, and will be implemented using freely available computer software (Minim).

      Interventions:

      Dove Confident Me

      Dove Confident Me represents an existing school-based intervention that targets multiple risk
      factors for body dissatisfaction, addressing the nature and source of societal appearance
      ideals, media literacy, appearance-related social comparisons, appearance-related
      conversations and teasing, and encouraging 'body activism' to challenge appearance pressures.
      It consists of five 45-minute interactive lessons, designed to be delivered by teachers in
      school classrooms. The intervention was an adaptation of an existing evidence-based
      expert-led programme, Happy Being Me. Standardised materials include a detailed lesson plan
      for teachers, PowerPoint slides, video clips, and student activity sheets. Intervention
      materials are freely available online in five languages (selfesteem.dove.com).

      Cognitive dissonance

      Cognitive dissonance is conceptualised as the psychological discomfort stemming from
      conflicting cognitions and behaviours. Inducing such a state can be used to shift targeted
      attitudes and behaviours, as individuals are motivated to do so order regain equilibrium. In
      the context of body image and eating disorder prevention, dissonance-based interventions
      (DBIs) encourage a voluntary counter-attitudinal stance against socially prescribed
      appearance ideals in order to produce a conflict with, and therefore reduce, internalization
      of such ideals and their consequences. An existing school-based dissonance intervention which
      was previously tested among early adolescent girls with psychologist delivery has been
      adapted for delivery to mixed-gender adolescents by trained teachers. It has been designed to
      follow the same format and length as Dove Confident Me, and therefore consists of 5 x
      45minute lessons, with detailed lesson plans for teachers, accompanying Powerpoint
      presentations and student activity sheets.

      Mindfulness

      Mindfulness refers to the awareness and acceptance of present-moment experience. As a
      psychological technique, it is growing in support for treating a range of mental health
      concerns. Mindfulness based interventions (MBI) are the next potential alternative to
      cognitive dissonance interventions (CDI) as they represent a potentially useful strategy for
      promoting positive body image. In this context, MBIs aim to both increase the capacity to
      refrain from automatic responses when confronted with appearance ideals and related
      sociocultural pressures, and reduce the intensity and impact of negative experiences if and
      when they do occur. An existing school-based mindfulness intervention which the investigators
      have previously tested among older adolescent girls with psychologist delivery has been
      adapted for delivery to adolescent girls and boys by trained teachers. It has been designed
      to follow the same format and length as Dove Confident Me, and therefore consists of 5 x
      45minute lessons, with detailed lesson plans for teachers, accompanying Powerpoint
      presentations and student activity sheets.

      Procedure Informed active consent will be obtained from school senior management (during
      recruitment), informed assent from parents (prior to baseline assessment), and informed
      consent from students (at baseline assessment). Prior to lesson delivery, school teachers
      will be trained in their allocated intervention by expert body image researchers (2 x 1.5hr
      sessions), and will be provided with all teaching materials necessary for delivering the
      interventions. Students will complete questionnaires under standardised conditions supervised
      by their teachers and trained research staff. Approximately one week following baseline
      questionnaires, intervention schools will deliver their allocated intervention, facilitated
      by schoolteachers to whole classes (one lesson per week over five weeks), with a ratio of one
      teacher to 20-30 students. All lessons will be audio-recorded and a selection of lessons will
      be observed live by trained research staff, for the purposes of assessing fidelity to the
      intervention manuals. Teachers and selected students will take part in focus group interviews
      following completion of the lessons, in order to obtain qualitative feedback. Students in
      control schools will take part part in their usual scheduled lessons. All students will then
      complete follow-up questionnaires at post-intervention (within one week of final lesson), and
      6-month follow-up. Blinding of students, teachers, and researchers is not possible due to the
      nature of the interventions. However, risk of bias from teachers and researchers is minimised
      due to anonymous self-report assessments. Risk of contagion is also minimised by randomising
      at the school level. Participating schools will receive a £200 honorarium upon project
      completion. This project has received ethical approval from the University of the West of
      England's Faculty Research Ethics Committee (HAS.16.09.016).

      Statistical analysis plan:

      Multiple imputation will be used to handle missing data. Analysis of intervention effects
      will be conducted using an intent-to-treat approach, with a sensitivity analysis conducted
      depending on the extent of missing data. Multilevel mixed models will be used to compare
      groups at post-intervention and 6-month follow-up on primary and secondary outcomes,
      accounting for the clustered nature of the design (repeated measures within students, within
      classes, within schools). Baseline levels of outcomes, as well as demographic and school
      characteristics will be used as covariates in order to increase precision of effects.
      Follow-up analysis will investigate moderation with respect to gender and baseline body image
      concerns, and will be conducted by including interactional terms in the statistical models.
      Subsequent mediational analyses following recommendations by Kraemer will investigate
      hypothesised mechanisms of change in each of the trial arms. An analysis of
      cost-effectiveness will also be undertaken, comparing relative effectiveness across
      interventions.
    
  