
    
      The study will include patients with acutely decompensated chronic heart failure requiring
      inotropic therapy for the syndrome of low cardiac output. While being on the inotropic
      therapy, the patients will be randomized to oral supplementation of exogenous ketones vs.
      placebo, which will be repeatedly administered over 9 hours. The patients will undergo
      continuous invasive hemodynamic monitoring by pulmonary artery catheter, repeated laboratory
      assessment, and repeated assessment of the severity of symptoms for 24 hours.

      Exogenous ketones will be administered orally using monoester 3-OHB concentrate without added
      salts (25g 3-OHB in 65ml H.V.M.N Ketone Ester, H.V.M.N, USA or equivalent). The drink will be
      administered over 10 mins every 3 hours, 3 times in a row (hour 0, 3, 6).

      All patients with K<3.7 mmol/l will receive a continuous infusion of 7.5% potassium until
      reach target K levels of 4.0-4.9 mmol /l. Glycemia will be controlled as needed by insulin
      and dextrose to maintain glucose concentration of 4 - 12 mmol/l

      All patients will receive standard treatment of acute heart failure, including intravenous
      diuretics and inotropic therapy. The recommended inotropic therapy will include milrinone 0.5
      ug/kg/min, levosimendan 0.1 ug/kg/min up to 25mg without initial bolus, or dobutamine 0.5
      ug/kg/min in patients without chronic therapy with beta-blockers.

      The severity of symptoms will be self-reported by the patient using 1-10 visual analog scale.

      Workflow:

        -  Hemodynamic assessment, assessment of ketones concentration: 1-3h before randomization,
           0-9h hourly, 16-24h (next morning)

        -  Biochemical assessment (renal function, liver enzymes, BNP, hs-TnT) 0h, 9h, 16-24h

        -  Assessment of symptoms and Scv02: 0h, 1h, 3h, 9h, 16-24h

      Statistical methods:

      Each study arm will include 12 patients. The study size was estimated to have power of (1 -
      beta) of 0.8 and alpha of 5% for between-group comparison of changes in cardiac index and
      stroke volume index by ANOVA and for comparison of the changes in cardiac index and stroke
      volume index by paired t-tests.
    
  