
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the association of intragenic haplotypes in genes encoding proteins involved
           in anastrozole metabolism pathways with anastrozole steady state plasma levels in
           postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive and/or progesterone
           receptor-positive stage I, II, or III breast cancer.

        -  To evaluate the association of intragenic haplotypes in genes that encode proteins
           involved in pathways for estrogen synthesis, metabolism, and transport and in genes
           involved in anastrozole metabolism with the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of anastrozole
           therapy, as measured by changes (before vs after drug therapy) in plasma levels of
           estradiol, estrone, estrone sulfate, testosterone, and androstenedione in these
           patients.

        -  To evaluate the association of intragenic haplotypes described above with the PD effects
           of anastrozole therapy, as measured by changes in breast density and bone mineral
           density before and at 1 year after drug therapy.

        -  To collect and bank blood samples and mammographic, bone density, and questionnaire data
           from patients enrolled on CAN-NCIC-MA27 and randomized to receive exemestane.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior tamoxifen
      use (yes vs no).

      Blood samples are obtained for pharmacogenetic studies at baseline, at 6-12 weeks, and then
      at 1 year. Samples are analyzed for plasma anastrozole concentrations via high-performance
      liquid chromatography; genotyping for htSNPs via PCR; plasma levels of estradiol, estrone,
      estrone sulfate, testosterone, and androstenedione via gas chromatographic negative chemical
      ionization tandem mass spectrometry and liquid chromatographic electrospray tandem mass
      spectrometry.

      Mammograms are obtained at baseline (i.e., within the past 6 months) and at 1 year to assess
      breast density. Patients with bilateral disease, bilateral breast augmentation, or bilateral
      mastectomy do not participate in this portion of the study.

      Patients at the Mayo Clinic Cancer Center Rochester site also undergo bone mineral density
      measurement via dual x-ray absorptiometry at baseline and at 1 year. Metabolic markers of
      bone formation and resorption are also assessed in the Mayo Clinic patients.

      Blood samples and mammographic, bone mineral density, and questionnaire data collected from
      patients randomized to receive exemestane on CAN-NCIC-MA27 are stored for future studies.

      Patients complete a questionnaire at baseline, at 6-12 weeks, and at 1 year.
    
  