
    
      A combination of many factors affecting growth and development creates dento-facial
      deformities. One of these deformities may be defined as maxillary retrusion defined as
      inadequate maxillary development . The maxilla's sagittal skeletal deficiencies cause
      functional problems such as respiratory and nutritional difficulties in addition to aesthetic
      problems and often require surgical treatment.

      These surgeries are done under general anesthesia. Nasotracheal intubation is used during
      these surgeries to provide general anesthesia. During nasotracheal intubation, there are two
      different pathways (upper and lower) in which the tracheal tube can advance through the
      nostrils.

      The lower tract extends along the nasal floor and lies beneath the lower concha. Concha
      nasalis inferior is a thin and independent viscerocranium bone and articulates with the face
      of the maxillary and palatine bone facing the nasal cavity of the vertical lamina. The free
      lower edge of the concha nasalis inferior is oriented downwards towards the nasal cavity,
      restricting the meatus inferior. The inferior of the meatus is the largest and extends along
      the length of the outer wall of the nasal cavity. The area where the part between the first ⅓
      and the middle ⅓ meets is the widest area of meatus nasi medius and there is the openness of
      the nasolacrimal channel. In the lower opening of the nasolacrimal duct, there may be an
      indeterminate mucosa layer formed by the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity, which is called
      Hasner cap.

      The upper pathway is located just below the middle concha over the lower concha. Concha nasal
      is medius is a segment extending medially from the ethmoid bone and may sometimes contain one
      or more of the ethmoid air cells. Concha nasalis medius extends to the posterior and
      articulates with a vertical laminate of palatine bone. Below Concha nasalis medius is called
      meatus nasi medius and narrows from front to back. The widest area of the beginning of meatus
      nasi medius, just above the vestibulum, is called the atrium meatus medii. There are many
      paranasal sinuses in Meatus nasi medius; frontal sinus, anterior and middle group ethmoid
      sinuses and maxillary sinus opens here. At the extreme end of the Meatus nasi medius, there
      are foramen sphenopalatinum, which vessels and nerves related to the nasal cavity enter this
      gap.

      The lower pathway is referred to as a safer road than the upper pathway, since it is located
      remote from the middle concha and from the cribriform layer. The trauma to the middle concha
      may cause avulsions and large bleedings. Trauma to the cribriform plate may also cause
      cerebrospinal fluid rhinoresin or olfactory nerve damage. These conditions will be especially
      important in anatomic variations, such as in middle concha hypertrophy and concha bullosa.

      The fact that the anesthetist has knowledge of the regional anatomy and the ability to choose
      the appropriate size of the intubation canal is important for preventing these complications.
      The purpose of the current study is to study complete head tomography images for patients
      with maxillary retrusions and evaluate bone and soft tissue anatomy and reveal the
      differences which can be found in airway size and to use intubation tubes accordingly to
      these data.

      Eight different parameters, including diameter measurements for two different intubation
      routes,in right / left separation, male / female separation and patient / control group
      separation will be evaluated.

      In the study, effect size (f) = 0.275, α = 0.05, β = 0.80 and 1-and 80% at 95% confidence
      theoretical power for each group in this study 100 d enek is calculated. Investigators aimed
      to study the patient capacity of the department with a minimum of 51 patients in each group.

      The data for the study will be evaluated by the licensed SPSS 21.0 package program. Student's
      t test and / or Mann-Whitney U test in two-group comparisons and Anova and / or
      Kruskall-Wallis H test in three or more group comparisons as a result of normality tests of
      the data. Correlation analysis or chi-square dependence tests will be used to relate
      variables according to the level of measurement of the data. For the intra-observer
      reliability, the Kap p a compliance test will be used. It should be stated that there is no
      significant difference when p> 0,05 and when p <0,05 meaningful difference will be indicated.
    
  