
    
      Cognitive impairments are reported as a chief quality of life (QoL) complaint by
      approximately 75% of breast cancer survivors (BCS). Women who have undergone adjuvant
      chemotherapy are at the highest risk for cognitive impairments, that may affect BCS up to 20
      years post-treatment.Despite the prevalence and significance, it is largely underdiagnosed
      and there are no proven treatments beyond symptom management. Several studies have assessed
      cognitive function in cancer populations. Increasing evidence highlights the role of
      lifestyle behaviours on cancer-related outcomes, ranging from QoL to prognosis. However, very
      few studies have examined the associations of lifestyle factors and cognitive function in
      BCS.One of the most important mediators of CRCI in BCS may be cardiorespiratory fitness
      (CRF).

      Our overall objective is to examine the behavioral and biological mechanisms that contribute
      to cognitive decline in BCS undergoing chemotherapy using an epidemiologic, prospective
      cohort design.

      Assessments taken at baseline (pre-chemotherapy) and post-chemotherapy (month 3). Cognitive
      Function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. Physical Activity. PA will
      be assessed by accelerometers and through self-report using the Godin-Leisure Time Exercise
      Questionnaire. Cardiorespiratory Fitness will be assessed using the 6-minute walk test to
      estimate maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max).Cancer Biomarkers will be assessed using venous blood
      (2 microtubes) will be drawn from the antecubital vein by a trained phlebotomist. Biological
      markers analyzed in blood will include a multiplex panel of inflammatory cytokines (i.e.,
      IL1, IL6, TNFα), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).

      Our proposed study will be instrumental in designing future targeted translational lifestyle
      interventions to improve cognitive health in BCS. In addition, understanding the trajectory
      of cognitive function as it relates to these factors will determine the opportune timeframe
      to intervene during the cancer care continuum for the greatest impact
    
  