
    
      Epidemiological studies indicate that individuals with severe periodontal disease have
      significantly increased risk for cardiovascular disease. Periodontal disease, a chronic
      bacterial infection of the gums, is associated with recurrent bacteremia and a state of
      systemic inflammation that may convert endothelial cells to a pro-atherogenic phenotype with
      increased expression of inflammatory factors and loss of the anti-thrombotic, growth
      inhibitory, and vasodilator properties of the endothelium, including a decrease in the
      biological activity of nitric oxide. In human subjects, endothelial dysfunction has evolved
      into a well-accepted indicator of early atherosclerosis and predictor of increased
      cardiovascular disease risk. We have recently demonstrated a strong association between
      severe periodontal disease and endothelial vasomotor dysfunction in a case control study of
      otherwise healthy human subjects. In that study, periodontal disease was also associated with
      higher plasma levels of the acute phase reactant C-reactive protein (CRP). These results
      support the hypothesis that severe periodontal disease induces a state of systemic
      inflammation that impairs endothelial function, however, the cross-sectional design leaves
      open the possibility that confounding factors explain the results. We now propose to
      determine whether effective treatment of periodontal disease improves endothelial function
      (Aim 1) and reduces inflammation (Aim 2) in a randomized intervention study. Patients will
      receive comprehensive periodontal treatment designed to produce a state of periodontal health
      (scaling and root planing and periodontal surgery with re-treatment as needed) or routine
      oral hygiene and will be followed for 24 weeks. The study will examine endothelium-dependent
      brachial artery flow-mediated dilation, systemic markers of inflammation and endothelial
      activation (CRP, IL-6, myeloperoxidase, and ICAM-1), and oral markers of periodontitis (PGE2,
      myeloperoxidase, and pathogen DNA) before and after treatment. Compared to oral hygiene
      (which will stabilize, but not reverse periodontal disease), we hypothesize that
      comprehensive treatment of periodontal disease will improve endothelium-dependent dilation
      and reduce local and systemic inflammation. Further, we suggest that the degree of
      improvement in endothelial function will relate to the degree of reduction in specific
      markers of inflammation. Such results would provide much stronger evidence for causal links
      between periodontal disease, systemic inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction, a recognized
      surrogate for cardiovascular risk. The proposed studies will provide new insights into how
      periodontal disease contributes to cardiovascular disease risk in human subjects and may lead
      to new approaches to therapy.
    
  