
    
      Background: Inflammatory bowel diseases, comprised of Crohn's Disease (CD) and ulcerative
      colitis (UC) are idiopathic disorders caused due to immunological, genetic, and environmental
      factors. These disorders are fairly common (in the US, there are 11 cases of CD and 7 cases
      of UC for every 100,000 people). The frequency of IBD, especially CD, are constantly rising
      (1). Clinical symptoms include diarrhea, rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, intestinal
      obstructions, and fistulas in CD. There are also systemic manifestations such as fever,
      weight loss, and anemia. The current hypothesis of IBD pathogenesis is an aberrant, ongoing,
      uncontrolled inflammatory response of the intestine, caused by commensal microbiota. The
      inflammatory response in IBD is mediated by T cells; in CD the pathologic lymphocytes are CD4
      cells of Th1 type, while UC is considered an atypical Th2 response (2). CD4 T cells have a
      major role in initiation of inflammatory response in the gut, as well as a role in
      propagation and control of the inflammation.

      Chemokines are low-molecular weight cytokines with chemoattractant capacity, and have a role
      in many inflammatory disorders. The chemokine CXCL12 is considered to be constitutively
      expressed (3). Our group found increased expression of CXCL12 in IBD (REF?). This finding
      suggests that CXCL12 might have a role in inflammatory processes of the gut.

      Understanding phenotypical and functional differences of lymphocytes in mucosal homeostasis
      and IBD, elucidation of factors causing these differences, and recognition of causes for
      increased CXCL12 expression, will enable to increase knowledge of IBD; as well as lead to
      development of future therapeutic interventions in IBD.

      Research Goals: To examine the effects of different environmental factors (cytokines,
      chemokines, extracellular matrix moieties) on immune cells from peripheral or intestinal
      source (in homeostasis or IBD) in terms of phenotypical and functional parameters.

      Methods: 15 ml peripheral blood will be obtained from all participants. T lymphocytes will be
      isolated for the different experiments. Methods will include: Migration towards chemokines
      using the Transwell assay, proliferation will be assessed by either BrdU or thymidine
      incorporation, cytokine secretion will be determined using ELISA, phenotypical
      characterization will be done using flow cytometry and adhesion assays.

      Ages: Adults and children aged 10-80. Research group: Approximately 40 patients (adults and
      children) suffering from IBD will be enrolled.

      Control group: Approximately 100 controls will be enrolled in the research.
    
  