
    
      RESEARCH PROTOCOL

      Hypothesis:

      The presence of amyloid protein in the myocardium changes its function and tissue
      characteristics. These changes are responsible for the poor prognosis of patients with
      cardiac amyloidosis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) offers a novel, non-invasive
      approach to identify cardiac involvement that may impact patient management. This study will
      include the prospective validation of CMR parameters qualified as being abnormal in the
      retrospective study (study ID 2012-3315) and the current literature. The myocardium/blood
      pool inversion time null point ratio (Myo/BlP TI0 ratio), has been qualified as being
      significantly different when compared to controls in the retrospective study.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Validate the diagnostic accuracy of CMR parameters in a prospective manner for cardiac
           amyloidosis patients.

        2. CMR parameters, including the Myo/BlP TI0 ratio, will be compared to serum biomarkers
           (TroponinT, NT-proBNP, serum lambda/kappa free light chain concentration), established
           to have prognostic value in cardiac amyloidosis. Subjects will be followed via death
           registry and/or medical records to compare the prognostic value of the CMR parameter
           with the biomarkers.

        3. CMR parameters will be used to assess for the presence of early cardiac involvement in
           amyloidosis patients without clinically apparent cardiac involvement (as determined by
           symptoms, biomarkers and/or cardiac imaging).

        4. CMR will be used to follow patients undergoing treatment, when available, to determine
           whether CMR parameters consistent with the presence of cardiac amyloidosis, change
           during treatment.

      Background and Significance:

      Matthias Schleiden, a German botanist and co-creator of the cell theory, used the term
      amyloid in 1834 to characterize the waxy starch in plants. Today, amyloid is used to describe
      any of a number of small proteins which when aggregated lead to insoluble fibrillar deposits.
      Many mechanisms of protein dysfunction contribute to amyloidogenesis, including
      "non-physiologic proteolysis, defective physiologic proteolysis, mutations involving changes
      in thermodynamic or kinetic properties, and pathways that are yet to be defined". Amyloid
      deposits are identified on the basis of their apple-green birefringence under a polarized
      light microscope after staining with Congo red. They can also be identified based on the
      presence of rigid, non-branching fibrils using electron microscopy. Amyloidosis describes the
      infiltration of organs by these insoluble deposits. In humans, about 27 different unrelated
      proteins are known to form amyloid fibrils in vivo. The organs involved and clinical
      presentations are dependent on the precursor protein. A small number of the amyloidoses can
      have cardiac involvement with a significant impact on mortality. The clinically most
      significant cardiac amyloidoses include immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis (AL) and the
      transthyretin amyloidoses (ATTR); ATTR being either hereditary secondary to mutations in the
      transthyretin gene or acquired secondary to wild type transthyretin protein.

      AL amyloidosis, the most common type of systemic amyloidosis, is associated with plasma cell
      dyscrasias. In AL amyloidosis, fifty percent of affected patients will have cardiac
      involvement. Despite the potential for amyloid deposition in multiple organs, cardiac
      involvement continues to dictate the poorest prognosis. Once congestive heart failure
      develops in a patient with AL amyloidosis, survival is less than 6 months if untreated.
      Therefore, patients with AL amyloidosis are screened, by assessing serum troponins and brain
      natriuretic peptides, to determine whether cardiac involvement is present. Patients with ATTR
      amyloidosis typically has a more insidious onset in comparison. ATTR amyloidosis also
      responds better to traditional congestive heart failure management. However, neither AL nor
      the ATTR amyloidoses are managed like traditional heart failure making appropriate diagnosis
      critical for best care. Furthermore, early diagnosis of cardiac involvement may improve
      outcomes but requires heightened suspicion and a systematic clinical approach to evaluation
      [3].

      In cardiac amyloidosis, there can be evidence of disease on routine testing. Restrictive
      physiology by echocardiography, low EKG voltage as well as additional EKG abnormalities are
      often identified in advanced cardiac amyloidosis. Routine nuclear cardiac imaging has not
      proven to be helpful in diagnosis, although 123I-MIBG does appear to demonstrate
      co-localization of denervation with amyloid deposition. Unfortunately, no routine cardiac
      testing is specific for cardiac amyloidosis. Therefore, in the absence of high clinical
      suspicion for cardiac amyloidosis, the appropriate diagnosis will often be missed.

      Endomyocardial biopsy remains the gold standard for making the diagnosis of cardiac
      involvement. However, given the invasive nature of endomyocardial biopsy and associated risks
      (including death), the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis is usually made by non-invasive
      means; this diagnosis being supported by a non-cardiac biopsy demonstrating amyloid deposits.
      The most frequently biopsied site is the abdominal fat pad, usually positive in patients with
      AL amyloidosis. However, ATTR amyloidosis is not reliably identified with fat pad biopsy.
      Therefore, a negative fat pad biopsy requires further work up including endomyocardial biopsy
      with associated immunostaining and genetic testing for transthyretin mutations. Supporting
      the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis by noninvasive techniques such as EKG, echocardiography
      and serum amyloid component scintigraphy has been shown to have significant limitations. A
      novel non-invasive approach is required to ensure accurate diagnosis. Given the limitations
      of previously used non-invasive techniques, there has been interest over the last decade in
      using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging in the diagnosis of cardiac
      amyloidosis.

      The utility of CMR in evaluating patients with cardiac amyloidosis was first proposed in the
      1990s. However, evaluation was limited to the assessment of myocardial morphology and
      function. It was not until the turn of the century that the powerful diagnostic potential of
      delayed gadolinium enhancement (DGE) was realized. The first utility of DGE was in the
      evaluation of myocardial viability in patients with coronary artery disease. It quickly
      became apparent that DGE could also be used to evaluate patients with non-ischemic
      cardiomyopathies. The characterization of cardiac amyloidosis with DGE was first described as
      global sub-endocardial enhancement. Abnormal T1 transmyocardial maps were used to both
      describe the abnormality and to assist in the determination of prognosis. However, these
      studies were limited by inclusion of only patients with biopsy-proven amyloidosis who also
      met the echocardiographic criteria for restrictive physiology, common to advanced cardiac
      amyloidosis. More recent work precluding the use of echocardiographic diagnosis supported the
      concept that the inability to null the myocardium relative to the blood pool may be an early
      sign of cardiac amyloidosis. In addition, to the DGE data, studies have utilized T1 and T2
      weighted imaging to identify abnormal extracellular volume (ECV) and myocardial edema in the
      cardiac amyloidosis population.

      It has been the culmination of these findings, in addition to our own experience studying
      cardiac amyloidosis that led to the hypothesis that the presence of amyloid protein, known to
      increase the ECV, may also change the inversion time curves of both the blood pool and the
      myocardium. These features, as well as abnormal functional parameters, will help detect
      cardiac amyloidosis earlier than would otherwise be possible by morphologic assessment. The
      possibility of diagnosing sub-clinical disease has implications for screening patients with
      known amyloidosis for early cardiac involvement. Also, CMR parameters may be useful in
      assessing response to treatment of the plasma cell dyscrasias, such as cardiac amyloidosis,
      that may be complicated by heart failure and ventricular tachycardia. Lastly, the
      relationship of the MRI findings to cardiac biomarkers has yet to be described and will be
      assessed in this study.

      Preliminary Data:

      The investigators have observed a significant difference between the Myo/BlP TI0 ratio in
      patients with cardiac amyloidosis when compared with controls both with preserved LV function
      (CTL) and non-amyloid cardiomyopathies (CTL-CMP). The Myo/BlP TI0 ratio of the CA group is
      close to 1 to 1 (0.95 +/- 0.16) leading to poor myocardium and blood pool contrast in the
      corresponding delayed enhancement images acquired following the TI scout (Figure 7). The
      Myo/BlP TI0 ratio provides a quantitative method to support the diagnosis of cardiac
      amyloidosis in patients presenting with cardiac symptoms.

      Estimated Period of Time to Completion:

      Estimated time to completion of aim 1, 2 and 4 will depend on power calculations following
      the acquisition of pilot prospective data. The estimated timing of completion of aim 3 will
      be 12-18 months from the start of data acquisition.
    
  