
    
      This comparative study will use a two group repeated measure design and mixed methods
      approach including well-validated questionnaires and qualitative descriptive methodology.
      Qualitative inquiry will provide data about the overall experience of caregivers in the
      intervention arm as well as inform web-based, person centered approaches as suggested by
      caregivers that will be used to inform future work on person-centered self-care strategies,
      aimed at improving caregiver health. Eligibility Criteria: having approval from the primary
      care provider to initiate a walking program, being a caregiver of a person with dementia,
      being greater than 18 years of age and having access to a computer or smartphone. "The "RSVP
      [research volunteer program] for Health," a registry comprised of individuals interested in
      receiving information on research studies conducted at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH),
      will be utilized for recruitment. If a person states they are interested, they will be called
      to set up a screening visit to determine study eligibility at which time they will be given
      the IRB consent to review and a baseline visit will be set up.

      At the baseline visit, the consent will be reviewed by the Principal Investigator (PI) and
      signed by participants meeting eligibility criteria. A member of the study team will obtain
      demographic and caregiver health characteristics and complete study questionnaires. After
      baseline measures are obtained, the study team will: 1) provide all participants with
      education about the CDC physical activity recommendations for adults, 2) set participants up
      with a wireless pedometer and 3) invite them to join a walking group on-line where they can
      monitor their activity as compared to others in the intervention arm. Members of the study
      team will then provide participants in the intervention arm with health coaching (HC)
      utilizing motivational interviewing (MI) weekly for 8 weeks by email, text message or
      telephone. The mode of delivery for the MI will be based on participant preference. The
      control group will be able to view the web page and monitor their activity compared to others
      in the control group arm, but will receive no coaching." At the end of the 8 weeks, study
      measures will be again be obtained in both groups. The PI will conduct semi-structured
      qualitative interviews with participants in the intervention arm to evaluate acceptability
      and acquire feedback on the intervention and ideas for other self-care strategies." Caregiver
      Measures Pre - Post

        1. Demographic variables

        2. General health characteristics

        3. Well-being

        4. Perceived stress

        5. Mini-cog

        6. Perceived Steps And post, a qualitative interview
    
  