
    
      Worldwide, head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) constitute approximately 7% of all
      incident cancers, and 75% of these are seen in low- and middle-income countries. Life-style
      factors, in particular tobacco and alcohol consumption, are major etiological factors
      although an increasing number of HNSCC cases are associated with viral infections (Epstein
      Barr Virus and Human Papilloma Virus). Radiation therapy (RT) alone or combined with
      cytotoxic or molecular targeted agents is a mainstay as definitive treatment for previously
      untreated locally advanced disease. This therapy offers organ and functional preservation in
      many cases with an approximate 30 to 50% of cases obtaining longterm loco-regional tumor
      control. Accelerated RT, that is increasing the weekly delivered radiation dose above the
      conventional 10 Gy per week, has been shown in a large number of randomized controlled trials
      to be associated with an improved efficacy to toxicity ratio relative to standard
      fractionation provided a careful balance between total dose, dose per fraction and overall
      treatment time is chosen. The Danish Head and Neck Cancer Group trial DAHANCA 6/7 tested a
      schedule of accelerated normofractionated radiation therapy for HNSCC delivering 6 fractions
      of 2.0 Gy per week to a total dose of 66-68 Gy. This schedule gave a 10% improvement in
      loco-regional tumor control compared with the same dose delivered with 5 fractions per week.
      The DAHANCA 6/7 schedule was tested in the IAEA ACC trial, comparing again 6 vs. 5 fractions
      per week but allowing the total dose to range from 66 Gy to 70 Gy. The outcome of the IAEA
      ACC trial also showed a significant 13% improvement in loco-regional control in the
      accelerated arm. Thus, accelerating RT by delivering 6 fractions per week may reasonably be
      considered a standard of care for definitive RT alone. Clinical evidence points in the
      direction of a 4 week accelerated, hypofractionated schedule as being a radiobiologically
      interesting alternative to accelerated schedules using more fractions for treatment of HNSCC.
      A series of exploratory calculations suggested that an attractive schedule could be 55 Gy in
      20 fractions (2.75 Gy per fraction) delivered over 4 weeks and this schedule was chosen for
      the test arm of HYPNO. There is historical experience with this schedule in the North of UK
      and in many countries in the British Commonwealth. The aim of this study is to test whether
      this resource-sparing 4-week course of accelerated hypofractionated radiotherapy is
      non-inferior to radiotherapy delivering 33 fractions over 5.5 weeks.

      The study design is a stratified, balanced, and randomized study (phase III) recruiting
      patients with Stage I to IV squamous cell carcinoma of the pharynx, larynx and oral cavity
      with the exception of paranasal sinus, nasopharyngeal and stage I to II glottic carcinomas.
      Patients will be assigned to the test arm or the control arm by central, randomization,
      stratified according to the following characteristics:

        -  Institution

        -  Performance status, WHO 0-1 vs. 2

        -  Tumor sub-site within the head and neck: pharynx, larynx, oral cavity

        -  Chemotherapy (yes/no) Other important prognostic parameters are: 2D vs. 3DCRT vs. IMRT;
           Tumor stage: T1-2 vs. T3-4; Nodal stage: N0-1 vs. N2-3. These will be randomly
           distributed among the treatment arms as a result of the randomization.

      Patients are reviewed at least once a week during treatment. Time and severity of early
      radiation reactions in mucosa and skin are noted. These data are registered on the Treatment
      Response Form. Patients are seen about 2 months after the end of treatment to record
      persistent early toxicities and early tumor response, both at the primary and nodal site.
      Afterwards, the patients are seen every 3 months for 2 years and 6 monthly for 3 years
      bringing the total trial follow-up to just over 5 years. CRFs are designed to record all the
      information for an individual study subject required by the study protocol. The purpose of
      the CRF is threefold: i) to ensure data collection in accordance with the study protocol; ii)
      to fulfill the regulatory requirements for data collection; iii) to facilitate the effective,
      comprehensive data processing and analysis, results reporting, and to promote structured
      collection of safety and efficacy data. The completed CRF's are submitted by email to the
      Data Center: hypno@humonc.wisc.edu where the data will be electronically transferred to the
      central trial database. HYPNO uses a rather novel design as a non-inferiority trial with dual
      primary endpoints. The primary efficacy endpoint is 3 year loco-regional control (LRC) - even
      though 5 year disease status will also be collected - and the primary toxicity endpoint is 3
      year grade 2 or higher (moderate or severe) side effects (TOX). All times to events will be
      measured from the date of randomization. The test arm (HYPNO -T) will be declared
      non-inferior to the control arm if both i) LRC in the test arm is non-inferior to that of the
      control arm AND ii) Late toxicity in the test arm is non-inferior (i.e. not worse) than in
      the control arm. This design has been developed in collaboration with the HYPNO trial
      statistician, Prof. Richard Chappell, Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics,
      University of Wisconsin - Madison.

      Statistical formulation of the non-inferiority hypotheses with dual primary endpoints:

      HYPOTHESIS I:

      H0: LRC in the TEST arm less than LRC in the CONTROL arm (Test arm inferior to control arm
      with respect to LRC). HA: LRC in the TEST arm greater than or equal to LRC in the CONTROL arm
      (Test arm non-inferior to control arm with respect to LRC).

      HYPOTHESIS II:

      H0: TOX in the TEST arm greater than TOX in the CONTROL arm (Experimental treatment inferior
      to control treatment with respect to late toxicity).

      HA: TOX in the TEST arm less than or equal to TOX in the CONTROL arm (Experimental treatment
      non-inferior to control treatment with respect to late toxicity).

      The required sample size in this kind of design depends heavily on the choice of the
      inferiority margin, with decreasing values leading to a steep increase in the sample size. It
      also depends to some extend on the baseline 3 year LRC and TOX rates. These were selected
      based on the published results from the IAEA-ACC trial. Thus, the target sample size is 836
      patients. The primary analysis will be performed for all randomized patients using the
      intention-to-treat principle.

      A QA committee will be formed and they will be charged with all aspects of quality assurance
      and credentialing of centers for participation in HYPNO. Each participating center should
      appoint a contact person for QA issues (physician or physicist).

      Data exchange dummy run Before the first patient can be randomized in a center, a 'dry run'
      of the data exchange is conducted. To this end, a HNSCC patient from the center will be
      arbitrarily chosen by the local investigator and a set of CRFs filled in for this case and
      submitted electronically to the Data Center.

      Machine level QA An associated GCP and QA program securing compliance with the protocol will
      be established between the IAEA, the Data Center and involved departments. Participation in
      the IAEA TLD audit is mandatory for centers participating in the HYPNO trial. A credentialing
      QA program will be developed for departments using IMRT.

      Patient level QA Radiotherapy plans and dose-volume histogram (DVH) data for the first two
      patients on trial from a center will be submitted for central review, if possible in
      electronic form. During the period when a center is accruing patients for the trial, the Data
      Center will randomly select a subset of patients (5-10%, a smaller proportion reviewed for
      highly accruing centers) for a 'crossed' review where 3-4 centers will review cases. It is
      expected that the total number of cases reviewed for HYPNO will not exceed 50.

      An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will be appointed. Recommendations to stop
      patient accrual early for safety or efficacy reasons can only be made by the IDMC.
      Participating centers will not be informed about comparative effectiveness or toxicity in the
      trial arms as long as the trial is open for accrual.

      An associated translational research program is planned. Formally these studies will run as
      separate research protocol and separate informed consent from patients will have to be
      obtained according to the relevant national regulations.
    
  