
    
      This study focuses on high risk behaviors (excessive alcohol use, drug use, physical and/or
      sexual aggression, and unsafe exit behaviors-e.g., drinking and driving, riding with a
      drinking driver) of young adults who patronize clubs. These risk behaviors are prevalent in
      clubs and drinking establishments. The goals are twofold: 1) to develop a screener that
      accurately assesses a group's level of risk for one specific night of club attendance and
      based upon this assessment, (2) to provide naturally occurring social groups with the
      necessary skills to identify vulnerability to these high risk behaviors and to provide them
      with tools to protect their members against those risks by being prepared to implement the 3
      O's: a) Outreach-approach fellow group members who are at risk, (b) Options-to suggest
      alternatives that would increase safety and (c) Out-to increase awareness of when it is time
      to leave. This brief, interactive intervention was delivered by small tablet computers that
      utilize mobile application technology and cellular wireless service. This will facilitate
      later adoption in the real world, by offering low cost delivery and engagement of the young
      adult population.

      Specific Aim I: To test and reduce the number of screening questions necessary to develop a
      risk algorithm (to predict our high risk behaviors) for social groups and to test the
      feasibility of immediate onsite compilation of individual results into a group risk
      algorithm.

        1. To test a brief screener of individual and group indicators obtained at entrance that
           predict high risk behaviors (excessive alcohol use, drug use, physical and/or sexual
           aggression, and/or unsafe behaviors after exiting the club).

        2. To test the onsite data collection and compilation of group-based risk indicators.

        3. To develop a risk algorithm for groups that can be used in Specific Aim II. The risk
           algorithm will provide an indication of how likely it is that a specific group will
           experience each of the high risk behaviors.

      Specific Aim II: To design and test the feasibility of a brief, group-based intervention
      designed for presentation prior to entering the club and that addresses high risk behaviors
      while at the clubs.

        1. To design a group-based, brief intervention for delivery prior to entry, to reduce high
           risk behaviors in the club.

        2. To determine whether the brief intervention increases awareness of early indicators of
           risk and increases the use of strategies employed by the social groups in the club.

        3. To test the intervention's efficacy to reduce high risk behaviors in the club.

        4. To determine the level of satisfaction with the intervention (for intervention condition
           only).
    
  