
    
      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES A. To identify differences in transcription profiles obtained from
      residual kidney tissue which was obtained for clinical purposes.

      B. To identify differences in transcription profile between patients whose loss of kidney
      function progresses rapidly (eGFR decline ≥4ml/min/year) and in whom it progresses more
      slowly (eGFR decline <4ml/min/year).

      C. To identify differences in transcription profile between predominantly glomerular and
      predominantly tubulointerstitial histopathological types .

      D. To identify new pathogenetic pathways that may become targets for therapeutic intervention

      METHODS The planned study centres on the use of archival biopsy material that is superfluous
      to what is or would be needed for clinical care (01/01/1995 to 31/05/2018 , n= approximately
      400-500). Archived samples will be collected from St. Michael's Hospital and a number of
      collaborating centres, including but not limited to University of British Columbia, the
      University of Manitoba, and the University of Ottawa.

      RNA will be extracted from the biopsy material using either the core that has been used for
      immunofluorescence microscopy and is stored at -80˚C, and/or the core that is formalin-fixed,
      embedded in paraffin wax and stored at room temperature. The RNA thereby extracted will be
      subjected to detailed interrogation by RNASeq to quantify the expression level of mRNAs
      (transcriptome) and compare differences, as indicated in the research objectives detailed
      above. The transcriptome will then be related to the clinical course (eGFR decline) and
      histopathological changes, in addition to examining potentially pathogenetically important
      and that are amenable to therapeutic intervention.

      Histopathology will also be performed and classified according to established systems.

      Clinical information that would be retrieved from patients' medical records are listed below.

      Clinical data

        1. Age

        2. Gender

        3. Ethnicity

        4. Diabetes history

        5. Diabetes type: 1, 2

        6. Retinopathy history

        7. Smoking history

        8. Medications

        9. Comorbidities

       10. Past medical history

       11. Primary nephrologist Laboratory data (prior to biopsy, at biopsy and post-biopsy)

       12. Renal function measures and calculations. For example:

           i. Serum creatinine, eGFR ii. Change in creatinine and eGFR iii. Urinary
           albumin:creatinine values and ratio (ACR) iv. Urine protein:creatinine values and ratio
           (PCR) v. Urinary protein excretion rate (UPEx) vi. Changes in ACR, PCR, UPEx

       13. Diabetes measures and calculations. Biopsy data

       14. Biopsy related data

      Each site will locally maintain a confidential Master Linking Log.

      De-identified data will be entered into a secure REDCap database that is hosted by St.
      Michael's Hospital.
    
  