
    
      Participants enter an online survey where they are asked to confirm that they plan to pick up
      a prescription, state what day they plan to pick up their prescription, and indicate the type
      of location where the prescription will be picked up (e.g., pharmacy, hospital, doctors
      office, etc.). Participants are asked to participate in a prescription reminder program in
      which they will receive up to eight text messages from the researchers and send up to three
      text messages to the researchers. Participants are then quizzed about the reminder program to
      ensure they understand what they are signing up for. Participants are further told that if
      they follow the directions outlined in the program they will be compensated for participating
      in this survey via their phone number.

      Participants who wish to enroll in the reminder program will initiate the text messaging by
      texting "STARTXXXX" to number provided. This validates that the participants received the
      message, have the capacity to text, and are willing to text. Participants are then randomly
      assigned to one of three conditions. In the treatment condition, participants will be
      prompted to think of a reminder cue that will help them remember to pick up the prescription.
      In the active control condition, participants will be asked to think about where they will
      store their prescription. Participants in the baseline control condition will simply be
      thanked for enrolling.

      Participants in the treatment and active control conditions then receive a series of text
      messages prior to the scheduled pick up date reminding them to pick up their medication. In
      addition, the text message will prompt participants to text a picture of their prescription
      receipt to validate that they followed-through on their behavior. If participants text us a
      picture of their receipt that follows the guidelines outlined in the survey, participants are
      compensated.
    
  