
    
      Group Assigned to Outpatient Cervical Ripening After Dilapan-S® placement, subject will be
      monitored for at least 30 minutes. If no contraindications, such as tachysystole, active
      vaginal bleeding, rupture of membranes or nonreassuring fetal testing (defined as minimal or
      absent variability, abnormal baseline, or presence of decelerations) evidence of labor, or
      other serious medical conditions deemed by the clinical staff or the attending physician to
      preclude outpatient cervical ripening develop after insertion, the subjects will be
      randomized. After randomization subject will record the pain she experienced during insertion
      in the patient's survey (see Appendix 3). Those subjects randomized to outpatient ripening
      will be given the option to either return home or to stay in a hotel if transportation is an
      issue. The cost for the hotel will be covered by the study budget. Subjects will be allowed
      to ambulate, shower and perform regular activity during that period. "Nothing per vagina"
      will be allowed (incl. intercourse, tampons etc.).

      Group Assigned to Inpatient Cervical Ripening Subjects randomized to inpatient management
      will be admitted to L&D unit and standard clinical protocol will be initiated for cervical
      ripening and labor induction. During the period of 12 hours of cervical ripening subject is
      to remain "nothing per os" (NPO), "nothing per vagina" and undergo continuous fetal heart
      rate monitoring. No other interventions are to occur during this period of 12 hours, unless
      clinically indicated.

      Labor Induction and Labor Management of the subject after the initial 12 hours of
      pre-induction or following the earlier removal or spontaneous expulsion of the dilator will
      be the same for both groups and at the discretion of the clinical team. Additional ripening
      (mechanical or prostaglandins) and/or oxytocin may or may not be needed. If needed, duration,
      type and dose of additional ripening agents and oxytocin will be documented.

      Routine intrapartum care will be provided and relevant data collected by the subject's
      managing obstetrical team.
    
  