
    
      The outbreak of coronavirus 2019 disease (COVID-19) has a major impact on health care
      worldwide. This infectious disease is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). The majority of individuals who contract COVID-19 have mild
      symptoms, but a significant part develops respiratory failure due to severe pneumonia and/or
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The virus may also have extra pulmonary
      manifestations, including coagulopathy and venous thromboembolism, associated with decreased
      survival. The pathogenesis of this coagulopathy, and the links between pulmonary and
      thromboembolic manifestations of COVID-19 are incompletely understood. In KOVIT trial, the
      roll of vitamin K in the pathogenesis of these manifestations will be elucidated.

      Vitamin K in coagulation and elastic fiber metabolism

      Coagulation is an intricate balance between clot promoting and dissolving processes in which
      vitamin K plays an important role. Pro-coagulation factors II, VII, IX and X depend on
      vitamin K for carboxylation to fulfill their biological function. Besides this, vitamin K is
      also cofactor of anticoagulant protein C and protein S. A significant proportion of protein S
      is extrahepatically synthesized in endothelial cells, in contrast to the pro-coagulant
      factors and protein C. Protein S plays a local suppressive role against thrombosis.

      Matrix Gla protein (MGP) is also vitamin K-dependent but not involved in intravascular
      coagulation. MGP has been generally studied as an inhibitor of vascular mineralization, and
      its role in the pulmonary compartment seems to be comparable. Besides preventing soft tissue
      calcification, it also protects against elastic fiber degradation. Elastic fibers are
      fundamental matrix components in lungs and have high calcium affinity. Degradation and
      mineralization of elastic fibers are related processes. Desphospho-uncarboxylated MGP
      (dp-ucMGP) i.e. inactive MGP is a robust biomarker of extrahepatic vitamin K status since it
      is inversely associated with vitamin K.

      Insufficiency of vitamin K may develop within days of poor intake, particularly in
      pathological conditions of increased vitamin K utilization. During times of scarcity,
      micronutrients are reserved for use in processes that form the greatest threat to short-term
      survival. With regard to vitamin K insufficiency, it appears to be preferentially transported
      to the liver for the activation (via carboxylation) of procoagulant factors at the expense of
      extrahepatic vitamin K-dependent proteins such as MGP and protein S (figure 1).

      Assessment of vitamin K status

      In nature, vitamin K is found in food as vitamin K1 (phylloquinone) and vitamin K2
      (menaquinones). Measuring circulating levels of these two forms of vitamin K is technically
      feasible but the value of such measurements is limited. Quantification of vitamin K-dependent
      proteins that have not been carboxylated yet, is a valuable method reflecting the functional
      deficit of vitamin K1 and K2. Determination of dp-ucMGP levels as well as the ratio between
      uncarboxylated and carboxylated osteocalcin are validated assays of extrahepatic vitamin K
      status.

      Dp-ucMGP is a biomarker of extrahepatic vitamin K status. High dp-ucMGP reflects low vitamin
      K status and vice versa. Although increasing vitamin K consumption decreases the amount of
      dp-ucMGP. Circulating dp-ucMGP concentration can best be regarded as a reflection of the
      total extrahepatic vitamin K deficit, which refers to the amount of vitamin K that is needed
      to carboxylate all the uncarboxylated vitamin K-dependent proteins in the body. Hepatic
      vitamin K status is usually quantified by measuring levels of protein induced by vitamin K
      absence (PIVKA)-II (i.e. uncarboxylated prothrombin).

      Rationale for study treatment

      Recently, a reduced vitamin K status was found, as quantified by dp-ucMGP, in patients
      suffering from COVID-19 as compared to controls. In these patients, low vitamin K status was
      also associated with poor outcome (defined as the need for invasive ventilation or death) and
      accelerated elastic fiber degradation (quantified by plasma (iso)desmosine (DES) a byproduct
      of elastin degradation). In contrast, hepatic vitamin K status, measured by inactive factor
      II (also called protein-induced by vitamin K absence (PIVKA)-II) was unaffected in most
      patients (figure 2). Considering the preferential activation of hepatic over extrahepatic
      proteins.

      In COVID-19, inflammation causes pulmonary elastic fiber damage, which could also lead to an
      upregulation of MGP and a draining of extrahepatic vitamin K. The significant correlation
      between increased dp-ucMGP levels, and elastic fiber degeneration and poor prognosis supports
      the theory that vitamin K insufficiency contributes to pulmonary pathology.

      Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that improving vitamin K-status by vitamin K supplementation could have
      favorable effects on both pulmonary damage and coagulation abnormalities in COVID-19
      patients.

      Objective

      The objective of the KOVIT trial is to evaluate the safety of oral vitamin K2 supplementation
      in patients suffering from COVID-19 requiring hospital admission.
    
  