
    
      This is a randomized (study medication assigned to participants by chance), multicenter (more
      than one hospital, medical school team or medical clinic work on a medical research study)
      study of 2 dosing regimens (treatment arms) of single-agent imetelstat in participants with
      intermediate-2 or high risk myelofibrosis (MF) whose disease is relapsed after or refractory
      to Janus Kinase (JAK) inhibitor treatment. The main study consists of 3 parts: Screening
      Phase (21 days before randomization); Treatment Phase (from randomization until study drug
      discontinuation); and Follow up Phase (until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent
      or study end, whichever occurs first). Participants in Arm 1 will receive imetelstat 9.4
      milligram (mg)/kilogram (kg) intravenously (IV) for every 3 weeks until disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, or study end and Arm 2 will receive imetelstat 4.7 mg/kg IV for every
      3 weeks until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or study end. Participants in Arm 2
      may continue with their current imetelstat dose or have it increased to 9.4 mg/kg at the
      investigator's discretion. Percentage of spleen response and symptom response will be
      evaluated primarily. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study. The study
      is closed to further participant enrollment. Participants benefiting from study treatment
      will continue to receive imetelstat in Extension Phase for approximately 2 years or until
      loss of benefit or unacceptable toxicity. Participants entering to Extension phase from
      Follow up Phase will continue follow up for safety via serious adverse event collection and
      for survival status. The Extension Phase will end approximately 2 years after the clinical
      cutoff for the final analysis of the main study, or when the sponsor terminates the study,
      whichever occurs first.
    
  