
    
      BACKGROUND: It is a priority to achieve an adequate nutritional status of iodine during
      pregnancy since iodine deficiency in this population may have repercussions on the mother
      during both gestation and post partum as well as on the foetus, the neonate and the child at
      different ages. According to the WHO, iodine deficiency is the most frequent cause of mental
      retardation and irrreversible cerebral lesions around the world. However, few studies have
      been published on the nutritional status of iodine in the pregnant population within the
      Primary Care setting, a health care level which plays an essential role in the education and
      control of pregnant women.

      AIMS: 1.- To know the hygiene-dietetic habits related to the intake of foods rich in iodine
      and smoking during pregnancy. 2.- To determine the prevalence of iodine deficiency and the
      factors associated with its appearance during pregnancy.

      METHODS/DESIGN: We will perform a cluster randomised, controlled, multicentre trial.
      Randomisation unit: Primary Care Team. Study population: 898 pregnant women over the age of
      17 years attending consultation to a midwife during the first trimester of pregnancy in the
      participating primary care centres. Outcome measures: consumption of iodine-rich foods and
      iodine deficiency. Points of assessment: each trimester of the gestation. Intervention: group
      education during the first trimester of gestation on healthy hygiene-dietetic habits and the
      importance of an adequate iodine nutritional status. Statistical analysis: descriptive
      analysis of all variables will be performed as well as multilevel logistic regression. All
      analyses will be done carried out on an intention to treat basis and will be fitted for
      potential confounding factors and variables of clinical importance.

      DISCUSSION: Evidence of generalised iodine deficiency during pregnancy could lead to the
      promotion of interventions of prevention such as how to improve and intensify health care
      educational programmes for pregnant women.
    
  