
    
      It is a monocentric prospective observational case-control study in the Department "C" of
      Gynecology and Obstetrics in the Maternity and Neonatology Center of Tunis during three years
      from October 2014 to September 2017.

      All parturient were informed about the possibility of performing a hysterectomy if
      accretization was clinically confirmed preoperatively. After obtaining written formal
      consent. all patients who underwent scheduled or emergency cesarean section for placenta
      accreta were included. Either it was highly suspected or confirmed by obstetrical imaging.
      MRI was always performed in cases of scheduled cesarean delivery. However, in cases of
      delayed transfer or if parturient was already in labor, only ultrasonography was done and
      considered as sufficient. Delivery was usually scheduled at 36 weeks of gestation.

      Patients were allocated into two group: Group TG in which a tourniquet was systematically
      applied on the lower segment of the uterus during emergent hysterectomy, control group CG
      when the emergent caesarian hysterectomy was performed without a tourniquet. Allocation
      depended on the technique and the decision of the surgeon in charge.

      After appropriate conditioning and monitoring, the cesarean section was performed under
      general anesthesia. The laparotomy was performed through a mid-line incision from the
      umbilicus to the pubic symphysis. Hysterotomy was made far from the placental insertion which
      was previously located by ultrasonography. The accretization was clinically checked
      immediately after delivery but no attempt was made to manually remove the placenta. The
      umbilical cord was ligated to its insertion and the uterus was quickly sutured with the
      placenta kept in place. Careful detachment of the bladder-uterus peritoneum was then carried
      out in order to lower the bladder and reduce the risk of bladder wounds. Tourniquet
      application procedure is described as following

        1. Suturing hysterotomy with placenta kept in place.

        2. After a cautious dissection a Folley catheter is placed in the lower segment of the
           uterus as tourniquet.

        3. complete hysterectomy
    
  