
    
      Glucose peaks after eating are an indication of the level of insulin resistance and the
      severity of disease in patients with T2DM. Many lifestyle factors affect the glucose
      elevation, including the glycemic index of food, timing of eating, physical activity, stress
      and sleep.

      In practice, a glycemic profile, consisting of multiple glucose measurements before and after
      meals throughout the day, has sometimes been helpful in educating patients concerning the
      effects of their eating habits on blood sugar levels.

      Would temporary use (8-10 weeks) of a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMs) be a useful
      adjunct during lifestyle education in patients with T2DM or PD?

      The purpose of this feasibility study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a CGMs on a small
      sample of patients while they are enrolled in a lifestyle medicine class, to:

        -  identify any logistical issue involved

        -  verify that useful data can be obtained for analysis

        -  inform development of a larger controlled study

      Eligible subjects who have consented to the study, and have had the baseline data gathered as
      part of their participation in the Lifestyle Medicine Clinic, will be given a CGMs device and
      supplies, and instructed in how to utilize these. They will set up the app on their smart
      phone to provide them with feedback on their glucose level to correlate with their lifestyle
      activities.

      The FDA approved CGMs utilizes a small filament-like probe that is entered into the skin and
      measures sugar levels of the interstitial fluid of the subcutaneous tissue. This correlates
      with blood glucose levels.

      Daily, the subjects will enter data into their smart phone app, which will include:

        -  time of arising in the morning, and perceived quality of sleep

        -  time and description of food and beverages consumed

        -  time and description of physical activity

        -  time and description of stress management activities

        -  time and duration of naps

        -  bedtime

      Once daily, the subject will complete a reflection entry in a diary on their glucose levels
      over the last 24 hours in relation to their logged lifestyle activities.

      At the completion of the 8 sessions of The Lifestyle Medicine Clinic, participants will
      complete a survey asking open ended question concerning the use of the CGMs.
    
  