
    
      In this study the investigators will recruit 200 pregnant women; 100 women in the study group
      and 100 women in the control group. The women will be randomly allocated in two groups. The
      odd numbered women will be in the study group and even numbered women will be in the control
      group.

      The investigators will perform cesarean section according to the obstetrical indications.
      Lower segment uterine incision will be used during the cesarean section. After the delivery
      of the fetus two distinct procedures will be used in the control and study groups.

      In the control group, the uterus will be left in the abdominal cavity and the placenta will
      be manually removed with uterine massage as soon as possible. After removal of the placenta,
      the uterus will be dragged out of the abdominal cavity. The cesarean incision will be sutured
      with no. 1 Vicryl ®. Uterus will be replaced in the abdominal cavity. Intra-abdominal cavity
      will be cleaned by aspirator and mounted-gauze tampon. The weight of the placenta will be
      measured. The weight of the gauze tampons will be measured with gravimetric method before and
      after use.

      In the study group, at first, the uterus will be dragged out of the abdominal cavity, prior
      to removal of the placenta. The placenta will be manually removed with uterine massage as
      soon as possible. The cesarean incision will be sutured with no. 1 Vicryl ®. Uterus will be
      replaced in the abdominal cavity. Intra-abdominal cavity will be cleaned by aspirator and
      mounted-gauze tampon. The weight of the placenta will be measured. The weight of the gauze
      tampons will be measured with gravimetric method before and after use.

      In both groups, the abdominal cavity will be closed as appropriate. The vital signs (blood
      pressure and heart rate) will be monitored. Postoperative blood samples for complete blood
      count (CBC) will be taken 24 hours after the operation. Bowel movements will be assessed
      every 6 hours by a stethoscope. Time of the first flatulence will be recorded. Visual Analog
      Scoring (VAS) survey validated in Turkey will be performed in the postoperative 1. and 2.
      days. The type and amount of postoperative analgesics will be recorded. The body temperature
      will regularly be assessed in the first 24. and 48. hours. The presence of fever will be
      recorded.
    
  