
    
      In 2011, World Health Partners (WHP) will launch a large social franchising program of
      healthcare delivery in Bihar, India, with funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
      (BMGF). The WHP project is particularly innovative in integrating a social franchising
      delivery model with a telemedicine platform. Although social franchising models of delivery
      are becoming increasingly common, to our knowledge, none of these efforts has been rigorously
      evaluated.

      COHESIVE-India plans to undertake an evaluation of the BMGF-financed WHP project. The
      overarching focus of the evaluation project (called Bihar Evaluation of Social Franchising
      and Telemedicine (BEST)) is to provide evidence on the performance and effectiveness of the
      WHP program. In addition to studying the overall impact and effectiveness of the social
      franchising and telemedicine program, the evaluation will estimate how the WHP model
      influences outcomes related to two target diseases of interest to BMGF: childhood diarrhea
      and childhood pneumonia.

      The Evaluation Design The core objective of the evaluation is to estimate the causal impact
      of the WHP program on BMGF target disease outcomes as well as other indicators of its primary
      health care success. The key design feature of the evaluation is that it relies on the
      franchisee network model of the WHP program. The evaluation design involves identifying
      villages in Bihar that have asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) connectivity where WHP
      is likely to find providers who would participate in the program. The areas surrounding these
      villages that form catchment areas for providers will be identified; 360 such areas will be
      randomly sampled from the list and divided into 180 treatment and 180 control areas for
      implementation of the WHP program.

      The study also includes a detailed costing component to estimate the costs associated with
      the target diseases and the benefits from the program intervention. In doing so, the
      evaluation strategy addresses specific policy-relevant questions about sustainability,
      affordability, replicability, and future Government support for privately provided healthcare
      options in Bihar as well as in other parts of India.

      In addition, COHESIVE-India, with funding from external sources also plans to conduct studies
      that will provide insights on how to improve the effectiveness of the WHP model, as well as
      its financial sustainability. These studies include the distribution of vouchers for WHP
      services to estimate household's willingness to pay for them, as well experiments on
      financial incentives to learn how to improve the performance of network providers.

      This evaluation is closely aligned with the objectives of the Government of Bihar to reduce
      the burden of disease. Through a rigorous evaluation of the WHP program, this study will
      provide evidence on whether this model of rural health service delivery is efficient and
      whether it can be scaled up. The stated goals of the WHP program indicate the many potential
      health and economic benefits to the people of Bihar. The evaluation will provide an empirical
      and objective assessment of the impact of WHP's effort on quality of care available in rural
      areas (the program anticipates a significant improvement), increases in access to healthcare
      providers and improved drug supply, reductions in time lapse between onset of disease and
      optimal care, as well as reductions in unnecessary healthcare expenditures.
    
  