
    
      Epilepsy affects 3.4 million people in the U.S. who suffer from many problems including
      seizures and medication side effects, and depression and memory problems. Epilepsy
      self-management programs have been proven to improve the lives of people with epilepsy (PWE).
      For over 10 years, the Managing Epilepsy Well (MEW) Network has developed and researched
      several epilepsy self-management programs with promising results. One such program is
      HOBSCOTCH (HOme-Based Self-management and COgnitive Training CHanges lives), which addresses
      memory problems and has shown improved thought processes, or cognition, in randomized control
      trials.

      HOBSCOTCH has been tested and re-tested in the New England region with promising results in
      improving quality of life and cognitive functioning, or improved thought processes. To make
      the program more widely available, HOBSCOTCH will be offered in the state of Georgia, where
      the population is different compared to the New England region.

      This study plans to enroll a total of 150 adults with epilepsy to participate in the program
      in two cycles of roughly 50-75 people. Of the 50-75 participants to enroll in the program,
      25-37 participants will be assigned to the intervention group, and the other 25-37
      participants will be assigned to the waitlist group. Participants will take part in the
      program that will last eight sessions. A trained and certified HOBSCOTCH memory coach will
      deliver one-on-one sessions with participants on a weekly basis and each session will last
      between 45-60 minutes. The first session and the last session will be done in-person or
      through video chat. All participants will be given standard testing at baseline, 3, 6, 9, and
      12 months. The testing will help in understanding if the program helps improve memory
      problems and if the HOBSCOTCH program should continue to be offered to people with epilepsy.
    
  