
    
      We aim to characterise the underlying cortical haemodynamics in Multiple Sclerosis (MS). We
      will assess two techniques for measuring blood flow in the brain: arterial spin labelling
      (ASL) and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) magnetic resonance imaging in the MS patient
      group. ASL is a non-invasive technique whilst DSC-MR requires the administration of a tracer
      intravenously. Previous studies have shown conflicting results from these measurements.
      Reproducibility of ASL and disease activity will also be assessed through repeated scan
      sessions. Global perfusion in the MS patient group will be compared to a matched healthy
      control group.

      In addition to measuring blood flow using both methods, we will investigate whether
      differences in perfusion between the MS patient group and the healthy controls can be
      observed using ASL, and also assess the reproducibility of ASL measurements via repeated
      scans. These repeated scanning sessions also provide a window to study disease activity in
      the patient cohort, and patients may be invited to return for up to a total of 4 scanning
      sessions (with only one involving the use of DSC) to better assess the usefulness of ASL in
      tracking haemodynamic changes in MS.

      Study Regimen:

      We aim to recruit 20 MS patients and 20 healthy age-matched controls for this study.

      MS Patient Cohort:

      The patients will be asked to attend two initial scanning sessions. MS Scan Session 1 will
      involve the use of the Prohance contrast agent, taking of blood samples and an MRI scan. MS
      Scan Session 2 will only involve the use of a non-invasive MRI scan.

      MS Scan Session 1:

      This session will require the administration of a gadolinium contrast agent. Prior to
      entering the scanner, a cannula is inserted into the patient's arm (cannula A). A small blood
      sample (5ml) will be taken from all MS patients in order to assess the haematocrit and
      creatinine content which will be used to determine if they are eligible for gadolinium
      administration (via use of the POCT i-Stat). This will provide a measure of eGFR which will
      provide information on the patient's renal function. This will only be performed once per
      patient and results will be recorded in the CRF. Provided the patient's eGFR is adequate for
      the study, a second cannula will be inserted into the patient's other arm (cannula B). The
      patient will enter the scanner with lines attached to both cannulae. The gadolinium bolus
      will be administered by a clinician in the scan room between scans via cannula A*. During the
      remainder of the visit, three subsequent blood samples will be taken (up to 5ml each), via
      cannula B, which will be used to measure gadolinium concentration. Gadolinium administration
      and blood work will be performed by physicians who are part of the research team with ALS
      training.

      * Gadolinium contrast agents allow for the accurate quantification of blood flow from MR
      imaging. Prohance (Gadoteridol) is a gadolinium-based fluid administered intravenously to the
      participant. The contrast agent will be administered by physician with advanced life support
      (ALS) training. The physician will remain present throughout the duration of the scan and at
      all times whilst the participant is present at the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre. In the
      event of an emergency, a resuscitation kit is readily available. Also, the University's
      internal emergency phone number is contacted to readily direct emergency services to the
      site.

      MS Scan Session 2:

      The patients will be asked to return for MS Scan Session 2 two weeks after completing MS Scan
      Session 1. Before each scanning session, the patient will be asked to complete and MR safety
      questionnaire to ensure that no contraindications have arisen between scans. Explanations of
      what to expect in the MRI scanner environment will be given prior to being asked to sign a
      consent form. Provided there are no contraindications for the volunteer to enter the scanner,
      the volunteer will undergo a non-invasive MRI scan lasting approximately 1 hour. No other
      interventions are to be used. All scanning will be performed using a 7 Tesla Philips Achieva
      scanner with multi-transit capability (Philips Medical Systems, Best, The Netherlands). The
      participants will be scanned with a 32-channel receive coil. The subjects will wear-ear
      plugs, ear defenders and a pulse oximeter (to monitor the pulse) throughout contrast agent
      administration.

      After the completion of MS Scan Sessions 1 and 2, their scans will be analysed and
      interpreted by a member of the patient's clinical care team. If a patient presents any
      morphological changes relating to the disease between MS Scan Sessions 1 and 2, the patient
      will be invited back for an additional 2 scans, labelled as MS Scan Session 3 and 4. If there
      is no presentation of additional lesions between scans, this will be the end of the patient's
      participation.

      MS Scan Sessions 3 and 4:

      These will be identical to MS Scan Session 2 (non-invasive MRI scan only). MS Scan Session 3
      will take place at 6 weeks and MS Scan Session 4 will take place at 12 weeks.

      Healthy Volunteers:

      The healthy volunteers will be asked to attend two scanning sessions (labelled as HV Scan
      Session 1 and HV Scan Session 2 in the flow chart). Both HV Scan Session 1 and 2 will only
      involve the use of a non-invasive MRI scan. No gadolinium contrast agent is to be given to
      the healthy volunteers during this study.

      Both HV Scan Session 1 and 2 will be identical to MS Scan Sessions 2, 3 and 4. Upon
      completing HV Scan Session 1, the healthy volunteer will be invited back for HV Scan Session
      2 two weeks later. After completing HV Scan Session 2, the healthy volunteer's participation
      will be finished.
    
  