
    
      One challenging complication to stroke is the development of hemiplegic shoulder pain, which
      is reported in approximately 30% of the stroke population. Treatment strategies recommended
      in the Swedish National Guidelines for Stroke Care (NBHW) include use of assistive devices
      for arm support and treatment with transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS), which
      may impact on both pain and muscle tone. In an innovative approach, a full body suit with
      multiple electrodes for provision off electrical stimulation has been developed by a small
      Swedish med-tech company. The suit ( EXOPULSE Mollii suit) is currently used for treatment of
      disabling spasticity and to improve motor function in persons living with effects of central
      nervous system disease or injury. The theoretical background of the EXOPULSE Mollii-method
      primarily refers to the concept of reciprocal inhibition, i.e. that sensory input from a
      muscle may inhibit the activation of an antagonistic muscle. Thus, the application of
      EXOPULSE Mollii aims at stimulating a muscle, e.g. the anterior tibial muscle of the lower
      leg in order to reduce reflex mediated over-activity, i.e. spasticity, in calf muscles by
      inducing reciprocal inhibition. Studies on the effects on spasticity and perceived usability
      of the suit in a stroke population have recently been completed by our study group at the
      Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Stockholm at Danderyd Hospital (dnr 2017/935-31) and
      preliminary analyses indicate that spasticity may be reduced by use of the suit.

      Based on the theoretical and practical background outlined above, this study will explore the
      potential value of the Mollii-method in the management of post stroke shoulder pain. The
      overall aim of this study is to test and further develop the Mollii-suit for its ability to
      reduce hemiplegic shoulder pain. The specific aims are 1) to compare the effect of different
      stimulation modes for shoulder pain reduction 2) to explore which patients will respond best
      to these.
    
  