
    
      Design The study design will be a randomized parallel group prospective study of patients
      from the region of Southern Denmark and the region Zealand with sciatica due to LDH
      randomized to either early surgical evaluation or usual care as per recommendations from the
      Danish National Health Board

      Study population Study subjects are identified from the patient population in the region of
      Southern Denmark and the Region of Zealand clinically diagnosed with LDH by their general
      practitioner.

      Randomisation procedure Eligible patients are randomised into one of two arms, usual care or
      fast track surgical evaluation with a 1:1 Block sealed envelope randomisation used. A
      randomized block design, stratified by the two surgical sites, is used to ensure equal
      distribution of the two treatment arms in regions. The randomisation procedure is concealed
      and administered by the primary investigator. Randomisation is performed after the patient
      has signed the informed consent form. The result of the randomisation is documented in the
      subjects' trial record.

      Study Arms:

      Subject withdrawal If a subject develops a clinically significant medical or surgical
      condition that in the opinion of the investigator could impact the patient's ability to
      successfully complete the trial or otherwise interfere with outcomes, the subject will be
      withdrawn.

      If the patient during the trial or follow-up period receives other medical or invasive
      intervention that in the opinion of the investigator could impact on the patient's ability to
      successfully complete the trial or otherwise interfere with outcomes, the subject will be
      withdrawn,

      These subjects will not be included in the final analysis

      Patient course In Denmark the General Practioners' (GP's) are organised in clusters to ensure
      a uniform quality of treatment. The study will be presented to all pre-existing GP-clusters
      in the two participating regions at a GP-cluster meeting prior to the study by investigator.
      Individual written consent from the GP to participate is obtained at the meeting. All GP's
      not present will be identified and contacted individually to obtain written consent. All
      participating GP's are informed and consent that all study subjects will, for the duration of
      the study, be seen and treated by the investigator GP regarding their LDH, to include all
      consultations, scripts, off work certificates, referrals etc. for as long as the patient is
      part of the study. All patient encounters will be documented, and relevant information given
      to respective GP's ongoing. Two laminated coloured A4 posters are distributed to each GP, one
      for the GP and one for reception with trial name, screening criteria and investigators phone
      number and e-mail.

      Both the GP's who participate and don't participate in the study are recorded. All patients
      that meet screening criteria are asked if investigator can contact them by phone.
      Investigator then calls the patient to assess inclusion and exclusion criteria. If study
      subject is found eligible then they will be thoroughly informed of the study and informed
      consent is obtained per mail and an appointment for clinic visit with the Principal
      Investigator is scheduled within one week is given. Information and inclusion of participants
      will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the Health Research Ethics Committee
      System in Denmark, from which approval will be sought.

      During the first interview and examination, all study subjects' complete questionnaires as
      per Table 1.

      Study subjects in Usual Care will be treated following the Danish National Guidelines; get
      relevant prescriptions, certificates, x-ray and physio/chiropractor referral as per standard
      recommendations Study subjects in Fast Track arm will get an MRI done on the same day. All
      MRIS will be performed and read at Middelfart Sygehus or Zealand University Hospital. If the
      MRI shows concordant findings of herniated disc, the subject will be referred to a spine
      surgeon to be seen within one week.

      The surgeon will assess the patient and ensure the magnetic resonance image (MRI)
      demonstrates a lumbar disc herniation, with the level and side corresponding with clinical
      symptoms such as lower extremity radicular pain and/or affection of neurological function.
      The subject and the surgeon will discuss the benefits and risks of a discectomy with the
      subject. A decision regarding discectomy will be made taking into consideration the subject's
      preference. If the surgeon and subject decide on discectomy, the surgery is scheduled within
      the same week. Total timespan from first interview to surgery will be no longer than 2 weeks.

      All discectomies for subjects in Fast Track arm will be performed at one of three Spine
      Surgery Centres, Middelfart Sygehus, Odense Universitets Hospital (OUH) or Department of
      Orthopaedic Surgery, Zealand University Hospital, Køge. Depending on the surgeon's
      preference, the surgical techniques will vary between open discectomy with or without the use
      of microscope and tubular-discectomy.

      Discectomies for subjects in Usual Care will be performed by a qualified spine surgeon but
      not necessary at one of the three centres.

      All patients irrespectively to study arm and treatment site are scheduled to standard
      post-operative out-patient program with clinic visits as all Danish patients are legally
      entitled to a free course of rehabilitation in the municipal centers. Rehabilitation programs
      typically last 8-10 weeks and consist of either team or individual training 1-2 times weekly
      combined with home exercises (13) Study subjects in both arms will be mailed questionnaires
      as per table 1 and a SMS text reminder 3 days later if reply haven been recorded. This will
      be handled automatically by RedCap. If still no reply is recorded, then investigator will
      phone the study subject 7 days post mail.
    
  