
    
      Any kind of anatomical lung resection for lung cancer with curative intent has to be
      accompanied by formal mediastinal lymph node dissection. Video-assisted mediastinoscopic
      lymphadenectomy through a cervical access (VAMLA) along with thoracoscopic lobectomies in the
      same setting offers improved radicality through bilateral mediastinal dissection, provide
      accurate staging, does not require single lung ventilation and hence ideally supports the
      concept of minimally invasive surgery.

      Due to the VAMLA associated radicality, the investigator believes that using VAMLA along with
      lobectomy could improve the oncological outcome of lung cancer patients. Furthermore, the
      absence of single lung ventilation during VAMLA could attenuate the surgically induced
      immunosuppression.

      The present study aims at:

        1. The current project primarily aims at identifying the effect of reduced single lunge
           ventilation time during VAMLA-VATS lobectomy on the intraoperative production of oxygen
           radicals as well as its effect on the immune competence of patients undergoing
           VAMLA-VATS lobectomy as compared to those receiving VATS lobectomy Along with
           conventional unilateral lymphadenectomy.

        2. Secondary, in line with the hypothesis that radical bilateral lymphadenectomy might
           results in a more complete oncological staging as compared to unilateral lymphadenectomy
           or lymph node sampling. The current project aims to compare the pre- and postoperative
           staging in patients undergoing VAMLA, as VAMLA enables a proper examination of all
           bilateral mediastinal lymph nodes.

        3. Patient Follow-up will be continued for at least 5 years postoperatively in order to
           compare the oncological outcome namely local and distant recurrence, tumor-associated
           and overall survival in patients undergoing VAMLA-VATS Lobectomy as compared to those
           with VATS lobectomy. This issue is, however, a second endpoint of this study and will be
           independent of the primary endpoint.
    
  