
    
      Scientific aims and goals:

      The long-term goal aim of this application is to provide evidence of the role of a
      non-invasive neuromodulation technique such as rTMS in the treatment of chronic neurological
      sequels generated after strokes in human patients. Such interventions are based in an "at
      will" modulation the level of activity in intact regions, resulting in an enhancement of
      excitatory projections or the suppression of inhibitory influences driven through spared
      connectivity. They result in activity increases of the stroke surviving neurons, allowing the
      re-emergence of function after brain damage. Such principles can be applied to different
      sorts of neurological sequels for which the underlying connectivity and its post-stroke
      status is well known. In this specific project, we propose the use of low frequency rTMS on
      the intact left posterior parietal cortex (in the intraparietal sulcus, IPS) to improve the
      symptoms of visuospatial neglect derived form right stroke injuries including the posterior
      parietal cortex. Such project is based in the interhemispheric rivalry hypothesis, according
      to which, spatial neglect is in part caused by the over inhibition exerted from the intact
      left parietal cortex onto the injured left homologue regions, which are mediated by
      well-known overall inhibitory transcallosal projections between the left and the right
      hemispheres. According to this hypothesis and preliminary data, the reduction of the left
      parietal disinhibition should result into a lesser degree of suppression exerted by the
      intact left hemisphere sites onto the right injured parietal areas, process which will along
      the emergence of activity.In this context, we defined a primary aim accompanied by two
      secondary aims, which will be tackled in parallel:Primary AIMS AIM1: To assess the effects of
      repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) in the treatment of chronic visuospatial
      neglect generated by stroke Secondary AIMS AIM 2: To assess the durability of such a recovery
      over time once the treatment is completed and discontinued AIM 3: To further assess the
      safety of such therapeutic approach based in the deactivation of an intact -but hyperexcited
      region- holding connectivity with the damaged area.

      Evaluation criteria Main criteria -Changes in the Spatial Bias Compound Score (SBCS) between
      pre (baseline) and post 10 days of rTMS treatment Such score is calculated on the basis of
      the result of 4 subtests which include: (1) bells cancellation task, (2) a copy of the
      GAINOTTI figure, (3) identification of overlapping figures, and (4) line bisection, according
      to the following formula (SBCS=λ=ln(XR/XL), considering the identification or copying of
      elements presented on the right or the left visual fields of the patient. The subtests of the
      SBCS will be also individually assessed and followed.

      Secondary criteria

        1. Efficacy criteria

        2. Safety criteria

        3. Predictive factors assessmentStudy population and duration of studyWe will study a
           population of stroke patients with chronic signs of hemispatial neglect with at least 3
           months of evolution (n=148, 2 groups of 74 patients) recruited across 48 months at an
           approximate rate of 37 patients /year.
    
  