
    
      Background: Although the efficacy of methylphenidate and atomoxetine in ADHD is well
      documented in clinical trials, more studies are needed to clarify the neuroprotective effects
      of these two medications. Lipids exert important neuroprotective effects for optimal brain
      development and functioning. Previous studies have demonstrated the significant connection
      between lipid dysregulation and the occurrence of ADHD. In addition, lipid dysregulation is
      closely related to the abnormal neural activity in individuals with ADHD. In this 3-year
      prospective project, we will perform a lipidomic analysis of blood before and after treatment
      with methylphenidate or atomoxetine, in order to identify the biological connections between
      the neuroprotective effects of medications and pathways of lipid metabolism in children with
      ADHD.

      Subjects and Methods: 70 drug-naïve patients with ADHD, aged 6-18, and 35 matched typically
      developing controls will be recruited in this project. We will randomly assign the 70 ADHD
      patients to two groups, 35 in the methylphenidate group and 35 in the atomoxetine group.
      Within the 12-week treatment period, we will use ADHDRS-IV, SNAP-IV, CBCL, YSR, CGI-ADHD-S,
      CGI-ADHD-I, SAICA, and Family APGAR-C to assess the improvement in the behavioral symptoms,
      and CPT and CANTAB to assess the improvement in the neuropsychological functioning. The blood
      sample will be collected, and we will use mass spectrometry to assess the medication-related
      change in lipidomic profiles.

      Anticipated Results: Using a prospective design, we anticipate that this study will delineate
      the effects of methylphenidate and atomoxetine on the lipidomic profiles in patients with
      ADHD. Furthermore, we will conduct pathway analysis to obtain crucial insight to the
      lipidomic regulation in neurophysiology of children with ADHD. We expect that the findings
      will increase our understanding of the neuroprotective effects of methylphenidate and
      atomoxetine in patients with ADHD, and identify the psychopharmacological mechanism of
      medication effects in ADHD via the pathways of lipid metabolism and regulation.
    
  