
    
      BACKGROUND

      Parents of children with cancer have great information needs and report that these are not
      always met. Psychosocial suffering such as stress and anxiety is also common in this group.

      HYPOTHESIS

      An informational intervention emanating from the needs identified by parents is associated to
      decreased perceived stress, decreased depressive symptoms, decreased anxiety, increased
      satisfaction with information and decreased use of health care contacts in parents.

      INTERVENTION

      The intervention builds upon the Representational approach. This approach emanates from
      Leventhal's theories of illness representations and theories of conceptual change. Central
      qualities in the approach is that parents identify the area where information is needed
      themselves and that a thorough assessment of their current representation of that area is
      performed before information is given.

      Each participating parent receives three rounds that consist of two meetings. Each round
      starts with a meeting where the parent identifies an area where he/she needs more
      information. The nurse and the parent jointly survey the parent's representation of the area
      and discusses consequences of knowledge gaps or misunderstandings. Then, new information is
      introduced and benefits from the new information is discussed. After some days, a follow-up
      meeting takes place.

      DESIGN AND METHODS

      The intervention will be evaluated using a single-case design (A-B-A-B-A-B-A) with 10
      parents. All parents will receive the intervention, and repeated measures of the outcome
      variables both before and after will be used to assess the effect of the intervention. Data
      will be collected by web questionnaires with SMS- and e-mail reminders.

      In parallel, a process evaluation aiming at describing treatment fidelity, experiences of
      participation and impact of contextual factors on the results. For this aim, qualitative
      interviews with participants and audio recording of intervention sessions will be used.
    
  