
    
      Symptoms of depression, such as persistent sadness, problems sleeping, and inability to feel
      pleasure, interfere with the daily lives of more than 20 million Americans. Previous research
      indicates that telephone care management systems improve the quality and outcomes of
      depression care, but are too expensive to be used widely. Using secure messaging over e-mail
      would be more cost effective than telephone care. This study will examine whether a secure
      messaging care management program would be feasible, based on whether participants are
      willing to sign up for and continue with the program, and whether the program has a positive
      effect on those participants enrolled in the program.

      Potential participants for this study will be contacted via e-mail, with a follow-up
      telephone call if they do not respond to the e-mail message. Only people who have used
      e-mails in the past year and who are starting antidepressant treatment will be contacted. The
      percentage of people contacted who enroll will be recorded.

      Participation in this study will last 6 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either a secure messaging care management program, based on effective telephone
      management programs, or their usual care with no intervention. Those receiving the secure
      messaging program will receive an initial welcome message and monitoring messages
      approximately 2, 6, and 10 weeks after treatment has begun. The monitoring messages will
      include structured assessments of depression severity, medication adherence, medication side
      effects, and barriers to continuing treatment. Participants who do not respond to monitoring
      messages will receive up to two e-mailed reminders. Care managers will analyze the results of
      monitoring messages, provide feedback and recommendations to physicians, coordinate physician
      follow-ups, and facilitate emergency care or specialty referrals. Care managers will also
      provide patients with motivation, based on semi-scripted protocols, and education concerning
      their disorder and treatment. Measures of the success of the study will be taken at
      enrollment and after 6 months of participation. Specific measurements will include the
      response rate of recruitment e-mails, response rate for follow-up data collection, proportion
      of those in the secure messaging program who complete the monitoring assessments, effects of
      the program on antidepressant treatment, and effects of the program on patient satisfaction.
    
  