
    
      The health status of the aging population is negatively affected by sarcopenic obesity as
      described by the progressive loss of lean tissue and an increase in adipose tissue. This
      condition presents a clinical conundrum as it predisposes older obese individuals to a high
      risk for disability, morbidity and mortality. Insulin resistance, chronic inflammation,
      elevations in intrahepatic lipid and detrimental alterations in the gut microbiome are also
      evident. The application of caloric restriction-induced weight loss (CRWL) used to address
      these health risks in younger individuals may exacerbate muscle wasting and increase
      morbidity in older adults. Unfortunately, low fitness levels and poor compliance limit the
      mitigating influence of weight loss through exercise training on sarcopenic obesity. In order
      to address anabolic resistance or the decreased ability to maintain protein synthesis that
      contributes to sarcopenic obesity, the investigators have developed a complete meal
      replacement that contains a mechanism-targeted profile of essential amino acids (17 grams).
      This profile is designed to overcome anabolic resistance and maintain net protein balance
      even in the hypocaloric state. It is our overarching hypothesis that EMR will promote the
      retention of lean tissue mass, and improve metabolic and functional outcomes following 12
      weeks of CRWL, and that those endpoints will be sustained over a 12 week maintenance period
      with the once per day (q.d.) consumption of EMR. The investigators will randomly assign older
      obese individuals to either EMR or an isocaloric serving of Bariatrics Advantage (meal
      replacement that contains 27 grams of intact protein) during these interventions. The
      investigators will execute these specific aims to test our hypotheses: SA1. Establish the
      importance of EMR in the preservation of lean tissue mass during CRWL. Lean tissue mass and
      adipose tissue mass will be determined by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and magnetic
      resonance imaging/spectroscopy (MRI/MRS) scans. MRI/MRS will be used to measure intrahepatic
      lipid, and the investigators will evaluate alterations in insulin sensitivity using the HOMA
      score. The investigators will measure potential changes in gut microbiota in collaboration
      with Dr. Duddleston at the University of Alaska Anchorage. SA2. Determine the influence of
      EMR on physical function and increased daily activity during CRWL. Slow walking speed is a
      strong predictor of morbidity and mortality. The investigators chose the 6-minute walk test
      to represent the primary endpoint for this aim. The investigators will also determine
      alterations in gait speed, skeletal muscle power and strength and stair climbing ability, and
      changes in physical activity using Actigraph GT3X+ devices. SA3. Identify whether EMR q.d.
      will sustain improvements in body composition, physical function and metabolic parameters
      over a 12 week, maintenance period following CRWL. Since the preservation of lean tissue mass
      is directly linked to optimal function and metabolic health, the investigators will measure
      the influence of EMR q.d. on the indices of metabolic health (ie., intrahepatic lipid,
      insulin sensitivity) and physical function.
    
  