
    
      There are two specific aims of this study. First, researchers will test the effects of the
      ASSET Program on: (a) improving social function, work-related social skills, and
      self-efficacy (primary outcomes), and (b) psychological wellness (secondary outcome) using a
      quasi-experimental, single group, time series design. Secondly and concurrently, researchers
      will collect pilot data on the "near peer" mediation aspects of the intervention from the
      perspectives of OT students and ASSET group participants. Specifically, researchers will
      measure occupational therapy student facilitators' perceived stress, clinical self-efficacy,
      and educational value of the experience; and collect data on ASSET participants' ratings of
      the quality of the facilitation as delivered by occupational therapy graduate students.

      Design: Using a quasi-experimental, repeated time series design, this convergent parallel
      mixed-methods pilot study will use quantitative data to measure change in primary and
      secondary outcomes, while qualitative data (session feedback forms, pre/post/follow-up
      interviews) will be collected in order to compare or relate themes to the quantitative
      findings. Building from the results of our earlier work using professional facilitators, the
      following two aims will be examined. Psychometric properties of instruments are available in
      the Appendices.

      AIM 1: Evaluate the effects of the ASSET program on the social function, work-related social
      skills knowledge, confidence (primary outcomes) and psychological wellness (secondary
      outcomes) of a group of college students with HFASD immediately after the 13-week
      intervention delivered by graduate students and at 3-month follow-up.

      Research Questions and Hypotheses:

      Q1: Is ASSET associated with improvements in work-related social skills knowledge, social
      function, and social self-efficacy when facilitated by OTS? H1: Immediately post
      intervention, on average, ASSET participants will show statistically significant improvements
      in primary outcomes (work-related social skills knowledge, social function, and social
      self-efficacy).

      H2: At three-month follow-up, on average, ASSET participants will show declines in primary
      outcomes, yet scores will remain above baseline and at statistically significant levels.

      H3: Immediately post intervention, on average, ASSET participants will show clinically
      significant improvements in secondary mental health outcomes (anxiety and depression);
      however, these gains may not reach the level of statistical significance.

      H4: At three-month follow-up, on average, ASSET participants will show continued improvements
      in secondary mental health outcomes (anxiety and depression), with improvements in anxiety
      reaching a level of statistical significance when compared to baseline.
    
  