
    
      DDH is the most common pediatric hip condition, with 1-3% of all newborns diagnosed at birth.
      However, the true incidence of DDH is difficult to quantify due to significant variations in
      diagnostic criteria, terminology, screening and monitoring procedures, as well as ethnic and
      cultural differences. The spectrum of DDH encompasses mild dysplasia or instability of a
      reduced hip, to a completely dislocated, irreducible hip. If left undetected or untreated, it
      can lead to debilitating complications later in life. Much of the evidence existing to date
      in the DDH literature is from retrospective and/or single-centre studies, and the spectral
      nature of the condition has resulted in inconsistent or ill-defined terminology to classify
      patients in regard to diagnosis and laterality. Consequently, the patient population is often
      not clearly defined or reported, making it difficult to compare or combine different study
      results in order to produce strong evidence to guide treatment and management. This issue was
      highlighted in the updated clinical practice guidelines released in partnership between the
      American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery (AAOS) and the Pediatric Orthopaedic Society of North
      America (POSNA) in 2014. Of the nine recommendations made, only two were of moderate
      strength, while the other seven were of low strength.

      Discrepancies begin with DDH screening practices. Clinical examination for hip instability is
      a universal standard practice; however, not all cases are detectable by this method, leading
      to potential missed diagnoses or late-presentations that are more difficult to treat. Beyond
      the clinical exam, screening, management and treatment practices are highly variable across
      surgeons, centres and countries. Some countries, particularly those in Europe, employ
      universal ultrasound screening, while others use selective ultrasound screening as a
      supplement to the clinical exam for infants with specific risk factors. Defined risk factors
      that have currently been deemed to warrant further screening and monitoring include breech
      presentation, family history of DDH or a clinical history of hip instability. Regardless of
      screening program, missed or late-presentations still occur, warranting further
      investigation. Further variability is introduced with primary treatment and management.
      Bracing is the most common first-line treatment, particularly in younger patients or patients
      with unstable or reducible hips. Surgical treatment (closed or open reduction) is more often
      used as first-line treatment in older patients, or patients with more severe dislocations.
      However, significant variation is seen in practice patterns, complication rates and treatment
      success with each of these methods, and identification and analysis of prognostic factors
      have been lacking methodological rigor. Development of a comprehensive, prospective registry
      will provide a unique and unprecedented platform for examining numerous aspects of the full
      DDH spectrum, including long-term treatment outcomes and risk factors.
    
  