
    
      Plasmid mediated carbapenem resistance is mainly due to production of carbapenemase which
      belong to three classes of β-lactamases, the Ambler class A, B and D β -lactamases, among
      which the New Delhi metallo-β -lactamase has attracted significant attention in the last five
      years. New Delhi metallo-β -lactamase-1 is a class B metallo-β-lactamase and was first
      identified from a Klebsiella pneumoniae strain in 2008.

      New Delhi metallo-β -lactamase-1 is frequently associated with other resistance genes, such
      as extended spectrum β- lactamase genes and plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance genes,
      which allows bacteria to gain resistance to different classes of antimicrobial agents
      simultaneously.

      Plasmids and Integrons are mobile genetic elements that carry antimicrobial resistance genes.
      Horizontal transfer of those mobile genetic elements has been considered as one of the most
      important mechanisms for the dissemination of multi-drug resistance among bacteria.

      Classification of plasmids on the basis of molecular typing and phylogenetic relatedness may
      help understand the distribution of plasmid types, the relationships involving plasmids
      carrying antimicrobial resistance genes. Plasmids can be classified into incompatibility
      groups by replicon typing or into types (clusters) by restriction fragment length
      polymorphism analysis.

      Integrons act as genetic platform, which allow capture and expression of antibiotic
      resistance genes. There are 3 classes of integrons that are responsible for multi-drug
      resistance, which are classified based on the sequence of the integrase gene. Class 1
      integrons are the most widespread class in Gram-negative bacteria.

      One approach to preventing multi drug resistant infections is combination of two or more
      antimicrobial drugs during a treatment regimen . The combination of imipenem plus
      ciprofloxacin had shown Synergistic effect .

      Loading of antibacterial agents into nanoparticles is one of the most promising approaches to
      reduce anti-microbial resistance. Nano formulations could enhance the intracellular
      bioavailability of the antimicrobial drugs, and, thus, decreasing the development of
      resistance. Moreover, the potential antibacterial activity of some nanoparticle-forming
      polymers might further increase the potency of the antibacterial drugs .
    
  