
    
      Following the first demonstration by our group that macronutrient (glucose, cream and a high
      fat high carbohydrate meal) intake results in increased ROS generation and oxidative stress
      at the cellular and molecular level, the investigators have now shown in our preliminary data
      that cream intake induces comprehensive inflammation as reflected in increased intranuclear
      NFkB binding, decreased IkBα expression, increased expression of IL-1β, IL-12, TNFα and other
      pro-inflammatory mediators. While carrying out these experiments, the investigators asked
      whether cream intake was associated with an uptake of lipid by peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (MNC). Indeed, there was a significant increase in intracellular lipid which was
      visualized as intracellular lipid droplets. The increase in intracellular lipid droplets was
      associated with an increase in intracellular superoxide generation; the expression of CD68, a
      marker for macrophages; and PECAM, the adhesion molecule which mediates trans- endothelial
      transfer of leucocytes. The investigators also found that the lipid fractions to increase
      were cholesterol ester, triglyceride and fatty acids. In view of the tantalizing observation
      that the lipid droplet laden MNC appeared to be monocytes, looked like foam cells and the
      fact that CD68 expression had increased, there is a possibility that foam cells may be formed
      in peripheral circulation by monocytes after a lipid rich meal. This simple model of foam
      cell formation also lends itself for the study of the effect of various lipid lowering drugs.
      Our investigation will be the first to study this novel paradigm. The investigators plan to
      study the effect of a cholesterol lowering agent, Vytorin (simvastatin and ezetimibe), on
      intracellular lipid in MNC, expression of CD68 and PECAM, ROS generation and inflammation in
      obese subjects. This investigation may provide an additional mechanism of action by which
      these drugs may reduce atherosclerosis.
    
  