
    
      Purpose and design

      Design: Prospective randomised crossover study.

      Purpose:

        -  Raising airway pressure is one of the most important interventions at the disposal of
           clinicians treating patients with respiratory failure. In premature infants Continuous
           Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) and High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) are noninvasive
           techniques to raise mean airway pressure when intubation is not required. It is not
           clear how clinicians choose between these techniques and there is little data comparing
           the physiological effect of these treatments.

        -  A composite physiological assessment of babies on HFNC and CPAP treatment is required to
           understand how HFNC works. It is important to answer this question to understand how
           best to use HFNC in babies.

        -  This proposal is designed to provide information on physiological effects of both
           therapies in same population of babies across different weight categories. The study
           protocol involves use of same HFNC device that is currently being used in neonatal unit.

      Interventions:

      1. A small plastic catheter tip transducer (Gaeltec) will be placed in upper breathing
      passage (nasopharynx or oropharynx) using standard methods. From this we will measure airway
      pressures and respiratory gas concentrations.

      The catheter will be removed soon after the study is completed. This procedure will be done
      once during the study.

      2. Breathing markers (Tidal breathing indices) will be measured by non invasive method using
      Volusense method where a vest will be applied over the chest and abdomen like a layer of
      clothing. The Volusense vest will be removed soon after the procedure. This process is done
      once during the study.

      3. Blood carbon dioxide (CO2) levels will be measured by a non invasive transcutaneous sensor
      applied to the skin (Tosca Radiometer). This skin sensor will be removed soon after the study
      is completed.

        1. The baby must be clinically stable for preceding 12 hours on noninvasive breathing
           support (not meeting exit criteria). The babies will be randomised to either group 1
           (CPAP first followed by HFNC) or group 2 (HFNC first followed by CPAP) by computerised
           software programme.

        2. The measuring devices namely nasopharyngeal catheter, Volusense vest and transcutaneous
           CO2 sensor are placed as per standard methods.

        3. After ensuring babies' clinical stability the measurements are recorded at HFNC gas flow
           rate range from 2 litres to 8 litres per minute and in CPAP of 6 cm of water pressure
           level.

        4. The study lasts about 2 hours. The baby spends 10 minutes at each HFNC flow rate level
           and 30 minutes of equilibration period when support will be changed between HFNC and
           CPAP.

        5. Routine measurement of heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturations will be done
           as per standard neonatal practice. The above data will be recorded electronically for
           analysis with total study duration around 120 minutes.

        6. Respiratory support can be terminated at any point if clinically not indicated.

      The researcher is an experienced neonatal registrar who will be directly observing the baby
      throughout the study.

      Measurements would be discontinued if any pre set exit criteria is noted.

      Statistics: A total of 45 babies (15 babies in each weight category: <1000 grams, 1001500
      grams and >1500 grams) will be studied.
    
  