
    
      Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) manifests with distressing physical, behavioral and psychological
      symptoms, in the absence of organic or underlying psychiatric disease, which regularly recur
      during luteal phase of each menstrual cycle and disappear or significantly improve by the end
      of menstruation. Approximately 85-90 % of women may experience premenstrual emotional and
      physical changes in their reproductive age and the prevalence of severe PMS ranges from 3% to
      8%.

      The etiology of PMS is unknown but cyclical ovarian activity and the effect of estradiol and
      progesterone on serotonin and gamma-amino butyric acid are key factors. Absence of PMS before
      puberty, in pregnancy and after the menopause supports a role of cyclical ovarian activity in
      PMS etiology. PMS symptoms include psychological symptoms like mood swings, irritability,
      depression and feeling out of control; physical symptoms like breast tenderness, bloating and
      headaches; and behavioral symptoms like reduced visuospatial and cognitive ability. To
      diagnose PMS, symptoms should be recorded prospectively over two cycles using a symptom
      diary. Several symptom diaries exist but the Daily Record of Severity of Problems (DRSP) is
      reliable, simple for patients and recommended by the Royal College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists.

      Life style modifications like stress reduction, exercise, and low carbohydrate diet have been
      suggested for management of PMS but have not been thoroughly investigated. Pharmacological
      treatments of PMS include COC, serotonin reuptake inhibitors gonadotrophin-releasing hormone
      agonists, anxiolytics, and diuretics. Various other treatments have also been recommended
      including acupuncture, dietary supplements, and bright light therapy, PMS treatment should be
      based on individual symptoms, concomitant medical history and the need of contraception.

      The objective of the study is to compare the roles of synergistic fluoxetine and combined
      oral contraceptives (COC) containing Drospirenone in the management of severe premenstrual
      syndrome.

      Three hundred women with severe premenstrual syndrome will be divided into 3 groups using
      computer generated random numbers. Group 1 will receive COC containing drospirenone
      (drospirenone 3mg+Ethinylestradiol 0.03mg; Yasmin® ScheringAG, Egypt) daily for 21 days
      starting from the 3rd day of menstruation in addition to oral fluoxetine 20 mg daily. Group 2
      will receive COC containing drospirenone daily for 21 days starting from the 3rd day of
      menstruation in addition to a daily oral placebo similar in size, color and structure to
      fluoxetine. Group 3 will receive oral placebo similar to COC daily for 21 days starting from
      the 3rd day of menstruation in addition to a daily oral placebo similar in size, color and
      structure to fluoxetine.

      To diagnose PMS women will be asked to document their symptoms daily for 2 months using the
      daily record of severity of problems (DRSP). DRSP is a questionnaire comprised of 25 physical
      and emotional symptoms including impairment of physical and social activities, women will be
      asked to give a score of 1 to 6 for each symptom 1 = not at all, 2 = minimal, 3 = mild, 4 =
      moderate, 5 = severe, 6 = extreme. The investigators will add the symptoms scores of the
      first day of menses and PMS will be excluded if the score is< 50. If the total score is
      greater than 50, the investigators will recorded two cycles of symptoms. If more than three
      items have an average score of more than 3 (mild) during the luteal phase, the investigators
      will add the scores of five-day intervals during the luteal and follicular phases. PMS will
      be diagnosed when the luteal phase score is 30 percent greater than the follicular phase
      score in the 2 months. All women will have a psychiatric review and women with underlying
      psychiatric disease will be excluded. Women who are unable to interact socially or
      professionally because of the symptoms will be considered to have severe PMS. All married
      women will be advised to use barrier contraceptives.

      All women will be asked to take the medications for 6 months and record their symptoms using
      the DRSP. Women with suboptimal social or professional interaction will be considered having
      moderate PMS. Women with no interference with the social or professional activity will be
      considered as having mild PMS. Women with day 1 DRSP score <50 and women with average luteal
      phase scores <30% more than the average proliferative scores will not be considered having
      PMS.
    
  