
    
      Background: In 2014, 14.7% of Americans died using intensive care unit (ICU) services. It is
      a clinical imperative to provide high quality EOL care. Strong communication with surrogates
      is vital for high quality EOL care due to the fact that seriously ill patients often cannot
      talk, and they rely on surrogates (often family members) to make EOL decisions. There have
      been many studies conducted in the past, trying to improve EOL communication. Yet, evidence
      shows that communication remains poor in the ICU. To date, there is lack of evidence for a
      particular nursing strategy that effectively improves communication and the quality of EOL
      care in the ICU. The goal of this proposed study is to develop a new nurse-led communication
      strategy (NLCS). Specific Aim: To assess the NLCS's feasibility, acceptability, and
      preliminary effects among surrogates of patients who are unable to communicate in the ICU.
      Theory: NLCS is grounded in the state-of-the art framework "COMFORT" which has guided a
      validated and effective communication training for nurses in the care of patients with
      life-threatening illness and their families. NLCS applies 'COMFORT' into a usable nursing
      communication strategy that research nurses use the framework to engage one communication
      session per day with surrogates during the ICU stay. Methods: A single-center pilot
      two-groups comparison study. The study design involves the recruitment of surrogates in the
      ICU to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of the NLCS.
      Analysis: To assess feasibility, we will use descriptive statistics and a COSORT
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) flow diagram to determine recruitment and
      attrition. For acceptability, we will use an unpaired (independent) t test to compare the
      scores of the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8)and between intervention and control
      groups. To evaluate preliminary effects of the intervention, we will compare the pre- and
      post-test scores of the Quality of Communication (QOC) questionnaire, Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale (HADS), and Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) between intervention and control
      groups. It determines whether the NLCS is perceived as appropriate, acceptable, and
      potentially effective. The by-product analysis uses a linear regression to determine which
      factors are associated with the scores of the . This proposal provides an opportunity for the
      first time to develop a theory-grounded nursing communication strategy that is feasible,
      acceptable, and poses low cognitive load for surrogates in the ICU, and it enhances the
      understanding of surrogates' needs in the transition to EOL and thereby potentially improves
      the quality of EOL care. This research training will take place at the University at Buffalo
      School of Nursing, an exceptional research-intensive university, under the mentorship of Dr.
      Chang and Dr. Lorenz (methodology), Dr. Sullivan (EOL studies), and Dr. Wittenberg
      (communication theory). The training plan will provide the investigator with research skills
      and the preliminary data.
    
  