
    
      This randomized control trial (RCT) will evaluate the CARES Dementia-Friendly Hospitals
      online training and certification program. The study will allow up to 400 Allied Health
      Workers (nursing assistants, dietary aides, housekeeping employees, hospital transporters,
      lab/x-ray techs, and unit secretaries) to enroll as research participants from a minimum of
      12 hospitals in three different states.

      RESEARCH STUDY IMMEDIATE AND CONTROL GROUP STUDY REQUIREMENTS

      Participants will be randomly assigned into the immediate training group a the control group.

      Immediate training group participants will complete a consent form, an intake evaluation, and
      have one month to complete the training. At day 45, they will complete an a follow-up
      evaluation (identical to the intake evaluation).

      Control group participants will complete a consent form and an intake evaluation. At day 45,
      they will complete an a follow-up evaluation (identical to the intake evaluation). Once the
      study is completed, each Control participant will be giving full access to the CARES
      Dementia-Friendly Hospitals online training program (at no cost).

      MEASURES INCLUDED IN THE PRE- AND POST-EVALUATIONS

      The pre- and post-evaluations include assessments on knowledge, attitude, sense of
      competency, burnout, job satisfaction, and job productivity, all measured with reliable and
      valid published scales.

      TIME TO COMPLETE THE STUDY:

      The study will take immediate participants approximately 8 hours to complete. The study will
      take control participants approximately 2 hours to complete (each will be given voluntary
      access to the 6-hour program at the end of the study, although this is not a study
      requirement).

      POTENTIAL RISKS:

      There are no anticipated associated risks to participants if they sign up for this study.
      This is an educational program focusing on dementia-friendly hospital strategies.

      COSTS:

      There is no cost to participate in this study.

      INCLUSION REQUIREMENTS:

      Participants must be an allied health worker currently working in a hospital or medical
      center to participate in this study.

      Participants must have access to a computer/tablet/smart phone with access to the Internet.

      Participants must be comfortable reading and speaking in English.

      Participants must be age 21 or older.

      ENROLLMENT DEADLINE:

      January 31, 2020.

      THANK YOU:

      Thank you for the interest in this research study. Participation is encouraged from urban,
      suburban, mid-sized, and rural hospital and medical center staff members.
    
  