
    
      The number of patients and sample size:

      The proportion formula for finite populations was used to determine the sample size (with
      appropriate confidence intervals) needed to find the prevalence of RAMs in naive HIV
      population from Colombia.

      As shown below, estimating 20% of loss, the sample size will be 500 study subjects
      considering a CI 97%.

      The sample size is estimated in 501 patients, considering 1% or less of the probability of
      finding pre-treatment resistance-associated mutations affecting integrase inhibitors, a CI of
      97%, and 20% of blood samples loss or not processable.

      Sample selection:

      The investigators chose 12 cities (Bogotá, Cali, Medellín, Barranquilla, Montería, Cartagena,
      Bucaramanga, Cúcuta, Pereira, Villavicencio, Pasto, and Florencia) in which the majority of
      the HIV population is found in Colombia, accounting for around 80% according to data from the
      High-Cost Account (CAC, in its Spanish acronym) 2016. Moreover, this allows the selection of
      patients with diverse races or ethnic groups.

      The healthcare provider institutions (Instituciones Prestadoras de Salud - IPS in Spanish)
      with integral HIV care programs in accordance with the quality and service requirements
      demanded by the Colombian Ministry of Social Protection.

      The sample will be selected as follows:

        1. Patients will be chosen based on the opportunity to attend the healthcare provider
           institutions (IPS) if they meet the inclusion criteria.

        2. Treating physicians in charge of HIV care in the healthcare provider institutions will
           invite patients to participate upon explanation of the nature, purposes, and benefits of
           the study. If a patient agrees to participate, informed consent will be asked. Once this
           consent is given and the respective written form is signed, the collection of data will
           be collected and a blood sample will be drawn.

        3. If a patient has signed the written informed consent form but does not provide the blood
           sample, he or she will be excluded and another patient will be expected to be included
           in order to complete the sample size calculated for the study.

      Data collection:

      A unique identification code, assigned to each patient, will be registered in the case report
      forms and in the laboratory report. The research group will keep the absolute privacy of
      collected data that relates the patient's name with the identification code.

      Procedures for primary resistance-associated mutations determination in the blood samples:

      Genotyping sequencing will be performed using Sanger method and Sanford database analysis
      criteria, by two different techniques: Plasma RNA and Proviral DNA sequencing, which will
      allow us to compare the performance of this technique to the current gold standard of
      sequencing HIV-1 resistance in plasma samples, aiming to be able to validate it. Both
      techniques will be performed in all samples.

      The samples will be sent for processing for both techniques at Molecular Medicine Laboratory,
      Hospital Clínico Universidad de Chile (Contact: Dr. Pablo A. Ferrer, Santos Dumont 999. Piso
      5. sector E, postal zone: 8380456; phone +56 2 29788592. Email: mmolecular@hcuch.cl)
    
  