
    
      Background:

      Underdiagnosis and undertreatment of elderly persons remains a widespread problem. While many
      innovative geriatric care programs exist within VHA, we still lack a systematic process for
      identifying at-risk elders from the larger VA population who are likely to benefit from
      specialized geriatric services.

      Objectives:

      Our goal is to improve care for at-risk older veterans through a comprehensive system of
      casefinding, assessment, referral and follow-up within the primary care setting. We
      hypothesize that subjects receiving this intervention will have more complete evaluation and
      treatment for selected geriatric conditions (i.e., falls, urinary incontinence, functional
      status impairments, depression, and cognitive deficits), better continuity of care, less
      decline in functional status, and better general health than subjects receiving usual care.

      Methods:

      This randomized controlled trial is being performed at the Sepulveda VA Outpatient Clinic.
      The study sample is composed of community-dwelling veterans aged 65 and older who are not
      receiving VA geriatric services. Veterans are mailed a health screening survey to identify
      those at risk for decline based on criteria established in pilot work. At-risk respondents
      who are in the intervention group receive a structured telephone assessment (casefinding) and
      referral to appropriate geriatric services, including a geriatric assessment and teaching
      clinic integrated with primary care, and telephone case management. Subjects in the control
      group receive usual care. Major outcome measures collected by telephone interview at
      baseline, 12, 24, and 36 months include functional status, self-rated health, satisfaction,
      and health care utilization. Medical records are reviewed for evidence of evaluation and
      treatment of the target conditions.

      Status:

      Data collection for this project was completed on September 30, 2001. The subject recruitment
      phase was completed in August, 1998. Collection of 36 month follow-up data has been completed
      for all subjects enrolled. Data analysis and preparation of publication is in press.
    
  