
    
      This is a phase 2 observational study during which Subjects with chronic heart failure will
      be monitored in their home using the Heartfelt device.

      The participant inclusion criteria will be those patients who are at high risk of hospital
      admission with a primary diagnosis of chronic heart failure or pulmonary oedema due to Heart
      failure (HF), during either of which peripheral oedema was also noted.

      When heart failure decompensates, the amount of peripheral oedema that is clinically
      significant is unknown. The main objective of this study is to characterise the volume
      changes indicative of an increased risk for subsequent hospitalisation.

      Subjects will also be provided with electronic, internet connected weighing scales that can
      transmit data and asked to weigh themselves daily. Temporal changes in weight and volume will
      be compared.

      The study period will be 6 months and is the interval between installation of the Heartfelt
      device and the study end. participants will be made aware that the data collected by the
      device will not be reviewed during the study and therefore that they should continue with
      reporting symptoms and issues as usual to their care team.

      In the event that it takes more than 2 years to recruit 20 participants, the study team will
      stop recruiting after 2 years so the study will be considered complete when all participants
      recruited up to that point have been monitored for 6 months.

      participants under the care of the Trust have the following post diagnosis care:

        -  Patient Education and Training in self management

             -  Daily weighing

             -  Diuretic management

        -  Discharged under cardiologist

        -  Home visit by heart failure nurse (HFN) at 7-10d

        -  Urgent contact info for HF team

        -  Subsequent HF care by

             -  HFN either at home or at community hospital

             -  Consultant cardiologist

      The Heartfelt Device will be provided in addition to these and not replace any of these
      activities.

      During the study period, data will be collected from the Heartfelt device (passively) and a
      set of connected weighing scales (as and when the participant steps on the scales). Any
      decisions made by the subject to seek medical help will not be influenced by the research
      team or the Heartfelt device readings as those would be concealed to the participant and
      research team until appropriate review during the study. The participant will however be able
      to see the readings on the weighing scales as they step on it.

      Retrospective analysis of the participant's notes which may indicate change in medications or
      care will be mapped to the foot volumes and weights collected.

      For those participants for whom decompensation occurs during the study period, the
      participants are seen by their healthcare professionals, and a clinical examination will be
      made as usual in a timely manner to determine the amount of peripheral oedema. This will be
      logged allowing retrospective comparison with the volume measurements.

      The temporal relationship between volume changes and decompensation will be investigated. The
      additional effect of clinical status data will be assessed.

      As the participation in a scientific study is known to modify behaviour, the information
      collected by scales and general reporting frequency of symptoms will be compared to the 6
      months before the study and the 6 months after. The time to recruit participants should
      correct for any seasonal effect on this data.
    
  