
    
      This is a long-term (2-year), randomized (patients will be assigned to treatment by chance),
      double blind (neither the physician nor the patient will know which treatment is assigned)
      study of galantamine versus placebo in subjects with mild to moderately-severe AD.
      Approximately 2,000 patients will participate in this study. The study length for each
      patient is approximately 25.5 months. The study consists of 3 phases: a pretreatment phase, a
      treatment phase, and a posttreatment phase. The pretreatment phase includes a 2-week
      screening period (to obtain a patient's and his or her caregiver's informed consent and to
      confirm eligibility for the study) and a baseline visit at which subjects will be randomly
      assigned, in a 1 to 1 ratio, to receive either galantamine or placebo once a day in the
      morning. Study drug will first be dispensed at the baseline visit. The treatment phase is
      composed of a titration period (the study drug will be introduced gradually) and a
      maintenance period and includes 9 visits (3 of which are conducted by telephone). The
      titration period is 12 weeks long, and visits occur about every 28 days. In the first 4 weeks
      of the titration period, subjects will receive either 8 mg galantamine or matching placebo,
      and this dose will be increased to 16 mg galantamine or placebo in the second 4 weeks. The
      dose will then be increased to 24 mg galantamine or placebo for the final 4 weeks of the
      titration period if the investigator believes the subject will benefit from and will safely
      tolerate 24 mg/day. If not, the subject may continue to receive 16 mg galantamine or placebo
      through the end of the titration period. After the titration period, subjects will enter the
      maintenance period and continue to take study drug at the dosage they received at the end of
      the titration period. This dosage may be continued through the end of the study or may be
      changed once (either up from 16 to 24 mg or down from 24 to 16 mg), depending upon the
      benefit and the safety of such a change for the individual patient as judged by the
      investigator. No dosage will exceed 24 mg/day. The posttreatment phase includes an
      End-of-Study Visit that occurs at the end of the maintenance period. A follow-up telephone
      contact (interview) is conducted 1 month after the End-of-Study Visit. The effectiveness of
      galantamine will be evaluated using the following tools: the Mini-Mental State Examination
      (MMSE); the Disability Assessment in Dementia (DAD); and the Assessment of Patient
      Accommodation Status and Caregiver Burden (APAS CarB). Safety evaluations for the study
      include the monitoring of vital status and institutionalization status, adverse events, vital
      signs, weight, physical and neurologic examinations. A Data Safety Monitoring Board, external
      to the company, has been commissioned for this study to monitor the progress of the study and
      to ensure that the safety of patients is not compromised. The effectiveness hypothesis of
      this study is that galantamine, 16 to 24 mg per day, is superior to placebo in reducing
      cognitive decline from baseline (start of study drug) as measured by the MMSE over the course
      of 2 years. The safety hypothesis is that the mortality rate in the galantamine 16 to 24 mg
      per day treatment group will be the same as that in the placebo group over the course of 2
      years.
    
  