
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of
      nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) when given in
      combination with FHX (5 fluorouracil [fluorouracil], hydroxyurea and twice daily radiation,
      in good induction responders) and of nab-paclitaxel added to hypofractionated radiotherapy
      for poor responders.

      II. To explore the feasibility of a more rapid palliative chemoradiotherapy approach
      inpatients with refractory disease as demonstrated by failure to respond to initial
      chemotherapy.

      III. To explore the role of induction chemotherapy as a predictive tool for definitive head
      and neck cancer management of previously treated patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Progression-free survival (PFS) (time to disease progression or death from any cause) on
      both study arms.

      II. Overall survival and response rates in both arms.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the correlation of secreted protein, acidic, cysteine-rich (SPARC) expression
      in head and neck cancer and response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation.

      RE-INDUCTION THERAPY (WEEKS 1-6): Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving good response undergo surgical
      resection and proceed to chemoradiation within 4-6 weeks.

      AFHX REGIMEN: Patients achieving response to re-induction therapy receive hydroxyurea orally
      (PO) every 12 hours for 6 days (11 doses) beginning on day 0, fluorouracil IV continuously
      over 120 hours beginning on day 0, and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also undergo radiation therapy twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-5. Courses repeat every 14 days for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PACLITAXEL + RADIATION (AXX) REGIMEN: Patients not achieving response to re-induction therapy
      receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV and undergo
      hypofractionated radiation therapy on day 1. Courses repeat every 7 days for 5 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 3 months, every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then yearly thereafter.
    
  