
    
      Anaemia is state of decreased blood oxygen carrying capacity . Acute anaemia is associated
      with increased tissue oxygen extraction . On the other hand, with chronic anaemia human body
      has time to at least partially adapt to decreased blood oxygen carrying capacity , .

      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is non-invasive method to assess tissue oxygenation (StO2)
      and estimate tissue haemoglobin (THb) levels . The investigators have studied skeletal muscle
      StO2 in critically ill patients with preserved oxygen (i.e., cardiogenic shock) and with
      impaired oxygen extraction (i.e., septic shock) , , . In addition to measuring resting StO2,
      the investigators performed vascular occlusion tests to stop arterial blood flow, to estimate
      oxygen consumption, and at the end of the occlusion, it was also possible to estimate
      vascular reactivity and maximal reperfusion capability .

      Under acute blood loss in trauma patients, the skeletal muscle StO2 measured by NIRS
      correlates with blood haemoglobin (Hb) and delivery of oxygen, and can easily detect latent
      stage of haemorrhagic shock . Unexpectedly, chronically anaemic haematology patients with
      preserved oxygen extraction capability did not show low skeletal StO2 and THb index despite
      their severe anaemia, which is what would be predicted from normal physiological responses .

      It is known that there are structural and functional changes to RBCs during storage. Recent
      study detected deleterious effects of RBC storage on microvascular responses to transfusion
      in stable anaemic trauma patients .

      The aim of the present study was to re-challenge the current data that anaemia in chronically
      anaemic haematology patients is not associated with low skeletal muscle StO2, and that the
      age of RBCs does not influence tissue responses. The investigators investigated these aspects
      using improved technology NIRS devices, for deeper tissue penetration and removal of the
      superficial signal from the skin.
    
  