
    
      We are conducting a feasibility study (Vanguard phase) with three Canadian centers :

        1. CHU de Quebec - Laval University, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada

        2. St-Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British-Columbia, Canada

        3. Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

      Other Canadian centers will be offered to join our study if the Vanguard phase demonstrates
      the feasibility of this clinical trial.

      Large scale study

      We anticipate the detection of a 15% absolute risk reduction of POUR in the Experimental
      group in comparison with the Placebo group. To detect a 15% reduction of POUR in the
      Experimental group (10% anticipated) in comparison with the Placebo group (25% anticipated)
      and to assure a study power of 80% with a unilateral Chi2 and a significance level of 5%, we
      need 158 patients in total; 79 in each group.

      Feasibility study (Vanguard phase)

      We expect at least a 60% recruitment rate throughout the three first participating Canadian
      centers, which translates into a mean of 12 patients recruited each month overall. Regarding
      the medication adherence, two studies that evaluated the use patterns and adherence to
      medications for lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia found
      an adherence of 67% to 89%, with a mean of 78%. Based on these two studies, we expect that
      the patients will at least take 80% of the medication at study. To detect an 80% medication
      adherence with a 95% confidence interval, we need 62 enrolled patients.

      The research pharmacy at the CHU de Quebec - Laval University will be responsible for
      preparing the study drug. The active medication or the placebo (sugar) will be encapsulated
      using identical capsules. The research pharmacy at the coordinating center will provide the
      study drug and the placebo to the other participating centers. There will be a quality
      control of the capsules; a temperature monitor will be in the boxes sent to the other centers
      and a control on the expiration date will be made. The capsules that are not used will be
      destroyed at each center. The randomization will be kept at the CHU de Quebec - Laval
      University research center. Patients will be stratified by center.

      The patients are asked to report any potential adverse effect and our data safety monitoring
      board will meet annually to assess these or sooner if any adverse effect is serious.

      We justify the duration of the intervention by the time needed to reach a steady state, which
      is estimated to be 4 to 5 days. The 7-day therapy is also based on the study from Patel et
      al, which showed a significant reduction of acute urinary retention with a 7-day intake of
      tamsulosin. It is the common and recommended dose used in other patient population.

      Data collection

      Patients will be identified by a study number in the study database. A master list of
      participants linking their study number with their medical record number will be kept in the
      computer of the PI at every research center participating in the study, and will be password
      protected. Data will be collected prospectively at the bedside during the study period.

      Statistical analysis

      First, a descriptive analysis of the population at study will be performed for socio-
      demographic, anthropometric and clinical characteristics. The means, standard deviations,
      medians and interquartile ranges will be presented as continuous numerical variables, while
      the frequencies and percentages will be determined for categorical variables. In the
      large-scale study, a Chi-square test or Fisher Exact test, if appropriate, will be used for
      the analysis of the primary endpoint, which is the comparison of the rate of POUR in the
      Experimental group with the rate of POUR in the Placebo group. This same test will also be
      helpful in the analysis of the secondary endpoints. If the patient doesn't take all of his
      medication or his surgery is cancelled he will still be included, since this will be an
      intention-to-treat analysis. Sub-group analyses will be performed to evaluate the impact of
      the tumour's characteristics, the duration of the surgery, the volume of intravenous fluids
      received during the intervention, the type of anaesthesia and the International Prostate
      Symptom Score (IPSS).

      Potential conflicts of interest

      This is an investigator-led study that is independent and not sponsored by the industry. The
      study is funded through local funds (CHU de Quebec - Laval University, Department of Surgery)
      as well as from in-kind funding of the institution.
    
  