
    
      Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women in the United States, with an estimated
      211,240 new cases of invasive breast cancer diagnosed among women, and 1,700 diagnosed in
      men, in 2005. While cure rates have improved significantly, chemotherapy for breast cancer is
      associated with a number of negative side effects. One of which is a deficit in cognitive
      function, a condition commonly referred to as "chemobrain". While the debate about cognitive
      decline being a result of chemotherapy is still ongoing, there is clear evidence of cognitive
      decline in women with breast cancer post-chemotherapy. Cognitive decline is often reported to
      affect memory, attention, executive functioning and information processing speed.

      Studies suggest that incidence of "chemobrain" ranges from 17% - 75% in women who have
      undergone chemotherapy.This cognitive impairment affects quality of life by impacting
      patients' ability to concentrate, make decisions and to fulfill family, career, and community
      responsibilities.

      Although there is uncertainty about the mechanisms that can lead to this cognitive decline,
      there is a pressing need to identify interventions that will alleviate its symptoms and help
      breast cancer survivors recover their cognitive functioning and resume their roles and
      activities at the pre-cancer level.

      Brain plasticity refers to the brain's capacity for physical and functional change; it is
      this capacity that explains how experience induces learning throughout life. On the basis of
      a growing body of literature in the fields of psychophysics, neurology, neuropsychology, and
      brain plasticity, we hypothesize that the brain processing machinery can be refined,
      elaborated, and strengthened through rigorous training and learning. The purpose of this
      study is to investigate if such training can improve cognitive functioning.

      We hypothesize that continuous active interaction with environments that are demanding to
      sensory, cognitive, and motor systems, together with imbedded rewards for successful
      performance will help improve memory and cognitive functioning in patients suffering from
      "chemobrain".
    
  