
    
      Previously we proposed to conduct a follow-up study of kidney cancer in the high risk region
      of Central and Eastern Europe. This study was conducted through the follow-up of a group of
      patients with kidney cancer, that were previously enrolled in the study entitled, Occupation,
      Genetic Susceptibility Kidney Cancer: Central European Case-Controls Study, PI Dr. Wong-Ho
      Chow, OEEB, DCEG, NCI, protocol No 01-C-NO63, a study for which field work and data analyses
      of the case control study were completed. We had originally planned to conduct the follow-up
      study in seven centers in four countries, including Romania, Poland, Russia, and the Czech
      Republic. In each center, cancer-related information was to be extracted from vital
      statistics, cancer registry, and/or medical records. For deceased patients, next-of-kin were
      to be interviewed using a brief questionnaire.

      A pilot study was conducted to determine the feasibility of collecting survival information
      including 5-year survival status, date of death, cause of death, and date of last follow-up
      if alive from 220 cases across the seven collaborating centers. The feasibility of extracting
      additional data including surgical and medical treatment procedures used to treat primary
      disease, the recurrence and progression of primary disease was also determined. However,
      based on results obtained from the pilot study, we determined that it is feasible to collect
      follow-up data from kidney cancer cases from four centers in the Czech Republic and one
      center in both Poland and Russia.

      Medical records/archives for Romanian cases were located in hospitals that were completely
      destroyed during reconstruction therefore, it was impossible to collect any information from
      this subset of patients. Exclusion of these records will not affect study power since most of
      the cases were from the Czech Republic. The objective of our proposed study remains the
      same:( 1) to assess the 5-year survival status of kidney cancer patients in the Central and
      Easter European Renal Cell Carcinoma Study; (2) to examine prevalence of recurrent disease
      and progression; (3) to investigate additional patient-tumor-and genetic determinant of
      5-year survival in cases.
    
  