
    
      More than 90% of the malaria occurs in sub-Saharan Africa (WHO 2008), the region bearing 67%
      of the global HIV burden (WHO 2011). Given the extensive overlap in geographical distribution
      of these diseases, interactions between them could have profound public health consequences.
      Significant biological interactions exist between HIV and malaria. HIV is known to increase
      susceptibility to malaria infection (Whitworth, Morgan et al. 2000), compromise the host's
      ability to clear malaria parasites (characterised by higher parasite densities) (Francesconi,
      Fabiani et al. 2001), increase the risk of symptomatic malaria and contribute to malaria
      treatment failure (Hewitt, Steketee et al. 2006). In areas of unstable transmission, malaria
      mortality is higher in HIV-positive individuals. Additionally, placental malaria infection in
      HIV positive individuals is associated with higher perinatal mortality, low birth weight and
      HIV transmission, and this effect is not attenuated in subsequent pregnancies, in contrast
      with HIV-negative individuals. Conversely, malaria infection has been shown to increase HIV
      viral load (Hoffman, Jere et al. 1999, Kublin, Patnaik et al. 2005), with the potential for
      both accelerated HIV disease progression and increased HIV transmission (Abu-Raddad, Patnaik
      et al. 2006).

      As of September 2011, Uganda had 1.4 million people living with HIV/AIDS; of those with
      clinically advanced disease, 54% (313 117) were receiving ART (WHO). As southern African
      countries are scaling up coverage of ART, they have also stepped up the fight against Pf
      malaria by increasing the coverage of Insecticide Treated Nets and by adopting the use of
      artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) as first line treatment of malaria (USAID
      2011). AL and AS-AQ are the most commonly utilized regimens in sub-Saharan Africa for first
      line treatment for malaria (WHO 2008).

      As a consequence of high rates of HIV-malaria co-infection and increasing availability of
      both ACTs and ART in southern Africa, progressively more co-infected people will receive both
      classes of drugs. However, the pharmacokinetics, safety and/or efficacy of ACTs such as AL,
      AS-AQ and DHA-piperaquine in HIV-infected individuals who are on ART are poorly understood.
      Many efficacy studies conducted as part of the drug development process of ACTs have either
      not assessed the HIV status of study participants or systematically excluded HIV-infected
      individuals. Few studies have systematically evaluated for potential drug-drug interactions
      in a healthy volunteer setting.

      Study Design

      Open label, fixed sequence healthy volunteer study to compare pharmacokinetic interactions
      between DTG and AL (Study A; crossover design), or AS-AQ (Study B; parallel group design).
      Whilst a cross-over study design would be theoretically ideal for investigating both ACTs in
      combination with DTG, desethylamodiaquine, an active metabolite of AQ has an extensive
      terminal t1/2 of approximately 10 days; therefore it is not considered feasible to undertake
      a cross-over design for this arm of the study, since the washout period between the two
      phases would exceed two months, risking subject attrition. Furthermore, during that time
      period, intercurrent illnesses and other important changes may occur within a subject,
      leading changes in eligibility for the study. Therefore, two study designs are planned as
      detailed in the Study Design Section.
    
  