
    
      The treatments used in this program include several standard chemotherapy agents
      (fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone). Also, immune therapy agents will be given,
      including rituximab (a monoclonal antibody that attacks B-cells, which is what this type of
      lymphoma is made of), and Ibritumomab tiuxetan (another similar monoclonal antibody, which
      delivers radiation to the lymphoma cells to strengthen the attack).

      You will receive rituximab on Days 1 and 8 of the first cycle, and on Day 1 only of Cycles
      2-4 of the monthly cycles of chemotherapy, called R-FND. R-FND includes rituximab and
      fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone. Fludarabine will be given for 3 days,
      mitoxantrone for 1 day, and dexamethasone for 5 days of each 28-day cycle (FND). After 4
      cycles of R-FND, you will receive Ibritumomab tiuxetan. After the Ibritumomab tiuxetan, you
      will receive rituximab every 2 months for 1 year. All are given by vein. Sometimes
      dexamethasone can be given in pill form.

      During the study, you will have blood tests (about 2 tablespoons), sometimes every week.
      Every 2 cycles, you will have a chest x-ray and CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis. Bone
      marrow samples will be taken. Heart function tests will be done as needed.

      If you desire, it may be possible for you to receive some of your study treatment at home
      (from your home doctor). Your study doctor will discuss this possibility with you. If this is
      the case, your home doctor will receive a letter telling him about this study and asking him
      if he wishes to participate in your treatments. He will be asked to provide the study doctors
      at M. D. Anderson specific information about your treatments and any side effects you may
      have. All communications between your home doctor and your study doctors will be included as
      part of your M. D. Anderson medical record.

      After the study ends, you will return for checkups every 3 months in the first year, every 4
      months in Years 2 and 3, and every 6 months in Years 4 and 5. After that, checkups will be
      needed once a year. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and bone marrow samples will be taken at
      these visits.

      This is an investigational study. Ibritumomab tiuxetan and rituximab are approved by the FDA
      for commercial use. The other drugs used in the study are also approved for commercial use by
      the FDA. About 50 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  