
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veteran's Healthcare. Ending homelessness among veterans is a major
      priority for VA. Veterans represent between one in four and one in three homeless adults.
      Almost 200,000 veterans are homeless each night. Rhode Island has the second highest per
      capita concentration of homeless persons in the United States and an estimated 2,000 homeless
      veterans. Half report unmet service needs related to substance use disorders. The VA is a
      major service provider to homeless persons and has developed innovative housing assistance
      programs. However, sobriety is required to access many housing services. Effective
      medication-assisted treatment for the alcohol-dependent, homeless population could improve
      their substance use, health care utilization and housing stability. If depot naltrexone is a
      useful tool for engaging alcohol-dependent, homeless veterans in effective treatment, a
      definitive study showing its effect would lead to fewer restrictions on depot naltrexone on
      the VA formulary, and expand access to effective medication-assisted treatment.

      Project Background/Rationale. A dearth of residential long-term rehabilitation beds makes an
      initial period of sobriety necessary in order for homeless persons to access needed
      transitional sheltering in order to participate in outpatient alcohol treatment. Many
      alcohol-dependent homeless veterans find it difficult to achieve a period of sobriety.
      Clinical trials suggest that depot naltrexone is more efficacious than placebo in improving
      alcohol consumption among alcohol-dependent subjects, but depot naltrexone is expensive and
      has limited availability in many VA Medical Centers. Oral naltrexone is widely available but
      seldom used. This work seeks to examine the effect of depot versus oral naltrexone to help
      homeless alcohol dependent veterans.

      Project Objectives. This open-label pilot study will compare the effect of 16-weeks of depot
      versus oral naltrexone among housing-seeking, alcohol dependent, homeless veterans. Outcomes
      will include alcohol consumption, housing stability, emergency department and hospital
      utilization, and substance abuse treatment participation. These preliminary data will
      evaluate the feasibility and effect size to allow the design of a larger, more definitive
      study of whether, compared to the oral naltrexone condition, the depot naltrexone group will
      experience: greater proportion of days abstinent and fewer drinks per drinking day; shorter
      time to achieve 30 days sobriety; more improvement in housing stability; fewer emergency
      department visits and hospitalizations and greater attendance at substance abuse treatment
      (number of visits attended).

      Project Methods. Over 5 months, 20 homeless, alcohol dependent veterans will be recruited
      from the waiting lists for transitional or permanent housing at the Providence VA Medical
      Center. Using block randomization to stratify by current duration of abstinence (less than 7
      days vs. 7 or more days) and sheltering (doubled-up/unsheltered/emergency vs. transitional
      sheltered), subjects will be assigned to either injection with depot naltrexone 380 mg.
      monthly or oral naltrexone 50 mg daily for 16 weeks. All will have medical visits with
      medication management counseling every 4 weeks with during the treatment period. Referrals
      will be made to needed services in keeping with standard practice. Research assessments at
      baseline and every 4 weeks through week 24 will assess alcohol consumption through
      self-report on calendar-based interviews, breathalyzer and liver enzyme testing. Primary
      outcomes will be alcohol consumption and time from randomization-to-30-day-sobriety.
      Secondary outcomes will include housing stability (across 5 ordered categories), emergency
      department and hospital utilization, and alcohol treatment participation from administrative
      data, CPRS abstracting and self-report.
    
  