
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if administering adjuvant systemic chemotherapy after chemoradiotherapy
           will improve disease-free survival compared to chemoradiotherapy alone in patients with
           high-risk early-stage cervical carcinoma found to have positive nodes and/or positive
           parametria after radical hysterectomy.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate adverse events.

        -  To evaluate overall survival.

        -  To evaluate quality of life.

        -  To evaluate chemotherapy-induced neuropathy.

        -  To perform a post-hoc dose-volume evaluation between patients treated with standard
           radiotherapy and patients treated with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) with
           respect to toxicity and local control.

        -  To collect fixed tissue samples to identify tumor molecular signatures that may be
           associated with patient outcomes, such as adverse events, disease-free survival, and
           overall survival.

        -  To collect blood samples to identify secreted factors from serum and plasma that may be
           associated with adverse events or outcome and to identify single nucleotide
           polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes from buffy coat that may be associated with a genetic
           predisposition to tumor formation itself or a response to cytotoxic therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to planned use of
      brachytherapy (no vs. yes), radiotherapy modality - [standard external beam radiotherapy
      (EBRT) vs. intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)], and radiotherapy dose (45 Gy vs. 50.4
      Gy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard EBRT or IMRT to the pelvis once daily 5 days a week for
           5-6 weeks. Patients also receive concurrent cisplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly for 6
           weeks.

      NOTE: Some patients may also undergo brachytherapy beginning within 7 days after completion
      of radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive chemoradiotherapy as in arm I. Beginning 4-6 weeks after
           completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
           carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Gynecologic
      Oncology Group (FACT-GOG/NTX4), FACT-Cx, and FACIT-D questionnaires at baseline; at the
      completion of chemoradiotherapy; and then at 6, 12, and 24 months after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy.

      Blood and tissue samples may be collected for gene expression analysis by
      immuno-histochemistry (IHC) and for biomarker and polymorphism studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up very 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  