
    
      Levodopa induced dyskinesia (LID) is a major problem associated with chronic use of levodopa
      (LD) for symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). LD remains our most potent
      therapy and nearly all PD patients will use it. A substantial portion of them will experience
      LID, with the impact ranging from non-interfering to severely disabling. The objective of
      this study is to develop reliable and sensitive objective measures of LID that will quantify
      muscular control and postural stability in subjects with dyskinesia.

      While the "gold standard" of measuring LID is the subjective RS, we will determine if
      objective biochemical devices will equal the reliability and validity of CRS. We hypothesize
      that force plate technology quantifies postural sway movements best, and pinch-grip will best
      quantify muscle overflow force during voluntary movements.

      We will compare two biomechanical devices and a traditional clinical rating scale (CRS). Once
      biomechanical instrument measures LID in the setting of voluntary muscle activity, the other
      acquires LID data related to postural sway.. A cross-section of LD-treated patients with and
      without clinically apparent dyskinesia will be used to assess the measures.

      32 subjects will be invited to participate, 24 with PD and 8 age-matched controls (likely
      unaffected spouses) without neurologic disease. Of the PD patients 7 will have no clinically
      apparent dyskinesia, 7 will have mild dyskinesia and 7 with moderate to severe dyskinesia
      will be recruited (3 additional subjects are included to account for missing data or
      drop-outs).

      They will comfortably stand with their feet placed in a preset marked stance on the force
      plate either with or without a mental task and pick up a pinch-grip device multiple times.
      Testing will be done in the effective motor "on" and "off" states to establish validity and
      reliability of instrument data, as these states often reflect the usual clinical experience
      of patients. The second method for rating dyskinesia will be the Clinical Rating Scale.
      Subjects will be rated while standing on the force plate during both mental task and
      non-mental task conditions.

      All subjects will undergo this testing. Healthy subjects will undergo this testing three
      times during one visit. Subjects with PD will be admitted overnight, and have seven testing
      periods which will vary in the number of times the procedures will be done. Inpatient
      subjects will also receive 1mg/kg/hr or 1.5mg/kg/hr of intravenous levodopa depending on
      their everyday usage of levodopa or levodopa equivalent medications for 2 hours (9AM - 11AM)
      with carbidopa 25 mg po at 8AM, 10AM and noon to prevent nausea.
    
  