
    
      Long term nucleoside/nucleotide analogues (NAs) treatment is required in the treatment of
      chronic hepatitis B (CHB). According to current treatment guidelines from APASL 2015, NAs
      treatment can be stopped if, after HBsAg loss following either anti-HBs seroconversion or at
      least 12 months of a post-HBsAg clearance consolidation period or after treatment for at
      least 2 years with undetectable HBV DNA documented on three separate occasions, 6 months
      apart. In Taiwan, the National Health Insurance system only reimburse 3 years NAs for CHB
      patients. Previous study from Jeng et al. suggested that the 1-year rate of clinical relapse
      (HBV DNA>2,000 IU/mL plus ALT>2X ULN) after cessation of entecavir(ETV) therapy by APASL
      stopping rule (treatment >2 years, HBV DNA undetectable >1 year) in HBeAg-negative chronic
      hepatitis B(CHB) patients was 45%, of which 25.6% occurred within 6 months. Recently, another
      study from Jeng et al showed that 34 HBeAg(-) patients who stopped TDF therapy by APASL
      stopping rule were followed-up every 1-3 months for >6 months. Of these 34 patients, mean age
      was 51.8 years, 82.4% were males and 14(41.2%) were cirrhotic. The 1-year cumulative clinical
      relapse rate was 46%, of which 93.3% occurred within 6 months, and 13.3% developed
      decompensation. Clinical relapse occurred much earlier and tended to be more severe after
      cessation of TDF than ETV. The follow-up interval and intensity would be different between
      ETV and TDF after discontinuation of therapy. Whether switch therapy from TDF to ETV can
      modify the pattern of relapse is interesting but unclear. Our hypothesis is that entecavir
      consolidation on post-TDF treatment patients reduce and delay the clinical relapse
      effectively. Hence in this proof of concept study we would like to evaluate the effect of 6
      months and 12 months of entecavir consolidation on post-TDF treatment durability.
    
  