
    
      Introduction Breast cancer is the most common tumour type in women worldwide. The success of
      the treatment of breast cancer have improved hence the prevalence of survivors have increased
      (American Cancer Society). However, experienced side effects from the cancer itself or from
      cancer treatments is substantial. Anti-cancer treatment can have a number of side-effects
      including nausea, fatigue, vomiting, anorexia and alopecia (1 - 3). However, some side
      effects such as cancer-related fatigue (CRF) are very persistent. CRF is a common adverse
      effect of cancer and cancer therapy, and effects the quality of life of the patients (4). The
      definition of CRF from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) is that it is "a
      distressing, persistent, subjective sense of physical, emotional and/or cognitive tiredness,
      related to cancer or cancer treatment, that is not proportional to recent activity and
      interferes with usual functioning" (5). It is important to point out that CRF is a form of
      fatigue that are different from normal fatigue which everyone can experience every now and
      then. The symptoms of CRF is under-reported by patients and underestimated and undertreated
      by clinicians, despite the prevalence and negative impact of CRF (6). It is recommended to
      patients that they are screened for CRF after completion of primary treatment and that they
      are offered specific information and strategies for management of the fatigue (7). Getting
      CRF as a side-effect after cancer treatment can have a major impact in their life.

      In Norway on average 3090 women are diagnosed with breast cancer each year, giving a
      incidence rate per 100 000 persons of 121,0. In 2014, 3348 patients were diagnosed with
      breast cancer. The prevalence of fatigue is high in breast cancer survivors (BCS), with some
      studies reporting as many as 50% of the patients experiencing this (8). In a meta-analysis
      involving 12327 BCS, concluded that approximately one in four BCS suffers from severe fatigue
      (9). Several different treatments have been recommended for CRF such as exercise,
      psychosocial intervention, pharmacological interventions and mind-body interventions (4).
      From several randomized trials mind-body interventions such as yoga and acupuncture has been
      shown to relieve fatigue in cancer survivors (7). These studies, have however not focused
      solely on BCS but included other cancer types as well (10). Acupuncture has been shown to
      have an effect on CRF (10,11). A recent meta-analysis on CRF and acupuncture is positive (12)
      In Norway BCS are offered treatment such as cognitive behaviour therapy, exercise, relaxation
      techniques, yoga and nutritional coaching for their CRF. The use of acupuncture in the
      treatment of chemotherapeutic induced nausea is well established in Norway (13), also a
      Norwegian study on acupuncture on hot flashes in breast cancer patients has been published
      (14). The patients are found to be positive to acupuncture (15,16). In US acupuncture seems
      to have found its place in several hospitals which offers integrative medicine care to cancer
      patients (10).

      Methodological approach A pragmatic, randomised controlled trial At the moment the study
      group, behind this present application, is running a pilot study on fatigue in breast cancer
      survivors with acupuncture as the intervention. This pilot study has been approved by the
      Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics (REK sør-øst A; reference
      2017/2197). The purpose of conducting this pilot study is to examine the feasibility of our
      approach that is intended to be used in the planned larger randomised controlled study. Hence
      the design and methodological approach of the study in question wil be equal to the ongoing
      pilot study. By doing this the investigators can evaluate the feasibility of recruitment,
      randomization, collaboration, assessment procedures, and implementation of acupuncture. This
      will help us also to identify, revisions, if any, needed in the design of the larger,
      pragmatic randomised trial.

      The intention with the pragmatic, RCT is to test acupuncture as a complete treatment package,
      i.e. including the therapeutic relationship and expectation, and address the important
      question of the overall effect of acupuncture-care, which is highly relevant to breast cancer
      survivors experiencing CRF. This question concerning the overall effect of acupuncture is
      also of importance for their health care providers and health authorities in general. As such
      a pragmatic trial will help users choose between options for care, and ''explanatory'' to
      describe trials that test causal research hypotheses (i.e., that a given intervention causes
      a particular benefit).Further, a pragmatic trials are primarily designed to determine the
      effects of an intervention under the usual conditions in which it will be applied, whereas
      explanatory trials are primarily designed to determine the effects of an intervention under
      ideal circumstances.

      Baseline assessment includes sociodemographic data, medical and gynaecological history,
      previous experience with acupuncture, which other self-provided and therapist-provided
      interventions they have used earlier to relieve fatigue, current use of drugs and dietary
      supplements, level of physical activity, smoking status and level of alcohol consumption.

      At each treatment session the acupuncturists ask specifically about, and record, any adverse
      events that have occurred during or after the last treatment, and adverse event forms are
      filled in at 4, 8 and 12 weeks.

      Fatigue, and the severity of it, will be measured at inclusion/baseline, just after
      acupuncture treatment. This will be measured after 12 weeks after the inclusion in the
      control group; thereafter in both groups at 6 months after baseline evaluation. All secondary
      measurements will be measured at the same time intervals.

      Participants and recruitment Women between 18-60 yrs who are defined as breast cancer
      survivors by their respective cancer hospital will be invited to take part in the study.To
      achieve a homogenues group of participants an important inclusion criteria be that they are
      treated with Tamoxifen. The potential participants will be given written information about
      the study - no further information will be given by the health personnell at the hospital. If
      they want to participate, after reading the information, the participants have to sign the
      paper and send it to Kristiania University College/AcuBreast study by a pre addressed and
      stamped envelope. Thereafter the research team will contact the potential participants. Women
      who are interested in participating, will than register their fatigue on a Visual Analog Pain
      Scale (VAS); women scoring ≥4 will be eligible. Participants will be excluded if they have
      needle phobia; low platelet count (<50 000); co-morbidity with a bleeding disorder;
      co-morbidity with thyroid dysfunction; planned to be pregnant during the study period or
      present pregnant; haemoglobin levels <10 g/dl and haematocrit <30; anaemia on active
      pharmacological treatment or receiving blood transfusion or steroids, and life expectancy <6
      months. In addition, lymphoedematous limbs are excluded from needling.

      Randomization Our collaborating statistician from the University of Bergen, will prepare the
      randomisation database and acts as a central randomisation service.

      Acupuncture group The women randomized to acupuncture treatment will receive 12 acupuncture
      treatments during 8-12 weeks. The participating acupuncturists must have finished their
      Bachelor degree in acupuncture at least 5 years ago and they will be members of the "The
      Norwegian Acupuncture Association". The form of acupuncture used in this trial will be based
      upon theories from Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). The diagnostic process in TCM is
      complex and unique. It is a procedure that guides the practitioners to establish for
      themselves a correct treatment according to their theoretical knowledge and clinical
      experience within Chinese medicine. Taking a medical history according to TCM theories, match
      somehow the experience of a ''lived body.'' Hence added to the acupuncture treatment, there
      could be given relevant advices in relation to diet, exercise, rest and sex. Such advices are
      common within TCM; all advices given would be registered within the study in question.

      Control group Our control group will do "business as usual". Hence they will continue with
      their usual care for their CRF. By inclusion in the pilot study and by the end of it, the
      participants in the control group will fill in the requested and similar instruments as the
      participants in the acupuncture group.

      Safety of acupuncture and special procedures for our patient group. Acupuncture in general
      has been reported to be safe in the hands of well-educated acupuncturists (17-19). Special
      precautions have been described for treating cancer patients with acupuncture (20). Avoid
      needling the arm of patients who have undergone axillary dissection, the same applies for any
      lymphedematous limbs. Possible participants with low platelet count; comorbidity with a
      bleeding disorder or are planning pregnancy within the study period will be excluded.

      Data analysis All analyses will be conducted blinded to group allocation. The primary
      analysis is intention-to-treat, comparing mean changes from baseline to end of treatment
      after 12 weeks in the two groups, using a two-sample t-test. In the presence of meaningful
      baseline differences, analysis of covariance will be employed. It is anticipated that the
      data will be somewhat right-skewed, therefore analyses will be checked after appropriate data
      conversion, and also checked using non-parametric methods. Secondary analyses will compare
      the changes at different time points. Secondary measures will be analyzed using appropriate
      parametric or non-parametric methods. Subgroup analyses include per-protocol analyses to
      assess efficacy of acupuncture care, and comparison of changes in fatigue scores among women
      grouped by TCM syndromes.

      Data and safety monitoring The study is performed according to the Helsinki declaration and
      Good Clinical Practice requirements. Application for approval of the studies will be sent to
      the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics (REK sør-øst).

      Dissemination and communications strategy The investigators will utilize dissemination and
      public outreach to boost the impact of the work in the research project. Scientific results
      will be published in high-impact journals, and results will be presented on national and
      international scientific meetings.

      Project management Professor Terje Alraek, at Kristiania University College, Institute of
      Health Sciences, has worked within the field of acupuncture for more than 30 years. First and
      still as a clinician and from 1994 has he been involved in research on acupuncture. He has
      during his research initiated, been invited to and developed several international groups of
      researcher with interest in acupuncture. Alraek and the foreign members of the established
      research group have published a substantial amount of scientific papers and they have also
      published many books in relation to all the problems of doing research on such a complex
      intervention as acupuncture.

      The research team are happy to have managed to have one national- and two important
      international cancer centers as collaborating partners on this project. Our collaborating
      partners in US besides being researchers, are also experienced clinicians in treating
      breastcancer survivors with acupuncture for fatigue at their respective centers.

      User involvement The user representative has a special responsibility for ensuring that the
      research is in line with the preferences, values and needs of breast cancer patients
      suffering from CRF.
    
  