
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether the extent of inhibition of ERK phosphorylation in lung cancer cells
           exposed ex vivo and in vivo to erlotinib hydrochloride significantly differs between
           responding and nonresponding patients with relapsed, metastatic or unresectable
           non-small cell lung cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether the extent of inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
           and AKT phosphorylation in lung cancer cells exposed ex vivo and in vivo to erlotinib
           hydrochloride significantly differs between these 2 groups of patients.

        -  Correlate the extent of inhibition of EGFR, ERK, and AKT phosphorylation in lung cancer
           cells exposed ex vivo with erlotinib hydrochloride with in vivo objective tumor response
           to erlotinib hydrochloride in these patients.

        -  Correlate EGFR gene mutation and amplification status with pharmacodynamic evidence of
           response to erlotinib hydrochloride in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, pilot study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo tumor fine-needle aspiration biopsies under ultrasound or CT scan guidance
      at baseline and between days 12-15 for laboratory studies. Laboratory studies include
      quantitative western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, gene mutation and
      amplification, and ex vivo assays. Tumor cells are also analyzed for changes in
      phosphorylation status and/or expression levels of pharmacodynamic markers, including total-
      and phospho-epidermal growth factor receptor, total- and phospho-ERK, and total- and
      phospho-AKT.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  