
    
      OVERVIEW: We anticipate that the data we collect will help us better understand some of the
      factors associated with improved coping, treatment compliance, and emotional adjustment,
      which, in turn, may suggest possible interventions to improve compliance, emotional
      adjustment, and general physical health. Specific hypotheses include the following:

        1. Subjects who score high on measures of positive coping will have greater levels of
           treatment compliance and psychological well-being.

        2. Subjects who score high on measures of negative coping will have lower levels of
           treatment compliance and psychological well-being.

        3. Subjects who score high on measures of positive religious coping will have greater
           levels of treatment compliance and psychological well being.

        4. Subjects who score high on measures of negative religious coping will have lower levels
           of treatment compliance and psychological well-being.

        5. Subjects who score high on measures of internal locus of control will have higher levels
           of treatment compliance and psychological well-being compared to subjects who score low
           on measures of internal locus of control.

        6. Subjects who score high on measures of treatment compliance will have higher levels of
           physical health.

        7. We do not anticipate a positive correlation between positive coping mechanisms and
           general physical health; however, subjects who score high on measures of negative coping
           may have lower levels of general physical health (e.g., lower PFTs, increased rates and
           lengths of hospitalizations) probably due to third variables (e.g., if someone uses
           denial as a coping mechanism, it may lead to poor treatment compliance, which may lead
           to declines in physical health).

        8. Anecdotal evidence suggests that parental education may be positively correlated with
           treatment compliance, but this has not been evaluated. Likewise, anecdotal evidence
           suggest that marital status may be correlated with treatment compliance (probably
           because of third variables, e.g., if, as much research suggests, divorce is related to
           lower SES and fewer social supports, these factors may in turn interfere with treatment
           compliance). Two questions on the demographic sheet will allow us to explore whether or
           not this may be worth exploring further.
    
  