
    
      Following IRB approval, the investigators plan to enroll 60 pregnant women (30 in the spinal
      anesthesia group (SAG), and 30 patients in the Wiley spinal catheter group (WSCG)) undergoing
      cesarean delivery. Patients will be randomly assigned to one of these two groups.

      Both groups will undergo the standard procedures involved in placement of a spinal anesthetic
      in the sitting position. The SAG will have their drugs dosed intrathecally as a "single shot"
      while still in the sitting position. The WSCG will have a Wiley spinal catheter placed, but
      it will not be dosed until the patient is in the supine position with left uterine
      displacement. Both groups will be dosed with 12 mg of 0.75% hyperbaric bupivacaine, 10 mcg of
      fentanyl, and 100 mcg of morphine. While the SAG will receive their total dose as a one time
      bolus, the WSCG patients will receive the medication in sequential doses.

      Blood pressure will be monitored every minute after spinal medication is administered until
      delivery of the baby. Thereafter, it will be monitored at least every 3 minutes. Any blood
      pressure below 90, 80 and 70% of baseline will be treated with 50, 100 and 150 mcg of
      phenylephrine, respectively.

      In the WSC group, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will be collected prior to intrathecal dosing,
      and then 1 and 5 hours post-spinal utilizing a three-way stopcock incorporated into the IT
      catheter.

      All CSF samples will be analyzed for various nociceptive and inflammatory biochemical
      mediators using a multiplex bead array immunoassay plate. Venous blood will be drawn prior to
      spinal dosing and 5 hours afterwards to measure the same cytokines and biochemical mediators.

      Participants will be followed for 2 days post cesarean section to monitor for episodes of a
      spinal or post dural puncture headache (PDPH). A PDPH is defined as an occipital or frontal
      headache brought on by the erect posture and relieved when the supine posture is assumed. If
      the PDPH persists longer than 24 h with the same severity, an epidural blood patch (EBP) will
      be performed. The decision to perform an EBP will always be made by a staff anesthesiologist.
      Headaches will be monitored daily for 3 days, then at 1 week. Patients will be treated for
      their headaches per standard methods by an anesthesiologist not involved in the study.

      Postoperative pain will be recorded at rest and sitting at 1, 5, 24, 48h post-cesarean using
      a VPS 0-10 (0=no pain, 10=worse pain imaginable) measure. The area of secondary hyperalgesia
      surrounding the wound will be measured at 48hours with a von Frey filament. A color laser
      Doppler will also be used to assess vascular perfusion of the wound 48 hours after surgery.
    
  