
    
      Background:

      Foetal distress which refers to fetal heart rate of less than 120 or more than 160 beats per
      minute(Pildner von Steinburg et al., 2013) during labour is one of the contributing factors
      to poor newborn outcomes. A proportion of these newborns will require interventions after
      birth such as resuscitation, oxygen therapy, antibiotics and prolonged hospital admissions.
      According to a retrospective study in Nigeria, 23% of foetuses diagnosed with fetal distress
      were born with asphyxia which is a major cause of newborn deaths(Adanikin & Awoleke, 2017).
      Several interventions to optimise fetal wellbeing as preparations for birth are being
      instituted have been suggested. These include amnio-infusion, maternal positioning,
      tocolysis, oxygen administration and intravenous fluid bolus(Bullens, van Runnard Heimel, van
      der Hout-van, & Oei, 2015; Simpson, 2007). Reviews of intrauterine resuscitation techniques
      have reported sufficient evidence for use of tocolysis and maternal repositioning to improve
      fetal pH and Apgar scores(Bullens et al., 2015; Velayudhareddy & Kirankumar, 2010). Although
      oxygen is used in several settings for intrauterine resuscitation(Dawood & Al-Arnous, 2002;
      Siriussawakul et al., 2014), its effect when used in labour for management of foetal distress
      remains debatable. In a Cochrane review to evaluate efficacy of oxygen administration in
      preventing fetal distress, only two clinical trials were found. There was evidence that the
      fetal arterial partial pressures of oxygen were improved by oxygen administration although
      there was a negative effect on pH levels. There is insufficient evidence to recommend or
      disprove use of oxygen for intrauterine resuscitation(Fawole & Hofmeyr, 2012). This therefore
      creates sufficient equipoise to undertake this study. In low resource setting where pregnant
      women are most likely to have anaemia, suffer from malaria and other infections, the role of
      oxygen for intrauterine resuscitation needs to be explored.

      Aim: This study will assess the effect of administration of oxygen to women with fetal
      distress in the first stage of labour on fetal and early neonatal outcomes in a low resource
      setting.

      Hypothesis: Administering 100% oxygen for 15 minutes to women with fetal distress will reduce
      the rate of fetal distress by 30% in the first stage of labour.

      Study design: A randomised clinical trial with parallel assignment will be conducted.

      Setting: The trial will take place in Gulu regional and Kawempe National referral hospitals
      in Uganda.

      Study population: The study population will consist of pregnant women in the first stage of
      labour (that is between 4-10 cm cervical dilation).

      Sample size: Using the Kelsey formula for sample size calculation for randomized controlled
      trials, with a ratio of intervention to controls of 1:1, 1108 women will be recruited.

      Randomisation Block randomisation will be done to reduce the risk of bias in the study and
      ensure that each of the two groups has equal numbers of participant. A sequence of variable
      block sizes (4, 6 and 8) will be generated using STATA 15 by a statistician who will not be
      part of the study team.

      Allocation and concealment: The allocation concealment will be done by the pharmacist in
      Uganda who will be in charge of storage of the control and intervention gas cylinders and
      dressing them with similar tamper proof jackets. The pharmacist will receive the
      randomization sequence from the statistician and label each masked cylinder with a set of
      participant serial numbers. Copies of these serial numbers will be concealed in opaque
      envelopes and given to research assistants.

      Blinding/Masking: This will be a double blind study where the participants, the investigator,
      research assistants, and outcome assessors will not know the participants allocated to either
      intervention or control arm of the study. Unblinding of allocation will be done if the
      occurrence of serious adverse events increase above the study site's rates warranting
      investigation by the data safety monitoring board. In this case, the unblinding will be done
      for the data safety monitoring board (DSMB) and not to the research team.

      Study procedures Women whose fetuses develop abnormal fetal heart rate on intermittent
      auscultation will be evaluated for presence of fetal distress by a research assistant.
      Diagnosis of fetal distress will be confirmed on the basis of fetal heart monitoring for 10
      minutes using a Moyo fetal monitor by the trained study research assistants. A FHR below 120
      or above 160 beats per minute will be considered fetal distress Standard care: All women with
      fetal distress will receive current standard of care which may include, encouragement for
      take oral fluids, administration of intravenous fluids such as Ringer's lactate, normal
      saline or dextrose, maternal lateral positioning and stopping the oxytocin infusion if the
      woman is undergoing induction or augmentation.

      The intervention: Women allocated to the intervention arm will receive 100% oxygen, 10 liters
      per minute via non re-breather face mask for 15 minutes. The control group will receive
      medical air which contains 21% oxygen. 10 liters per minute via a non re-breather face mask
      for 15 minutes.

      Monitoring and follow up: Fetal heart rate will be monitored after the intervention is
      commenced every 15 minutes for 1 hour or until the woman delivers the baby depending on which
      one comes first. After one hour of monitoring, the fetal heart rate will be monitored
      according to hospital protocols that is every 15 minutes if the fetal heart rate is still
      abnormal or every 30 minutes if it normalizes. Follow up will be done until 7 days after
      delivery.

      Data collection Principal investigator and research assistants will collect personal,
      socio-demographic and pregnancy related data. Case record forms(CRFs) will be used to collect
      patient demographic data, maternal characteristics and results of the fetal heart rate
      monitoring. These forms will be filled in by the research assistants allocated to the
      particular shift. Data from laboratory tests will also be filled into the CRFs. A copy of
      results will be kept in the patient's hospital records. A study coordinator at each study
      site will ensure that all data for each patient has been properly captured daily and/or
      before the woman is discharged.

      Data management Daily electronic entry will be done from the paper CRFs by the research
      assistants. Data will be entered into Epidata software 3.0 during the study period. This data
      will be checked for completeness daily and any missing data retrieved before the participants
      are discharged usually in 24 hours. The CRFs will be kept in a lockable cupboard placed in
      the labor ward with the key only accessible to the research team. The electronic data will be
      stored on a password protected computer accessible only by the principal investigator.

      Data analysis Analysis will be according to intention to treat. Women in the control group
      who for one reason or another require oxygen shall not be denied the treatment but will
      however still be analysed according to their original assigned groups. All participants that
      are randomized will be analysed including those who drop out for one reason or the other.
      Reasons for dropout will be provided in the patient enrollment flow chart.

      Data will be entered into STATA 15 software for analysis. Descriptive statistics will be
      computed to analyse for similarities and differences in the intervention and control group.
      Simple chi-squares will be used to assess differences in the study groups. The expected
      outcome in the two groups will be categorically analysed and proportions of participants
      whose fetal heart rate normalized within 30 minutes will be determined. The effect of oxygen
      therapy on early neonatal outcomes will also be determined using a multi-variable logistic
      regression model. Odds ratios will be calculated to determine associations between the
      outcome and predictors variables.

      Quality control: Allocation concealment and blinding will be done to improve the rigor and
      methodological quality of the study. Fetal heart rate will be assessed objectively using the
      Moyo fetal heart rate monitor. Research assistants will be trained before the study commences
      and ongoing support supervision will be done. All procedures will follow the prescribed
      standard operating procedures developed in consultation will available literature. Data
      collected on the CRFs will be checked for completeness by the site coordinators and entered
      into the software regularly for cleaning. Ongoing monitoring by the study monitor and the
      DSMB will be done as well as visits from the ethics committee to ensure compliance with the
      ethical principles.

      Adverse events and serious adverse events reporting Normobaric Oxygen is a category A drug
      for pregnant women and is therefore associated with minimal risks. Minor adverse events (AE)
      may include; cough, chest pain, mild dyspnea/ hypo-ventilation, malaise, nausea or tingling
      sensation on the skin. These signs and symptoms only occur if the oxygen is administered for
      more than 6 hours.

      Serious adverse events (SAE) will include but not limited to, serious maternal complications
      such as antepartum hemorrhage, postpartum hemorrhage, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy
      (DIC), still birth, neonatal death, and maternal death. The principal investigator(PI) will
      be notified of any AE and SAE within 48 hours. In case of a SAE, it will be reported by the
      PI to the primary ethics committee within 7 days. According to the Uganda National council of
      science and technology guidelines, SAEs will be reported to the DSMB, National drug authority
      and the ethics committee.

      Ethical considerations Ethical approval was obtained from the higher degrees research and
      ethics (HDREC) committee at the School of Health Sciences, Makerere University and the
      National Council for higher education. Approval was also received from the Uganda National
      drug authority and administrative clearances from both study sites. Verbal and written
      informed consent will be obtained from participants in the study.
    
  