
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Estimate the difference between each Fitbit arm and a control arm in Clavien-Dindo
      Combined Postoperative Morbidity (POM) Score in the 30-day postoperative period.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For patients in Fitbit only arm (F0) and Fitbit integration arm (FB), evaluate the
      differences in steps regained at each postoperative day.

      II. Quality of life before and after surgery using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Lung
      Cancer (MDASI-LC).

      III. Hospital length of stay. IV. Hospital readmission rate within 30 days for lung surgery
      related events. V. Return of bowel function. VI. Postoperative complications and step
      numbers. VII. Fitbit user experience in the FB arm.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Sleep disturbances. II. Cost analysis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive usual care consisting of the clinician educating the patient on the
      importance of increasing exercise activity in the preoperative period and early ambulation in
      the postoperative setting.

      ARM II: Patients receive usual care consisting of the clinician educating the patient on the
      importance of increasing exercise activity in the preoperative period and early ambulation in
      the postoperative setting. Patients also receive a Fitbit to monitor step count.

      ARM III: Patients receive usual care consisting of the clinician educating the patient on the
      importance of increasing exercise activity in the preoperative period and walking in the
      postoperative setting. Patients also receive a Fitbit device install and use the Fitbit app
      on a smartphone. Postoperative step goals are as follows: Postoperative day (POD) 1: 25% of
      baseline. Subsequent days will be increased by 10% until patient reaches baseline daily step
      number. Five automatic daily reminders (delivered by the Fitbit Inspire HR^TM device itself)
      to meet a minimum of 250 steps an hour. Postoperatively, patients will be invited to
      participate in a private group with a leaderboard that consists of step numbers of other
      participants in the study in an anonymous fashion.

      After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at postoperative clinic and
      at 30 days after surgery.
    
  