
    
      Aortic valve stenosis (AS) shows a high prevalence in Western civilizations with an
      increasing incidence and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. AS is a
      degenerative disease and therefore the main reason for the increasing prevalence is the
      higher proportion of elderly patients in western societies. Untreated symptomatic AS is
      characterized by severe morbidity with mainly dyspnea, orthopnea and reduced exercise
      capacity. In addition, AS has a very high mortality (50-90% in 2 years), most often due to
      lung edema as a result of increased afterload of the left ventricle. So far, there is no
      medical treatment available improving mortality in these patients. For decades, the only
      known therapy has been surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), having shown a dramatic
      reduction in mortality. However, many of the patients suffering from AS are octogenarians or
      even older and also suffer from multiple comorbidities. Thus, many of these patients are
      considered inoperable using a surgical approach. Exactly 15 years ago Alain Cribier performed
      the first catheter-based transfemoral aortic valve replacement at the University of Rouon.
      This historical step initiated a dramatic shift in the treatment of AS with more than 50% of
      patients being treated interventionally instead of the surgical approach, today.

      Comorbidities are major determinants of cardiovascular events and clinical outcome in aortic
      valve stenosis but little is known about psychiatric comorbidities or frailty in these
      patients. Data from our group suggest an inflammatory trigger for depression and potentially
      other psychiatric diseases and aortic valve stenosis as well as aortic valve replacement are
      associated with considerable changes in the inflammatory state of the patients. However, no
      study has prospectively examined the interaction of these inflammatory markers and mood
      disorders, yet. In addition, frailty is a key aspect of many of TAVR patients clinically,
      however, scientifically there is only emerging data with half of all PubMed-indexed
      publications being less than 12 months old and clinical use of various scores still under
      discussion.

      The " Effect of interventional aortic valve replacement on emotional status, quality of life,
      frailty and inflammation"-study is designed to fill these gaps in evidence. It will be a
      prospective epidemiological cohort study to recruit 102 patients with symptomatic severe
      aortic valve stenosis within 18 months. All of these patients will undergo standardized
      cardiologic, psychiatric and frailty assessment as well as a sophisticated laboratory
      analysis focussing on the inflammatory state. The study aims to integrate these
      interdisciplinary findings to optimize patient treatment.
    
  