
    
      This is a randomized pilot study. Women who are referred to the Nurse Practitioner for
      treatment will be invited to enroll. If the patient meets the study criteria, the study will
      be explained. If the patient agrees to participate in this study, informed consent will be
      obtained. The patient will be randomized (similar to flipping a coin) into either the
      Treatment group or Control group. Both groups will be maintained with their IC regimens as
      prescribed by their own health care providers. The following actions and treatment will done:

      There will be 2 visits for all subjects. All subjects will complete a pain diary and
      medication log during the study. Salivary samples will be obtained at baseline, during the
      first week of the study, after the 2nd week of the study, the midpoint of the intervention
      (week 3) and at the end of the study. The Treatment group will listen to a guided imagery CD
      twice a day, and the Control group will sit or lay down, doing whatever they choose, for the
      same length of time twice a day. All subjects will complete questionnaires upon enrollment
      and at week 6.The "Treatment" subjects will receive the guided imagery CD specific for pelvic
      pain and interstitial cystitis. After the baseline data is completed, they will listen to
      track 2 of the CD (25 min. in length) twice a day ("Relaxation Exercise A"). The first week
      they listen to the CD, for 3 days they will obtain salivary tests upon waking then ½ hour
      later. Then they will listen to the CD, and obtain another salivary sample in addition to
      recording their pulse and respirations immediately after listening to the CD. The bedtime
      salivary test, pulse and respirations will be done immediately after listening to the CD.
      Salivary testing, pulse and respirations will also be done before this evening CD session.
      The salivary testing will be repeated in the same fashion during the 3rd week of
      intervention.
    
  