
    
      In shock patients, fluid resuscitation, infusion of vasopressors and transfusion are guided
      on hemodynamic macrovascular parameters as arterial pressure, cardiac output, lactate and
      diuresis. Analysis of sublingual microcirculation in shock patients is predictive of
      mortality and organ dysfunction. To optimize the quality of the resuscitation in shock
      patients, it could be useful to have an assessment of sublingual microcirculation in addition
      to the macrovascular parameters usually assessed by the nurses. But, this requires to have a
      monitor of sublingual microcirculation easy to use and to analyze at the bedside. In a
      previous study, using a side-stream dark-field (SDF) imaging device (Cytocam video
      microscope, Braedius®, Netherlands), the investigators have reported that a real-time nurse
      bedside qualitative evaluation of Microvascular flow index (MFI) had a good agreement with
      conventional delayed physician analysis, and was highly sensitive and specific for detecting
      impaired microvascular flow and low capillary density.

      The primary outcome of the present study is to test the ability of visual analysis of
      sublingual microcirculation by nurses in patients in shock to predict needs for fluid
      challenge, vasopressors or transfusion.

      The secondary outcomes are:

        1. To test the ability of visual analysis of sublingual microcirculation to predict organ
           dysfunction (SOFA score)

        2. To evaluate the relationship between hemodynamic macrovascular and microvascular
           parameters. The investigators will consider the macrovascular parameters usually
           collected by nurses each 4h: arterial pressure, heart rate, cardiac index, stroke volume
           index, global end-diastolic blood volume, extravascular lung water, the respiratory
           variations of pulse pressure (delta PP), lactate, hemoglobin, venous-to-arterial carbon
           dioxide differences (Pv-aCO2), diuresis and the microvascular parameters (MFI and
           capillary density).

      Study design and measurements After ICU admission and study inclusion, the nurses in charge
      of the patient will perform a set of measurements of macrocirculatory and microcirculatory
      parameters every 4 h during the first three days after ICU admission and before and after
      every hemodynamic therapeutic intervention, such as fluid challenge, transfusion of red blood
      cells or change in catecholamine rate during this period.
    
  