
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE- the deposition of thrombi in the deep veins of the lower
      limbs-deep vein thrombosis- and/or pulmonary embolism) has an incidence of 1.0 - 1.6 events
      per year per 1000 persons. While the prevention and treatment of the acute phase of VTE is
      well established, the secondary prevention of the disease, that is its long-term management,
      is not well standardized. Venous thromboembolism tends to recur regardless of the duration of
      treatment , with an incidence of 30% over 5-10 years. Both the duration and the quality of
      treatment after the acute event are not well established nor consistently applied in clinical
      practice. Recently, the 7th Consensus Conference on Anti-thrombotic therapy of the American
      College of Chest Physicians recommended that patients with unprovoked VTE receive at least 3
      months of anticoagulant therapy. Afterwards the risk-benefit ratio of long-term therapy
      should be evaluated. Long term treatment is recommended in patients at low risk of bleeding
      and for whom good anticoagulant monitoring is achievable. However, the risk of recurrence is
      greatest in the first 6 to 12 months after the initial episode while it gradually decreases
      thereafter. As a result, the benefits of extending anticoagulation are offset over time by
      the risk of clinically important bleeding associated with anticoagulation. Moreover, vitamin
      K antagonists (VKAs) are currently the drugs of choice, and their require a strict laboratory
      monitoring, but in the near future newer oral anticoagulants not requiring monitoring will be
      available.

      Several individual characteristics such as post-anticoagulation D-dimer and residual venous
      obstruction have been shown to be associated with an increased risk of recurrent events. We
      have shown in a multicentre randomized study PROLONG (N Engl J Med 2006; 355: 1780-1789)
      showed that D-dimer could play a role in establishing the duration of anticoagulation after a
      first episode of idiopathic VTE. Patients were treated with VKA for a minimum of 3 months and
      D-d was tested at one month after anticoagulation withdrawal . If D-dimer was normal patients
      did not resume treatment, whereas those with elevated D-dimer were randomized to either stop
      or resume anticoagulation. Patients with an abnormal D-dimer had a statistically significant
      higher risk for recurrence when compared with those with normal D-d. Continued
      anticoagulation in patients with elevated D-d significantly reduced the risk of recurrent VTE
      over a follow-up of 18 months.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a procedure employing the
      evaluation of residual vein obstruction and D-dimer to establish the individual risk of
      recurrence and thus the necessity to prolong or stop anticoagulation ( with VKAs but also
      with newer anticoagulants) after venous thromboembolism.

      The pre-defined objectives of the study are the following:

      i) to obtain a recurrence rate < 5% per year in the first and second year after
      anticoagulation is suspended according to the procedure ii) to allow that after treatment for
      the first episode of venous thromboembolism, anticoagulation suspension in feasible in at
      least 40% of all subjects included in the study.
    
  