
    
      Information and Communications Technology (ICT) have been identified as important tools,
      allowing for health gains and reducing costs. They have been associated with positive results
      in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, equity, accessibility and quality of the provided
      care/services (Alcañiz et al., 2009; Baulch et al., 2008; Cottrell, 2005; Grohol, 1999). The
      existence of accurate, reliable, structured and relevant information, available when and
      where is needed, enables professionals and consumers to make informed and timely decisions
      (High Commissioner for Health, 2010; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
      2010).

      This project was designed according to the national guidelines (Direção-Geral da Saúde,
      2005), and has the potential to become a relevant educational and intervention instrument.
      Its content may be adapted to the needs and expectations of target groups. Strategies as
      problem solving reinforced by the e-therapeutic programme may enable participants to overcome
      barriers to adherence and thereby enhance treatment-induced weight losses (Murawski et al.,
      2009). Moreover, this project will allow to: a) Obtain relevant information about patients
      and their progress, enabling health professionals to interpret the inputs and send feedback
      in real time, b) Tailor therapeutic strategies to individual responses, c) Monitor individual
      progress.

      This study is designed as a randomized clinical trial. The experimental group will follow the
      standard treatment protocol and, additionally, receive free access to the e-therapeutic
      platform (Next.Step) for 24 weeks. The control group participants will follow the standard
      treatment protocol and join a waiting list for entering the Next.Step.

      Based on the literature review and on the contribution of the Nola Pender's Health Promotion
      reference model (Pender et al., 2010), investigators will look for empirical evidence for the
      general investigation hypothesis: treatment adherence, healthy lifestyles, quality of life
      and weight control of obese adolescents are positively influenced by this intervention
      program.
    
  