
    
      Will the Use of Osteopathic Manipulative Treatments on Patients with Headache in the
      Emergency Department Result in Decreased Pain on 100 Point Pain Scale? PROTOCOL

      Patients will be triaged to the appropriate part of the Emergency Department in the usual
      fashion. A healthcare provider will evaluate the patient and if the patient's chief complaint
      is headache the provider will determine if they are a candidate for the study utilizing
      exclusion criteria for the study TABLE 1.

      ___ Table 1. Exclusion Criteria for the Study

        -  Temperature 100.4 or greater

        -  Healthcare provider suspects meningitis, brain abscess, encephalitis

        -  Altered mental status

        -  History of trauma

        -  Cyclic vomiting

        -  Abdominal migraines

        -  Analgesic medication taken prior to treatment within an hour

        -  Providing physician suspects intracranial hemorrhage

        -  Focal deficits or other neurological abnormalities that lead providing physician to
           suspect a pathologic process in which osteopathic treatment would not be safe for the
           patient

        -  Providing physician feels osteopathic treatment would not be safe for the patient

      If patients have none of the above criteria, they may be selected for the study by the
      Providing Physician.

      The provider will ask the patient to rate their initial pain by drawing a vertical line on
      the 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS) on the Physician Provider Data Form.

      The provider will then alert an osteopathic emergency medicine resident to enroll the patient
      into the study. The resident will then obtain informed consent from the patient and will then
      take an envelope containing a piece of paper stating whether the patient is to receive the
      actual osteopathic treatment or if the patient will receive placebo/sham treatment.

      Treatment will be performed by osteopathic emergency medicine residents. Each resident has
      undergone training in Osteopathic Manipulative Techniques (OMT) in their respective medical
      schools and has fulfilled the requirements for competency in these techniques for graduation.

      The osteopathic treatment group will have performed on them 3 standardized osteopathic
      manipulative treatments. These treatments are muscle energy to the occipital area; muscle
      energy to the paraspinal muscles bilaterally and facilitated positional release without axial
      compression. If at any time the patient is unable to tolerate a treatment secondary to pain
      that particular study will be stopped. At no time will the patient's medical treatment in the
      emergency department be delayed to perform OMT.For example, if the patient's nurse enters the
      room with medication, the study will be stopped and patient will not be included in the
      study. The sham group will receive 3 sham treatments. The patient consent form and
      information as to whether or not the patient received osteopathic manipulative treatment will
      be kept in a locked file. The information will be transferred to a password-protected
      computer file.

      After the standardized treatment or sham treatment is performed, the resident will leave the
      patient and the providing physician will then ask the patient to draw a vertical line on the
      VAS to again rate their pain.

      The providing physician will then place the data form into the envelope that also contains
      the information about whether the patient received the osteopathic treatment vs. the sham
      treatment, without seeing the actual information.

      Data will then be analyzed and kept in a password-protected file.
    
  