
    
      Assumptions of the research, description of the study group (age, sex, health status, size of
      the group):

      The review of literature on the subject shows that there are relationships between the
      concentrations of certain elements (especially magnesium, copper, cadmium and barium), and
      the gestational age and fetal biometric parameters. Scientific research carried out so far
      has also pointed to the relationship between pregnancy-related diseases (pre-eclampsia,
      intra-uterine growth disorders) and the mineral status of pregnant women. Little is known
      about the minerals concentration in amniotic fluid. The main aim of the study is to determine
      the correlation between the mineral status of pregnant women and the course of pregnancy and
      fetal development. During the tests, the concentrations of selected mineral components in the
      maternal blood serum, amniotic fluid and the hair of pregnant women will be determined. The
      obtained data will be combined with dietary data obtained through a questionnaire and
      nutrition journal. The dependence between the content of minerals in the analyzed material
      and the fetus development, the health of the newborn and the course of pregnancy will also be
      assessed. Clear identification of the correlation between the mineral status of pregnant
      women and the course of pregnancy and fetal development may be an important contribution to
      the development of science about nutrition during pregnancy and prenatal diagnosis and
      prevention of pregnancy complications.

      The importance of research:

      The review of the literature on the subject shows that there are few studies showing
      correlations between the concentration of minerals in various compartments of the pregnant
      woman's body, and the course of pregnancy and fetal development. There is also a lack of data
      on the relationship between diet and supplementation during pregnancy and the mineral status
      of pregnant women.

      The planned studies are intended to determine the concentration of minerals, e.g. in
      materials such as blood serum, amniotic fluid, or hair. Elemental analysis of hair will allow
      assessment of long-term nutritional status of women with mineral components. The mineral
      composition of amniotic fluid, according to literature data, requires further analysis. It is
      suggested that amniotic fluid may be an important diagnostic material for deficiencies of
      minerals during pregnancy.

      Amniotic fluid is necessary for the proper development of the embryo and fetus. It
      participates, among others, in nourishing and protecting the newly developing organism and
      performing information role in diagnostic procedures. The water contained in the amniotic
      fluid comes originally from maternal plasma and penetrates through the fetal membranes on the
      hydrostatic and osmotic way. As the placenta and fetal vessels develop, water and substances
      dissolved in maternal plasma pass through the placenta to the fetus and then into the
      amniotic fluid. In the period from 10 to 20 weeks of pregnancy, the composition of amniotic
      fluid is similar to that of fetal plasma. During this time, rapid bilateral diffusion between
      the fetus and amniotic fluid is observed through the non-keratinized fetal skin and amniotic
      surfaces, placenta and umbilical cord, which are easily permeable to water and substances
      dissolved in it. The composition of the amniotic fluid depends largely on the mother's
      nutritional status and on the exposure of her body to toxic substances. The role of minerals
      contained in the amniotic fluid is not clear. Due to the fact that the fetus swallows
      amniotic fluid, it may be a significant nutrient source for him. For this reason, it is
      suggested that the content of elements in the amniotic fluid may be a valuable marker of the
      nutritional status of the fetus and its exposure to toxic compounds.

      In summary, the relationship between the concentration of minerals contained in amniotic
      fluid, mother's blood serum and hair with the development of the fetus and the occurrence of
      diseases complicating pregnancy requires further analysis. Planned research can significantly
      contribute to expanding knowledge in this topic. Based on the extremely important role of
      minerals in the normal functioning of the body of an adult human, it is particularly
      reasonable to conduct research to determine their significance at the stage of fetal life.

      Research goals:

        1. Prospective determination of the concentration of selected, essential and toxic elements
           in the blood serum of women in the second trimester of pregnancy.

        2. Prospective determination of the concentration of selected, essential and toxic elements
           in the amniotic fluid.

        3. Prospective determination of the concentration of selected, essential and toxic elements
           in hair taken from women in the second trimester of pregnancy.

        4. Determination of the correlation between mineral components in the amniotic fluid, hair
           and mother's serum and parameters of fetal development and the state of health of the
           newborn.

        5. Prospective determination of the diet of pregnant women, with particular emphasis on the
           supply of minerals.

        6. Determination of the correlation between the diet of pregnant women and the
           concentration of selected minerals in amniotic fluid, mother's blood serum and hair.

      Research assumptions:

      Material for prospective studies will be collected during standard diagnostic procedures for
      patients at the gynecology and obstetrics clinic.

      On the day of inclusion in the study, the patient will be collected blood from the ulnar vein
      - 5ml as part of a routine prenatal visit.

      The following will be marked in the blood serum:

        -  concentration of minerals,

        -  placental capacity markers (pregnancy associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A), human
           chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), alfa-fetoprotein (AFP)).

      The hair sample (about 0.5 g) from pregnant women will be taken on the day of inclusion in
      the study.

      The pregnant women will be asked to complete a 3-day nutritional interview and nutritional
      survey.

      From patients qualified for invasive prenatal diagnosis (amniocentesis), a sample of amniotic
      fluid (5 ml) will be taken, in which, in addition to the standardly evaluated parameters,
      selected mineral components will be marked.

      Amniotic fluid samples will be collected during the routine amniocentesis procedure in
      patients with prenatal indications in 15-30 weeks of pregnancy.
    
  