
    
      All women in this study were subjected to all of the following:

        1. Verbal consent was obtained.

        2. History taking:

             1. Personal history.

             2. Menstrual history.

             3. Use of contraception.

             4. Use of any hormonal treatment in the three months prior to the laparoscopy.

             5. History of infertility and its duration and type.

             6. Sexual history.

             7. Past history.

        3. Complete physical examination: general, abdominal and local gynecological examination.

        4. Complete preoperative workout for laparoscopy was done.

        5. Laparoscopy was done postmenstrual, during follicular phase. All patients gave an
           informed consent and were fasting for at least 8 hours prior to the laparoscopy, and
           general anesthesia was used for all patients.

           The pelvis and its structures were observed and checked for presence of endometriotic
           lesions (uterus, tubes, ovaries and ovarian fossae, uterosacral ligaments, Douglas
           pouch, uterovesical pouch, broad ligaments and lateral pelvic walls).

           The Endometriotic patients were then classified into stages I-IV according to the
           revised American Fertility Society scoring system for endometriosis.

        6. Venous samples for measurement of nesfatin-1 were taken by venipuncture from patients
           during the laparoscopy procedure immediately after initial evaluation and before any
           intervention.

        7. Biopsy from lesions suspected as endometriosis was taken during laparoscopy and sent to
           histopathology for confirmation.

        8. The blood samples were centrifuged immediately after their collection at 5000 rpm for 10
           min and serum samples were stored at -20 °C until analysis.

           Patients and Methods

           -67-

        9. Nesfatin-1 was measured by Enzyme-Linked Immuno Sorbent Assay "ELISA" technique using
           commercially available kits (Boster Biological Technology Human Nesfatin-1 ELISA kits,
           Catalog number EK1138, USA) in the Central Labs of Ain Shams University Hospitals.
    
  