
    
      -  Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is the third most common cause of hospital acquired
           acute kidney injury, accounting for 10% of all cases. Nevertheless, use of radiocontrast
           media has been associated with increased in-hospital morbidity, mortality, and costs of
           medical care, long admission, especially in patients needing dialysis. With the
           increasing use of contrast media in diagnostic and interventional procedures, it has
           become one of the major challenges encountered during routine cardiovascular practice.

        -  Patients at the greatest risk for CIN can be defined as those have preexisting impaired
           renal function and diabetes mellitus with incidence estimated to be as high as 50%.
           Preventive therapies primarily include limitation of contrast exposure, intravenous
           volume expansion with a saline solution, and use of a low- or iso-osmolality contrast
           media.

        -  However, since these measures provide incomplete protection for CIN, interest has
           emerged in a number of adjunction short-term pharmacotherapy methods. Among them,
           N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been of considerable interest. Up to now, several clinical
           studies and meta-analysis have been performed to assess the efficacy of NAC in
           prevention of CIN.

        -  In spite of heterogeneity regarding efficacy of administration of NAC, several studies
           have advised the use of NAC, especially in high risk patients, with regard to its low
           cost, availability and few side effects. Since administration of NAC necessitates
           earlier and longer admission of patients, particularly in intravenous use, it can
           increase the health care costs. In addition, there are evidences that this intervention
           can even be harmful in patients with diabetes mellitus.

        -  So, it seems that we need more evidences about the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of
           NAC in patients at high risk for development of CIN to make rational clinical decisions
           for individual patients as well as policy decisions for the health of the general
           public.
    
  