
    
      The investigators plan to examine the intervention among perinatal women in Bangalore, India
      in a two phase developmental study. The theory-guided core elements of the intervention will
      be maintained, but the content and form of the intervention and study procedures that are
      context/socio-culturally-specific will be adapted in the first phase of the study to enhance
      relevance and acceptability among the target population. During the second phase of the
      project, the investigators will train clinic personnel to deliver the intervention and then
      pilot test the feasibility, acceptability and fidelity of the novel application of the
      intervention in a randomized controlled trial. After baseline assessment, participants (n=40)
      will be randomly assigned to BEST-maCARE or a time-matched attention control condition (each
      delivered over 18 weeks) and outcomes (e.g., depressive symptoms, adherence) evaluated at 6,
      12, 18, and 24 weeks post-randomization.

      The specific aims are:

        1. Conduct elicitation research with patients and providers in Maharashtra, Delhi,
           Bangalore and Varanasi, India to gain a more nuanced understanding of the sociocultural
           context and women's perceived assets and barriers to care to guide adaptation of the
           Best-maCare intervention protocol to optimize socio-cultural relevance, feasibility and
           acceptability among perinatal women with co-morbid HIV and depression in this setting.

        2. Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and fidelity of the study procedures and the
           adapted, standardized Best-maCare and the attention control conditions and explore their
           preliminary effect in a randomized, controlled pilot study.

      2a) The investigators primary thesis is that the adapted Best-maCare will be feasible and
      acceptable to women living with HIV in Bangalore, India and other stakeholders. In addition,
      we expect the fidelity of the intervention will be maintained, and, in keeping with the
      guiding conceptual framework, that there will be a positive relationship between the
      Best-maCare intervention and women's medication adherence, engagement in care (HIV, mental
      health, 6-week postpartum health care services) and health outcomes (HIV-1 RNA, depression,
      6-weeks postpartum visit).

      The focus of this registration is Aim 2.
    
  