
    
      In patients with sinus node dysfunction (SND), the use of AAI mode is rare. In paroxysmal
      high-degree or complete atrio-ventricular (AV) block, paroxysmal vagally-mediated
      bradycardia, single chamber atrial pacemakers are contraindicated although ventricular
      support is only rarely needed. As a result, these patients are usually exposed to an
      unnecessary high proportion of ventricular pacing due to the programming of the system to DDD
      mode for preventive safety reasons. This drains the pulse generator battery, and more
      importantly has long-term adverse effects on ventricular function in a subset of vulnerable
      patients, leading to left ventricular (LV) asynchrony, mitral regurgitation and increased
      left atrium (LA) size. The deleterious effects of right ventricular (RV) pacing, which
      increased heart failure (HF) morbidity/mortality, atrial fibrillation (AF) and related
      adverse events have been highlighted in several large clinical studies. Limiting RV pacing in
      non-dependant patients is therefore desirable.

      The Symphony DR 2550 cardiac pacemakers (SORIN Group, Montrouge, France) offer a new pacing
      mode that automatically switches from AAI(R) mode to DDD(R) or DDI(R) in event of severe
      atrioventricular conduction disorder, returning spontaneously to AAI(R) mode as soon as the
      spontaneous AV conduction has resumed. This particular mode is called the AAIsafeR2(R).

      The objective of this study is three-fold: to demonstrate that AAIsafeR2 mode (i) reduces the
      percentage of ventricular pacing in patients with a spontaneous AV conduction and (ii)
      prevents atrial arrhythmias by improving atrial hemodynamics and (iii) improves the long-term
      hemodynamic status of implanted patients in comparison to the "standard" DDD mode, set with
      long AV Delays (DDD Long AVD).

      The scientific soundness lying in this study is a proposal of an optimal programming of
      dual-chamber pacemakers (PM) with regard to the preservation of spontaneous AV conduction.

      2 Study devices

      Classification Name Manufacturer Name Cardiovascular permanent pacemaker pulse generator
      SORIN Group Symphony ™ DR2550

      3 Summary of study objectives

      The aims of this study are to assess the clinical benefits resulting from AAIsafeR2 by
      comparison with standard dual chamber programming (DDD) with a long AV Delay.

      The benefits will be assessed by comparing the percentage of ventricular pacing, the
      incidence of atrial arrhythmias, and the evolution of the hemodynamic status as observed
      through echo parameter and ANP/BNP measurements.

      The primary objectives of the study are:

      to demonstrate the effectiveness of AAIsafeR2 to preserve natural AV conduction as compared
      to DDD Long AVD. For this purpose, ventricular pacing ratio as retrieved from PM memory will
      be assessed on a mid-term period (1 year) by inter-groups comparison of:

        -  Mean V pacing (%)

        -  Proportion of patients with a V pacing ratio < 1 %.

      to demonstrate the effectiveness of AAIsafeR2 to reduce AF incidence on a long-term basis
      (3-year follow-up) by analyzing in the randomized branches:

        -  the cumulative time in AF (as documented by PM memory)

        -  the total number of AF episodes (as documented by PM memory)

        -  the number of patients who present a cumulative time in AF>30% of the follow-up period
           (as documented by PM memory)

        -  the proportion of patients who turned into persistent AF during the study.

        -  the proportion of patients who turned into permanent AF during the study.

      to compare the effects of AAISafeR2 vs. DDD Long AVD on LV function, mitral regurgitation and
      LA dimensions on a long-term basis (3-year follow-up) by comparing:

        -  LV ejection fraction (EF) and volumes

        -  Left atrium dimensions

        -  Mitral regurgitation severity as measured by standard echocardiographic methods.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to report and compare the following in each
      randomized arm of the study:

      Total mortality CHF-related mortality and hospitalizations Evolution of systemic blood
      pressures, as estimated by ANP/BNP measurements AF-related adverse events, such as
      strokes/TIA's and cardioversions The evolution of cardiac asynchrony [inter-ventricular
      (RV-LV) and intra-ventricular (4 segments), as assessed by TDI technics] The evolution of
      conduction disturbances in patients presenting unknown or under estimated atrio-ventricular
      blocks on a long-term basis (intra-group analysis). Stratification by pacing indications and
      cardiopathies.
    
  