
    
      Nutrition is a vital component of good health and recovery from illness. It is particularly
      clear that patients with chronic diseases and those who have undergone major surgical
      procedures are vulnerable to the consequences of inadequate calorie or nutritional intake.
      Over the last decade, surgical practices have evolved to encourage patients to resume early
      enteral feeding in order to avoid post-operative under-nutrition. Inadequate nutrition has
      previously been shown to be associated with prolongation of the acute phase response and
      increased incidence of septic morbidity. More recently clinical studies have demonstrated
      that early post-operative feeding increases strength and healing of an intestinal
      anastomosis. Further to this there is also evidence of benefit to patients by reduction of
      surgical site infections and other complications. Along with the cost saving of a lower
      complication rate there are financial benefits from reduced mean length of hospital stay.

      Over the last 5 years the importance of non-surgical factors in patient recovery or the
      development of complications has been highlighted. This has resulted in the development and
      near universal adoption of the 'Enhanced recovery programme (ERP)'. The ERP is a
      multidisciplinary initiative aiming to improve the patients' journey by:

        -  Optimizing pre-operative health status

        -  Reducing postoperative complications and the surgical and physiological stress responses
           by changing traditional surgical methods

        -  Early mobility

        -  Early feeding Post-operative nutrition is a key component to the ERP approach, however,
           many units that run ERP have reported that encouraging early post operative patients to
           increase their oral intake is difficult. Our own experience is that dysgeusia
           (distortion of the sense of taste) is common in the postoperative group.

      At present there are no publications in the literature on how best to support the delivery of
      nutrition to this important group and there is no literature on food preferences in patients
      who have recently undergone surgery. To date there has not been any research on the subject
      of peri-operative taste changes outside of surgical fields that directly affect the sensory
      system of taste (Ear, nose and throat surgery). Although there have been some descriptive
      studies on calorie intake in the peri-operative period no studies have been performed to
      confirm the existence of post-operative taste changes or to describe them.

      In order to optimise recovery from surgery and as part of the ERP programme, patients should
      be provided with food choices that encourage greater intake. It is known that optimising
      early post-operative nutrition will contribute to early discharge and uncomplicated recovery
      and have knock on benefits for inpatient costs. In order to provide this it is vital that we
      consider the issue of presumed dysgeusia and its affect on food choices. In order to begin
      this process the following study is proposed. It is hoped that the results of this study will
      allow re-evaluation of hospital menus to optimise post-operative nutrition.
    
  