
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) inhibitory compounds might be useful as topical microbicides for
      blocking the spread of HPV. Recent in-vitro and in-vivo laboratory studies have demonstrated
      the strong inhibitory properties of carrageenan (an inexpensive gelling agent that is
      non-toxic and safe in animals and humans) against all HPV types. So far, there has been no
      clinical trial designed to assess a carrageenan-based personal lubricant as a topical
      microbicide in the Men who have Sex with Men (MSM) population. Since the introduction of
      HAART therapy in 1996, there has been a paradoxical effect on the incidence of anal cancer, a
      disease caused by HPV. Whereas patients would formerly die of some other AIDS-related
      ailment, men undergoing HAART therapy now have increased longevity, thus allowing diseases
      with longer natural history such as anal cancer to develop. Low CD4 counts, high HPV
      incidence and longer duration of infection have contributed to elevating the risk of anal
      lesions and cancer among MSMs with HIV to nearly 80 times that of the general male
      population. Although HPV vaccination has been approved for males in Canada, it is exclusively
      prophylactic, i.e. it will only prevent HPV infection before exposure occurs. But considering
      that most MSMs will have already been exposed to the vaccine target types, its benefits in
      this population are limited. Furthermore, current vaccination only protects against two of
      the 14 oncogenic HPV types.

      The primary aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of carrageenan in reducing
      type-specific anal HPV incidence, i.e., in preventing infections by new HPV types in sexually
      active MSM. Secondary aims are: 1) to evaluate the efficacy of carrageenan in reducing
      type-specific anal HPV prevalence, i.e., in accelerating clearance of existing infections in
      sexually active MSM; 2) to compare the efficacy of carrageenan for type-specific prevention
      and clearance of anal HPV infections among MSM with and without HIV, i.e., to evaluate
      whether carrageenan is equally effective among these subgroups; and 3) to assess the safety
      and tolerability of the proposed gel and patient adherence to the intervention, i.e., the
      parameters important for future clinical use.

      To permit verification of the study's objectives with sufficient power at the end of the
      one-year follow-up period, we propose to recruit 380 subjects (110 HIV+ and 270 HIV-). We
      will be recruiting subjects living with HIV through 5 HIV/AIDS outpatient clinics in
      Montreal: Clinique Médicale du Quartier-Latin, Clinique L'Actuel, Clinique OPUS, Unité
      d'Hospitalisation de Recherche et d'Enseignement sur les Soins du SIDA (UHRESS) of the Centre
      Hospitalier de L'Université de Montréal (CHUM) and Chronic Viral Illnesses Service of McGill
      University Health Centre (MUHC). We will advertise at bars, sex and health clubs, in various
      media, and the abovementioned clinics-with the addition of the McGill University Student
      Health Services. MSMs with and without HIV will be recruited. For those with HIV, a chart
      review will be performed at enrolment to collect information on CD4+ count, viral load, HAART
      status, year of HIV diagnosis, and nadir CD4+ count. HIV testing will also be performed on
      MSMs without HIV to verify their status.

      Volunteer MSMs living in Montreal will be randomized to receive either a) treatment with
      carrageenan self-applied as an anal microbicide gel, or b) treatment with a placebo gel
      applied in the same way. Our specific primary aim is to evaluate the efficacy of carrageenan
      in reducing anal HPV incidence, i.e., in preventing new HPV infections in sexually active
      MSMs. Additional secondary aims include: to evaluate the efficacy of carrageenan in reducing
      anal HPV prevalence (i.e., in accelerating clearance of existing infections in sexually
      active MSMs), to evaluate if there is a difference in the efficacy of carrageenan for
      prevention and clearance of HPV infections between individuals living with and without HIV,
      and to evaluate patient adherence as measured by behavioural characteristics assessed by
      means of questionnaires.

      Participants will be randomized to either carrageenan or placebo gels by a variable block
      randomization algorithm and blinded intervention. Demographics, risk factor, and compliance
      information will be collected via computerized questionnaires at baseline (enrolment/ time
      0), and 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months post-enrolment. HPV DNA detection and genotyping of anal
      samples will be done at the same clinic visits by the PGMY polymerase chain reaction
      protocol. Measuring the efficacy of the intervention will be done by testing the null
      hypothesis of no difference in time to HPV infection (i.e., infection with an HPV type not
      present at baseline) between treatment groups with the log rank test. We will use a Cox
      proportional hazards regression model to estimate the hazard ratio and 95% CI of HPV
      infection for the treatment versus placebo group. We will also use survival analysis
      techniques to measure clearance of infections with HPV types present at enrolment according
      to the intervention. Our analyses will be conducted separately according to participant HIV
      status, and eventually pooled if results are found to be similar between groups. We will
      perform our analyses according to the intention-to-treat approach (i.e., including all
      participants who were randomized and received at least one-month's supply of gel), and the
      according-to-protocol approach (i.e., including only participants who complied with the
      protocol).

      Considering that HPV infection is responsible for 90% of anal cancer cases, as well as for
      much suffering due to genital warts, the potential for this microbicide-based approach in
      disease prevention cannot be overemphasized. Our team has extensive experience in studies of
      HPV epidemiology in Montreal and subject recruitment resources are already in place.

      (Full protocol available upon request)
    
  