
    
      The combination of an aging population and the increased prevalence of chronic diseases among
      the elderly presents a major public health concern. Depression acts as both a cause and a
      consequence of disability, and with major depressive disorder (MDD) affecting up to 25% of
      women and 12% of men during their lifetimes, effective treatments for people of all ages must
      be made available. Although antidepressant medications are available as treatments for MDD,
      they sometimes either do not adequately relieve depressive symptoms, or do relieve depressive
      symptoms, but cause undesirable side effects. These side effects may become more common or
      more problematic as people age. Alternative approaches to treating depression, therefore, are
      necessary. Research suggests that exercise positively affects the levels of certain
      mood-enhancing neurotransmitters in the brain. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of
      both center-based and home-based exercise versus the antidepressant drug sertraline in
      treating depression in middle-aged and older adults.

      Participants in this double-blind study will be randomly assigned to one of the following
      four treatments for 16 weeks: supervised aerobic exercise; home-based aerobic exercise; drug
      therapy; or placebo. All participants assigned to an exercise condition will report to the
      study site for a baseline exercise stress test. Participants assigned to supervised aerobic
      exercise will attend study visits 3 times per week for an exercise session. Each session will
      entail 10 minutes of warm-up exercises, followed by 30 to 35 minutes of continuous walking,
      biking, or jogging, and 10 to 15 minutes of cool-down exercises. Participants assigned to
      home-based aerobic exercise will attend one introductory session with an exercise
      physiologist, who will prescribe an exercise regimen and provide instruction on how to
      self-monitor pulse rate. They will also receive written information about their exercise
      plan, tips for maintaining progress and relapse prevention, and daily activity logs. The
      exercise prescription will be adjusted on a bi-weekly basis. Participants will be expected to
      exercise 3 times per week on their own, and will perform 10 minutes of warm-up exercises,
      followed by 30 to 35 minutes of continuous walking, biking, or jogging, and 10 to 15 minutes
      of cool-down exercises. In addition, they will mail in daily activity logs weekly for the
      first 6 weeks and biweekly for the remaining 10 weeks. Brief telephone contacts will be made
      to monitor progress, answer questions, and provide individualized feedback. Additionally, the
      exercise physiologist will conduct home visits at Weeks 4 and 8. Participants assigned to
      receive sertraline or placebo will receive their medication in pill-form at baseline and
      Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, and 16 study visits. All participants will receive several phone calls to
      assess treatment response and suicide risk. These calls will take place weekly for the first
      4 weeks and biweekly for the remainder of the study. Follow-up visits will occur at Months 6
      and 12 post-treatment, and will include participating in psychological interviews and filling
      out questionnaires.
    
  