
    
      The drug being evaluated in this study is called TAK-117. TAK-117 is tested in combination
      with docetaxel versus docetaxel alone for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC).

      This study consisted of 2 phases:

        -  Phase 1b - dose escalation phase

        -  Phase 2 - expansion phase.

      The study enrolled 14 patients with NSCLC who have been treated with multiple prior lines of
      therapies will be enrolled for Phase 1b. The participants will receive docetaxel (36 mg/m^2)
      intravenous (IV) and TAK-117 tablets, orally administered, once daily in 21-day dosing
      cycles. The TAK-117 dose will be escalated until recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) is
      determined.

      Each part of the adaptive Phase 2 portion of the study is designed as a stand-alone,
      randomized study evaluating PFS as the primary efficacy measure in a total of 60 participants
      between the 2 treatment arms: TAK-117 plus docetaxel versus docetaxel alone. An event-driven
      analysis of PFS will be performed after each part of Phase 2. On the basis of the PFS
      analysis of the preceding part of the study, the study may be stopped for efficacy or
      futility, or proceed to the next part. However, Phase 2 of the study was cancelled.

      Study drug will be administered in 21-day dosing cycles. During each phase of the study,
      participants will be treated with a maximum of 9 cycles of either docetaxel alone or
      docetaxel plus TAK-117. Subsequently, participants treated with docetaxel plus TAK-117 may
      continue to receive TAK-117 monotherapy until progression of disease, occurrence of
      unacceptable toxicities or death.

      The maximum duration of treatment for participants will be 12 months unless it is determined
      that a participant would derive benefit from continued treatment beyond 12 months.
      Participants will continue to be followed after discontinuation of study drug to collect PFS
      and OS data. Participants may withdraw from therapy at any time.

      This multicenter trial will be conducted in North America. The overall time to participate in
      this study is up to 24 months.
    
  