
    
      Patients with HCM have an increased incidence of sudden death, particularly younger
      individuals. However, HCM has markedly variable clinical presentations, and the risk of
      sudden death and arrhythmia events (AE) differs significantly from one patient to another.
      Several risk factors for AE have been proposed. These risk factors have been defined in
      predominantly adult HCM populations. Little data is available defining risk factors for
      sudden death in a carefully defined HCM population composed of only children and adolescents.
      Those at highest risk may benefit from implantable defibrillator (ICD) therapy. However, the
      universal application of ICD therapy is not without significant morbidity and mortality.

      Traditional risk factors for sudden death (SD) in adult HCM patients include a family history
      of SD, young age, non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) on Holter monitoring, increased
      ventricular septal thickness (ST), abnormal blood pressure (BP) response to exercise and
      syncope.

      The purpose of this study will be to 1) to determine whether risk factors for and mechanisms
      of AE in adults have predictive value in children, and 2) in particular, whether ventricular
      septal thickness and inducible ventricular tachycardia at electrophysiologic study (EPS)
      would identify a subgroup of children that might benefit most from ICD implantation.

      Clinical features that will be examined as potential AE predictors included: age at
      presentation to the NIH; family history of SD; pre-syncope or syncope; exercise-induced
      hypotension; ventricular septal thickness; LV outflow obstruction; elevated LV end diastolic
      pressure; QRS duration; QT interval; VT on ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring;
      myocardial ischemia on stress nuclear perfusion imaging; inducible VT; intra-cardiac
      conduction intervals; and ventricular refractory periods. Statistical significance for the
      time-to-event analyses will be assessed using the logrank statistic for dichotomous variables
      and Cox's score statistic for continuous variables.

      We anticipate that this study will improve risk stratification in children and adolescents
      with HCM, enhance our ability to predict AE, and refine guidelines for ICD therapy in
      children.
    
  