
    
      In the present study, a blended intervention to treat postpartum depression (blended Be a
      Mom) will be tested.

      The main goal of this research is to apply and evaluate the acceptability and effectiveness
      of a blended cognitive-behavioral intervention for the treatment of postpartum depression by
      integrating face-to-face sessions with the web-based program Be a Mom. The efficacy of the
      intervention will be assessed considering two indicators: a) decrease or absence of
      clinically significant depressive symptoms at post-intervention and follow-up; and b)
      post-intervention and follow-up improvements in mother's psychosocial adjustment indicators
      (e.g., anxiety symptoms, marital satisfaction, maternal self-efficacy). The present study
      will also aim to investigate the mechanisms explaining the treatment response (e.g.,
      psychological flexibility, self-compassion) and characteristics moderating the treatment
      response (e.g., motivation for therapy, therapeutic relationship).

      The research design of the trial followed the methodological recommendations for the
      development and evaluation of blended interventions. A pilot study will be conducted prior to
      the randomized controlled trial (RCT), in order to evaluate preliminary version of blended Be
      a Mom intervention. The pilot study will be conducted with women with a clinical diagnosis of
      postpartum depression according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5)
      disorders criteria. Pre- and post-intervention assessments, using self-report questionnaires,
      and individual interviews will be used to gather information concerning acceptability
      (relevance of contents and structure), feasibility, usability and clinical effectiveness
      (non-controlled). Appropriate adjustments to the blended protocol will be carried out
      considering the results.

      The RCT will be a two-arm trial. The intervention condition (blended Be a Mom) will be
      compared with a control condition (Treatment as Usual). The sample will include adult women
      who delivered an healthy baby in the postpartum period (up to 12 months postpartum). Women
      will be enrolled at primary healthcare units in routine care appointments during the
      postpartum period. A minimum number of 45 women per condition will be required (N=90).
      Accounting for the 20% of expected attrition rate over time, an anticipated sample of 110
      women will be enrolled in the study.

      Women who demonstrate interest in the study will be informed of the study goals, the
      structure and arms of the research and the researchers' and participants' roles. Women who
      agree to participate in the study will sign an informed consent form. All ethical
      requirements for research with humans are guaranteed.

      After women's agreement to participate in the study, the researcher (licensed psychologist)
      will screen women for the presence of postpartum depressive symptoms (using self-report
      questionnaires) every two weeks during the period of the study. When women have a positive
      screen (indicating the presence of clinically relevant depressive symptoms) and meet the
      remaining eligibility criteria, an interview (SCID-5) will be conducted by the researcher
      (licensed psychologist) to assess the presence of the diagnosis of postpartum depression. In
      case of absence of the diagnosis, women's participation in the study will end and they will
      be referred to intervention by local providers. Participants with a clinical diagnosis of
      postpartum depression will be randomly assigned (blocked randomization, with allocation
      concealment) to one of the conditions: the intervention (blended Be a Mom) or the control
      condition. The randomization will be conducted by a different researcher who will be blind to
      the assessment procedure.

      Participation in this study will last 12 months. The blended Be a Mom intervention will last
      about 3 months and will be conducted by the researcher (licensed psychologist). Participants
      in both conditions will be invited by the researchers via email to complete baseline,
      post-intervention and follow-up (3 and 6-months post-intervention) assessments. Assessments
      will include self-report questionnaires to assess several indicators (e.g., depressive and
      anxiety symptoms, quality of life, marital satisfaction, mother-child bonding, and maternal
      self-efficacy), mechanisms that may be involved in the treatment response (e.g.,
      psychological flexibility, emotional regulation, and self-compassion), user's acceptability
      and satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. The necessary statistical analyses will be
      conducted, using the intention-to-treat and per-protocol principles.
    
  