
    
      Approximately 17.8 million worldwide deaths per year are due to cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      Arab countries are at higher risk of CVD in which middle income countries are mostly at
      burden. "The threshold for cardiac arrests and cardiovascular disease (CVD) worldwide is 65
      years, while people in the UAE are suffering from the CVD at the age of 45" reported by
      Emirates Cardiac Society. One of the most common causes of cardiovascular deaths is coronary
      artery disease (CAD). Coronary angioplasty one of the most common non-surgical approach for
      the treatment of ischemic coronary artery disease. It is widely accepted that cardiac
      rehabilitation can be beneficial for patients with heart diseases. Most of the patients won't
      achieve adequate functional improvement, if rehabilitation exercises are not done on regular
      basis post-coronary angioplasty.

      In cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs, psychosocial function and the assessment of quality
      of life (QOL) are the major objective parameters commonly used by researchers. Physical
      activity and emotional status influence health related quality of life (HRQOL) in patient
      underwent coronary angioplasty. It is important to find effectiveness of CR on health related
      quality of life (HRQOL). Studies has shown that tailored exercise training helped to improve
      Left Ventricle Ejection Fraction (LVEF) in patients post coronary angioplasty. A systematic
      review highlighted the effectiveness of using 6MWT to show improvement of functional capacity
      in patients undergoing cardiac rehabilitation.

      It is well known that walking exercise reduces cardiovascular disease-related mortality and
      predicts longevity in patients with established CAD. One of the integral components of
      cardiac rehabilitation is treadmill walking. A meta-analysis demonstrated that physical
      activity could be enhanced in patients with the use of pedometer. Recent evidence shows that
      smartphone apps are effective at promoting physical activity. Studies also shows that
      smartphone Apps are more accurate in tracking steps as compared to fitness trackers.

      Power walking is an effective part of phase II cardiac rehabilitation. Running is preferred
      over walking since oxygen consumption while running is less as compared to walking.

      It was reported that up to 1 year, cardiac rehabilitation improves QOL in patients with acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI) or revascularization procedures. Four weeks of short CR course
      provides better attendance, improvement in quality of life and exercise capacity.

      Accordingly, the current study was conducted for 4 weeks, a shorter period of rehabilitation
      and documented the effectiveness on cardiac fitness including health related quality of life,
      functional exercise capacity, ejection fraction and metabolic equivalent task (MET's) of
      patients with post angioplasty.

      Although the advantages of CR are well known to most of the physicians, still one third of
      the patients do not receive CR post coronary angioplasty due to poor referral trends. Higher
      rates of quality-of-care measures were found among patients who were referred for CR compared
      to those who were not referred. Post coronary angioplasty patients need to continue with
      cardiac rehabilitation in a progressive manner to attain the overall improvement. In a
      comparative study where 5 and 39 CR programs participated from Arab countries and Canada
      respectively showed that in Arab countries CR programs are very limited. Recent statistics in
      UAE has shown that 30% deaths are due to cardiovascular diseases, 30-70% population has
      cardiovascular diseases or are at risk and 37% population do not exercise and are physical
      inactive.

      The concept is very clear that significant number of eligible patients with cardiac
      conditions is not referred for outpatient CR. Although most patients post coronary
      angioplasty are encouraged by cardiologist to gradually increase their activity levels,
      limited data are available on the amount of physical and walking activity and regular aerobic
      exercises done by patients with post coronary angioplasty at phase II CR.

      Power walking has an advantage that it consumes 55% more energy in comparison to just walking
      alone or running at a speed of 6 to 8 km/h, while being at a lower intensity. Despite the
      advantages of power walking, the exercise effects have not been reported in cardiac
      rehabilitation programs.

      This study will help to fulfill great need for referral and awareness of out patient cardiac
      rehabilitation by proving outcomes of standardized outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program.
      The investigators utilized power walking along with standardized cardiac rehabilitation to
      find effectiveness on health related quality of life, functional exercise capacity, ejection
      fraction and metabolic equivalent task (MET's) of patients with post coronary angioplasty.
      Henceforth, the need for research is to prove the effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation in
      UAE population.
    
  