
    
      Major colorectal surgery, i.e. surgery involving a wide colon resection and/or a very low
      anastomosis, remains problematic, despite great advances in medico-pharmaceutical treatment,
      improvement in surgical techniques, and sophisticated postoperative management. Such surgery
      is still accompanied by an unacceptably high morbidity of 15% to 23.2% leading to an increase
      in the number of ventilatory support days, prolongation of total hospital stay, significantly
      higher medical costs, patient suffering, and, unfortunately mortality. Worse than this,
      nowadays, infections and sepsis are by far the most common morbidities, either as initial
      cause or as a consequence of another complication, such as anastomotic leakage. Ongoing
      clinical studies have reported probiotic therapies to be beneficial in elective surgery
      cases, since they have been shown to successfully modulate the GI flora in a plethora of
      medical settings and in critically ill and trauma patients. More precisely, recent randomized
      controlled studies and meta-analyses in elective surgery and abdominal surgery patients have
      demonstrated that the perioperative use of probiotics is safe and reduces both the incidence
      of postoperative wound infections, sepsis, post-operative pneumonia and other infections, and
      the necessary duration of hospital stay and length of antibiotic therapy. However, there
      exist few controlled, large-scale, trials comparing the current standard treatment with the
      probiotic concept and showing the superiority of the latter in colonic surgery with regard to
      a reduced complication rate. Therefore, the investigators decided to conduct a randomized
      controlled trial to investigate the impact of a probiotics treatment protocol on
      postoperative morbidity in an open elective colonic surgery cohort. The major objective is to
      evidence a reduction in 30-day infectious, surgery-related morbidity: any surgical site
      infection; organ specific infections; systemic infections and anastomotic leakage. Minor
      objectives related to the reduction in other non-infectious complications, as well as the
      assessment of outcome indicators such as the number of days in postoperative ileus, on
      mechanical ventilation, stay in ICU, total hospitalization and mortality in the 30-day
      post-operative period.
    
  