
    
      Ovarian tissue cryopreservation is a new technique for female fertility preservation before
      gonadotoxic treatments. The first ovarian tissue cryopreservations were performed 10 years
      ago. There are two main methods to use frozen ovarian cortex: autograft of ovarian fragments
      and in vitro follicular growth. At the present time, none mature oocytes were obtained after
      culture. Since 2000, around twenty publications stating autografts of ovarian cortex reported
      8 pregnancy and 6 life birth of healthy babies.

      Since 1998 until 2008, in the unit of reproduction biology of pitie-salpetriere hospital in
      Paris, France, 330 patients have had an ovarian tissue cryopreservation for fertility
      preservation before gonadotoxic treatment. Among them, at the present time, 180 have a
      procreative age and in consequence, could ask for the use of their ovarian cortex.

      The general aim of this protocol will be to propose to women wishing to have a baby, an
      ovarian tissue transplantation if the patients have an premature ovarian failure.

      The principal aim of this study will be to evaluate the efficiency and the safety of ovarian
      transplantation.

      Before grafting, the absence of contra- indication will be check. An informed consent will be
      signed by the patient. Autograft of ovarian cortex will be performed either in orthotopic or
      in heterotopic localization according to the pathology and a possible contra-indication to
      orthotopic position.

      After graft, each month hormonal assessment, ovarian echography and, after 3 months, an MRI,
      will be performed.

      Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART) will be performed in case of heterotopic graft and
      if necessary in case of orthotopic graft.

      The efficiency of ovarian tissue autograft will be appreciated by the delay before the
      recovery of the ovarian function, the oocyte and embryos qualities in case of ART.

      Finally, the number of pregnancies and live births will be also appreciated as well as a
      possible recurrence of the pathology.
    
  