
    
      This surgery can be performed alone or at the same time as cataract surgery. The geometry of
      the Xen® implant has been studied to help prevent major hypotonia. This new technique would
      also prevent complications related to conjunctival dissection, while being faster. The
      placement of a Xen® implant is now used in simple surgery or combined with cataract surgery
      for open-angle glaucomas, beginners to moderate, associated or not with cataract, progressive
      and unbalanced under local hypotonizing treatment. Since June 2017, the Xen® technique has
      been part of the routine in the ophthalmology department of the Paris Saint-Joseph Hospital
      Group (GhPSJ). The choice of technique (filtering surgery or XEN®) is left to the discretion
      of the surgeon. To date, no study has yet compared the efficacy and safety of this new
      technique compared to non-perforating deep sclerectomy: the gold standard. However, the
      presence of any type of anterior chamber device may be associated with endothelial cell loss
      even when the device is not in direct contact with the cornea. Endothelial cell loss
      increases over time well after the operative procedure and sometimes requires removal of the
      device years later. It can induce non-reversible corneal edema when the device is stopped and
      involve a corneal transplant. Recently, a study showed that the micro-invasive device ab
      interno Alcon Cypass® (device similar to XEN®) caused an endothelial cell loss that was not
      significant initially but significant thereafter (48 months) and not acceptable compared to
      conventional surgery. glaucoma. The damage was proportional to the area of the implant in the
      anterior chamber and led to the immediate withdrawal of the device from the market. In view
      of these results and the absence to date of an equivalent study for XEN®, we proposed to
      conduct this study in order to assess the possible cell loss compared to NPDS.
    
  