
    
      Background:

      The provision of clinically-assisted hydration (CAH) at the end-of-life is one of the most
      contentious issues in medicine, and indeed within the general population. The reasons for
      contention include:

        -  the lack of evidence for / against CAH;

        -  the disparate opinions of healthcare professionals about CAH;

        -  the generally positive opinions of patients and their carers about CAH (and the
           generally negative opinions about withholding / withdrawing CAH).

      It is, therefore, unsurprising that the provision of CAH at the end-of-life is extremely
      variable within clinical practice (i.e. 12-88% cancer patients in the last week of life).

      Hypothesis:

      CAH during the last days of life reduces the frequency of hyperactive delirium ("terminal
      agitation") in cancer patients as a result of maintenance of renal perfusion and the
      prevention of accumulation of toxins and drugs (i.e. prevention of dehydration).

      Aims / objectives:

      The aim of the definitive study is to evaluate the utility / role of CAH in cancer patients
      in the last days of life.

      The aim of the feasibility study is to answer the question "can this study (the definitive
      study) be done".

      The objectives of the feasibility study are to:

        -  assess the recruitment rate, i.e. number eligible patients, number recruited patients,
           barriers to recruitment;

        -  assess the retention rate;

        -  assess impact of trial procedures on clinical workload, i.e. completion of clinical
           assessment documentation, undertaking mouth care / CAH;

        -  assess the adequacy of resources to conduct the study at research centres;

        -  assess the adequacy of resources to support the study at Surrey Clinical Research
           Centre;

        -  determine other challenges for researchers / research centres;

        -  determine other challenges for Surrey Clinical Research Centre;

        -  assess safety of CAH

        -  determine total variability / intra-cluster correlation coefficient

      Methodology:

      The study is a cluster randomised trial with a mixed method of consenting. Consent sought
      from patients (whenever possible), or advice from a "personal consultee" (when a patient is
      unable to provide consent), or from a "nominated consultee" (when a patient is unable to
      provide consent, and there is no personal consultee).

      Sites will be randomised to either "standard intervention arm A", or "standard intervention
      arm B". Patients in standard intervention arm A will be managed with continuance of oral
      intake (if appropriate), and regular "mouth care". Mouth care will be performed at least
      every four hours, and will correspond to the investigational site's policy / procedures for
      oral care in the terminal phase. Patients in standard intervention arm B will be managed with
      continuance of oral intake (if appropriate), regular "mouth care", and CAH, i.e. parenteral
      fluids. Again, mouth care will be performed at least every four hours, and will correspond to
      the investigational site's policy / procedures for oral care in the terminal phase. The
      parenteral fluids may be administered either intravenously or subcutaneously at the
      discretion of the medical and nursing team. The type of fluid to be administered will be
      dextrose saline (i.e. 4% dextrose, 0.18% sodium chloride), and the volume to be administered
      will be dependent on the patient's weight.

      The primary endpoint of the definitive study is the frequency of hyperactive delirium
      ("terminal agitation"), and this will be assessed using the Modified Richmond Agitation and
      Sedation Scale (administered every four hours). Other data to be collected include the
      frequency of pain, respiratory secretions / "death rattle", dyspnoea, nausea and vomiting,
      adverse effects from the CAH, and overall survival. In addition, data will be collected on
      the use of anti-psychotic drugs, sedative drugs, analgesics, anti-secretory drugs, and other
      end-of-life medication.

      A "cluster representation mechanism" (CRM) will be utilised, including the appointment of
      site-specific "study guardians" and "study gatekeepers", who will protect and respect the
      rights of the cluster and the individual participants within the cluster.
    
  