
    
      A regimen consisted on a combination of a calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) with a short course of
      methotrexate (MTX) is the most widely used regimen for the prevention of GVHD after
      allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT). While the CNI is given in an
      adjusted dose, based on blood levels, MTX is given at a fixed 3 or 4 doses (15 mg/m2 on day
      +1, 10 mg/m2 on days +3, +6 +/- day +11). However, its use may be associated with
      considerable toxicity, including delayed engraftment, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity and
      particularly oral mucositis (OM). The basis for OM is integrated: conditioning regimen and
      MTX prophylaxis for acute GVHD. OM has been shown to be associated with increased mortality
      and morbidity (principally from infection), significant pain, dysgeusia, difficulty speaking,
      difficulty receiving nutrition, hydration and oral medications, prolonged hospitalization and
      increased costs of care.

      Reducing and even omitting doses of MTX due to regimen related toxicities (mucositis, hepatic
      and renal toxicities) is common. However, dose reduction of MTX may be associated with
      increased risk of acute GVHD and early death. Several non-randomized studies have shown that
      folinic acid (FA, leucovorin) administration may reduce MTX toxicity. Nevertheless, the
      efficacy and safety of its administration remain controversial. Despite limited and
      uncontrolled data, the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) and the
      European LeukemiaNet working group recently recommended the use of FA-rescue and proposed a
      uniform policy of FA-rescue 24h after each MTX dose: 15mg every 8h after MTX administration
      on day 1, and every 6h on days 3, 6 and 11. Yet, according to several surveys (including by
      EBMT-ELN) only half of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) centers use to give post MTX
      FA-rescue.

      The aim of this study is to assess the impact of FA-rescue following MTX GVHD prophylaxis on
      regimen related toxicity and transplantation outcomes after alloHCT in a double blind
      randomized controlled trial.
    
  