
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury, also known as concussion, occurs commonly in sport. The Centers
      for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that as many as 3.8 million sport-related
      concussions occur annually in the United States. Although many concussions resolve completely
      and spontaneously, almost 1 in 4 patients will go on to experience post-concussion syndrome
      (PCS). In the United States, PCS diagnoses have increased 100% from 2010-2015. Concurrently,
      recent advances in EEG evoked response potential analysis have led to a novel technique for
      assessing brain network activation (BNA) patterns. The purpose of this study is to explore
      the use of BNA in individuals who are diagnosed with PCS or have the risk of experiencing PCS
      due to a recent injury.

      ElMindA, the sponsor of this study, has developed a novel method to automatically reveal
      functional networks of brain activity based on analysis of EEG Event Related Potential (ERP)
      data. This technological platform is capable of providing new metrics of brain function which
      can assist in patient evaluation and management. The analysis is done in two separate
      processes which are entirely separate and are performed independently of one another. First
      EEG data are recorded and analyzed from a group, or several groups, of subjects to establish
      a set of group patterns which characterized the brain network activity of the group. Second,
      EEG data from a single subject are processed to enable subject evaluation, as compared to the
      established group patterns. This individual analysis is the basis of the BNA scores computed
      for an individual subject.

      Primary Objective:

      • Exploratory (e.g. Hypothesis-generating) study designed to collect data that will aid in
      future understanding of the relationship between Post Concussion Syndrome and
      Electrophysiology. The results are primarily intended for scientific inquiry and development
      purposes.

      Additional objectives:

        -  Exploring the relationship between the characteristics of early/acute stage Mild
           Traumatic Brain Injury and the subsequent development of PCS

        -  Collecting electrophysiological and clinical data that will serve as the basis for
           athlete brain health case studies.

      Arm 1: Study staff will contact subjects tested in the past with BNA and were diagnosed with
      Post-Concussion Syndrome at their medical facility.

      Arm 2: Eligible subjects treated at the study medical facility for acute concussion or Post
      Concussion Syndrome will be approached by the study staff.

      Interested volunteers will complete a brief initial in person or phone consultation with a
      member of the study team and those who meet eligibility criteria and wish to participate will
      be invited for a study visit in the testing facility. During this visit, a member of the
      study team will describe the study in greater detail, verify subject eligibility, obtain
      informed written consent/assent for study participation, and record relevant demographic,
      medical history information, concussion history and clinical assessment questioners as
      provided by the subject or as available from subject's medical records. The subject will then
      have the EEG electrode cap placed on their head and will undergo the BNA test after a brief
      training and instructional session.
    
  