
    
      Adult patients (18 years and older) from the Clinical Division of Orthodontics at the
      University Clinic of Dentistry Vienna will be invited to participate in this pilot
      microbiologic study according to defined inclusion/exclusion criteria after giving their
      consent. This study is a pilot project and therefore no sample size calculation will be made.
      Twenty patients will be treated with Invisalign® aligners and twenty patients will receive
      multibracket therapy. A previous microbiological study showed that lingual orthodontic
      therapy has a short-term effect on oral microflora. Another microbial study on colonization
      on dental implants also reported bacterial shift upon implant therapy.

      All patients will get instructions in oral hygiene on the day when clinical records are
      gathered. On the day when the treatment plan will be presented to the patient, the Plaque
      Index will be evaluated by a trained orthodontist. For the start of the treatment a Plaque
      Index of < 20% is required. On the day before the orthodontic treatment is started, T0 sample
      collection will be conducted and periodontal indices will be assessed. A clinical examination
      including periodontal probing depth, bleeding on probing, and Plaque Index (PI) will be
      performed before (T0), after 3 months (T1) and after 6 months of the beginning of either
      aligner or bracket therapy. Microbiological sampling will be performed by stimulated saliva
      collection according to our protocol. Saliva samples will be divided in aliquots in stored in
      cryo-tubes at -80°C. Molecular detection of microorganisms by sequencing of 16S rDNA genes,
      sequencing analysis and taxonomic assignment will be performed at the Department of
      Laboratory Medicine at the Medical University of Vienna.

      By sequencing of 16s rDNA genes with sequencing analysis and taxonomic assignment of bacteria
      in saliva we expect to reveal possible shifts in microbial phyla/genera between various time
      points. Metagenomic studies are commonly performed by analysing the prokaryotic 16S ribosomal
      RNA gene (16S rRNA), which is approximately 1,500 base pairs long and contains nine variable
      regions interspersed between conserved regions. Variable regions of 16S rRNA are frequently
      used in phylogenetic classifications such as genus or species in diverse microbial
      populations.

      DNA Extraction:

      Due to better quantitative and qualitative results in comparison to commercial DNA extraction
      kits, DNA will be isolated with a modified CTAB SDS chloroform-based method. Mechanical
      analysis will be carried out using 1mm silica spheres under addition of proteinase K (Qiagen,
      Venlo, Netherlands) as well as the detergents SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate) and CTAB
      (cetyltrimethylammonium bromide). After extraction, the DNA quantity will be determined with
      Qubit® 2.0 via the dsDNA HS kit (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, California) and NanoDrop 2000c
      spectrophotometer (Thermo Scientific, Waltham, Massachusetts). Additionally, the absorption
      ratios A260/280 and A260/230 will be used to estimate the purity of the DNA.

      Metagenome Analysis:

      The overall composition of the bacterial organisms in the samples will be evaluated by
      analysing microbiome. Therefore, we will use high throughput sequencing with the MiSeq®
      platform (Illumina, San Diego, California). We will analyse the variable V3 and V4 regions of
      the 16S rRNA gene. For the phylogenetic classification, the bacterial 16S rRNA will be
      amplified using primers 27F (5'-CCT ACG GGN GGC WGC AG-3') and 1391R
      (5'-GACTACHVGGGTATCTAATCC-3').

      Bioinformatic analysis:

      The quality of the Next Generation Sequencing run will be assessed using the software FASTQC
      0.11.4. The removal of low-quality bases will be carried out with the Trimmomatic-0.35
      software . For sequence analysis and clustering similar sequences into clusters (OTUs) the
      UPARSE pipeline will be utilized. For comparison and statistical analysis of the microbiome
      data we will use RStudio (Team 2016) as platform with R as language (R Development Core Team
      2010) and different R-packages.
    
  