
    
      Despite a longer time for bone healing and functional recovery, median sternotomy is still
      the most common approach in cardiac surgery. Sternal closure has traditionally been wire
      cerclage using stainless steel wires, however, new sternal fixation devices have been
      developed to improve sternal union. Rigid sternal fixation, although very costly, has
      demonstrated to be superior to standard wire cerclage both in clinical and biomechanical
      studies. Although improved sternal healing was observed with rigid plate fixation in a
      randomized controlled trial in high risk patients, the wound complication rate with plate
      fixation was almost double that of wire cerclage albeit not statistically significant.

      A novel sternal closure system denoted the sternal ZIPFIX system (DePuySynthes, Companies of
      Johnson and Johnson, West Over, PA, US) is biocompatible Poly-Ether-Ether-Ketone implant that
      was developed for fast and reliable sternal fixation following median sternotomy. First
      published case series utilized the sternal ZIPFIX System demonstrating effective sternal
      stability at 30 days. Another study has demonstrated no significant difference in the
      incidence of sternal wound infection following the ZIPFIX system compared to standard wire
      cerclage while Stelly et al., 2015 demonstrated reduced risk of deep sternal wound infection
      for patients using ZIPFIX. The ZIPFIX system demonstrates a higher resistance of fatigue
      failure and has a larger implant-to-bone contact area compared to stainless steel wires
      thereby reducing the risk of bone cut through. Placement of the cable ties are done similar
      to wire cerclage thereby not affecting time for sternal closure and training.

      The objective of this study is to determine whether sternal reconstruction using the ZIPFIX
      system compared to standard wire cerclage would improve bone healing, patient function, and
      decrease postoperative pain.
    
  