
    
      Patients Recruitment for this single-center double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study
      was performed between January 2007 and May 2009. Patients were enrolled based on the
      following inclusion criteria: 18 years and older with evidence of subacute or chronic
      supratentorial subdural hematoma by CT (computerized tomography) scan or MRI (magnetic
      resonance imaging) and classified between 0 and 2 using the Markwalder grading scale (17)
      (Grade 0 for normal neurological status, grade 1 for no neurological deficits but mild
      symptoms, grade 2 for focal or variable neurological deficits, grade 3 for several focal
      neurological signs, and grade 4 for comatose). Exclusion criteria included contraindications
      or intolerance to corticosteroid therapy or patients already undergoing steroid treatment for
      any other indication, previous neurological surgery up to one year prior to being considered
      for the study, concomitant cerebral pathology of neoplastic or presumed infectious origin,
      anticoagulant therapy that could not be stopped for 6 months and refusal to participate in
      the study. If at any time, patients developed a sudden increase in hematoma volume, a midline
      displacement of greater than 1cm or a deterioration of their level of consciousness, they
      were removed from the conservative study protocol in order to undergo surgery.

      This study was approved by the research ethics board at Centre Hospitalier Universitaire
      (CHU) de Quebec. Written and fully informed consent was obtained from each participant.

      Randomization Allocation to each group was done in a 1:1 ratio with block sizes ranging from
      4 to 6, to one of the two arms ; a treatment arm in which participants received dexamethasone
      according to the protocol, and a control group in which they received placebo. Randomization
      was performed via a web-based service by a pharmacist, which was not involved in any other
      part of the study. Both investigators and participants were blind to treatment allocation.

      Treatment Participants allocated to the treatment group received a daily dosage of 12mg (4mg
      three times a day) of dexamethasone for three weeks. Corticosteroid treatment was then
      tapered off over the next week (8mg for 48 hrs, 4mg for 48 hrs, 2mg for 48 hrs and 1mg for 24
      hrs). Identical oral capsules filled with lactose were administered to the control (placebo)
      group for 28 days. Participants were returned at home with blister packs containing their
      medication for each day of the trial and were asked to return empty packs to ensure
      compliance with the assigned treatment. The treatment (placebo or dexamethasone) was
      discontinued if a patient required surgical drainage of its hematoma or suffered from
      significant side effects.

      Evaluation and follow-up The primary outcome of this pilot study was to determine the
      efficacy of dexamethasone as compared with placebo in reducing the rate of surgical
      intervention for CSDH graded 0 to 2 on the Markwalder grading scale (Grade 0 for normal
      neurological status, grade 1 for no neurological deficits but mild symptoms, grade 2 for
      focal or variable neurological deficits, grade 3 for several focal neurological signs, and
      grade 4 for comatose).

      Eligible patients who consented for the study underwent the routine standard of care. This
      included 1) a complete medical history review and neurological physical exam ; 2) head
      computerized tomography (CT) or MRI with measurement of maximal hematoma thickness (in mm),
      midline shift ; 3) and a check of blood and vital parameters. In addition, patients were
      asked to complete detailed questionnaires measuring symptoms typically associated with
      subdural hematomas.

      Follow-up appointments were scheduled 2 weeks, 1, 2 and 6 months after initiation of
      treatment. At each visit, the three components of the clinical evaluation described above
      were repeated. Moreover, a seven point categorical scale was used to evaluate patient's
      global impression of change relative to the initial state (unchanged , very much improved,
      much improved, minimally improved, minimally worse, much worse, very much worse).
      Treatment-related side effects were also inquired about and collected.

      The rate of success of conservative management was defined as the percentage of patients not
      requiring surgery in each treatment group during the 6 months following enrollment.
      Radiological progression of the hematoma in terms of thickness and magnitude of midline
      shift, hematoma-related symptoms and medication-related side effects were carefully
      collected.

      Statistical analyses Demographical characteristics, baseline neurological status and hematoma
      size and location were compared for both groups using a Mann-Whitney test for continuous
      variable and a χ2 test for categorical variables.

      To compare the rate of success, a categorical frequency comparison with the Fisher's exact
      test was used. For the other outcome measures we used Mann-Whitney U test and Student's
      t-test for normally distributed variables and χ2 or Fisher's exact test for categorical
      frequencies. All statistical tests were done with the Statistical package for Social Sciences
      software version 16.0 and the significance threshold was set at p<0.05.
    
  