
    
      The spread of childhood obesity across all ethnic and socioeconomic classes in North America
      is alarming. The close link between morbid obesity and type II diabetes (T2DM) and in
      childhood is undisputed fact and recent statistics reported by the American Diabetes
      Association suggest that newly diagnosed cases are on the rise. The link between decreased
      exercise, increased calorie and fat intake, decrease intake of fruits and vegetables and
      increased frequency of T2DM are well established. Complications of child obesity include
      risks for heart disease, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, and even some
      cancers. The lack of fruit and vegetable consumption may be responsible for specific nutrient
      deficiencies such as low β-carotene, which has recently been identified as an important
      regulator of body fat. Nemours and Wolfson Children's Hospital have taken the initiative to
      explore factors that contribute to childhood obesity including well controlled studies
      examining the effects of intensive nutritional and behavioral education, healthy eating and
      increased exercise as ways to help prevent the rise in childhood obesity. This study aims to
      institute an intensive 2 week in-patient intervention which will serve as a model for
      behavioral changes required in children and families to successfully address the rapid
      progression of obesity. We will administer a supplement of β-carotene and follow the changes
      in abdominal fat accumulation over six months. At the third week of intervention we will
      obtain a blood sample that will determine if any beneficial changes have already taken place
      in white blood cells that clear cholesterol from the arteries using genetic testing. At the
      end of the study we will compare the amount of abdominal fat that accumulates or decreases in
      each subject. An intensive educational program that leads to healthy eating and the habitual
      exercise for the whole family will help promote significant benefits in the rate of weight
      gain and delay the progression to diabetes.
    
  