
    
      Glaucoma is one of the three leading causes of blindness in China. Although this condition
      can be controlled with medication to lower intraocular pressure , such treatment must
      continue over a patient's lifetime. This is not practical in resource-poor settings due to
      cost and inconvenience for patients. Trabeculectomy is the standard treatment offered in
      rural China but is rarely used because of the following issues:

        1. need for hospitalization, which increases patient expense and inconvenience

        2. high refusal rates by patients for all ocular surgery

        3. high rates of infection due to poor quality instruments and material

        4. need for multiple follow-up visits post-surgery (our earlier work shows a return rate of
           only 30% 1 month post-surgery among rural patients in China).

      A viable alternative for patients in rural China is selective laser trabeculoplasty , based
      on the following advantages:

        1. simplicity (done as a 5-minute out-patient procedure requiring only topical anaesthesia)

        2. effectiveness (18-32% reduction in intraocular pressure, which is comparable to
           medication)

        3. safety (complications are rare and do not include serious infectious as with
           trabeculotemy)

        4. convenience (minimal follow-up, with one visit within 6 weeks post-surgery)

        5. cost-effectiveness (compared to other glaucoma therapies in many settings)

        6. acceptability to patients (due to low-cost out-patient care with easy follow-up).

      Study Design (Quantitative) This phase of the proposed China Laser and Surgery Study research
      project is a multi-centre open-label pragmatic randomised controlled trial.

      Expected timeline:

        -  Enrolment: 12 months

        -  Follow-up: 12 months

        -  Data analysis: 4 months

      Patient Population and Setting: Patients presenting with glaucoma at rural hospitals (n=4) in
      Guangdong province, China, all of whom are currently capable of performing trabeculectomy
      surgery, and have been provided an selective laser trabeculoplasty machine and training in
      its use.

      Sample Size: One hundred ninety patients (95 in each group) will be needed to obtain a power
      of 0.90, with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. Patients are the unit of randomization. Expected IOP
      difference between groups of 3.0 mm Hg + 4.0 mmg HG, and a correlation of 0.30 between
      baseline and final intraocular pressure, allowing for loss to follow up of 30%.

      Baseline Data:

      aseline data (to be collected prior to determination of eligibility and randomization but
      after obtaining informed consent) include the following:

        -  Presence or absence of relevant pre-existing health conditions (i.e., hypertension,
           diabetes, cardiovascular disease)

        -  Ophthamologic test results

             -  Best corrected visual acuity and presenting visual acuity in both eyes

             -  Intraocular pressure in both eyes

             -  Cup to disk ratio in both eyes

             -  presence or absence of visually significant cataract in both eyes; if cataract
                present in study eye, whether cataract surgery has already been performed

             -  degrees of visible Trabecular Meshwork in the study eye on gonioscopy without
                "dynamic gonioscopy"

        -  score on glaucoma knowledge test using a simple, previously validated questionnaire

        -  Demographic data

             -  date of birth or self-reported age in years

             -  sex

        -  Contact information

             -  Address

             -  mobile phone number where can be reached (own or neighbours, etc.)

        -  Socioeconomic status

             -  completed education in years

             -  wealth, as measured by ownership of items on a pre-determined list of 13 common
                household devices in China

             -  job title/description

        -  Level of difficulty traveling to hospital with eye clinic

             -  distance traveled

             -  time spent traveling

             -  direct or out-of-pocket costs for travel, meals, etc.

      Main analyses:

        -  Following requirements for intention-to-treat analyses, we will measure mean intraocular
           pressure at 12 months comparing the two groups and adjusting for baseline intraocular
           pressure, including all subjects who accepted and refused treatment (primary analysis,
           unadjusted). We will also measure intraocular pressure as above, adjusting for cataract
           surgery, age, gender, prior use of medication, degrees of open angle in study eye at
           baseline, and severity of glaucoma (Cup to disk ratio) in study eye at baseline (primary
           analysis, adjusted). Both of the above analyses will be repeated using a per protocol
           approach (including only patients who accepted their assigned therapy, or secondary
           analysis).

        -  We will test for differences in baseline characteristics by study group with t-tests
           (for continuous variables) and Chi-square tests (for categorical variables). We will use
           generalized linear models with Poisson regression (for variables with binary outcomes)
           and linear regression (for variables with continuous outcomes) to estimate the relative
           risk for the intervention arm. Multiple imputation in Stata 13.1 (StataCorp, College
           Station, TX, USA) will be used to address missing data. All statistical analysis will be
           performed using Stata 13.1. A two-tailed P-value of <0.05 will be considered
           statistically significant.
    
  