
    
      The study will be of a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter design with
      sequential ascending doses of XTL 2125 in HCV-infected patients with compensated liver
      disease who did not respond to IFN-alpha therapy or relapsed following this therapy.

      This study will include both a single dose session and a multiple dose session. In the single
      dose session, patients will be randomized to receive a single oral dose of either XTL 2125 or
      placebo on Day 1, in a dose-escalating design, followed by a multiple dose session that will
      start on day 8 and will continue for 14 days. The same patients will receive XTL 2125 three
      times daily at the same dose administered in the single dose session.

      The following doses will be administered to groups of 8 patients each: 10 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg,
      150 mg, 300 mg and 450 mg. Within each group, 6 subjects will receive XTL 2125 and 2 subjects
      will receive placebo. No patient will be enrolled in more than one dose level. Doses should
      be administered one hour before meals with 240 cc water.

      Additional patients may be enrolled at previous or intermediate doses to obtain additional
      safety or pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic data and to more accurately define the Maximum
      Tolerated Dose (MTD).

      The MTD will be defined as the last dose level that is successfully administered with a
      decision to escalate to the next level. If the decision not to escalate to the next level is
      made then a cohort that receives XTL 2125 at a dose half-way between the last tolerated dose
      and the non-tolerated dose may be enrolled at the discretion of the Sponsor. If this dose is
      successfully administered without violating the dose escalation rules, then this interim dose
      will be considered the MTD.

      Six dose cohorts will be prospectively indicated, although additional cohorts may be
      scheduled at intermediate doses if warranted by the data.
    
  