
    
      The overall working hypothesis is that intake of dietary fiber during radiotherapy can
      mitigate or hinder end states or the triggering of long-lasting pathophysiological processes
      that decreases intestinal health in the cancer survivor. If correct, there is a dose-effect
      relationship to be documented. Moreover, if correct, different kinds of dietary fibers may
      have different effects. Mechanisms for the mitigatory effects may be that dietary fiber helps
      to preserve the two protective mucus layers and hinder gut-wall starvation. Lack of
      protection, as well as gut-wall starvation, may decrease the gut walls' integrity. That, in
      turn, may enhance bacterial migration from the lumen into the gut wall, causing unnecessary
      inflammation. This inflammation may, in turn, lead to a number of different
      pathophysiological processes, including a chronic self-propagating low-grade inflammation.
      Clinical experience suggests the intake of dietary fiber during radiotherapy may increase
      acute intestinal side effects. Our own data suggest a modest, if any, increase by dietary
      fiber.

      Through recipes of tasty meals by price-winning chefs and general advice, the investigators
      guide the participant to try to consume at least 16 g of dietary fiber per day via food. The
      guidance takes place through telephone calls, calls via video link, and text on a website or
      paper material. The participant gets access to a mobile application that measures the daily
      intake of dietary fiber. Dietary fiber is ingested in 15 capsules with psyllium husk which
      contains a total of 5.5 g of dietary fiber. The investigators ask the participant to take the
      capsules two weeks before radiotherapy, during radiotherapy, and to stop four weeks after the
      end of radiotherapy. Placebo capsules (maltodextrin) are taken in the same way. To document
      the frequency of acute side effects, and what symptoms they cause, the participant is asked
      to report patient-reported outcomes once a week via a mobile application. They are also
      welcome to report side effects to the study office.

      One month after the end of radiotherapy, the degree of inflammation is measured via markers
      in the blood and feces. One year after the end of radiotherapy, intestinal health is measured
      via patient-reported outcomes. Blood and feces are collected and patient-reported outcomes
      are reported in questionnaires and a mobile application before, during, and at least one year
      after the end of radiotherapy. This data will be a source of in-depth analysis. Radiotherapy
      gives rise to increased intensity of five different syndromes, fecal-leakage syndrome,
      urgency syndrome, uncontrolled flatulence, excess mucus discharge, and anal blood discharge.
      Damage of nerves and small vessels, weakening the anal-sphincter function by muscle fibers
      turning into the connective tissue (fibrosis), may explain some of the intensity of the
      fecal-leakage syndrome. An ongoing self-propagating low-grade inflammation, small-vessel and
      nerve damage in the gut wall may be related to urgency. Reasonably the microbiome, and the
      communication between the microbiome and the gut wall, is related to uncontrolled flatulence
      and excess mucus discharge. It is not known to what extent telangiectasias on a fibrotic
      inner gut wall explains anal blood discharge. Ad hoc studies in FIDURA will explore suggested
      mechanisms.
    
  