
    
      Whilst the large scale randomised controlled trial (RCT) remains the scientific "gold
      standard" for evaluating therapies in clinical medicine, the assumption made, that the
      treatment effect demonstrated is generalisable and applicable to all patients, is unlikely to
      be true. There will inevitably be some patients who benefit from a particular treatment more
      than others. N-of-1 trials are a means of conducting RCTs in individual patients with the
      added opportunity to use patient generated outcome measures. Patients act as their own
      control and receive all treatments under comparison, more than once, in a random sequence.
      While n-of-1 trial methodology is reasonably well specified they remain under-exploited and
      little is known about the process aspects of conducting such trials or the experiences and
      views of those who participate in them. The time commitment by patients and health
      professionals is not inconsiderable and there may well be particular problems with
      recruitment and drop out. N-of-1 trials rely on co-operation between individual clinicians
      and patients, however, no work has been undertaken to explore the ways in which
      patient-practitioner relationships and their experiences and views influence the progress and
      outcome of n-of-1 trials.

      Patients with confirmed osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee, selected for a mix of gender, age,
      weight, will be recruited to the n-of-1 trials to compare either, an NSAID (diclofenac) with
      simple analgesic (paracetamol) or a standard knee support with a heat retaining support.
      Patients will undergo a (1 hour) semi-structured interview before the trial commences and
      once the trial is completed or terminated. Patients treated with supports/drugs will receive
      each treatment for a period of one/two weeks respectively, for 3 cycles (order determined at
      random). Patients will complete daily diaries including standard patient questionnaires and a
      patient generated outcome measure. Qualitative interviews and observational methods will be
      employed to study practitioner/ patient relationships; decision to participate; expectations
      and experience; appropriateness and acceptability of research design and measures. Patients
      declining to take part will be approached to explore reasons for not participating.
    
  