
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel represents the standard of care for
      the prevention of recurrent ischemic events in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI). For more than 20 years, dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and
      Clopidogrel has remained the cornerstone of treatment for patients with acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS). However, some patients have impaired clopidogrel response and thus persist
      with high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR) resulting in an increased risk of
      atherothrombotic events. The boxed warning added to the clopidogrel label underscoring the
      potential risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes among patients with a "poor metabolizer"
      genotype and advocating the use of other antiplatelet medications or alternative dosing
      strategies for these patients has led to investigations of treatment options associated with
      more optimal platelet inhibition. These include switching to a novel generation P2Y12
      inhibitor (e.g. prasugrel or ticagrelor).

      Ticagrelor is an antagonist of the P2Y12 receptor. The drug was approved for use in the
      European Union by the European Medicines Agency on December 3, 2010. The drug was approved by
      the US Food and Drug Administration on July 20, 2011. The FDA indication for ticagrelor is a
      reduction of the rate of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in
      people with an acute coronary syndrome or history of myocardial infarction.

      According to ESC 2017 guidelines, ticagrelor is the first-option treatment in patients with
      acute coronary syndrome with or without ST-segment elevation, irrespective of treatment
      strategy (invasive or non-invasive) - IB level of evidence. Furthermore, the 2017 ESC Focused
      Update on Duration of Dual Antiplatelet Therapy allows physicians to administer ticagrelor to
      patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
      after taking thrombotic and hemorrhagic risk into consideration.

      In healthy Chinese subjects, low-dose ticagrelor produced an antiplatelet efficacy similar to
      that of standard-dose ticagrelor, which was faster and more potent than the effect of
      clopidogrel. In the East Asian population, there is limited evidence available to date that
      compares low versus standard doses of ticagrelor to evaluate the clinical efficacy and
      safety. Larger and longer duration studies are warranted to more closely examine the
      appropriateness of lower doses of ticagrelor in this population.

      The investigators postulate that inhibition of platelet aggregation in response to low dose
      Ticagrelor as opposed to the standard dose is non-inferior to that of Clopidogrel.
    
  