
    
      OUTLINE:

      PART 1: Patients receive ruxolitinib orally (PO) starting 8 weeks prior to hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT) and continuing until approximately 14 days prior to conditioning
      regimen, then tapered per the treating clinician until day -4 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who join a different research study for Part 2
      have their collected data and samples from Part 1 carried over to the new protocol.

      PART 2: Patients are assigned to either a high (myeloablative) or reduced intensity
      conditioning regimens per the clinical provider together with the Clinical Coordinators
      Office (CCO):

      MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -7
      and -6 and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -5 to -2. Patients with umbilical cord blood
      (UCB) as their transplant source also receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -8 to
      -6. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REDUCED INTENSITY CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to
      -2 and melphalan IV over 15-30 minutes on days -3 and -2. Patients with UCB as their
      transplant source also undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1. Treatment continues in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      TRANSPLANT: After completion of conditioning regimen, patients undergo HSCT on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive ruxolitinib until approximately 7 months post-transplant
      and then tapered over 2 months until 9 months post HSCT. Patients also receive tacrolimus IV
      continuously (inpatients) or every 12 hours (outpatients) beginning day -1 (day -3 for
      patients with UCB as their donor source), then PO twice daily (BID) once therapeutic levels
      are reached, with a taper beginning on day 56 for patients with related donors, and day 100
      for patients with unrelated donors over 4 months in the absence of GVHD. The duration of
      tacrolimus for patients with GVHD is determined by the attending physician. Patients with
      related and unrelated donors also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11. Patients
      with UCB as their transplant source also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or PO every 8 hours
      beginning on days 0-30, then tapered until day 40 in the absence of GVHD. All treatment
      continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed up at 6 months, 1 year, and 2-5 years after completion of HSCT.
    
  