
    
      Currently the standard of care for acute asthma exacerbations in children involves immediate
      administration of an inhaled short acting beta agonist (SABA), most commonly Albuterol,
      paired with parasympatholytic (Ipratropium) both of which are administered via continuous
      nebulizer. Additionally, a course of oral or intravenous systemic corticosteroid such as
      methylprednisolone or decadron are also given to combat acute airway inflammation. Medical
      providers may also initiate the use of a respiratory support device that can range from
      supplemental oxygen delivered via nasal cannula (NC) and escalate to the use of Bi-level
      Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) or endotracheal intubation in order to increase delivery of
      medication to distal airways. Because asthma is the most common chronic disease of childhood,
      there have been ongoing studies on many fronts which are being undertaken to minimize
      morbidity, shorten hospitalization duration and more rapidly reduce a patient's level of
      respiratory distress.

      When nebulized medication is delivered to a patient with active bronchospasm it might not be
      immediately delivered to the smallest bronchioles and terminal airways which are most
      affected by bronchospasm causing air trapping and poor gas exchange. Current modalities rely
      on dilation of larger airways first thus allowing medication to diffuse passively to the
      smaller airways as dilation occurs down the bronchial tree. Medication delivery is passive
      and dependent upon the progressive relaxation of these larger airways before reaching the
      smaller airways which is the ultimate goal of nebulized therapies. The critical pressure
      required for medication to reach these obstructed airways and keep them stented open is
      higher than in an otherwise healthy individual due to the natural consequences of airway
      remodeling seen in asthmatics which includes narrowing of the diameter of the airways,
      increased atelectasis of hypoventilated areas, and overall increased ventilation-perfusion
      (V/Q) mismatch. The concomitant processes of mucous plugging also commonly seen in asthma
      further complicates the efficient distribution of these medications in a thoracic cross
      section. However, application of positive pressure in patients with obstructive airways
      diseases such as asthma has potential to increase air-trapping, dynamic hyperinflation, and
      auto-peep and, in turn, aggravate ventilation-perfusion mismatch, all of which has potential
      to delay clinical improvement. With these considerations, we seek to determine if the
      physiologic benefit of proposed improved bronchodilator delivery by using added positive
      airway pressure (ie, active delivery of medication) is of sufficient magnitude to provide
      overall benefit to patients with acute asthma exacerbation.

      The investigators propose to test this hypothesis through the following aim: To conduct a
      single-blinded (clinical team), randomized clinical trial to determine the efficacy of the
      AccuPAP device in comparison with the standard nebulizer to decrease acute exacerbation
      severity measured with the Acute Asthma Intensity Research Score (AAIRS), an objective and
      validated asthma scoring system, at 0, 1 and 2 hours after initiation of treatment. Secondary
      outcomes will include Emergency Department (ED) length-of-stay (LOS), general pediatrics
      floor hospitalization rate, Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) admission rate, number of
      patients who do not improve with AccuPAP, and rate of relapse within 24 hours of discharge
      from the ED. The investigators propose that outcome of the study findings have potential to
      not only shorten hospital stay duration which is cost efficient but also decrease the burden
      of the disease process on patient by implementing improved medication delivery strategies.
    
  