
    
      The prevalence of intracranial aneurysms is high (between 2 and 3%). The major risk of an
      intracranial aneurysm is its rupture leading to intracranial bleeding (subarachnoid,
      parenchymal and/or intraventricular) associated with mortality and morbidity.

      Endovascular treatment is now the first line treatment for both ruptured and unruptured
      aneurysms. One major limitation of this treatment is aneurysm recanalization observed in
      approximately 20% of aneurysms and leading to retreatment in approximately 10% of aneurysms.

      CARAT trial has shown that the risk of rebleeding after aneurysm coiling is significantly
      associated with the quality of aneurysm occlusion. The risk of rebleeding is 1.1% in case of
      complete occlusion, 2.9% when aneurysm occlusion is between 91 and 99%, 5.9% when aneurysm
      occlusion is between 70 et 90%, and 17.6% when aneurysm occlusion is less than 70%. However
      it should be outlined that few studies have clearly analyzed the relation between
      recanalization and rebleeding.

      Several factors are probably associated with aneurysm recanalization. Ruptured aneurysms are
      more prone to aneurysm recanalization than unruptured aneurysm. Age, elevated blood pressure,
      smoking probably play a role in aneurysm recanalization. Anatomical features are also
      probably key factors for aneurysm recanalization. Aneurysm and neck sizes are probably
      important factors for aneurysm recanalization. The role of aneurysm location is more
      controversial. Therapeutic factors certainly play also an important role, but precise
      analyses are still missing. The quality of post-operative aneurysm occlusion is probably
      important for the future evolution of the aneurysm. Surface-modified coils have not
      demonstrated any efficacy to prevent aneurysm recanalization. The role of adjunctive
      techniques has also not precisely be evaluated (remodeling, stenting).
    
  