
    
      Obesity is a chronic disease with high growth in the world population, as well as being a
      risk factor for the development of other chronic diseases. Additionally, it is known that it
      is a multifactorial disease and polygenic, making it difficult to control. It is also
      recognized that some environmental factors, with emphasis on diet, can modulate the
      expression of certain genes and may help control obesity.

      In recent decades, researchers from several countries has been devoted to studies that aim to
      propose alternatives for the treatment of obesity, emphasizing the regulation of energy
      balance and changes in lifestyle (diet and exercise), and try to clarify the reason some
      individuals more susceptible to these factors than other, favoring the body weight gain.
      These differences may be explained in part, by genetic factors.

      The FTO gene has been considered a strong candidate gene for obesity because of its relation
      to the secretion of ghrelin, an important orexigenic hormone involved in the regulation of
      food intake, which could open new perspectives for studies of gene-environment interactions
      in obesity.

      Considering the significant increase of obesity in the world population, it is understood
      that studies assessing environmental factors - particularly diet - and genes and genetic
      variants associated with obesity - may represent a major breakthrough in understanding the
      development of this disease, providing tools to propose possible changes in current dietary
      prescriptions for this population.

      Also highlighted the lack of studies on the subject, which makes this proposal is innovative
      and unprecedented as it aims to evaluate the relationship between the FTO gene polymorphism
      with ghrelin secretion and food intake in obese.

      It is suggested that obese individuals with a polymorphism in the FTO gene present higher
      serum concentrations of basal ghrelin and postprandial (after-fat meal), and the usual food
      intake, as well as the postprandial appetite, are associated with the concentrations basal
      and postprandial ghrelin, respectively. These results may generate data for changes in
      dietary prescriptions aimed at reducing the secretion and, or sensitivity to the hormone to
      control energy intake, whereas the individual's genotype can not be changed voluntarily in
      the current state of the art.
    
  