
    
      The selective cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor, celecoxib (Celebrex, Pfizer Inc.), is
      being investigated as an anticancer agent in chemoprevention and adjuvant therapeutic
      regimens in many organ systems including the head and neck, lung, colon, breast and bladder.
      The mechanisms of action are not fully defined and, to date, there are no data regarding the
      shortterm molecular effects of celecoxib treatment in human tumor tissues. These data are
      important for understanding the targets and effects of COX-2 inhibitors in cancer.

      Specifically, this pilot study seeks to evaluate the feasibility of determining whether
      celecoxib treatment inhibits COX-2 expression, alters the intratumor eicosanoid profile,
      and/or suppresses markers of proliferation and growth in human tumor tissues. In addition,
      this trial aims to evaluate the feasibility of reliably measuring the effects of celecoxib
      treatment on biomarkers of angiogenesis, prostaglandin metabolism and select growth factors.
      The study is titled: "Molecular effects of short-term celecoxib treatment on head and neck
      squamous carcinoma." In this study, 10 patients identified in the Head and Neck Surgical
      Oncology clinic at MSKCC with untreated squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity or
      oropharynx will be recruited to participate. Participation will not change the standard of
      cancer care that the patients receive. At the initial office evaluation the tumor will be
      biopsied. Blood and urine will also be collected. Patients will then take oral celecoxib (400
      mg) twice daily starting exactly 5 days prior to staging examination under anesthesia or
      definitive resection and including the morning of surgery. The tumor will then be re-biopsied
      at the time of staging examination under anesthesia or surgical resection. Blood and urine
      will similarly be re-collected at that time.
    
  