
    
      Spondyloarthropathies (SpA) are non curable, diseases of young subjects, treatment failure
      leads to marked functional disability, higher rates of morbidity, mortality and poor quality
      of life. Effective drugs may not be safe in different geographic backgrounds. Bangladesh is a
      TB endemic country so patients are at risk of TB and other infections at background. The aim
      of this study will be to evaluation the risk of tuberculosis and other infections in
      refractory SpA patients treated with tofacitinib.

      In this randomized clinical trial a total 174 adults will be enrolled from BSMMU and other
      hospitals of Dhaka city. The study period will be from January 2018 to December 2019.
      Subjects of both gender (≥18 years), who fulfil inclusion criteria will be enrolled after
      having informed written consent. Follow up period will be 9 months (visits 0, 1, 3, 6 and 9).
      Study subjects (87) will receive tofacitinib (5 mg 12 hourly). Control patients will get
      etanercept (50 mg subcutaneously every 7 days interval for 1st month then 50 mg in 15 days
      interval for 2nd month then 50 mg every 21 days interval till final visit. Demographics,
      clinical and lab information will be recorded in semi-structured schedule. Treatment efficacy
      assessment tool will be BASDAI, ASDAS-ESR, ASDAS-CRP and ASQoL for quality of life. Relevant
      lab test will be done at follow up visits. Side effects will be recorded in the research
      schedule. Occurrences of tuberculosis and serious infection will be the primary end point of
      this study. The demographics and categorical outcomes will be expressed in number and
      percentage. The quantitative variables like ESR, CRP, BASDAI, ASDAS-ESR, ASDAS-CRP and ASQoL
      scores will be computed as mean and SD. Occurrences of TB and infection will be expressed in
      number and percentage. Within group the quantitative data of baseline and of final visit will
      be analyzed using independent sample t test. In between groups according to data
      distribution, students't test or ManWhitny U test will be done. The P value <0.05 will be
      considered significant. Each patient will enjoy every right to participate or refuse or even
      withdraw from the study at any point of time. The study drugs are widely used agents in
      abroad for different rheumatic conditions having acceptable safety profile with efficacy as
      such there will be no extra risk of study subjects. Anonymity and data confidentiality will
      be maintained strictly. Ethical clearance will be obtained from Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) of BSMMU.

      The expected utility of this study will be; a) reporting on occurrence of TB and other
      infections in SpA patients with tofacitinib and etanercept, b) if identified safe and
      effective physician can use the agents without fear, c) for dose spacing of etanercept the
      cumulative dose will be low might make the drug affordable and also reduce the risk of TB and
      other infections, d) for spaced follow up schedule there will be minimized physician visit,
      lab testing etc.
    
  