
    
      Efficacy and toxicity of caspofungin in combination with AmBisome® as primary or salvage
      treatment of invasive aspergillosis has already been assessed in patients with hematologic
      malignancies. Forty-eight patients with documented (n=23) or possible (n=25) Invasive
      Aspergillosis (IA). The majority of the patients (65%) received the combination as salvage
      therapy for progressive IA despite 7 or more days of previous AmBisome monotherapy. The
      overall response rate was 42%. No significant toxic effects were seen. Factors associated
      with failure at the end of therapy were documented IA (P=0.03), significant steroid use
      before the study (P=0.02), and duration of combination therapy for less than 14 days
      (P=0.01). The response rate in patients with progressive documented IA was low (18%).
      Authors' concluded that combination is a promising therapy for IA and was generally well
      tolerated.35 Furthermore interaction of caspofungin and amphotericin B for clinical isolates
      of Aspergillus and Fusarium was assessed. Antagonism was not observed for any of the isolates
      tested. Caspofungin and amphotericin B were synergistic or synergistic to additive for at
      least half of the isolates studied.36 Gentina et al. evaluated, in refractory IA, i.v.
      antifungal therapies combining caspofungin (70 mg on D1, followed by 50 mg/d) with Vfend®
      (200 mg b.i.d) or AmBisome (5 mg/kg/d). Six leukaemia patients with refractory IA received
      combination including caspofungin with AmBisome (n = 4) or Vfend (n = 2). Combination
      therapies were started 8 days after initial IA diagnosis. Duration of neutropenia after
      initiation of combination therapy ranged 4 to 25 days. IA was classified as definite in 3
      cases and probable in 3 cases. All patients had pulmonary IA, including one with disseminated
      IA (cerebral, thyroid, ocular and pulmonary). In all patients, sequential CT-scans
      demonstrated improvement with a rapid reduction of the size of lesions. Additional surgery
      was only required in 2 cases. Improvement allowed administration of consolidation
      chemotherapy in 3 patients without recurrence of IA. Median duration of combination therapy
      was 62 days (range 42-107). No toxicity related to this combination antifungal therapy was
      observed.37 The combination therapy of caspofungin and amphotericin (or liposomal
      amphotericin) was also assessed by Aliff et al. in a retrospective evaluation of a group of
      30 patients with amphotericin-resistant pulmonary aspergillosis and other invasive fungal
      infections. Twenty-six patients had acute leukemia. Diagnosis was based on clinical,
      radiographic, and when available, microbiologic data. Response to combination antifungal
      therapy was graded as either favorable or unfavorable. Favorable responses included
      improvement of both clinical and radiographic signs of fungal pneumonia. All other responses
      were graded as unfavorable. Based on the EORTC criteria, the IFIs were classified as proven
      in 6 patients, probable in 4 patients, and possible in 20 patients. The median duration and
      dose of amphotericin monotherapy were 12 days (range, 4-65 days) and 7.8 mg/kg (range,
      4.2-66.1 mg/kg),respectively. The median duration of combination therapy was 24 days (range,
      3-74 days). Eighteen patients (60%) experienced a favorable antifungal response. Twenty
      patients with acute leukemia received combination therapy for fungal pneumonias arising
      during intensive chemotherapy treatments. Favorable responses were observed in 15 of these
      patients (75%), and antifungal response did not depend on the response of the underlying
      leukemia. Survival to hospital discharge was significantly better (P < 0.001) in patients
      having a favorable response. Authors concluded that the combination of caspofungin and
      amphotericin B can be administered safely to high-risk patients with hematologic
      malignancies.38 Combination therapy could be a useful treatment option in invasive fungal
      disease, but before it can be routinely recommended; carefully controlled and well-designed
      randomized clinical trials are needed.
    
  