
    
      Major goal:

      To describe cases that arrived to the pediatric ED with acute febrile illness (up to 7 days
      of fever) and the final diagnosis they received. To describe the antibiotic treatment given
      in the community as described in the anamnesis and referral letter, the concordance of the
      treatment to the therapeutic guidelines, the diagnosis given in the ED and the change in
      Antibiotic treatment, and the final diagnosis given after extended microbiologic tests were
      taken from a panel of infectious diseases specialists.

      Minor goals:

        1. Describing cohort of pediatric patients with acute febrile illness according to
           anamnesis, physical examination as a clarifying value to the final diagnosis.

        2. Describing the antibiotic treatment given in the community and its concordance with
           therapeutic guidelines.

        3. Describing patients referred to the ED after beginning antibiotic treatment

        4. Describing patients arrived with sore throat that a diagnostic test for GAS was taken
           before antibiotic treatment was started.

        5. Describing the difference between the antibiotic treatment given at the community, the
           treatment given at the hospital and the concordance to therapeutic guidelines

        6. Describing the concordance between community diagnosis, in hospital diagnosis and the
           final diagnosis

      Study assumption:

      To create a map of infectious agents for children presenting with febrile illness, to decide
      which antibiotic prescribed was correct according to the final diagnosis. We assume that many
      of the given antibiotic treatments were incorrect to the final diagnosis.

      Methodology:

      Background:

      Ruling out diagnosis of acute febrile illness in the ED is usually done relying on history,
      physical examination, routine laboratory tests (complete blood count, CRP, pro-calcitonin,
      urine dipstick), cultures (blood, urine. CSF, stool, throat culture etc.), imaging studies
      (Chest X-ray, ultra-sonography etc.) and other tests (lumbar puncture, serology, PCR etc.).
      the study:" Validation of markers for diagnosing the source of infection in pediatric febrile
      patient" number 0071-10-HYMC ("curiosity" study, see appendix A) is a prospective trial
      started in 2010 set in Hillel-yaffe hospital in Hadera, Israel. In this study patients with
      up to seven days of febrile illness, are recruited from the ED or pediatric department,
      history is taken that includes the home given therapy, blood tests are taken for complete
      blood count (CBC), culture and C-reactive peptide (CRP), imaging examinations are taken
      according to each case, PCR and Serology tests are taken to discern between number of agents
      (appendix A) and the final diagnosis is decided by a panel of infectious diseases
      specialists.

      Research Method

      Using "curiosity" study database for patients that recruited from the ED or pediatric
      department in Hillel-yaffe hospital. Usage of database will give the next data:

        1. Final diagnosis of all patients, dividing the diagnosis for viral and bacterial and type
           of pathogen

        2. Referral diagnosis, ED diagnosis, pediatric department diagnosis in concordance of the
           final diagnosis

        3. The antibiotic treatment according to the referral letter and history and its
           concordance with therapeutic guidelines.

        4. Changes or decision to stop antibiotic treatment in the hospital

        5. Weather antibiotic therapy started at the community might interfere with making the
           right diagnosis (for example - antibiotic treatment started before urine culture was
           taken, GAS culture and rapid test taken)
    
  