
    
      This is a two part, phase I, single centre dose escalation and dose expansion study to
      establish the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of pembrolizumab in combination with
      different dose levels of fixed dose rate gemcitabine in patients with newly diagnosed
      metastatic or inoperable leiomyosarcoma and undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS), for
      whom gemcitabine monotherapy is deemed appropriate, or in patients with previously treated
      leiomyosarcoma and undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma, not including gemcitabine, with
      disease progression documented in the 12 weeks prior to enrolment.

      There will be a maximum of 18 patients in the dose-escalation cohort (part A) and the
      starting dose will be a fixed dose rate (FDR) gemcitabine of 800 mg/m2 on day 1 and 8 of 21
      days cycles in combination of 200 mg of pembrolizumab given as an infusion on day 1 every 3
      weeks. There will be a minimum of three and a maximum of six evaluable patients entered per
      dose cohort and each patient will continue to receive treatment cycles of gemcitabine in
      combination with pembrolizumab for as long as he/she is, in the opinion of the investigator,
      deriving clinical benefit and continues to meet re-treatment criteria. Treatment will
      continue until disease progression or is stopped because of toxicity. There will be an option
      to continue pembrolizumab alone in patients with SD or response who stop gemcitabine for
      toxicity before completing 6 cycles of combination therapy. During the dose-escalation phase,
      safety, tolerability, biological and clinical activity will be assessed and the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) will be established.

      The MTD cohort (part B) will then be expanded to a total of 12 patients in order to further
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of that dose as well as to preliminarily assess response
      to therapy.

      A mandatory tumour biopsy will be collected prior to the start of treatment for pre-treatment
      testing for PD-L1 expression, Immunophenotyping and extent and localization of tumour
      infiltrating lymphocytes and following 3 cycles of therapy for analysis of potential markers
      of tumour response on post-treatment tissue. Additional mandatory bloods will be collected
      for analysis of potential circulating immune markers. Patient genetic material will also be
      collected for analysis of potential markers of tumour response and future pharmacogenetic
      analyses. Provision of genetic material is not mandatory for participation in the main study.

      Part A: Dose escalation cohort

      Part A will be the dose escalation phase. Gemcitabine doses will be escalated (or
      de-escalated) until the non-tolerated dose (NTD) is attained and a maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is defined. A maximum of 18 patients will be recruited in cohorts of 3 to 6 patients as
      part of a toxicity rule-based 3+3 design. The total number of patients will depend upon the
      number of dose escalations and toxicities observed.

      The starting dose (dose level 1) will be 800 mg/m2 of FDR gemcitabine given by 120 min IV
      infusion on Day 1 and Day 8 of each 3 week cycle (see Rationale for choice of starting
      doses). Pembrolizumab will be administered as a 200 mg IV infusion on Day 1 following the
      infusion of FDR gemcitabine. Pembrolizumab infusions will be repeated every 3 weeks. Each
      dose escalation cohort will consist of a minimum of three and a maximum of six patients.

      A dose-limiting toxicity is defined as:

        -  Neutropenia <0.5 x 109/L for >5 days . This must be confirmed with repeat blood tests at
           the Royal Marsden Hospital within 6 days of the diagnosis of neutropenia.

        -  Febrile neutropaenia as per definition by ESMO (>38.3°C or two consecutive readings of
           >38.0°C for 2 hours and an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of <0.5 x 109/L or expected
           to fall below <0.5 x 109/L)

        -  Thrombocytopenia <25 x 109/L.

        -  Any non-haematological CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 toxicity that is, in the opinion of the
           investigator, clinically significant.

      The toxicities listed above must be, in the investigator's opinion, likely to be causally
      linked with the administration of Gemcitabine.

      In the unlikely event that dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs at the proposed starting dose
      and that dose is deemed intolerable, a second cohort of patients will be recruited and a dose
      of 600 mg/m2 (dose level -1). If no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is documented, the FDR
      gemcitabine dose will be escalated to 1000 mg/m2 and subsequently to 1200 mg/m2 unless 2 or
      more patients in a single cohort have experienced DLT.

      If the first patient does not experience dose-limiting toxicity by Day 14 of the first
      treatment cycle, two additional patients may be entered. Three patients must complete one
      full cycle of treatment (to day 21 of cycle 1) for a dose-escalation decision to be made.

      If one of the first three patients in a cohort experiences a DLT during the first cycle, the
      cohort will be expanded to six patients. If 2/3 or 2/6 patients in a cohort experience DLT
      during the first cycle, that dose will be considered intolerable, no further dose-escalations
      will occur and cohort expansion of the next lowest dose (the presumed maximum tolerated dose
      - MTD) will commence. Only toxicities occurring during the first treatment cycle will be
      taken in to account for dose escalation decisions.

      If a patient withdraws or is withdrawn for reasons other than DLT prior to completing Cycle
      1, the patient will be replaced.

      Part B: Maximum tolerated dose cohort

      A total of 12 additional patients will be recruited and dosed at the MTD identified in Part A
      in order to ensure the tolerability and biological activity of gemcitabine in combination
      with pembrolizumab as well to preliminarily assess response to therapy.

      Evaluation of tumour response will be according to RECIST v1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumours) criteria. The RECIST v1.1 guidelines for measurable, non-measurable, target
      and non-target lesions and the objective tumour response criteria (complete response, partial
      response, stable disease or progression of disease) are presented in the Appendix.

      All patients will have imaging performed at the end of the 3rd and the 6th cycle. After cycle
      6, RECIST evaluation will be performed at the end of every third cycle for the duration of
      the entire study, or more frequently if it deemed necessary by the Investigator.
    
  