
    
      2. Introduction

      2.1 Adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal tract Adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal
      tract, including the esophagus, stomach, and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) is a growing
      clinical challenge worldwide due to the increasing incidence and poor prognosis. Current
      management of resectable GEJ cancer involves comprehensive diagnostic procedures followed by
      standardized treatment with surgery and pre- and postoperative chemotherapy.

      At our department, 90 patients are annually treated for resectable cancer of the GEJ. The
      surgery comprises of an Ivor Lewis procedure with either open or robot-assisted mobilization
      of the stomach with limited (D1+) lymphadenectomy and creation of the gastric conduit and
      pyloroplasty (2). Here, the creation of the gastric conduit involves partial preservation of
      the right gastric artery. The right gastric artery is ligated approximately half way up the
      lesser curvature, and the remaining conduit stapled (figure 1). Theoretically, the
      preservation of both the gastro-epiploic and right gastric artery should result in improved
      vascular patency and blood supply to the anastomosis. The theoretical advantages of
      preserving the right gastric artery may have some oncological drawbacks as placing the line
      of resection half way up the lesser curvature allows for a limited lymph node (LN)
      dissection, leaving behind some tissue comprising of LN station number 3b and 5 (figure 1).
      Lymph node metastasis is a significant prognostic factor in gastroesophageal cancer, and the
      American Joint Committee on Cancer recommends an extensive lymphadenectomy to achieve
      accurate N staging.

      In contrast, the creation of a gastric tube by serial applications of a linear-cutting
      stapling device parallel to the greater curvature (ligating the right gastric artery) could
      generate a larger LN harvest, but this could be at the expense of anastomotic and conduit
      perfusion. A retrospective series noted an increase in gastric tip necrosis and neck leaks
      with intrathoracic extension when a narrower gastric tube (3 to 4 cm) was used. Contrary,
      several randomized trials, and cohort studies have been conducted regarding the size of the
      gastric tube with no differences in anastomotic leakage rates being reported. However, the
      consensus is that a gastric tube of five cm width in both open and minimal invasive
      oesophagostomy is the optimal size. No difference in the rates of anastomotic leakage,
      anastomotic stenosis, or delayed gastric emptying has been seen between ligating or
      preserving the right gastric artery. Thus, both ligating and preserving the right gastric
      artery are considered viable surgical options.

      Figure 1. A) Schematic image of the gastric blood vessels. B) Resection when ligating the
      right gastric artery, C) Resektion when preserving the right gastric artery. D) Schematic
      image and partial lymphatic overview, circled are lymph node stations 3b. and 5. resected in
      "B" and left behind in "C".

      2.2 Fluorescence guided surgery with Indocyanine Green. Fluorescence guided surgery enables
      visualization of structures that are otherwise hidden from the naked human eye. A fluorescent
      contrast agent is used, often Indocyanine Green (ICG), and by illuminating the tissue with
      near-infrared light, the excited ICG can be detected by a camera with an optical filter. ICG
      is a tricarbocyanine dye with extremely few adverse events, a short half-life, it is
      metabolized exclusively in the liver, and excreted unchanged in the bile. The safety of ICG
      is well established, and it is used routinely in surgical clinics worldwide and has also in
      recent years gained popularity with regards to oncological surgery.

      ICG binds to plasma proteins after intravenous injection, and by illuminating the tissue with
      near-infrared red light the fluorescence signal over time during first passage past tissue is
      considered proportional to microvascular flow, i.e., perfusion. Assessing gastrointestinal
      blood supply is a challenging task, even for experienced surgeons. Of specific concern is the
      vascular supply of the anastomosis since poor blood supply is a significant risk factor for
      anastomotic leakage. An esophagectomy is associated with an anastomotic leak rate of
      approximately 5 to 25 %. Anastomotic leakage after esophagectomy is a severe complication and
      associated with up to 17 % 30-day mortality. As ICG angiography allows for real-time
      visualization of visceral perfusion, an inadequate vascularisation of the anastomosis
      (despite satisfactory macroscopic appearance) can be detected and addressed intraoperatively.
      Thus, the use of perioperative ICG angiography has been shown to lower the risk of
      anastomotic leakage.

      A study from our group evaluated intraoperative changes in the gastric microcirculation with
      laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) during Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy. A decreased
      microcirculation at the gastric corpus by 25% during mobilization of the stomach to the
      thorax was found. Also, ICG fluorescent intensity, as a sign of reduced perfusion, has been
      shown to drop after the formation of the gastric conduit and yet again before anastomosis
      formation compared with baseline values. This decrease was not detectable macroscopically in
      normal white light. However, macroscopic ICG assessments are useful as the speed of blood
      flow along the gastric conduit wall (visually assessed with ICG) could help predict the risk
      of anastomotic leakage after esophagectomy. Still, cut-off values for quantitative
      anastomotic perfusion associated with anastomotic leakage after resection of GEJ cancer is
      lacking. In conclusion, assuring adequate conduit perfusion is mandatory, and ICG angiography
      has been proven to be a viable aid in this regard.

      Indocyanine Green retention in LNs has been shown to predict malignant content. In patients
      with esophageal- and GEJ cancer, a submucosal endoscopic ICG injection allowed the
      visualization of the tumor's lymphatic drainage. This visualization, could advance the
      diagnostics of malignant spread, increase lymph node harvest, and significantly affecting the
      choice of surgical resection.

      The investigators have developed an ICG quantification algorithm which has been validated and
      described earlier. This algorithm has now been incorporated into a touch screen tablet,
      allowing for live perioperative quantitative perfusion assessments with ICG (q-ICG). A
      color-coded map of perfusion intensity is provided as an overlay on the white light
      visualized tissue (Figure 2). Previously, the quantification measurements had to be performed
      via analyses of video-recordings after the procedure. The investigators believe that q-ICG
      has the potential to improve intraoperative evaluation of tissue viability further and as
      such, improve the surgical plan and outcome in patients with GEJ cancer. In a feasibility
      study of ten patients undergoing GEJ-resection, significant alterations of optimal perfusion
      points selected by surgeons were found when comparing points selected in white light, ICG,
      and q-ICG.

      In this trial, intravenous ICG injections will be used to evaluate conduit, and anastomotic
      perfusion and peritumoral intramucosal ICG injections will be used to evaluate a potential
      improvement in LN detection and harvest. Lymph node quantitative fluorescents will be
      compared with histological findings.

      Figure 2. Gastric conduit after pull-up to the thorax viewed by white light, Near-Infrared
      Light (ICG) and with q-ICG overlay.

      2.3 Aim The investigators aim to compare quantitative gastric conduit and anastomotic
      perfusion when preserving or ligating the right gastric artery. Further, the investigators
      wish to investigate weather peritumoral ICG injection will allow for additional lymph node
      visualization and harvest and examine the correlation between quantitative ICG fluorescents
      and histological findings.

      2.4 Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that ligating the right gastric artery will
      result in lesser perfusion of the gastric conduit and anastomosis. Further, the investigators
      hypothesize that peritumoral ICG injection will improve the identification of regional lymph
      nodes and potentially improve staging and the extent of lymphadenectomy.

      3. Methods 3.1 Study design A randomized clinical trial comparing the effect of two different
      robotic-assisted surgical techniques for gastric conduit construction on conduit and
      anastomotic perfusion in patients with GEJ cancer. Patients will be allocated either to
      preserving the right gastric artery or to an extensive lymphatic resection (ligating the
      right gastric artery). Before and after the creation of the gastric conduit, and after the
      creation of the GE anastomosis, perfusion will be assessed with q-ICG.

      The sample size calculation is based on estimating prediction models describing the
      relationship between the vascular ligation and gastric perfusion using linear regression. The
      investigators expect a reduced perfusion by 10%. The desired sample size is therefore n=70
      (35 + 35), (effect 10%, SD 15%, Power 80%, alpha 0.05). Prospective evaluations of the
      surgical outcome will be recorded, by means of anastomotic leakage rates (verified
      endoscopically or radiologically), delayed gastric emptying (verified with barium swallow
      examination and/or endoscopy), and other postoperative complications including mortality.
      Also, the relationship between the quantified fluorescence of LNs and the pathology result
      will be examined in vivo and in vitro. The trial will be conducted in accordance with the
      CONSORT guidelines.

      3.4 Recruitment Patients will be approached in the out-patient clinic. They will be informed
      orally, and written information will be provided. Written informed consent will be obtained
      from all patients before the procedure. All patients are informed of the possibility of
      withdrawal of their consent at any time during the trial without any consequence for the
      operation of their treatment. First, after written consent will inclusion in the study be
      possible.

      3.5 Randomization The investigators wish to include 70 patients; 70 envelopes will be
      prepared each containing a "ligation" (n=35) or "preservation" (n=35) note. These seventy
      envelopes will be prepared and sealed by the trial investigator. A trial assistant will then
      mark these envelopes 1-70 at random using a number generator. Once the surgical set up is in
      place, one envelope will be chosen for each patient using a number generator, and the group
      allocation will be acquired. This patient CRP and Trial number will be saved on a secure
      server (L:drev). Separately the trial number and clinically relevant data will be stored on a
      secure server (V:drev).

      3.6 Indocyanine green Indocyanine green is a well-described nontoxic tricarbocyanine dye used
      for decades in ophthalmology, cardiology, and hepatology. Very few mild adverse reactions
      have been reported, but caution in patients with thyrotoxicosis, allergy towards iodine or
      indocyanine green should be made. When injected, it binds to blood lipoproteins and is solely
      metabolized by the liver and excreted in the bile, with a short half-life of approximately
      4-5 minutes. Indocyanine green is already used as a routine in many specialties; here among
      surgery, ophthalmology, hepatology, and cardiology.

      3.7 Surgical procedure and perfusion assessment

      3.7.1 Resection of the gastroesophageal junction The patient is placed under general
      anesthesia and, using a standard adult endoscope, 2 mL of ICG doubly diluted in sterile water
      (5 mg/mL) is injected into the submucosa at the four quadrants around the tumor (0.5 mL for
      each injection). The robotic setup is after that completed. Based on previous studies, the
      time from injection to lymph node visualization is approximated to 10-30 min.

      After the initial presentation of the stomach is acquired, a bolus of ICG (0.2 mg/kg body
      weight) will be injected intravenously and flushed with 5 mL of saline. The ROIs will then be
      assessed with q-ICG. The anesthetic protocol will to this point match that of the setting
      during the screening laparoscopy. The q-ICG assessments then repeated after the dissection,
      division of the feeding blood vessels and the creation of the conduit. Finally, once the
      gastroesophageal anastomosis is completed a q-ICG assessment of anastomotic perfusion will be
      performed.

      3.7.2 Fluorescence angiography The GEJ resection will be carried out with the da Vinci®
      robot, (Intuitive Surgical Systems, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) and the fluorescent angiography will
      be performed using the infrared endoscopic equipment on the da Vinci® robotic system
      (Firefly® in the DaVinci Xi).

      3.8 Statistics Comparison of the gastric and anastomotic perfusion between groups will be
      performed using the Mann Whitney U test or a paired sample t-test depending on either a non-
      or parametric nature of the data. Between-group differences in continuous variables were
      assessed using analysis of variance, while those in categorical variable were assessed using
      pooled relative risk with 95% confidence interval (CI). A P-value < 0.05 will be considered
      significant. Statistic evaluation will be performed using IBM SPSS Statistics © (v 22.0 SPSS
      Inc. Chicago, IL, USA).

      4. Adverse events, risks, and disadvantages Adverse events associated with the use of ICG are
      rare, and severe anaphylactic reactions are extremely rare. However, safety precautions will
      be made by excluding patients with allergy to iodine, ICG, or shellfish. Also, the
      investigators will not include patients with severe kidney and liver insufficiency,
      thyrotoxicosis, and pregnant or lactating women. The total dose of dye injected will be kept
      well below the recommended 2 mg/kg. There are no data available describing the signs,
      symptoms, or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage. The LD50 after I.V. administration
      ranges between 60 and 80 mg/kg in mice, 50 and 70 mg/kg in rats and 50 and 80 mg/kg in
      rabbits.

      No difference in the rates of anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, or delayed gastric
      emptying has been seen between ligating or preserving the right gastric artery, and both are
      considered viable surgical options.

      5. Patient data Upon meeting in the out-patient clinic, the patients will be informed about
      an ongoing study and asked if they wish further information. If accepted the principle
      investigator will be called and to briefly inform the patient about the project, and ask
      about allergy towards; iodine, indocyanine green or shellfish, liver insufficiency,
      thyrotoxicosis, pregnancy or lactation. If no allergies exist, the patient will then receive
      written, and oral information about the project and a follow-up telephone call regarding
      inclusion will be held. If interested in participation, the patient will supply the principle
      investigator with written consent. The written consent provides with access to obtain
      information in the patient's electronic journal. This, to see information about the subject's
      health and the course during hospitalization, necessary as part of the research project.
      Including self-control, quality control, and monitoring, which are obligatory. Data obtained
      from electronic patient records are registered prospectively and pseudo-anonymized in a
      database and kept at the secure server provided by Region Hovedstaden (V:drev). Thus, data in
      this database may not be identified back to the patient without access to a patient
      participation list linking patient identification number and the pseudo anonymization number.
      This participation list will be stored in another folder on the secure server provided by the
      Region Hovedstaden (L:drev). Only the principle investigator, supervisors and will have
      access to these folders and files. The law on the processing of personal data
      (Persondataloven) will, of course, be followed. No data will be sent to other countries.
      Permission from the national data protection (Datatilsynet) agency will be obtained.

      6. Ethical considerations Approval from the regional ethical committee and the national data
      protection agency will be in place before initiating the study.

      ICG is a safe and non-toxic fluorescent dye as described and has been used for decades in
      ophthalmology, cardiology, and hepatology. Very few adverse reactions are reported. Patients
      may withdraw from the study at any time. The patients participating in the study will not be
      paid to participate. Both preserving and ligation the right gastric artery are considered
      safe and viable surgical approaches.

      7. Publication The investigators aim to publish negative, positive, and inconclusive results
      in international reputed surgical journals, possibly as open access with Jens Osterkamp as
      the primary author. Also, the investigators will present the work at national and/or
      international surgical conferences and meetings to share the findings with a large crowd of
      clinicians and researchers.

      8. Timeframe The study will be initiated as soon as the investigators have approval from the
      ethical committee and the national data protection agency. Hopefully, starting in early 2020,
      and completed ultimo 2023.

      9. Economy This study is a part of the principle investigators Ph.-thesis. Salary and
      experimental cost will be cover by a grant provided by Medtronic. With regards to study
      design, realization, and presentation, the research group has complete autonomy. No
      remuneration will be given to patients participating in the trial. The principal investigator
      has in collaboration with the project group initiated the project. There are no financial
      interests for the project group in this project. Equipment (tablet, video-capture device,
      laparoscopic equipment, surgical robot) is already present in the department. If additional
      support is granted, the name of the foundation(s), size of the amount, any relation between
      the grant provider and investigators, as well as any requirements of the grants will be
      announced to the committee and project participants (patients).

      10. Insurance Patients will be covered by the national Danish patient insurance.
    
  