
    
      People with long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) or mitochondrial trifunctional
      protein (TFP) deficiency, inherited disorders of fatty acid ß-oxidation, lack an ability to
      fully oxidize fatty acids for energy. Progressive peripheral neuropathy is a chronic
      complication of these disorders that can lead to loss of the ability to walk in about 1/3 of
      the subjects. Current therapy for people with these disorders is based on frequent meals and
      consuming a low fat, very high carbohydrate diet. Severe restriction of dietary fat may lead
      to an iatrogenic fat-soluble vitamin deficiency. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin found in
      cooking oils, salad dressings, and nuts. Deficiency of vitamin E can result in a peripheral
      neuropathy similar to that described in subjects with LCHAD and TFP deficiency.

      Hypothesis: Subjects with LCHAD or TFP deficiency are vitamin E deficient due to following a
      very low fat diet. Vitamin E deficiency exacerbates the peripheral neuropathy observed in
      this disease. High dose vitamin E supplementation will replete the vitamin E deficiency and
      improve neurological function in subjects with LCHAD or TFP deficiency.

      Aim: Measure vitamin E concentrations and neurological function at baseline in 10 subjects
      with LCHAD or TFP deficiency. Following baseline measures, all subjects will be supplemented
      with high dose vitamin E (400 IU capsules 2 times per day) for 6 months. Vitamin E
      concentrations and neurological function studies will be repeated at the end of 6 months.
      Data from before and after vitamin E supplementation will be compared by students T-test.

      Vitamin E functions as an antioxidant and has been used in multiple large supplementation
      trials. The upper limit of intake recommended as safe by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) is
      600 mg or approximately 900 IU of vitamin E for children 9-13 years of age. We previously
      reported dietary intake of this vitamin was extremely low in children with LCHAD and TFP
      deficiency and should be supplemented (5). An iatrogenic vitamin E deficiency may exacerbate
      and/or accelerate neuropathic symptoms in subjects with LCHAD or TFP deficiency. This
      open-label trial tests the hypothesis that high dose vitamin E will improve neurological
      function in subjects with LCHAD and TFP deficiency who have progressive peripheral
      neuropathy.

      Research Design and Methods:

      Overall study design: This is an open-label supplementation trial of vitamin E in subjects
      with LCHAD or TFP deficiency. Subjects diagnosed with LCHAD or TFP and with documented
      peripheral neuropathy will be recruited to participate. A fasting baseline blood sample will
      be analyzed for plasma vitamin E concentrations. A neurological exam and nerve conduction
      studies (NCV) will be performed by a neurologist as a baseline measure of neuropathy.
      Subjects will begin high dose vitamin E supplementation for 6 months. 400 IU (268 mg)
      capsules of will be provided for the subjects. Subjects will be instructed to take one
      capsule with meals 2 times per day. The supplement is absorbed better when consumed with some
      fat from food. At the end of the 2 months of supplementation, another blood sample will be
      collected and analyzed for plasma vitamin E concentrations. At the end of 6 months, a 3rd
      blood sample will be collected and the neurological studies repeated. Differences in function
      and NCV from baseline will be correlated with plasma vitamin E concentrations. During the 6
      months subjects will complete 2 3-day diet records to estimate vitamin E consumption from
      foods.

      Blood Measures: Subjects will arrive to the clinic or lab for blood sampling after an
      overnight fast of a minimum of 8 hours but not more than 12 hours. Greater than 12 hours of
      fasting is not recommended for subjects with a fatty acid oxidation disorder. Six milliliters
      of venous whole blood will be collected . Plasma will be separated and frozen until analysis.
      Samples will be given a unique code in the laboratory of the principal investigator and
      shipped to Dr. Traber's laboratory in Corvallis, Oregon. Dr. Traber, at Oregon State
      University, will measure plasma vitamin E and vitamin E metabolites. The principal
      investigator will maintain the code to link data to patient information. Results from Dr.
      Traber's lab will be reported back to the principal investigator for data analysis.

      Neurological Studies: A standard neurological examination will be carried out with an
      emphasis on the sensory exam, muscle weakness exam and deep tendon reflex exam. An
      electromyogram (EMG) and nerve conduction studies will also be carried out. For an EMG, a
      needle electrode is inserted through the skin into the muscle. The electrical activity
      detected by this electrode is displayed on an oscilloscope, and may be heard through a
      speaker. The observations of the wave forms by the physician will determine whether the
      electrical activity of the muscle is normal or whether pathological change such as
      denervation is present. Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) is a test of the speed of signals
      through a nerve. Patches called surface electrodes, similar to those used for ECG, are placed
      on the skin over the nerve at various locations. Each patch gives off a very mild electrical
      impulse, which stimulates the nerve. The nerve's resulting electrical activity is recorded by
      the other electrodes. The distance between electrodes and the time it takes for electrical
      impulses to travel between electrodes are used to determine the speed of the nerve signals.
      Further, the amplitude of the electrical discharge will be measured and the time that the
      impulse takes to cross the muscle-nerve junction will be determined. The electrical testing
      will involve both the motor and sensory nerves.

      Statistical Analysis: Difference in plasma vitamin E concentrations and neurological studies
      between baseline and 6 months will be compared by student's T-test. Correlation between
      neurological outcomes and plasma vitamin E concentrations will be evaluated with linear
      regression.
    
  