
    
      The STREAM study is an international, multi-centre, parallel-group, open-label, randomised,
      controlled trial in patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) including
      patients with rifampicin-resistant and isoniazid-sensitive TB.

      Background and Rationale:

      In 2011, World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines for the treatment for MDR-TB recommended
      an intensive phase of treatment based on at least four drugs known to be effective and given
      for a minimum of 20 months; this is referred to as the WHO 2011 long regimen. Outcomes with
      this approach are generally poor. In the most recent WHO TB surveillance report only 50% of
      MDR-TB patients were successfully treated and a recent meta-analysis reported on average 62%
      successful outcome and a mortality of 11%.

      In 2010, Van Deun et al (2010) reported excellent long-term outcomes in a cohort of over 200
      patients in Bangladesh with MDR-TB who were treated with a regimen given for only nine to 11
      months. Such a regimen, if successful, would represent a considerable advance over current
      practice. Evaluation of this regimen is the objective of Stage 1 of STREAM.

      In 2016, following review of the available data, the WHO MDR TB treatment guidelines were
      modified to recommend a 9-12 month shortened regimen under specific conditions similar to
      Regimen B used in STREAM Stage 1 (referred to as the WHO 2016 short regimen).

      Bedaquiline is a novel diarylquinoline antibiotic with bactericidal activity. In a phase II
      trial of patients with MDR-TB time to culture conversion was significantly less in patients
      receiving bedaquiline compared to those receiving an optimised background regimen only
      (Diacon et al (2012). In December 2012 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved
      bedaquiline as part of the treatment regimen for MDR-TB when other agents are unavailable.
      Stage 2 of STREAM was designed to investigate ways in which Regimen B could be improved
      either by removing the second-line injectable, which is associated with severe drug toxicity,
      or by shortening the regimen to 6 months.

      Treatments that are evaluated within the STREAM trial include:

      Regimen A The locally-used MDR-TB regimen in accordance with 2011 WHO MDR-TB treatment
      guidelines.

      Regimen B is based on the regimen described by Van Deun 2010. At the start of STREAM this
      consisted of clofazimine, ethambutol, moxifloxacin, and pyrazinamide given for 40 weeks,
      supplemented by isoniazid, kanamycin, and prothionamide in the first 16 weeks (intensive
      phase). ); this combination is referred to as Regimen Bmox. With Version 8.0 of the protocol
      Regimen B is modified by replacement of moxifloxacin with levofloxacin (referred to as
      Regimen Blev). Regimen B without specification of which fluoroquinolone is in the regimen
      refers to either (Bmox or Blev).

      Regimen C is a 40-week all-oral regimen consisting of bedaquiline, clofazimine, ethambutol,
      levofloxacin, and pyrazinamide given for 40 weeks supplemented by isoniazid and prothionamide
      for the first 16 weeks (intensive phase).

      Regimen D is a 28-week regimen consisting of bedaquiline, clofazimine, levofloxacin, and
      pyrazinamide given for 28 weeks supplemented by isoniazid and kanamycin for the first 8 weeks
      (intensive phase).

      The primary objectives of the STREAM2 trial are:

      To assess whether the proportion of participants with a favourable efficacy outcome at week
      76 on Regimen C is non-inferior to that on Regimen B

      Study Population: Stage 2 will aim to randomise at least 200 patients to each of Regimens B
      and C.

      All patients will be followed up to Week 132. The primary analysis will be based on the data
      accrued to Week 76 and is based on the proportion of patients with a favourable outcome at
      that time point ; the data accrued to Week 132 will be used in secondary analyses.

      Although the STREAM study is an open-label study, wherever possible it will be conducted
      masked to treatment allocation.
    
  