
    
      Mammography is currently the only documented effective imaging tool for breast cancer
      screening. However, the sensitivity of mammography may be reduced in dense breasts, and
      sometimes it is difficult to even perceive a very subtle cancer which presents as a small
      stellate lesion, or very faint microcalcifications, missed diagnosed thus occurs. Herein,
      some researchers in Western countries developed computer-aided detection (CAD) system to help
      radiologists detect subtle, easily overlooked findings to facilitate early breast cancer
      detection, and most of the research regarding CAD was used in screen-film mammography (SFM)
      system. Ikeda, et al, worked on the retrospective CAD usage of those negative mammograms
      which later developed breast cancers. CAD could correctly mark 40% of the areas on these
      mammograms reported negative previously that later developed evident cancers. However, 80% of
      these are only nonspecific findings, and do not warrant recall for additional workup even at
      retrospective unblinded review by well-trained mammographers. The other research concluded
      that CAD could improve early cancer detection rate of mammography, with the sensitivity of
      92% in detection of breast cancer size smaller than 5mm, 94% for cancer size 11-15mm. CAD can
      detect more microcalcifications than masses (sensitivity for microcalcifications 98%, masses
      84%, mass with microcalcifications 92%). CAD could mark an average of 1.3 false positive
      marks per mammographic exam.

      Full-field digital mammography (FFDM) is a new approved technology for breast cancer
      detection after SFM era since 2000. The diagnostic accuracy of FFDM versus SFM is still under
      clinical trials, and it is believed the sensitivity and accuracy of FFDM for screening
      population is relatively equivalent to SFM. However, there are very few reports regarding the
      CAD application in FFDM, since FFDM can offer the post-acquisition processing on
      high-resolution review workstation for interpretation. Nevertheless, the spatial resolution
      of soft-copy reading on monitors for FFDM is slightly inferior to but the contrast resolution
      is slightly superior to that of conventional SFM. Herein, the diagnostic efficacy and role of
      CAD in FFDM are still unclear. Therefore, the goal of our study is to explore the
      sensitivity, false-negative (FN) and false-positive (FP) rates of combination usage of CAD in
      FFDM system, in comparison with the sensitivity, FN and FP rates of interpretation based on
      FFDM without CAD combination. We are also about to evaluate the efficacy, additional time
      spent in adjunct application CAD in FFDM interpretation, in order to assess the feasibility
      of CAD in FFDM.
    
  