
    
      Therapeutic advances and the organization of care within the "CRCM" have led to an overall
      improvement in the management of cystic fibrosis. The protein therapies that have marked this
      progression only target certain genes and concern a small number of patients. The morbidity,
      mortality and social cost of cystic fibrosis are still considerable. Exacerbations modulate
      the prognosis of the disease.

      We are interested in dysbiosis, which is the association of an imbalance in the composition
      and functions of commensal complex microbial communities and an alteration of the immune
      response of the host. It is involved in the development of chronic pulmonary pathologies such
      as cystic fibrosis Pulmonary microbiota and host responses mutually influence each other, and
      evidence suggests that changes in microbiota-host interactions play a major role in the
      evolution of chronic respiratory diseases. The response of the host may be partially measured
      by protein markers of inflammation or metabolites regulating inflammation (tryptophan
      metabolites).

      Most microbiome studies focus on the bacterial microbiota, while other microorganisms such as
      fungi and viruses represent an important cofactor in the degradation of respiratory function.
      Viral dysbiosis probably plays a role in the appearance of exacerbation.

      Among the few studies incorporating fungal risk, very few have considered the role of
      Pneumocystis jirovecii (PCJ). This non-culturable species was found in 12.5% of patients with
      cystic fibrosis and possibly associated with exacerbations. We will prospectively follow a
      cohort of cystic fibrosis patients by collecting clinical and microbiological data on various
      samples (exhaled air condensate (EAC), sputum and serum) on a quarterly basis and during
      episodes of exacerbations.

      Our project will verify the hypothesis of a correlation between the microbiota, inflammation,
      and the production of metabolites regulating inflammation (dysbiosis), but also to determine
      what is the initial biological process leading to the exacerbation: dysbiosis induced by
      variation of the microbiota or dysbiosis induced by modification of host defense systems. In
      addition, unlike studies in this area, we will be interested in the bacterial, viral and
      fungal microbiota.
    
  