
    
      With every neonatal intensive care unit discharge, physicians and early intervention
      specialists face a critical challenge: How to counsel parents about their very preterm
      infant's risk of developing cognitive and motor deficits and accurately assign early
      intervention therapies. More than 100,000 babies are born very preterm at ≤32 weeks
      gestational age every year in the United States. Up to 35% of these preterm survivors develop
      cognitive deficits, and up to 20% develop motor impairment. This places them at high risk for
      poor educational, health, and social outcomes. Yet reliable diagnosis of cognitive and motor
      deficits cannot be made until early childhood. This long and unnecessary delay wastes early
      intervention resources, dilutes the effectiveness of infant stimulation programs, and
      disrupts parental adaptation. Attempts to address these gaps with conventional neuroimaging
      and other approaches have failed. Thus, a critical need exists before neonatal discharge, to
      accurately predict cognitive and motor deficits in individual very preterm infants with the
      use of novel neuroimaging technologies and established epidemiologic approaches.

      The investigators long-term research goal is to elucidate the etiology, pathogenesis, and
      early prediction of cognitive and motor deficits in order to facilitate preventive early
      interventions in very preterm infants, resulting in better outcomes. The investigators
      objectives in this application therefore are to:

        1. Identify the clinical antecedents of objectively diagnosed diffuse white matter
           abnormality (DWMA).

        2. Associate DWMA with pathologic changes on neuroimaging.

        3. Predict cognitive and behavioral deficits at 3 years of age using objectively diagnosed
           DWMA in a geographic cohort of very preterm infants.

        4. To predict motor impairment, especially cerebral palsy at 24 months corrected age.

      The investigators central hypothesis is that objectively quantified DWMA is pathologic,
      associated with inflammation-associated perinatal illnesses, and an independent predictor of
      cognitive deficits at 3 years corrected age in very preterm infants. The investigators
      rationale for this research is that new knowledge investigators expect to have generated will
      enhance parental counseling, facilitate accurate risk stratification for early intervention
      therapies, and guide biologically-based strategies for early prevention of DWMA and cognitive
      and motor deficits in very preterm infants.
    
  