
    
      We postulate that adding fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination DISKUS 250/50 (FSC) to
      tiotropium (TIO) will improve exercise endurance time (EET) and its clinical and physiologic
      correlates, based on the combination of the three different mechanisms of action represented.
      We propose to test this hypothesis by comparing outcomes of exercise testing (Endurance
      Shuttle Walk Test; ESWT) with FSC added to TIO compared to those on TIO alone.

      The primary objective is to demonstrate that, when added to TIO, FSC significantly increases
      EET compared to TIO alone at Visit 6 (V6; week [wk]-8) vs. V4 (wk-3; the last ESWT before
      double-blind drug).

      Secondary efficacy measures will be as follows. Exercise dyspnea scale (EDS), exercise
      inspiratory capacity (EIC) and cardio-respiratory measurements (CRM) will involve V6 vs. V4
      comparisons. Dyspnea related to activities of daily living (ADLs) will be assessed using the
      baseline dyspnea index and transition dyspnea index interviewer-administered (BDI-TDI), and
      quality of life will be assessed using the Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire
      Self-Administered Standardized (CRQ-SAS). The BDI-TDI and CRQ-SAS will be based on
      comparisons of data from V6 vs. V5. We will also attempt to validate prospectively the
      minimal clinically-important difference (MCID) for a change in the EET through correlation
      with dyspnea (Likert scale).

      Safety evaluations will include the type, incidence and severity of adverse events.

      This is a randomized, parallel-group study totalling 6 visits. Screening is at or up to 6 wk
      prior to V1, and includes a discussion of study procedures, a review of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, collection of informed written consent, adjustment of medications and determination
      of spirometry pre- and post-albuterol/salbutamol. At V1, subjects meeting inclusion criteria
      will be enrolled, familiarized with the incremental shuttle walk test (ISWT), and given paper
      diaries.

      The run-in will begin with the dispensing of open-label medications at the end of V1. During
      the 4-wk run-in, subjects will have 3 visits (V2-V4). Open-label TIO will be taken daily
      beginning after V1, and open-label relief inhaler (identical formulations called albuterol in
      the US and salbutamol in Canada) will be taken on an as-needed basis beginning after V1.
      Open-label medications will be withheld before V2, V3 and V4 (last dose of TIO, the morning
      of the day before the visit; last dose of albuterol/salbutamol, at least 6 hr before the
      start of the visit). At V2, subjects will be given open-label TIO, will undergo ISWT 2.5-hr
      post-TIO, and will be familiarized with the ESWT. At V3 and V4, subjects will be given
      open-label TIO, and will undergo ESWT 2.5-hr post-TIO. ESWT will be performed again at V4
      only if the EET at V3 was ≤20 min. Subjects will be studied at V5 if the EET result from V4
      is also ≤20 min and the EET from V3 and V4 vary from each other by ≤2 min; otherwise,
      subjects will be withdrawn. The ESWT from V4 will be used as the baseline EET for
      exercise-related outcomes because it will be the last ESWT done before double-blind study
      drug is given.

      Open-label medications will be withheld before V5 and V6 (last dose of TIO the morning of the
      day before the visit; last dose of albuterol/salbutamol, at least 6 hr before the start of
      the visit). At V5, subjects will undergo spirometry, lung volumes and diffusing capacity, and
      will be randomized. Subjects will then be given open-label TIO and double-blind DISKUS study
      drug, and undergo spirometry and lung volumes 2 hr post-TIO/double-blind DISKUS study drug,
      and ESWT 2.5 hr post-dose. Per randomization, subjects will receive for 4 wk after V5,
      open-label TIO plus either FSC or placebo DISKUS. Double-blind DISKUS study drug will be
      withheld before V6 (last dose the evening of the day before the visit). V6 will be the last
      study visit, consisting of spirometry and lung volumes, followed by open-label TIO and
      double-blind DISKUS study drug, spirometry and lung volumes 2 hr post-dose, and the final
      ESWT 2.5 hr post-dose.

      All study visits will begin with a check-up to determine eligibility for further study
      procedures. Details of the paper diary report will be reviewed after drug administration, V2
      through V6. Immediately after review of the paper diary, BDI (at V5), TDI (at V6) and CRQ-SAS
      (V5 and V6) will be undertaken, and the post-dose study activities, as outlined above, will
      follow.

      Final contact will be by telephone approximately 2 wk after V6 or Early Withdrawal. The total
      duration of the study will be 8 wk, including the 4 wk run-in and the 4 wk period of
      double-blind plus open-label treatment. There will also be a screening period of up to 6 wk
      prior to V1, and the 2-wk period after the final study visit for phone call follow-up.

      Subjects at a subset of sites will undergo EIC and CRM during each ESWT using portable
      telemetric monitoring (Oxycon Mobile; CareFusion, San Diego, CA).
    
  