
    
      This will be a group randomised trial of HARPdoc, a novel intervention for adults with type 1
      diabetes (T1DM) and treatment-resistant impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia (IAH) and severe
      hypoglycaemia (SH), against Blood Glucose Awareness Training (BGAT), an existing educational
      programme that has been shown to reduce severe hypoglycaemia rates.

      The hypothesis is that HARPdoc, because of its inclusion of psychological therapies
      addressing cognitive barriers to hypoglycaemia prevention, will be superior to BGAT training
      in reducing, and maintaining the reduction in, severe hypoglycaemia and in durably restoring
      awareness of hypoglycaemia in adults with type 1 diabetes whose problematic hypoglycaemia has
      persisted despite otherwise optimised diabetes self-management strategies. That optimised
      self-management is defined as a minimum of having attended a structured education programme
      in flexible intensive insulin therapy and be using its principles as a minimum.

      HARPdoc and BGAT are both "talking therapies" of education plus, in the case of HARPdoc, a
      specific hypoglycaemia-focussed cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), delivered to small
      groups (4 to 8 participants at a time) by established diabetes educators trained and
      supported to deliver each intervention.

      Educators (nurses and dietitians) will be trained by the study clinical psychologists using
      existing curricula, to deliver EITHER HARPdoc OR BGAT. Educators delivering HARPdoc (2 per
      course), with its novel elements of hypoglycaemia specific cognitive behavioural therapy,
      will also receive weekly supervision from the study clinical psychologist, during the
      delivery of patient courses. BGAT educators (1 per course) will be able to seek support on an
      ad hoc basis.

      Both BGAT and HARPdoc have their own course curricula and teaching aids. Participants will be
      recruited, will document their hypoglycaemia experience over a period of up to 12 months, and
      then be randomly allocated to a group in which they will either receive HARPdoc or BGAT .
      Follow up with be for two years with a planned analysis at 12 months. Documentation of SH
      will be monitored throughout using statistical process control and control mapping, to allow
      early termination of the study if one intervention is clearly outperforming the other, as
      assessed by an independent data monitoring committee.

      The study will be conducted in the diabetes outpatient facilities and clinical research
      facilities of participating centres. Potential participants will be invited by their usual
      diabetes care teams to consider the study. Those expressing interest will be invited to an
      initial screening visit (visit 1), where the study will be explained and the person's
      characteristics assessed against the eligibility criteria. Those meeting the criteria by
      virtue of having impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia (Gold and Clarke scores of 4 or more);
      and severe hypoglycaemia in the previous 2 years despite having completed, and using the
      principles of, structured education in flexible insulin with either multiple daily insulin
      injections or insulin pump therapy, monitored by self-monitored blood glucose tests a day at
      least four times a day will be given the opportunity to review the patient information
      literature and consent to, in writing, participation in the study. They will receive a unique
      study identification code and commenced on formal documentation of their hypoglycaemia
      experience, using short forms to document any event of severe hypoglycaemia experienced (form
      A) and reporting retrospectively all hypoglycaemia in the previous month (form B). These
      forms will be completed throughout the study and participants will be asked for permission to
      contact them on a monthly basis if there are any missing data. Blood will be taken for
      measurement locally of the glycated haemoglobin, a reflection of diabetes control, and for
      potential contributors to high hypoglycaemia risk (liver, kidney and thyroid function,
      measures of adrenal and pituitary function, screens for coeliac disease and malabsorption and
      level of anti-insulin antibodies), if these data are not available in the patient records in
      the last year. The participant's glucose meter will be downloaded and the results of their
      over the preceding two weeks recorded. Each participant will then be offered two sets of
      dates for upcoming courses, but will only undertake one. Once two courses have been filled,
      participants will be randomised to receive either HARPdoc or BGAT.

      A second visit (baseline) will be made not more than 3 months before the participant's
      course. Blood will be taken for central measurement of HbA1c. Participants will complete a
      questionnaire booklet that enquires about attitudes to, worry about and behaviours around
      hypoglycaemia (Attitudes to Awareness (A2A) and Hypoglycemia Fear Survey II (HFS-11) scores);
      symptoms of anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression score (HADS) and Problem
      Areas in Diabetes (PAID); quality of life (Diabetes Specific Quality of Life (DSQoL), Short
      Form 12 (SF12) and the EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ5-D) and self-management
      skills (Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) self-management). This booklet has been
      reviewed and approved by our user group. This visit may be combined with visit one if consent
      has already been given.

      HARPdoc includes 4 full day attendances and 2 one-to-one contacts between the participant and
      the educator, via telephone or face-to-face as the patient chooses. In weeks 1-3,
      participants meet weekly as a group. These are full day sessions, as in current DAFNE and the
      Bournemouth Type 1 Diabetes Education Programme (BERTIE) courses. They cover the
      pathophysiology, presentation, detection and treatment of hypoglycaemia and IAH; use
      motivational interviewing to support behaviour change and encourage small changes, with
      Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) to address unhelpful cognitions that may be barriers to
      hypoglycaemia avoidance. In weeks 4 and 5, participants try out their new skills/strategies,
      with two scheduled individual face-to-face and telephone educator support. Week 6 is a final
      group session, focusing on relapse prevention and support for significant others.

      The BGAT curriculum will be re-planned to be delivered in 4 group sessions spread over 6
      weeks to allow participants to be booked inot both courses at one time prior to
      randomisation. The curriculum will not however be extended to occupy full day sessions.

      Sessions will, with participant permission, be video taped, for assessment of fidelity of
      course delivery to the curricula.

      Attendance of at least the first 3 group sessions plus, for HARPdoc participants and the 1:1
      sessions, will be considered adherence to the intervention/ control.

      Follow-up visits, at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, are in line with clinical practice,
      recognizing that these patients are high service users. They will last about 2 hours and be
      conducted in the groups. Participants will have contact details (telephones with recorded
      answering and next-working day reply; e-mail addresses) for their educators through which
      they can seek advice at will.

      Scheduled follow-up in groups for re-inforcement of the programme principles and for data
      collection (locally measured HbA1c, documentation of hypoglycaemia experience and awareness
      scores) at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. The 12 and 24 month visits will include completion of
      the full questionnaire pack as described for visit 2. Additional non-study visits can be
      scheduled if required in the opinion of the participant and/or the educator. Likewise,
      participants will be free to seek advice from their educator at any time by telephone or e
      mail. Participants will be made aware that the forms on which they document their
      hypoglycaemia experience each month will only be reviewed anonymously and they need to seek
      advice if they require it, for example, after a hypoglycaemia event, as is routine clinical
      practice.

      For each visit a one month window on either side of the due date is acceptable

      Twenty four participants (12 from each group) will, be invited to participate in a substudy
      in which they wear a real-time continuous glucose monitor for up to one week at baseline and
      12 months.

      A planned analysis comparing the outcomes of the two interventions is planned when all
      participants have completed 12 months of follow-up, with a final analysis at 2 years.
      Throughout the data on severe hypoglycaemia will be collected, blinded as to course, by the
      Implementation Science group, and entered into control maps, to allow inspection of rates of
      severe hypoglycaemia in individual patients and in each intervention in real time. These data
      will be reviewed at 6 monthly intervals by the Data Monitoring Committee, which has the
      ability to interrupt the RCT if rates of severe hypoglycaemia are increasing in either group
      or one intervention is clearly superior to the other.

      The described randomisation procedure is to prevent "researcher bias" with researchers
      preferentially selecting higher risk patients for HARPdoc over BGAT. To minimise
      contamination, different educators will be trained in and will deliver each intervention. A
      further safeguard against contamination is that both HARPdoc and BGAT patient courses are
      curriculum driven and the unique elements of HARPdoc are not included in the BGAT curriculum.
      The fidelity of delivery of each course will be monitored from video-taped sessions .
      Recordings will be coded using a check list of behaviour change techniques and items from
      relevant measures such as the Behavioural Change Counselling Index (BECCI) and the
      Motivational Interviewing Treatment Integrity (MITI) scales.

      Participants who wish to withdraw from the trial will remain under services which routinely
      collect primary end-point data (severe hypoglycaemia rate, HbA1c, Gold score). Unless refused
      permission, we will collect case-record data +/- 3 months of due dates. This will allow us to
      conduct both an intention-to-treat and a per protocol analysis.

      The target is to recruit 96 participants, 6 (4 - 8) participants per group course into at
      least 8 HARPdoc courses and 8 BGAT courses), delivered in 4 centres. The study targets adults
      (people aged 18 and above) with type 1 diabetes who have IAH and severe hypoglycaemia after
      optimised medical therapy, which may include, or have included, use of insulin pump therapy
      and/or continuous glucose monitoring. This will allow detection of superiority of HARPdoc
      over BGAT at the 5% significance level with 90% power, The power calculation was based on
      data from our pilot of HARPdoc, and published data on BGAT, looking at rates of severe
      hypoglycaemia. Conservative estimates were used, allowing for 2 episodes per patient per year
      in the present study from HARPdoc and 5.7 episodes per patient per year from for BGAT, have
      allowing 20% drop out.

      Participants will be identified by study centres and enhanced by referrals from neighbouring
      diabetes centres and pathways in place for the follow up of people with type 1 diabetes
      making use of emergency services for severe hypoglycaemia, Potential participants will also
      be able to self-refer, and will be offered a review by the clinical team of the participating
      centre before deciding with the patient whether the trial might be suitable for them. People
      experiencing severe hypoglycaemia who do not fulfil eligibility criteria for the trial or who
      chose not to participate will be referred into the centre's usual treatment pathway for
      problematic hypoglycaemia, with the option to be included in a HARPdoc course outside the
      trial. The exclusion criteria list conditions that led to exclusion from the qualitative
      research programme on which the HARPdoc curriculum is based.
    
  