
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the optimal biologic dose (OBD) of
           high-dose acetaminophen when given alone, and the MTD of carmustine when given with
           acetaminophen at the OBD in patients with metastatic melanoma (Phase I closed to accrual
           3/7/2001).

        -  Determine the dose of acetaminophen that results in maximal depletion of intracellular
           glutathione in these patients.

        -  Assess the antitumor activity of high-dose acetaminophen in these patients.

        -  Assess the toxicity and antitumor activity of carmustine when administered with
           high-dose acetaminophen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

        -  Phase I: (closed to accrual 3/7/2001) Patients receive a single oral dose of
           acetaminophen, then acetylcysteine IV over 20 hours, beginning 6-8 hours after the
           acetaminophen. This treatment is repeated 3 weeks later. On day 1 of the first
           treatment, patients also receive carmustine IV over 1 hour, before the acetylcysteine.
           Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients each receive escalating doses of acetaminophen to determine the
      optimal biological dose (OBD). The OBD is defined as the lowest dose at or preceding the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that results in maximal depletion of glutathione. The MTD is
      defined as the dose at which no more than 1 to 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity
      (DLT).

      Once the OBD is established for acetaminophen, cohorts of 3-6 patients each receive
      escalating doses of carmustine. The MTD is defined as for acetaminophen. Dose escalation does
      not proceed until all patients are observed for 6 weeks after receiving carmustine.

      Once the OBD for acetaminophen and MTD for carmustine are determined, 3 more patients are
      treated at 3 week intervals instead of 6 weeks. If no DLT is observed, this is the dose and
      schedule for the phase II portion of the study.

        -  Phase II: A cohort of 14 patients receives oral acetaminophen and acetylcysteine IV
           every 3 weeks. Another cohort of 14 patients receives oral acetaminophen and
           acetylcysteine IV, then oral acetaminophen, carmustine IV, and acetylcysteine IV 3 weeks
           later. Patients continue therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-80 patients will be accrued for this study within 40 months.
    
  