
    
      This is an open-label (physicians and participants know the identity of the assigned
      treatment), parallel-group, multiple-dose, multicenter study to assess pharmacokinetics (what
      the body does to the medication) of five antipsychotics (APS) drugs: aripiprazole,
      olanzapine, paliperidone, quetiapine and risperidone in psychiatric participants who are
      receiving stable doses of these drugs for the treatment of their disease.

      Pharmacokinetics data will be generated from venous and fingerstick-based capillary plasma
      concentrations of the drugs and their metabolites. The total number of enrolled participants
      in this study will be at least 265. Seventy-five participants will be enrolled for the
      aripiprazole, olanzapine and quetiapine cohorts (groups) each, and 20 participants will be
      enrolled for the paliperidone and risperidone cohorts each. In aripiprazole, olanzapine and
      quetiapine cohorts there will be two subgroups. Subgroup one, 20 participants for fingerstick
      capillary + venous blood sampling and subgroup two, 55 participants for only venous sampling.
      Paliperidone and risperidone cohorts will be subjected only to capillary + venous blood
      sampling.

      The study will consist of a screening phase (within 21 days before Day 1) followed by a 3-day
      observation phase (Day 1 to Day 3). Participants will be admitted to the study center in the
      evening of Day -1 and will remain in the study center until discharged on Day 3 after
      completion of the last study-related procedure. During the observation phase, the
      administration of the prior antipsychotic medication will continue at a participant's usual
      dose and dosing schedule, under direct observation of the study staff. There will be no
      modification of the participant's medication during the study. Safety will be evaluated
      throughout the study and a mandatory pharmacogenomic blood sample will be collected for
      analysis of genes that may influence exposure of the APS studied.
    
  