
    
      The human macula is a small area of the retina responsible for central vision. The yellow
      macular pigment contains three carotenoids, lutein ((3R,3'R,6'R)-lutein), zeaxanthin
      ((3R,3'R)-zeaxanthin), and meso-zeaxanthin ((3R,3'S;meso)-zeaxanthin). The human body is
      unable to synthesize lutein and zeaxanthin, thus needs to be obtained from dietary sources
      such as green leafy vegetables and supplements. The function of the macular pigment is to act
      as a filter by absorbing blue light that may attenuate photochemical damage of the retina.
      Furthermore, it protects against light induced oxidative damage by functioning as an
      antioxidant; scavenging free radicals. A growing body of evidence has established a link
      between the concentrations of the macular pigment carotenoids, the macular pigment optical
      density (MPOD) levels, visual performance and the risk of macular degeneration.

      The ability of the macular pigment to absorb or filter blue light can be measured as macular
      pigment optical density (MPOD), which is directly related to the quantity of lutein and
      zeaxanthin in the macula. Furthermore, preliminary data showed that macular pigment can be
      evaluated using Fluorescence lifetime imaging ophthalmoscopy (FLIO). In a previous study the
      investigators have shown that FLIO provides contrast for macular pigment in patients with AMD
      and healthy subjects.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of oral lutein supplementation on
      macular pigment density using FLIO and MPOD measurements in healthy subjects and patients
      with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) over a course of 6 months. Furthermore, the
      investigators will assess whether compositional and functional alterations of the gut
      metagenome may be related to age-related macular degeneration, and the effects of lutein
      supplementation on the gut. In addition, to blood samples, stool samples will be analysed
      accordingly to the currently running study on "The role of the gut metagenome on the
      development of ophthalmic diseases" ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02438111. Faecal
      analyses will provide insight to how oral lutein supplementation effects the gut microbiota
      and how it is influenced by serum lutein Levels.

      Objective is to investigate the effects of lutein supplementation on macular pigment density
      using FLIO and MPOD measurements in patients with age-related macular degeneration and
      healthy subjects over a course of 6 months.
    
  