
    
      This study is a single-center, randomized, cross-over, 4-arm, single- blinded, 6-hour
      postprandial study to evaluate the effects of strawberry or comparator fruit provided in a
      formulated beverage with milk (as the base) or water or fresh/pureed.

      A planned sample size of 10 men and women will be recruited into the study. Subjects will be
      required to meet several inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will be assessed through
      online and clinic screening mechanisms, including questionnaires, fasting glucose
      concentration, and anthropometric measurements. Eligible subjects will be invited to
      participate in the study. Subjects will begin by completing a 3-day pre-study assessment of
      their usual dietary intake using 3-day food diary. After reviewing baseline food records,
      subjects will be instructed to avoid polyphenolic-containing foods for 2 days prior to the
      study visit, while maintaining their usual diet pattern and physical activity.

      Subjects will participate in 6 h postprandial study days. Subjects will be randomized on the
      first day of starting the first post prandial visit day.

      For each 6 h postprandial study visit, subjects will arrive fasted and follow procedures
      published by our lab previously. This includes: pre-study evaluation for compliance (fasting,
      dinner consumption, limited polyphenol intake) and readiness for study visit, catheter
      placement by registered nurse, fasting blood sample, consumption of high fat/carbohydrate
      meal accompanied by 1 of the treatment beverages, subsequent blood sampling from catheter [
      ~1 tablespoon (12ml)] at designated time points for 6 hours.

      Each postprandial study visit day will last approximately 7 hours and subjects will be
      required to remain at the Clinical Nutrition Research Center at the Illinois Institute of
      Technology main campus for the duration of the visit. The visit procedures are repeated four
      times ~ 1 week apart to accommodate subject testing with all four beverages; all procedures
      are identical on each postprandial study test visit with the exception that only an assigned
      test beverage per each visit will be consumed with the breakfast.
    
  