
    
      Once consented, subjects will complete nine short surveys (The Female Sexual Function Index,
      The PHQ-9, the GAD-7, the Social Provision Score (SPS), Rosenberg's Body Self-Esteem Index,
      the Severity of Posttraumatic Stress (PTS) Symptoms Scale, the Adverse Childhood Events
      Index, the Short Form (SF)-12, and the Dyadic Adjustment Scale) at their initial visit,
      assessing physical, psychological, and social elements related to sexuality.

      Subjects will then have the tumor reduction surgery.

      Twelve weeks after her surgery, each subject will be asked to complete the same nine-survey
      packet.

      Once the second packet is completed, subjects will be randomized to receive either aqueous
      lidocaine (4%) or placebo with instructions to apply the solution to three cotton balls and
      place them on the perineum/vaginal introitus for one minute prior to sexual intercourse.
      Subjects will be educated on the use of this blinded intervention and be asked to keep a
      diary of sexual encounters, including a simple pictorial pain scale for each encounter.
      Subjects and providers are blinded to the assigned intervention.

      Once subjects complete three months of perineal intervention, they will be asked at a
      follow-up visit (12 weeks following randomization) to complete the survey packet for a third
      time.

      Subjects will then continue their perineal intervention, keep a diary of sexual encounters
      with the pain scale and return after another three-month interval for a fourth completion of
      the survey packet. Sexual encounter diaries and pain scale assessments will be collected and
      their participation in the trial will conclude. Also at the time of this concluding follow-up
      visit in the Gynecologic Oncology Clinic, patients will receive counseling by a gynecologic
      oncologist regarding education about sexual dysfunction, the possibility of experiencing
      sexual dysfunction, and a potential referral for further treatment of sexual dysfunction. The
      subject will remain blinded to the randomized intervention until the conclusion of the study.

      Subjects will be unblinded and informed of assigned intervention at the conclusion of the
      study via a letter sent to their home address from the researchers.
    
  