
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a progressive atherosclerotic disease of the lower limbs
      that affects 8 to 10 million Americans, and is more prevalent and progresses more quickly in
      patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). There is a critical need for a standard non-invasive
      approach to assess response to treatment by three-dimensional (3D) perfusion to vascular
      territories of the feet in PAD patients. Assessing the response to treatment is particularly
      important in DM patients, who suffer from poor distal runoff and often require more distal
      revascularization to achieve limb salvage.

      In this clinical study, the investigators will evaluate lower extremity skeletal muscle
      perfusion in the feet of healthy controls and PAD patients who are undergoing
      revascularization using conventional sodium iodide SPECT/CT imaging, as well as dynamic
      SPECT/CT imaging with a unique cadmium zinc telluride (CZT) system.

      Healthy control subjects (n=15) will be recruited from Yale University and the greater New
      Haven area. In addition to healthy control subjects, 35 PAD patients with previously
      diagnosed diabetes will be recruited from Vascular Surgery and Interventional Cardiology at
      Yale-New Haven Hospital. Patients who are undergoing revascularization procedures will be
      identified and asked to participate in the imaging study prior to their revascularization
      procedure and will be imaged once again 1-3 days following revascularization, prior to
      hospital discharge.

      Subjects will undergo resting perfusion imaging of the feet using two separate SPECT/CT
      systems. They will be injected with a low dose radiotracer. In healthy control subjects,
      arterial blood will be continuously sampled from the radial artery for calculation of a blood
      input function and K1 values for foot angiosomes. Additionally, we will sample heated venous
      "arterialized" blood from a hand vein retrograde to evaluate the potential for heated venous
      blood in the calculation of a blood input function, thus eliminating the need for arterial
      access in future PAD patient studies.
    
  