
    
      The VHS Cohort is a prospective cohort trial evaluating a wide range of patient reported and
      clinical prognostic factors, attained prior to initiation of treatment, among shoulder
      patients referred for diagnostic evaluation at the specialized shoulder unit at Vejle
      Hospital, Denmark. The department receives approximately 2000 new patients each year.

      Prior to medical examination, patients will be asked to fill in a baseline questionnaire, and
      from the electronic patient record, a range of different clinical factors will be obtained.

      Subsequently, patients will be asked to answer questionnaires on patient reported outcomes
      after 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Five years after inclusion into the trial, work affiliation
      will be retrieved from registries in order to evaluate association between shoulder disorders
      and work affiliation.

      The objective of the VHS Cohort Project is to evaluate general prognostic and individual risk
      factors for long lasting shoulder pain. A specific focus is evaluation of the association
      between metabolic syndrome and rotator cuff tendinopathy while simultaneously adjusting for
      other potential prognostic candidate variables (PROGRESS Theme I-II). In a subsequent cohort
      (VHS Cohort Project II), the objective will be to develop a prognostic model for the
      treatment effect of Rotator Cuff Related Shoulder Pain (RCRSP) (PROGRESS Theme III).

      VHS Cohort Project I:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the risk of consistent pain one year after diagnosis among patients diagnosed
      with: RCRSP; Rotator cuff lesions (conservatively treated); Acromioclavicular osteoarthritis
      and Adhesive capsulitis (PROGRESS Theme I).

      Aim 2: Evaluate the risk of consistent pain one year after surgery for: subacromial
      Decompression OR Rotator Cuff lesion (PROGRESS Theme I).

      Aim 3: Evaluate the risk of consistent pain one year after diagnosis in patients with
      metabolic syndrome compared to patients without metabolic syndrome, with particular emphasis
      on patients diagnosed with RCRSP while simultaneously adjusting for other potential
      prognostic candidate variables (PROGRESS Theme II).

      We hypothesize that

        -  Significantly more patients with RCRSP have metabolic syndrome than patients diagnosed
           with other shoulder-specific diagnoses

        -  Significantly more patients with metabolic syndrome and diagnosed with RCRSP are
           classified as non-responders to treatment than patients with other shoulder specific
           diagnoses 52 weeks after initial medical examination.

        -  Significantly more shoulder patients with metabolic syndrome report multiple
           musculoskeletal pain sites than shoulder patients without metabolic syndrome at first
           medical examination.

      Aim 4: From clinical examination findings and patient reported information identify the
      strongest individual predictors of prognostic value for persistent shoulder pain and
      disability one year after initial medical examination in patients with rotator cuff related
      pain syndrome (RCRSP) (Diagnostic codes: DM75.1; DM75.1A; DM75.1B; DM75.4; DM75.5; DM75.8;
      DM75.9) treated conservatively with either exercise, corticosteroid injection, or a
      combination of the two, while simultaneously adjusting for other potential prognostic
      candidate variables (PROGRESS Theme II).

      Aim 5: From clinical examination findings and patient reported information identify the
      strongest individual preoperative predictors of prognostic value for persistent shoulder pain
      and disability one year after surgery for patients receiving SubAcromial Decompression (SAD)
      surgery (Procedure code: KNBH51), while simultaneous adjusting for other potential prognostic
      candidate variables (PROGRESS Theme II).

      Aim 6: From clinical examination findings and patient reported information, identify the
      strongest individual predictors of five-year work participation rates.
    
  