
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the relative activity of trametinib (mitogen-activated protein kinase [MEK]
      inhibitor) alone or in combination with GSK2141795 (AKT inhibitor) for patients with
      recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer by progression-free survival. (Phase II) II. To
      determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). (Phase II) III. To determine the tolerability of the
      combination regimen of trametinib and GSK2141795 through determination of dose-limiting
      toxicity in a two-stage safety lead in study. (Safety assessment lead-in)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the association between baseline Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog
      (KRAS) status and clinical activity (e.g. response and progression-free survival [PFS]) for
      patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer who are treated with trametinib
      alone or in combination with GSK2141795.

      II. To estimate overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial
      cancer treated with trametinib therapy alone (excluding patients who cross-over) and
      trametinib/GSK2141795 combination therapy in the two subgroups of patients defined above.

      III. Prognostic factors will be examined for associations with patients who do not crossover.

      IV. To estimate objective response and response duration associated with trametinib therapy
      and trametinib/GSK2141795 combination therapy in the two subgroups of patients defined above.

      V. To estimate the relative proportion of patients responding or have 6-month PFS on the
      therapies administered on this study with those studies that may serve as a historical
      control.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the association between baseline genomic biomarkers in the
      phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway and clinical activity (e.g. response and
      PFS) in two subgroups of patients defined above with recurrent or persistent endometrial
      cancer who are treated with trametinib alone or in combination with GSK2141795.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      achieving disease progression may cross over to Arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive trametinib PO QD and Akt inhibitor GSK2141795 PO QD on days 1-28.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  