
    
      Study 1 addresses the concerns of pneumonia risks in quadriplegics with compromised
      respiratory pump mechanics. In cases of spinal cord injury or high-level motor neuron
      disease, complications with respiratory function are a common concern. Lack of innervation to
      the intercostal and abdominal muscles can cause a decline in respiratory capacity as well as
      overall lung function, with associated increased risk of mortality. Shallow tidal breathing
      and impaired or absent cough results in morbidity and mortality from pneumonia. Several
      studies have found failure of the respiratory system, including pneumonia, to be a leading
      cause of mortality among spinal cord injury patients. In order to maintain pulmonary health,
      many people with quadriplegia and other high-level motor neuron diseases undergo routine
      respiratory therapy to help stretch the muscles around the lungs, exercise the diaphragm, and
      loosen mucus build-up. Incentive spirometry is one commonly used component of respiratory
      therapy designed to mimic natural sighing or yawning by encouraging the patient to take long,
      slow, deep breaths. This is done with an incentive spirometer device, which provides patients
      with visual or other positive feedback with a piston or a ball that moves inside a gauge.
      Respiratory therapy techniques are also used to help maintain pulmonary health in individuals
      with a number of chronic or temporary respiratory diseases and conditions such as asthma,
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and emphysema. These techniques often become strenuous
      and mundane for users with limited mobility, and thus patient compliance rates are low.
      Gaming controlled by forceful respiratory maneuvers will be studied to ascertain if
      respiratory mechanics can be improved in this group.

      Testing Plan: Study participants will be randomized into 2 groups through drawing of sealed
      envelopes. Group 1 (control group) will be given the standard Jamboxx musical device (see
      appendix a for device details), while Group 2 (treatment group) will be given the Jamboxx
      respiratory therapy device, which combines musical gameplay with incentive spirometry
      exercises. Participants from both groups will have two 20 minute training sessions with the
      device: one initial training visit and one follow up visit. Training sessions will take place
      either in the home, or at Albany Medical Center. During the initial visit a simple spirometry
      test (FEV1, FVC and PEF) and maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP and MEP) will
      be performed. These functions will be measured again at 3, 6, 9 & 12 months by a respiratory
      therapist (RT). The Dyspnea-12 (D-12) questionnaire will be conducted at by the RT at months
      0, 3, 6, 9, and 12. Self-Reported Patient Dyspnea and the Multidimensional Dyspnea Profile
      (MDP) will be reported electronically by study participants on a weekly basis. Medical
      records will be evaluated for relevant health history, medication use, and hospitalizations
      including dates. Access to medical records will be obtained by a signed medical release form.
    
  