
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Outcomes of the study provided valuable guidance for pediatricians who wanted to become more
      actively involved in identifying and treating children with elevated blood lipids.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Pediatricians in five practices in Abington, Pennsylvania conducted a cholesterol screening
      program (capillary bloodsample) for 4-10 year old children in their care. Children who tested
      positive (total cholesterol >176 mg/dl) were offered follow-up evaluations (two fasting
      venous blood samples) to confirm the positive initial test. Those with mean LDL cholesterol
      levels between the 80th and 98th percentiles for age/sex (107-164 mg/dl for boys and 112-164
      mg/dl for girls) and who met other entry criteria were invited to join the study. Children
      with parental permission to participate were randomized to one of three groups: two that
      received dietary education, and a comparison group that received no dietary education. One
      educational program used face-to-face counseling with a registered dietitian and the other
      used a home-based, parent-child autotutorial approach. In addition, a random sample of
      non-hypercholesterolemic children with total plasma cholesterol levels between the 40th and
      60th percentiles for age/sex were invited to join the study as a second comparison group.
      Prior to the education period (baseline) and three times thereafter (3, 6 and 12 months
      post-baseline), all four groups were assessed for consumption of total fat, saturated fat,
      and cholesterol, and their growth and pertinent cognitive psychosocial factors. Also, the
      plasma LDL cholesterol levels of the three hypercholesterolemic groups were assessed at all
      four time points along with blood indicators of iron status at baseline and twelve months.

      To assess the educational programs' effectiveness, changes were compared in assessed
      variables of the hypercholesterolemic groups who did and did not receive dietary education.
      Also, changes in diet, growth, and cognitive/psychosocial factors in these groups were
      compared with those of the non-hypercholesterolemic group that had neither a positive
      diagnosis of elevated blood lipids nor dietary education. Additionally, the
      cost-effectiveness of the two dietary education programs was evaluated.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  