
    
      This fifteen-month open label, Phase IIa clinical trial is being conducted to assess the
      tolerability, safety and efficacy of a medication called Tocilizumab (Actemra®) in patients
      with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR). The typical symptoms of PMR are muscle pain and stiffness
      in the shoulder, neck or hip region. Steroids have traditionally been used to treat this
      condition with great success, although long courses of steroids, up to 2 years in many cases,
      are often required. This can result in many unwanted side effects including diabetes, high
      blood pressure, heart disease, cataracts, weak bones with fractures, weak muscles, skin
      bruising, difficulty sleeping and mood disturbances. In this trial, the steroid dosage will
      be decreased much more quickly than what is done in routine clinical practice; there is an
      expectation that steroid therapy will be withdrawn within six months.

      Tocilizumab is a medication already on the market that has been FDA approved in the US and
      Japan for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and in Japan it is also approved for certain
      types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (which is like rheumatoid arthritis in children) and
      Castleman's disease (which is a rare disease that causes enlarged lymph nodes). It is not FDA
      approved to treat polymyalgia rheumatica at this time. In this study, it will be given as an
      intravenous infusion once a month for a treatment period of one year. Experiments done on the
      blood of patients with PMR show one particular cytokine or small molecule that circulates
      throughout the body, interleukin-6, to be elevated in this disease. Tocilizumab is a
      medication that is designed to specifically block this cytokine. The co-primary endpoints for
      this study include efficacy, as well as evaluations of safety and tolerability.

        -  Efficacy will be defined by the proportion of patients in Disease Remission (DR) off
           corticosteroids, without relapse or recurrence, at six months from trial entry

        -  Safety and tolerability of Tocilizumab will be evaluated during the fifteen-month study
           period by the monitoring of adverse events and immunogenicity surveillance

      Disease Remission (DR) will be defined as the disappearance of signs and symptoms of
      polymyalgia rheumatica (aching and stiffness of the shoulder, hip girdle, or both) with
      normalization of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR<30 mm/hr) and c-reactive protein (CRP
      ≤1.0 mg/dl), unless elevation of ESR and/or CRP are attributable to causes other than PMR
      (i.e., infection).
    
  