
    
      The objective of this study is to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and assess the
      feasibility and toxicity experience for patients with refractory multiple myeloma treated
      with bortezomib and one of three doses of panobinostat IV.

      Sample Size:

      This study will accrue up to 24 patients, in 4 groups of up to 6 patients each, depending on
      experiences of DLT. Patients will be studied as follows, Group 1: Bortezomib 1.0 mg/m2 and
      panobinostat IV 5 mg/m2 IV, Group 2: Bortezomib 1.0 mg/m2and panobinostat IV 10 mg/m2 IV,
      Group 3: Bortezomib 1.0 mg/m2 and panobinostat IV 15 mg/m2 IV and Group 4: Bortezomib 1.0
      mg/m2 and panobinostat IV 20 mg/m2 IV. Bortezomib will be given on days 1, 4, 8, and 11
      during cycle 1 and cycle 2, and panobinostat will be given on days 1 and 8 of the second
      cycle.

      If the MTD is not reached with the first group, the second group will be enrolled and will
      receive bortezomib1.0 mg/m2 with escalation of panobinostat IV as described above.

      Patient population:

      Patient's with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma with at least one line of prior therapy.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Patients must have baseline evaluations performed prior to the first dose of study drug and
      must meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria. Results of all baseline evaluations, which
      assure that all inclusion and exclusion criteria have been satisfied, must be reviewed by the
      principal investigator prior to enrollment of that patient. In addition, the patient must be
      thoroughly informed about all aspects of the study, including the study visit schedule and
      required evaluations and all regulatory requirements for informed consent. The written
      informed consent must be obtained from the patient prior to enrollment. The following
      criteria apply to all patients enrolled onto the study unless otherwise specified.
    
  