
    
      STEP-UP: An innovative stepped-care model for tailored behavioral medicine treatment in the
      management of musculoskeletal pain in primary care

      Background:

      Multimodal rehabilitation and tailored behavioral medicine treatments should be provided to
      patients suffering from persistent and activity limiting pain according to current
      state-of-science. There is also evidence that a simple and specific 'stay-active advice' can
      produce effects comparable to effects of comprehensive treatment packages. Nevertheless,
      there is a gap of knowledge regarding which individuals who benefit the most from which
      modalities of pain treatment, at what time point, and with the highest cost-effectiveness.
      Accordingly, we have set up an innovative stepped-care protocol for the management of
      musculoskeletal pain in primary care, which is evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.
      The intervention have two core features: it is theory-driven and include systematic tailoring
      of treatment content. The tailoring is based on a combination of empirically supported
      behavioural and medical determinants of pain-related disability and patients' individual
      perceptions on personal goals, facilitators and barriers for HBC. In this application, the
      intervention is labelled tailored behavioural medicine intervention (TBM).

      Main objectives

        1. To compare the short- (post-treatment) and long-term effects (12 and 24 months
           follow-ups) of TBM and physical exercise treatment on everyday life activity, health
           related quality of life, pain severity, and sick leave (main analysis).

        2. To study whether TBM tailored according to any of two pre-defined patient risk profiles:
           "the catastrophising/fear-avoidance profile" and "the moderate to high disability
           profile" are more effective compared to physical exercise treatment (sub- group
           analysis).

        3. To characterize patients who benefit/do not benefit from (1) a minimal intervention
           including advice, (2) TBM and physical exercise treatment respectively

        4. To identify potential moderators (e.g. pain duration, sex, outcome expectations) and
           mediators (e.g. catastrophising, fear of movement, self-efficacy) of treatment effects.

        5. To study the cost-effectiveness within the experimental trial i.e. for the TBM versus
           the physical exercise treatment over the entire study period (up to 24-month follow-
           up).

      Methods:

      A stratified randomized stepped care design is applied. Stratification is based on primary
      care center and patient risk profile. A consecutive selection is performed at primary care
      centers in southern, central and northern Sweden. According to power analysis, 364
      participants should be recruited to allow for sub-group analyses. After having received a
      minimal intervention (step 1) comprising 'stay-active advice', participants scoring >90 on
      the Örebro Musculoskeletal Pain Questionnaire (ÖMPQ) are randomly allocated to an eight-week
      treatment in step 2. The experimental condition includes supervised physical exercises
      integrated with either (a) graded activity, or (b) hierarchical graded exposure depending on
      risk profile, i.e. absence or presence of pain catastrophizing and fear-avoidance beliefs.
      The comparison condition includes supervised physical exercises irrespective of risk profile.
      Primary outcome is pain-related disability complemented with a comprehensive set of secondary
      outcomes adhering to the IMMPACT recommendations. Assessments will be made by personnel
      blinded for treatment condition at baseline, after step 1 and 2 respectively, and at 12- and
      24-month follow-ups.
    
  