
    
      Latinos are the largest and fastest growing minority group in the US, and they are
      disproportionately affected by HIV. In 2014, almost 25% of new cases of HIV infections were
      among Latinos although they only represent 17% of the US population. Additionally, Latinos
      have a faster rate of progression from HIV to AIDS, higher rates of HIV-related deaths, and
      marked delay in the diagnosis of infections. Approximately 42% of HIV diagnoses among Latinos
      in the US are in persons born abroad. In absolute numbers, new HIV diagnoses among
      foreign-born individuals in the US were the highest among Caribbean-born persons, which may
      partially be attributed to high rates of bidirectional travel. It is, therefore, critical
      that HIV prevention and treatment activities incorporate factors associated with Latino
      immigrant and transnational groups. In Washington Heights, New York City, understanding these
      factors related with bi-directional travel to the Dominican Republic (DR) is warranted, as
      the Latino population of Washington Heights is largely comprised of Dominicans.

      Many factors contribute to the health disparities experienced by Latinos, of which low health
      literacy and literacy in general are potential contributors. Health literacy, or "the degree
      to which individuals have the capacity to obtain, process, and understand basic health
      information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions," is an established
      concern affecting vulnerable communities globally. Not surprisingly, Spanish-speaking, less
      educated, and/or foreign-born Latinos have lower health literacy than those born in the US.
      Low health literacy can lead to worse health outcomes, less use of services, and poorer
      knowledge of illness. Also, patients with limited health literacy are likely to have low
      numeracy which affects interpretations of medication quantities, time between doses, and time
      between appointments, among other quantitative knowledge relating to effective management of
      HIV.

      Infographics are emerging technologies to help teach complex health concepts to patients with
      low health literacy. When effectively designed, infographics (information visualizations)
      contain a depth and breadth of information and lead to improved understanding of concepts. By
      carefully selecting the design and included content, simple images can convey large amounts
      of information in a visually appealing and comprehensible way. Methodically constructed
      infographics have been shown to improve communication about health behaviors and health risks
      and minimize comprehension differences between individuals with high and low health literacy.
      They can also help improve information exchange amidst culture and language differences by
      using images familiar to patients to explain complicated processes as well as augment
      attention span and recall of learned material. Furthermore, rigorously designed and evaluated
      infographics can help mitigate health disparities by helping clinicians provide the
      information that people need for effective health management in an understandable way.

      During preliminary studies, the investigators developed a set of infographics designed to
      facilitate HIV-related clinician-patient communication during clinic visits. Initial
      infographics were designed by persons living with HIV (PLWH) in the Dominican Republic and
      are now being tested for feasibility and usability among a cohort in the DR. In this study,
      the investigators propose to assess the feasibility of using the infographic intervention in
      a clinic that specializes in HIV care in Washington Heights to improve clinical communication
      and subsequently, patient outcomes. Additionally, the investigators will collect information
      about acculturation and bi-directional travel to more thoroughly assess how these factors
      relate to HIV infection among Hispanic/Latino populations living in the US.
    
  