
    
      The study team proposes in this trial to build on the favorable results of the intraoperative
      boost trials but using a preoperative delivery approach. The PI has demonstrated the
      feasibility of the preoperative approach and successfully completed a Phase I dose-finding
      partial breast trial. The preoperative approach has several advantages: 1) expensive
      intra-operative equipment is unnecessary, 2) a small intact breast tumor results in
      significantly less uninvolved breast tissue receiving high radiation doses which likely
      decreases toxicity; 3) more accurate targeting of the high-risk areas of subclinical disease
      surrounding the tumor is possible, 4) smaller treatment volumes are amenable to dose
      escalation which can further accelerate treatment and improve accessibility for subjects, and
      5) the pre-operative approach provides a novel opportunity to study breast cancer radiation
      response.

      Radiotherapy to the intact tumor is a relatively rare event in breast cancer irradiation,
      particularly in the setting of early stage breast cancer. Tumor and normal tissue radiation
      response remain relatively poorly understood. Markers capable of predicting radiation
      response are rare indeed. Therefore, paired pre- and post-radiation tissue will be examined
      for FAS gene expression and compared among the breast cancer subtypes. FAS is the name of a
      gene ( not an acronym) that is known to play a critical role in the induction of programmed
      cell death and is an established prognostic marker in breast cancer. Previous study team
      findings that FAS induction appears to be breast cancer subtype-specific has not been
      previously observed and provides a possible explanation for the differential rates of tumor
      response observed clinically in distinct breast tumor subtypes. The study team's preclinical
      work with FAS suggests a potential role as a radiation response biomarker. The study goal is
      to validate those findings in this large cohort of diverse breast cancer subjects. However,
      because preoperative delivery of the boost to the intact tumor is unique, this study will
      include a secondary cosmetic outcome that includes predefined stopping boundaries for early
      indications of suboptimal cosmetic outcomes with this novel approach
    
  