
    
      In this study, the investigators are attempting to determine if intradiscal injection of
      autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMC) will decrease pain and improve
      function compared with intradiscal steroids.

      Up to 106 patients with a clinical diagnosis of chronic discogenic low back pain for greater
      than 6 months, MRI evidence of lumbar disc degeneration limited to one or two discs with <50%
      disc height loss, and positive provocative discography (if clinically indicated) will be
      randomized to receive intradiscal BMC or steroid and long-acting local anesthetic
      (bupivacaine).

      Those randomized to group I will receive a 2 mL intradiscal injection of autologous bone
      marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells from bone marrow aspirate of the posterior ilium, while
      those randomized to group II will receive an intradiscal injection of the steroid
      methylprednisolone and the local anesthetic bupivacaine. The first follow-up will occur at
      4-weeks post-treatment at which time rescue medications may be prescribed or adjusted but no
      other analgesic interventions should occur. The primary outcome measure will be pain relief
      at 3 months post-treatment, while a positive categorical outcome will be a 2-point or greater
      decrease in average LBP coupled with either a score > 5/7 on the PGIC (indicating noticeable
      improvement) or a 10-point decrease in ODI (indicating a clinically meaningful benefit). At 3
      months, a repeat MRI will be obtained in selected patients at military treatment facilities
      (i.e. every 5th patient). Those who fail to experience a positive categorical outcome will be
      withdrawn from the study to receive alternate care, including an option for intradiscal BMC
      in those who received corticosteroid. For those who continue to experience a positive
      outcome, there will be 6- and 12-month follow up visits. At all follow-up visits, histories
      and physical exams will be performed and questionnaires assessing sleep, function, and
      anxiety and depression will be administered.
    
  