
    
      This pilot study is a 2-arm individually randomized controlled trial design in which outcomes
      of MMT patients randomized to MORE are compared to outcomes of those randomized to treatment
      as usual (TAU). In the pilot study (R21; N=30), we will randomize MMT patients with chronic
      pain to MORE (n=15) or TAU (n=15). This study phase will focus on establishing study
      feasibility in recruiting, retaining, and following up study participants before progressing
      to a larger Phase II clinical trial (R33, N=150). Participants with pain who are receiving
      MMT for an opioid use disorder (OUD) will be recruited from two methadone clinics in New
      Jersey.

      Participants will be recruited through flyers posted in the clinics, being approached by
      research assistants in the waiting room of their usual methadone clinic, and referral by
      clinic staff. The number of individuals who contact the study staff through the flyers or
      referral and who are approached by study staff in the clinics will be tracked. Number of
      individuals who refuse study participation and who consent to the study will also be tracked.
      If an individual is interested in study participation, a trained research assistant will lead
      the individual through the informed consent process in a private space.

      Since MORE is a closed group, we will randomize cohorts of 14-16 participants (depending on
      speed of recruitment) at each site to TAU or MORE with block randomization. Once we 14-16
      participants at a particular clinic, we will randomize participants to MORE or TAU, and the
      MORE group will begin.

      Participants randomized to the MORE condition will participate in eight, weekly, two-hour
      group sessions led by a clinic or study counselor. Each session will contain 6-8 participants
      and take place in a private room at the methadone clinic. Attendance at each session and
      reasons for missing sessions will be recorded Participants randomized to the control
      condition will continue receiving treatment as usual.

      All study participants will partake in a total of three interviews lasting up to 90 minutes
      and occurring at baseline, 8- and 16- weeks post-baseline in private rooms in the methadone
      clinics. Each participant will also have a urine or saliva sample collected during each
      assessment. All attempts to reach participants to schedule follow-up assessments will be
      tracked. Participants will also complete cognitive testing (for approx. 30-45 minutes) at
      baseline and 8-weeks and ecological momentary assessments (EMA) conducted via smartphones,
      which will be provided to each participant by study staff. EMA participation will require the
      participant to respond to twice-daily prompts in which they will be asked a series of brief
      questions regarding their current mood and exposure to opioid triggers. Additionally,
      subjects will be asked to initiate responses when they experience serious craving or relapse
      to opioid use. Each EMA assessment will last approximately 3-5 minutes.
    
  