
    
      IVF subjects: Subjects will be screened for participation at the Magella Office in Long
      Beach. Healthy patients with singleton pregnancies conceived with ART will be invited to
      participate.

      Control subjects: A group of control subjects with spontaneously conceived, singleton
      pregnancies matched for age, parity, and race, will be identified at our Magella offices in
      Long Beach.

      Sample size: 20 IVF subjects and 20 control subjects will be enrolled. A power analysis was
      performed using an alpha error of 0.05 and beta error of 0.80. Calculations were made for a
      30% difference in the most studied markers during each trimester. The specific markers used
      in the power analysis were VEGF, sFlt, sEng, PlGF, IL-6, IL-8, TGF-beta1, and TNF-alpha.
      Using the values for the markers with the most stringent criteria it was determined that 15
      patients would be required in each group to demonstrate a significant difference using a p
      value of 0.05. In anticipation of a 20-25% drop out rate, 20 subjects will be enrolled in
      each arm.

      Specimens will be obtained at the specified intervals. Venipuncture will be performed and no
      more than 20 ml of blood will be obtained.

      Within 2 hours of the blood draw, the blood will be spun at 2000 rpm for 10 minutes. The
      plasma layer will then be collected into 1 ml aliquots and stored frozen at -80°C. Upon
      completion of specimen collection, assays will be performed by personnel who are unaware of
      the outcome of the pregnancy. The markers being evaluated are not currently routinely used in
      clinical practice thus preventing a retrospective analysis.

      The cytokine analysis and VEGF measurements will be performed using Cytokine 29 Plex Kit
      Premixed Beads, HCYTO-60K-PMX29 (Linco Research, St. Charles, MO, USA). This kit measures
      various markers and proteins of the immune system to determine the degree of inflammation.
      Cytokines measured with the kit include: Human IL-1, Human IL-2, Human IL-1ra, Human IL-4,
      Human IL-5, Human EGF, Human IL-6, Human IL-7, Human TGF,_Human Fractalkine, Human IL-8,
      Human IL-10, Human IL-12p70, Human IL-13, Human IL-15, Human IL-17, Human IL-1, Human
      IFNgamma, Human G-CSF, Human GM-CSF, Human TNF, Human Eotaxin, Human MCP-1, Human sCD40L,
      Human IL-12p40, Human MIP-1, Human MIP-1beta, Human IP-10, and Human VEGF.

      The assays will be run according to the established protocol using the 96 well plate
      provided. Briefly, each serum sample is to be incubated with cytokine microbeads for 1 hour
      at room temperature. After washing two times, the beads will be incubated with detection
      antibodies for 30 min. The beads will then be combined with streptavidin-phycoerythrin and
      remain at room temperature for an additional 30 minutes. After two additional washings, the
      beads will be resuspended in assay buffer for five minutes and then the beads are to be read
      on the Luminex Instrument.

      Commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for sFlt 1 (BioSource™)
      (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA), endoglin (R&D Systems Inc, Minneapolis, MN), PIGF
      (R&D Systems, Inc. Minneapolis, MN) will be used according to established protocols. Briefly,
      various samples for ELISA measurement will be diluted in respective calibrator diluent. After
      adding assay diluent, the diluted sample will be placed in a 96-well plate precoated with
      captured antibodies directed against human sFlt-1, human endoglin, or PlGF, and the plates
      were incubated for 2 hours. The wells will be washed 4 times in wash buffer and incubated
      with secondary polyclonal antibody against sFlt-1, endoglin, and PIGF conjugated to
      horseradish peroxidase for an additional 2 hours. The plates are then washed 4 times in wash
      buffer.

      Substrate solution containing hydrogen peroxide and tetramethylbenzidine will then be added
      to each well and incubated for 30 minutes under protection from light with stop solution was
      added to each well also. The optical density will then be determined by subtracting readings
      at 540 nm from the reading at 450 nm. Protein levels will be calculated using a standard
      curve derived from a known concentration of respective recombinant proteins. The minimum
      detectable doses in the assay for sFlt-1, endoglin, and PlGF are 3.5, 7, and 5 pg/mL,
      respectively. Intraassay and interassay coefficients of variation of 3.5% and 5.5%,
      respectively, for sFlt-1, 3.2% and 6.5%, respectively, for endoglin, and 6% and 11%,
      respectively for PlGF.

      Following delivery placental biopsies will be obtained for possible further analysis in
      anticipation of extramural funding pending the results of this study. For each placenta,
      three small full-thickness samples approximately 2 cm x 2 cm x 2 cm, not to include fetal
      membranes, will be obtained and stored in a -80ºC freezer pending mRNA extraction. We will
      follow a standard protocol for placental tissue harvest. The remainder of the placentas will
      be disposed of per routine on the Labor and Delivery unit.

      Additionally, umbilical artery blood will also be obtained following delivery for possible
      further analysis. Within 2 hours of the blood collection, the blood will be spun at 3000 rpm
      for 10 minutes. The plasma layer will then be collected into 1ml aliquots and frozen in a
      -80ºC freezer.

      For each subject, maternal demographic information including age, ethnicity, infertility
      history, previous obstetrical history, pregnancy complications and delivery outcomes will be
      collected. In addition, neonatal outcome data will be collected including delivery data,
      birth weight, and complications. See attached data sheet (Appendix B).

      All specimens and data from the medical record will be collected and assigned a unique case
      number. Identifying information (e.g. name, birth date, and medical record number) will not
      be present in this database. In order to enable us to retrieve the medical record in the
      future for data verification, a key relating case numbers and medical record numbers will be
      kept separately. This key will be password protected, with the password only known to the
      investigators.

      With the above exceptions, throughout the course of their pregnancy study participants will
      receive standard prenatal care as determined by their physicians.

      Data Analysis

      Categorical data will be analyzed using the Fisher exact test and chi squared test. Student t
      test and Mann-Whitney U tests will be used for the evaluation of parametric and non
      parametric continuous data, respectively.
    
  