
    
      Forty healthy female omnivores will be included in this 6-month intervention study. Exclusion
      criteria are smoking, chronic use of medication, athletes participating in competitions,
      vegetarianism or eating meat or fish less than 5 times a week. The study is scheduled over a
      period of 6 months and measurements will be performed 1 week prior to the intervention (0M),
      after 3 months (3M) and within the last week (6M). Ten women will continue their omnivorous
      diet throughout the entire study (controls) and the other 30 subjects will switch to a
      lacto-ovo-vegetarian diet for 6 months. The vegetarian group will be split in 2 groups,
      matched for age, weight, height and baseline carnosine concentrations in soleus and
      gastrocnemius medialis muscles. Fifteen of them will be supplemented with beta-alanine and
      creatine (Veg+Suppl) and the other 15 women will receive a placebo (Veg+Pla). A co-worker,
      not involved in the study design and analysis, will perform the randomisation and will
      prepare the containers with supplements. With regard to supplementation, the study is
      double-blind placebo-controlled. The lacto-ovo-vegetarian diet consists of vegetables,
      fruits, seeds, grains, meat substitutes, eggs and dairy products and the exclusion of meat,
      poultry and fish. Subjects will complete a 3 day food diary at the start and after 3 months
      and will receive nutritional advice by a dietician during the study to prevent deficiencies
      in macronutrients and micronutrients. Furthermore, vegetarian recipes will be provided by
      email to support the subjects in their vegetarian diet.

      The supplementation protocol includes simultaneously daily oral administration of creatine
      monohydrate (Creapure®, AlzChem AG, Germany) and slow-release beta-alanine (Carnosyn®,
      Natural Alternatives International, San Marcos, USA) or a placebo (maltodextrin, Natural
      spices, France). The supplements are considered as safe and efficacious. The Veg+Suppl group
      ingests 1 g of creatine monohydrate (2 capsules of 500 mg) and 0.8 g of beta-alanine (1
      Carnosyn® tablet) each day during the intervention period. The Veg+Pla group will be
      supplemented with an identical number of capsules and tablets of maltodextrin. All subjects
      are asked not to take any other supplements than those provided by the current study.
      Compliance will be checked by asking the subjects to return the containers and counting the
      pills that are left. The control group, who will remain on an omnivorous diet, will not
      receive any supplements.

      Before (0M), after 3 (3M) and 6 months (6M), subjects will perform an incremental cycling
      test, a fasted venous blood sample and 24hr urine will be collected, a muscle biopsy of the
      vastus lateralis muscle will be taken and muscle carnosine content will be determined by
      1H-MRS.

      A two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to evaluate plasma and urinary metabolite
      concentrations, muscle carnosine, muscle biopsy metabolite concentrations, time to exhaustion
      (TTE) and VO2max with 'group' (Veg+Suppl; Veg+Pla; control) as between-subject factor and
      'time' (0M; 3M; 6M) as within-subject factor (SPSS statistical software, SPSS Inc, Chicago,
      USA). For the analysis of capillary lactate and pH, measurements before and after the
      incremental cycling test were included as another within factor (start; end). In case of
      significance, analyses were repeated for each group separately and pairwise comparisons were
      used to compare the different time points. Values will be presented as mean ± SD and
      statistical significance threshold will be set at p ≤0.05.
    
  