
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is the most common neurobehavioral disorder
      affecting children. ADHD is currently treated with a combination of medication and behavioral
      therapy aimed at reducing the negative symptoms. Pharmacologic treatment methods, such as the
      use of Methylphenidate (MPH) have many drawbacks including high cost and side effects.

      Non-pharmacological treatment approaches teach strategies aimed at improving behavior and
      environmental management. Evidence on efficacy of these treatments is lacking and the
      literature only supports the 'parental education' approach.

      Motor aspects of the disorder tend to be undertreated. Studies have shown that persistent use
      of MPH has a positive effect on motor output timing and coordination in children with ADHD.
      Thus non-pharmacological interventions aimed at improving attention are likely to also
      improve other aspects of the disorder such as motor problems and thus should be further
      explored.

      Various computerized remediation programs have been developed as a non-pharmacological
      alternative for children with ADHD. The programs present exercises that require sustained
      attention and a response to set rules and are often graded in task complexity according to
      the user's abilities.

      Virtual Reality (VR) is a simulation of the real world using computer graphics that requires
      interaction, immersion and active participation by the user. VR applications have shown to be
      effective in improving attention in children and adolescents with behavioral problems,
      teaching them to focus on some tasks more than existing cognitive training programs. VR while
      walking has demonstrated improvements in both motor and cognitive function in older adults
      and patients with neurodegenerative diseases suggesting a beneficial effect on motor and
      cognitive function. However this treatment has not been tested yet in ADHD.

      The study will investigate the following aims:

        1. To compare the effect of computerized cognitive remediation and VR on attention and gait
           in children with ADHD.

        2. To examine the long term effects of computerized cognitive remediation and VR on
           attention and gait in children with ADHD.

        3. To compare, in an exploratory analysis, the effects of the non-pharmacological training
           paradigms to standard of care treatment on attention and gait in children with ADHD.
    
  