
    
      Specific aims:

      A1 Evaluate the underlying mechanism of itch severity in terms of circadian rhythm by
      collecting epidermis at different circadian stages using suction blisters. This will be done
      in AD patients with chronic itch. The cells will be isolated from part of the suction
      blisters and used to isolate and sequence RNA to evaluate and compare the differential
      protein and RNA expression in suction blister taken from symptomatic & non-symptomatic areas
      in patients with AD at different time points. The investigators will then correlate the itch
      severity symptoms to clock gene and opioid receptor levels and RNA expression differential
      pattern. A1 will be evaluated by study arm A and the results from this study will serve to
      decide on time point taking the suction blisters for the therapeutic/mechanistic studies (arm
      B and C).

      A2 Investigate the mechanistic role and therapeutic efficacy of opioid receptors in chronic
      itch. For this purpose, a cross-over, placebo-controlled design will be used to treat
      patients with opioid receptor antagonist (Naltrexone) by expanding on our existing trial. The
      investigators will collect, evaluate, quantify and compare the differential protein and RNA
      expression in epidermis taken by suction blisters from symptomatic and non-symptomatic areas
      in patients with AD on Placebo or Naltrexone treatment. Transcriptome analysis will be
      focused, but not restricted to, analysis of neuroinflammatory and neuronal markers (including
      cytokines, GPCR and opioid receptors). Confirmation will occur using in-situ hybridization of
      biopsies to correlate specific cell type and location and qPCR expression of in vitro
      cultures. The binding studies using fluorescent labeled opioid ligands and internalization
      pattern will be carried out.

      A3 Test the underlying mechanisms of the opioid system with nerve-keratinocyte interaction
      and possible effects on itch transduction from skin to nerves by using an in vitro
      neuron-keratinocyte co-culture model. Moreover, the investigators plan to validate
      itch-causing networks and pathways found in A2 using this in vitro model and will be able to
      evaluate calcium flux threshold changes after exposure to external stimuli (e.g. light, or
      mechanic stimuli) onto keratinocytes and neuronal somata under different opioid exposure
      conditions. The FC derived sensory neurons will be co-cultured with different patient KC. The
      investigators will test the reaction pattern of KC and transmission of the signal to
      connected peripheral sensory neurons by Fluo-4 AM Calcium imaging and electrophysiology. The
      reaction will be responding to the odorant Sandalore, as the investigators have previously
      published that Sandalore induces these desired calcium fluxes.

      Apply the in vitro epithelial/nerve model to validate possible itch pathways identified by
      epigenetic analysis in the clinical trials by confirming the expression pattern with qPCR and
      functional assays on cells with CRISPR knockout of the RNA targets, opioid trafficking,
      calcium imaging and electrophysiology. Finally, further develop co-cultures between human
      skin and iPS-derived human peripheral neurons to perform functional studies.
    
  