
    
      Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the ICU,
      accounting for 25% of infections in intensive care units (Réseau RAISIN 2012). From 1975 to
      2003, the incidence of hospital-acquired pneumonia caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) has
      almost doubled, from 9.6% to 18.1%. In a US national large-scale survey, PA was the most
      frequently isolated gram-negative aerobic bacterium from ICUs (23%) and also the most
      frequent bacterium isolated from the respiratory tract (31.6%).

      PA-VAP is associated with a high mortality ranging from 40% up to 69%, and with high rates of
      recurrence despite adequate antimicrobial therapy. In a large randomized trial regarding the
      optimal duration of antibiotic therapy in overall VAPs, the rate of recurrence among the
      subgroup of non-fermenting Gram negative bacilli (NF-GNB) documented VAP varied between 19.0%
      and 32.8%, according to the randomization arm. Finally, a recently published cohort about 393
      PA-VAP in 314 patients, the composite criteria failure treatment (death and recurrence)
      occured in 112 cases (28.5%).

      Hypothesis A short duration antibiotherapy (8 days) vs. long duration antibiotherapy (15
      days) in treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia (PA-VAP) is safe
      and not associated with an increased mortality or recurrence rate of PA-VAP.

      The demonstration of this hypothesis could lead to decrease antibiotic exposure during the
      hospitalization in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and in turn reduce the acquisition and the
      spread of multidrug-resistant pathogens (MDR).

      Objectives

        1. Primary objective To assess the non-inferiority of a short duration of antibiotics (8
           days) vs. prolonged antibiotic therapy (15 days) in Pseudomonas aeruginosa
           ventilator-associated pneumonia (PA-VAP) on morbi-mortality at 90 days.

        2. Secondary objectives

      To compare between short and long duration of antibiotics on:

        -  mortality in the ICU

        -  morbidity in the ICU (mechanical ventilation, duration of hospitalization)

        -  exposure and acquisition of MDR during hospitalization

        -  number and types of extrapulmonary infections

      Plan for the research

        1. Concise description of the primary and secondary assessment criteria

           - Primary assessment criterion: A composite endpoint combining Day-90 mortality and
           PA-VAP recurrence rate during hospitalization in the ICU (within 90 days).

           Recurrence will be defined a posteriori by 3 independent experts with predefined
           criteria: clinical suspicion of VAP (≥ two criteria including: fever> 38.5 ° C,
           leukocytosis > 109/L or leukopenia < 4.108/L, purulent tracheobronchial secretions and a
           new or persistent infiltrate on chest radiography) associated with a positive
           quantitative culture of a respiratory sample (bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (significant
           threshold ≥104 colony-forming units/mL) or plugged telescopic catheter (significant
           threshold ≥103 colony-forming units/mL) or quantitative endotracheal aspirate distal
           pulmonary secretion samples (significant threshold ≥106 colony-forming units/mL)).

             -  Secondary assessment criteria:

                  1. D30 and D90 mortality rate (%)

                  2. Morbidity by:

                     Duration of mechanical ventilation (days) Duration of hospitalization in ICU
                     (days)

                  3. Exposure to antibiotics during the hospitalization in the ICU (days)

                  4. Number and types of extrapulmonary infections during the hospitalization in
                     the ICU (n)

                  5. Acquisition of MDR during the hospitalization in the ICU (swab sample of
                     rectum and anterior nares)

        2. Description of research methodology

      Randomized, open-labeled non inferiority trial comparing to parallel groups:

        -  8 days of antibiotic therapy

        -  15 days of antibiotic therapy

      Antibiotic therapy Antibiotic treatment should be started just after realization of
      bacteriological sampling, without waiting for the result. The choice of initial antibiotic
      therapy will be left to the discretion of the physician but will be essentially based on the
      clinical context, previously antibiotic therapy, the presence or absence of risk factors for
      MDR (antibiotics or hospitalization in previous 90 days, current hospitalization ≥ 5 days, MV
      ≥ 5 days, supported in a dialysis center or residency in a nursing home), local
      epidemiological data, and finally if the patient is already known as being colonized by a
      MDR. Investigators would be strongly encouraged to convert this initial regimen into a
      narrow- spectrum therapy, based on culture results.

      All antibiotics would be withdrawn, either at the end of day 8 or day 15, according to the
      randomization assignment, except those prescribed for a documented pulmonary infection
      recurrence before that day.

      An algorithm for the initial prescription of antibiotics will be established in each ICU, the
      algorithm will be adapted whenever necessary to changes in the local ecology.

      Number of centres participating 32 french Intensive Care Units (ICUs)
    
  