
    
      METHODS Different experiments will be performed.

        1. The investigators will test six different experimental conditions in the laboratory,
           which are a combination of exoskeleton (with vs. without Laevo®), task (static vs.
           dynamic), and knee angle only for the dynamic task (flexed vs. extended). Within each
           combination, the investigators will test three different working directions (front vs.
           left vs. right), realized by changing the working posture (trunk flexion vs. left trunk
           rotation vs. right trunk rotation). Using the single Williams design for six conditions,
           the investigators estimated the sample size to include 36 subjects (i.e., a multiple of
           six). Using a force plate, acceleration and postural sensors, knee compression force can
           be estimated using 2D inverse modelling. With an electromyographic system, the muscle
           activity of selected target muscles at different body parts (i.e., legs, trunk, and
           shoulders) can be recorded. The heart rate will be recorded using electrocardiography.

        2. The investigators will test four different conditions, which are a combination of
           exoskeleton (with vs. without Laevo®) and knee angle (flexed vs. extended). Within each
           combination, the investigators will test three different loads carried (0kg, 8kg, 16kg)
           and five different trunk flexion angles (0°, 30°, 60°, 60°, 30°). Muscle activity,
           position, heart rate and ground reaction forces will be recorded.

        3. The investigators will test three different functional tests. The outcomes for this aim
           are time recorded for performing the functional or industrial task and perceived
           difficulty rated on an 11-point numeric rating scale.

        4. The investigators will use the lumbar spine model developed by the research group
           Biomechanics and Biorobotics of the research cluster Simulation Technology of the
           University of Stuttgart. The model includes a detailed lumber spine with non-linear
           discs, ligaments, and muscles. Using the measurements of the experiment, this model is
           able to predict how internal forces in the lumbar spine change as a result of external
           forces (i.e., wearing and using the Laevo® exoskeleton).

      ANALYSES Depending on the outcome parameter, different analyses will be performed including a
      various number of independent variables.

        1. The effects of exoskeleton (with vs. without), task (static vs. dynamic), knee angle
           (flexed vs. extended; only for the dynamic task), and working posture (trunk flexion vs.
           left trunk rotation vs. right trunk rotation) will be assessed using a four-factor
           repeated-measures analysis of variance (RM-ANOVA) or a generalized estimating equation
           (GEE) which is more robust.

        2. The effects of exoskeleton (with vs. without), knee angle (flexed vs. extended), load
           carried (0kg vs. 8kg vs. 16kg), and trunk flexion angle (0° vs. 30° vs. 60°) will be
           assessed using a RM-ANOVA or GEE.

        3. The effect of exoskeleton (with vs. without) on time and perceived difficulty of each
           functional or industrial test will be assessed using a paired T-Test. In addition, the
           muscular load of several muscles will also be evaluated.

      DATA PROTECTION All participating subjects will receive a refund of € 45 after study
      completion. Subjects will sign an informed consent and their data will be numerically
      pseudonymized to guarantee anonymity.
    
  