
    
      Background and rationale of the project Trauma is a leading cause of death among people
      younger than 44 years. Uncontrolled haemorrhage causing traumatic-haemorrhagic shock (THS) is
      the leading cause of potentially preventable deaths from severe trauma. Uncorrected
      hypervolaemia and prolonged shock cause severe tissue hypoperfusion, vital organ ischemia and
      subsequently acidosis. Shock, acidosis and hypothermia are recognized drivers of
      anti-coagulant and fibrinolytic pathways. In up to one third of trauma patients, laboratory
      findings suggest traumatic induced coagulopathy, which is further triggered by loss or
      dilution of coagulation factors. These patients have a significantly increased morbidity and
      mortality compared to patients with similar injury patterns without coagulopathy. Minimizing
      the time to surgical control of haemorrhage is key in order to improve outcome. However,
      immediate and goal directed volume and coagulation resuscitation including use of blood
      product transfusion is crucial to enable survival until definitive hospital care.

      Role of HEMS in a trauma system. Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS) can rapidly
      deliver advanced medical care and speed up patient transport to designated trauma centres. In
      the Czech Republic, HEMS covers 76.5% of the area and 99.4% of the population of the Czech
      Republic within 20 minutes since the emergency call is received via Emergency Medical
      Dispatch Centre (EMDC). HEMS Hradec Kralove is one of the well-recognized systems in the
      country. Its catchment area is 1.1 million inhabitants living in the Hradec Kralove and
      Pardubice regions. Trauma patients include 100-120 multiple trauma injuries and 50-60
      isolated traumatic brain injuries (TBI) annually. In 2017, there were 95.9% primary flights
      (to the scene of accident), of which 81.9% take-offs were decided by EMDC dispatchers
      immediately after receiving an emergency call. Management of patients in THS requires early
      identification of the bleeding source, use of effective techniques to stop compressible
      haemorrhage, support of clot formation and minimisation of on-going blood loss in
      non-compressible haemorrhage, judicious fluid resuscitation with monitoring of effect, and a
      pre-alert system for damage control resuscitation or surgery at the receiving hospital. HEMS
      teams must be skilled to recognise and treat massive bleeding and acute traumatic
      coagulopathy in the pre-hospital environment.

      Diagnostics of THS. Haemorrhage leads to a fall in systemic filling pressure and venous
      return. The resulting decrease in cardiac minute volume, and therefore in oxygen and nutrient
      supply, sets off an endogenous stress response aiming to maintain perfusion pressure. Thus,
      blood pressure and heart rate must be interpreted with caution, and cardiac output might have
      dropped to some 60% until blood pressure will start to decrease. Although a systolic blood
      pressure <90 mmHg is the typically considered as the leading symptom of hypovolemic shock,
      clinical assessment of trauma patients comprises on-going and repeated evaluation of the
      mental status, capillary filling time, clinical appearance, changes in heart rate, and
      mechanism of injury. Current literature suggests that the combined evaluation of heart rate,
      SABP, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and the ability to maintain a patent airway increases the
      predictability for advanced in-hospital interventions up to four times. This is of particular
      importance for an in-hospital blood transfusion request policy. Suitable triggers for
      preparation for massive transfusion are suspicion or evidence of active haemorrhage, incl.
      trauma triage criteria, systolic arterial blood pressure (SABP) < 90 mmHg, failure to respond
      to a fluid bolus, heart rate > 120/min, and penetrating injuries. Accordingly, physical
      examination on scene should focus on injury patterns known to cause haemorrhage such as
      penetrating trauma, pelvic or femoral fractures and blunt abdominal trauma.

      Prehospital treatment of THS. The up-to-date concept of initial trauma care is called damage
      control resuscitation, which comprises hypotensive resuscitation, haemostatic resuscitation
      and damage control surgery. Control of haemorrhage is crucial in order to interrupt the
      vicious circle of blood loss, hypervolaemia, hypoperfusion, acidosis and coagulopathy,
      finally resulting in therapy refractory shock and death. Basic techniques like direct
      compression, pressure dressings, tourniquets, traction devices and pelvic splints are used
      routinely in obvious or suspicious bleeding. In life threatening haemorrhagic shock, fluid
      resuscitation is still the main stem therapy. The primary and ultimate goal of pre-hospital
      fluid resuscitation is to prevent hypovolemic cardiac arrest and to minimize organ damage
      caused by prolonged or uncorrected hypotension causing organ ischemia. For this reason
      permissive hypotension should only be applied in the first hour after the insult. There are
      extensive side effects of fluid resuscitation in uncontrolled bleeding patients.
      Inappropriate or over-infusion has been shown to harm and to worsen outcome. Hypotensive
      resuscitation is a temporary strategy for management of patients with uncontrolled blood loss
      until the source of bleeding is controlled. Fluid resuscitation should be spared or postponed
      in patients with uncontrolled haemorrhage, normal mental status and SABP > 90 mmHg. Fluids
      should be titrated in uncontrolled bleeding patients without head trauma to a target SABP
      around 90 mmHg. However, it is noteworthy that the concept of hypotensive resuscitation must
      be tailored and adjusted to the patients need. In patients with severe traumatic brain injury
      higher SABP must be achieved with higher amounts of fluids and very seldom use of vasopressor
      drugs when necessary. There is an on-going debate which fluids and what amounts should be
      considered optimal for haemorrhagic shock management. Colloids did not show to improve
      outcome when compared with crystalloids. The same is true for hyperosmolar solutions.
      Compared to the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and other highly developed countries, there are
      no prehospital blood products currently available in Central, Southern and Eastern Europe,
      partially because of high logistic and material demands, risk of wasting, high expenses, and
      unproven benefit of prehospital use of red blood cells without plasma.

      Co-operation between HEMS and a trauma centre. The regional trauma system in the Hradec
      Kralove Region has been gradually developed during last couple of years. One of its main
      advantages is excellent long-term co-operation between EMDC, HEMS, and receiving trauma
      centre, incl. quality management. There are different triage tools used to help to outline
      patient routes to trauma centres. These latter can include immediate need for blood or life
      saving surgery. In Hradec Kralove, it was for the first time in the Czech Republic, when a
      new concept of trauma triage was implemented and improved on-scene triage. The triage
      criteria were adopted from the American College of Surgeons (ACS) and include: mechanism of
      injury (e.g. fall from height > 6 m, person trapped in a vehicle), anatomical and
      physiological criteria, and selected special considerations (e.g. age, comorbidities). Its
      specificity is 8-10% and sensitivity 95-97%. The same triage system was later implemented
      into all other prehospital systems, integrated into the nation-wide recommendations of the
      Ministry of Health (Trauma Care in the Czech Republic) and Guidelines of the Czech Society
      for Emergency and Disaster Medicine ČLS JEP. Use of pre-hospital triage can predict risk of
      THS and need for specialized trauma care.

      Prehospital blood transfusion. Haemostatic resuscitation is the very early use of blood
      products as primary resuscitation fluid to prevent exsanguination by trauma-induced
      coagulopathy. The recommended ratio of packed red cells, fresh frozen plasma and platelets is
      1:1:1. In a few locations around the world, physician led HEMS teams provide advanced medical
      interventions such as thoracotomy, resuscitative endovascular balloon occlusion of aorta
      (REBOA), and blood product (BP) transfusion which traditionally occurred in the highly
      specialized hospital centres. Administration of BPs in a helicopter has been studied in
      specific cohorts including either longer transport times to definitive treatment facility,
      high prevalence of penetrating thorax and epigastrium injuries, or war injuries with
      restricted medical care. The potential role of packed red blood cells is yet to be
      identified, although many HEMS systems already demonstrated feasibility. Recent systematic
      review searching bibliographic databases to July 2015 did not identify any prospective
      comparative or randomized studies on prehopsital use of BPs. A single study showed improved
      survival in the first 24 hours, but vast majority of studies provided very low quality of
      evidence. None of these studies was performed on a cohort of patients similar to the
      population treated in our setting: blunt injuries and short prehospital times. Transfusion
      reactions were rare, suggesting the short-term safety of prehospital BP administration equal
      to those occurring at emergency departments. Current practice at the HEMS Hradec Kralove is
      to prealert the admitting facility and request blood products from the scene. These are
      available after helicopter arrival at hospital. It was calculated that availability of BPs on
      board would result in earlier BP transfusion for at least 20-30 minutes compared to current
      situation.

      Hypothesis. Given evidence in support of massive transfusion protocol in hospitals, the
      investigators hypothesize that early prehospital BP transfusion will be associated with lower
      risk of THS and coagulopathy on admission to the trauma centre, and during 24 hours after
      admission. Lower requirements for BP transfusion during 24 hours after admission, improved
      24-hour mortality, and outcome on discharge from hospital are also expected.

      Statistical analysis. Conditional logistic regression and mixed-effects linear regression
      will be used to determine the association of early administration of BP transfusion with
      outcome variables. Patients receiving BP transfusion are supposed to be more severely injured
      with a higher risk of mortality. Because of this, we cannot compare their outcome data to
      those of patients without prehospital BP transfusions, but with a retrospective cohort of
      patients who had received massive transfusion protocol already requested by HEMS from the
      scene during the period of previous 12/24 months before implementation of BP transfusion into
      HEMS. To prevent selection bias, the propensity score model will be developed to predict the
      likelihood of receiving BP transfusion based on several prehospital variables to allow
      appropriate matching of treated and control patients based on this probability of receiving
      BP transfusion. Covariates in the propensity score model will include age, SABP, heart rate,
      crystalloid volume before HEMS arrival (if given by a ground ambulance team), crystalloid
      volume during HEMS transport, type of injury (blunt vs. penetrating), prehospital time and
      distance to hospital. Covariates for 24-hour survival will include at least sex, Injury
      Severity Score (ISS), SABP, heart rate and Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) at admission, INR,
      rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) parameters (e.g. clotting time, alfa-angle), intensive
      care unit admission, days of mechanical ventilation, and need for surgery. Similar covariates
      will be used for THS and trauma induced coagulopathy indicators. Subgroup analysis will be
      performed for patients with traumatic cardiac arrest.
    
  