
    
      Background and rationale: Venous leg ulcers (VLU) are slow healing wounds with a recurrence
      rate up to 70% and a 60% risk of becoming chronic. Signs and symptoms such as pain or exudate
      are not only a burden on those affected but also on the health care system and society in
      general. The estimated VLU prevalence in the general population is 3%. Treatment cost for VLU
      is estimated to be 4% of overall health expenditure. Current therapeutic approaches are
      multifaceted, focus on reducing wound size as well as preventing ulcer recurrence. Depending
      on the severity of the VLU treatment/care occurs in the hospital setting, outpatient setting
      or community setting. Currently the Swiss health care system does not take in consideration
      social and educational needs and support for VLU patients who transition from acute care
      (hospital care, outpatient care) to home based self-care. To fill this gap, this study
      proposes to create the Social Legs Program (SLP). This program is based on the existing Leg
      Club (LC) community model in the United Kingdom (UK) and will be adapted for the Swiss
      context. The SLP is designed to provide an environment for social interaction, peer and
      nursing/professional support, information sharing and personal involvement. Participation in
      the SLP will address the need for social and educational support in this patient group and
      will improve therapeutic adherence and result in enhanced wound healing as well as a
      reduction of the wound recurrence rate.

      Overall objectives: The objectives of the proposed study are to evaluate the impact of a
      frequented SLP for patients with VLU in terms of their therapeutic adherence and wound
      healing outcomes (wound size and wound recurrence).

      Specific aims: The impact of the intervention will be measured in terms of therapeutic
      adherence and wound healing outcomes as well as multidimensional complexity, wound
      assessment, patient satisfaction, depression, general nutrition, mobility and quality of
      sleep.

      In addition, the incidence of complications (re-hospitalizations) will be measured (frequency
      and cost).

      Methodology of the planned study: A randomized controlled trial with 268 participants in
      three Swiss French institutions is proposed. The study participants will be consecutive
      patients of the participating clinics who fulfill the inclusion criteria. Wound care will be
      performed according to the institutions standard clinical practice guidelines. Allocation to
      the intervention group (IG) or the control group (CG) will be concealed. The intervention
      will consist in participating in the SLP. The social program will provide patients with an
      opportunity to exchange and learn about the prevention measures such as the use of
      compression bandages, and how to prevent recurrences, and enhance healing outcomes. A study
      nurse, who will not be identical to the nurse in charge of the control group, will supervise
      this group. Due to the intervention being a social program, the study cannot be blinded for
      either the participants or the staff performing the intervention. The sample size assumptions
      are based on an adjusted (Bonferroni) two-sided alpha level of 0.05, power of 0.8, and
      clinically relevant effect sizes and a loss to follow up of 20%. Univariate and bivariate
      analysis will be conducted according to the data level.

      Expected results and impact: The findings of this study will generate new knowledge about
      support and care management of persons with VLU who transition between acute care settings
      and home care settings. The findings will contribute to the evidence base of clinical
      practice guidelines for the care of patients with VLU. Additionally, it is in alignment with
      the National Strategy on the Prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases 2017 - 2024 establishing
      prevention work for people with enhanced risks and chronic conditions reinforcing a better
      social integration.
    
  