
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportion of metastatic prostate cancer patients with a prostate specific
      antigen (PSA) decline of >= 50% over 8 cycles of docetaxel with ascorbic acid (Arm A) versus
      docetaxel with placebo (Arm B).

      II. To compare the proportion of adverse events (fatigue, nausea, bone pain, and anorexia)
      experienced by metastatic prostate cancer patients receiving either docetaxel with ascorbic
      acid (Arm A) versus docetaxel with placebo (Arm B).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) in patients with metastatic
      prostate cancer and compare between treatment arms.

      II. To assess the proportion of high grade serious adverse events (fatigue, nausea, bone
      pain, and anorexia) in patients with metastatic prostate cancer and compare between treatment
      arms during 8 cycles of treatment.

      III. To assess the proportion of high grade serious adverse events (all types) in patients
      with metastatic prostate cancer and compare between treatment arms during 8 cycles of
      treatment.

      IV. To assess changes in quality of life measures as assessed by the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) questionnaire.

      V. To assess the proportion of metastatic prostate cancer patients requiring docetaxel dose
      reductions and compare between treatment arms during 8 cycles of treatment.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether ascorbic acid alters docetaxel exposure and compare between treatment
      arms.

      II. To determine peak and trough ascorbic acid levels. III. As a pharmacodynamic measure of
      oxidant injury in vivo, measure F2-isoprostanes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 and ascorbic
      acid IV thrice weekly. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and placebo IV over 60 minutes
      thrice weekly. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 6
      months.
    
  