
    
      The objective of this study is to compare the risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE)
      associated with the use of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors in comparison
      with the use of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors among patients with type 2
      diabetes.

      A common-protocol approach will be used to conduct retrospective cohort studies using
      administrative health care data from seven Canadian provinces (Alberta, British Columbia,
      Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec, and Saskatchewan) and the United Kingdom (UK)
      Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). Briefly, the Canadian databases include
      population-level data on physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from hospital discharge
      abstracts, and dispensations for prescription drugs. The data in Ontario will be restricted
      to patients aged 65 years old and older. The CPRD is a clinical database that is
      representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients seen at over 680
      general practitioner practices in the UK; these data will be linked to the Hospital Episode
      Statistics (HES) database, which contains in-hospital diagnosis and procedure data.

      The investigators will use a prevalent new-user cohort design (Suissa et al., 2017). In each
      jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a source population that includes all patients
      who received an antidiabetic medication (metformin, sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, DPP-4
      inhibitors, SGLT2 inhibitors, GLP-1 receptor agonists, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors,
      meglitinides, insulin, or combinations of these drugs) between January 1, 2006 and June 30,
      2018 (or the latest date of data availability at each site). From this source population, a
      study cohort including all patients who received a prescription for a SGLT2 inhibitor or
      DPP-4 inhibitor on or after the date of the first dispensing (or prescription in CPRD) of a
      SGLT2 inhibitor in each jurisdiction and on or before June 30, 2018 (or latest date of data
      availability at each site) will be created. Study cohort entry date will be defined by the
      SGLT2 dispensation date or the corresponding dispensation date for a DPP-4 inhibitor in the
      matched exposure set. Patients will be followed until the occurrence of an event (defined
      below), death, end of healthcare coverage (plus 30 days), or end of the study period,
      whichever occurs first. Patients will be eligible to enter the cohort twice, a first time
      with a DPP-4 prescription and a second time with a SGLT2 prescription.

      Exposure will be defined as a prescription for a SGLT2 inhibitor or a DPP-4 inhibitor on the
      date of cohort entry. DPP-4 inhibitors will serve as the reference category as both classes
      are second- to third-line therapy, and DPP-4 inhibitors have no known association with the
      outcome. Analyses will be conducted using an as-treated approach. Patients will be followed
      until drug discontinuation or the initiation of the other study drug. The primary outcome
      will be MACE, defined as a composite endpoint of myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, or
      cardiovascular death. Secondary outcomes will include the individual endpoints of MACE,
      all-cause mortality, and hospitalization for heart failure.

      Using a prevalent new-user design with time-based exposure sets, each user of a SGLT2
      inhibitor will be matched to a DPP-4 inhibitor user on the number of prior antidiabetic
      medication classes and on time-conditional propensity score. Cox proportional hazards models
      will be used to estimate site-specific adjusted hazards ratios (HR) and corresponding 95%
      confidential intervals (CI) for each outcome of interest among patients exposed to a SGLT2
      inhibitor in comparison to those exposed to a DPP-4 inhibitor. As secondary analyses, the
      MACE and heart failure outcomes will be stratified by age (≥70 and <70 years), sex, prior
      insulin use, and SGLT2 molecule. The MACE composite outcome will be stratified by history of
      cardiovascular disease, and the heart failure outcome by history of heart failure.
      Sensitivity analyses will be performed to assess the robustness of study results and address
      some of the study limitations. Meta-analyses of the site-specific results will be performed
      using random effects models.
    
  