
    
      Study Design and Participants This pilot study used a mixed-method concurrent triangulation
      design including a pre-experimental component [pre-test (T1), post-test (T2) and follow-ups
      (T3 and T4)] and an exploratory descriptive qualitative clinical study with a sample of 16
      community-dwelling older adults with and without disability. A sample size of 16 participants
      allowed detection of a standardized difference of 0.75 or greater between two means according
      to paired bilateral t tests based on a significance level of 5% and power of 80%. This
      difference was sufficient in a study that explored the influence of another intervention on
      leisure and life-space mobility. This sample size also allowed in-depth exploration and data
      saturation. Eligibility criteria were: 1) aged 65 and over, 2) no or mild (group 1) or
      moderate or severe (group 2) loss of autonomy, 3) normal cognitive functions, 4) living in a
      conventional or residential home for semi-independent seniors, and 5) French-speaking.
      Participants were recruited from a previous study of people attending a day hospital and day
      center in a Health and Social Services Centre (HSSC) in Quebec (Canada), and from people
      living in a residence. The Research Ethics Committee of the Eastern Townships HSSC approved
      the study (2015-488).

      Data Collection Procedures Participants were recruited until the predetermined sample size
      (n=16+3, anticipating possible attrition) was reached. All participants signed an informed
      consent form and were met individually at home by a research assistant or occupational
      therapy student specially trained to administer the questionnaires. An experienced research
      assistant conducted the qualitative interviews. At T1, one sociodemographic and eight outcome
      questionnaires, four reported here and others elsewhere (Trépanier et al., in preparation),
      were administered in approximately 120 minutes. Following the six-month intervention period,
      participants answered the same outcome questionnaires (T2) and, about one month later, had a
      face-to-face semi-structured individual interview lasting about 90 minutes. All interviews
      were digitally audiotaped, transcribed and verified with respect to the wording used by
      participants. After the first few interviews, two authors (MB and ML) discussed and adjusted
      the questions for subsequent interviews. Finally, three (T3) and six (T4) months after the
      end of the intervention, participants answered the same questionnaires again.

      Intervention In the present study, the French-Canadian Lifestyle Redesign® intervention was
      led by an occupational therapist (OT) who took the University of Southern California 6-hour
      online introductory training course. The OT was also supervised on a weekly basis by an
      academic OT specializing in health promotion and clinical research, and having a good
      knowledge of the intervention (highly involved in the translation). This supervision allowed
      the OT to have regular feedback on her role and intervention. Weekly 2-hour group sessions
      were held over a six-month period between August 2015 and March 2016. These sessions were
      based on 12 modules (e.g. occupation, health and aging; transportation and occupation) from
      the 2nd edition of the Lifestyle Redesign® Manual and involved didactic presentations, peer
      exchanges, reflective exercises, direct experience and personal exploration. Every month, one
      group outing was targeted and individual meetings with the OT were planned. These meetings
      aimed to help participants integrate the group session content and engage in personalized
      meaningful activities. In the group with participants having moderate or severe loss of
      autonomy, assistance to the OT was provided by one or two volunteers during respectively
      group sessions or outings.

      Outcome Variables and Tools Data on health, social participation, leisure and life-space
      mobility were collected with four questionnaires. The 36-item Short Form Health Survey
      (SF-36) comprises 36 items covering eight domains related to physical and mental health. The
      SF-36 has good psychometric properties and is widely used in research, including previous
      Lifestyle Redesign® studies. The Social Participation Scale estimates the frequency of
      participation in 10 community activities and has shown good internal consistency. The Leisure
      Profile assesses involvement in leisure activities, attitudes toward leisure, and
      difficulties that might influence leisure activities; it has acceptable interrater and
      test-retest reliability. The Life-Space Assessment (LSA) measures life-space mobility and,
      more specifically, the range, independence, and frequency of movement over the preceding four
      weeks. The LSA presents good construct validity with observed physical performance and
      self-reported function and good sensitivity to change. Finally, a semi-structured interview
      guide validated by 5 qualitative research experts and pretested was used to explore the
      effect of Lifestyle Redesign®. Examples of questions were: 'Tell me about your experience
      with the program'; 'If applicable, how have your activities changed as a result of the
      program?' and 'How did the program help you make this change?' Data Analysis The
      participants' sociodemographic characteristics and outcomes were analyzed using descriptive
      statistics. Scores were compared with the Friedman test followed by the Wilcoxon signed rank
      test but for all participants and, in an exploratory manner, for participants of each group
      separately. Because of the exploratory nature of this study and the influence of seasonal
      variations on Quebecers' health, social participation, leisure and mobility, changes at any
      of the post-intervention measurement times with a p value < 0.05 were consider to be
      potentially attributable to the intervention. Interview transcripts underwent thematic
      content analysis using mix extraction grids. Themes that emerged from the interview content
      were organized and renamed according to the Human Development Model-Disability Creation
      Process, a model of human development and disability. The coauthor cocoded one-third of the
      data and closely supervised the analysis that underwent adjustement to reach a consensus. For
      parsimony with respect to the quantitative results, themes presented in this paper focus on
      health, social participation, leisure and mobility. Analyses were conducted using SPSS
      Statistics (v18) or NVivo (v10).
    
  