
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to determine a combination maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      and/or recommended dose for expansion (RDE) of LDE225 and BKM120 when co-administered orally
      in patients with advanced solid tumors. Adult patients, aged > 18 years with advanced solid
      tumors that have progressed despite standard therapy or for which no standard therapies exist
      will be eligible for this study.

      In the dose escalation part of the study, four groups of patients with the following tumor
      types will be enrolled: recurrent GBM, metastatic breast cancer, metastatic CRC and advanced
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma. It is anticipated that approximately 45 patients will be enrolled
      in the dose escalation part. Approximately 15 GBM patients (maximum of 2 patients per dose
      level) will be enrolled to previously well-tolerated doses during dose escalation if no slot
      is available in a cohort under active testing. In the dose expansion part of the study, five
      groups of patients (approximately 15 patients per group) with the following tumor types will
      be enrolled: recurrent GBM, triple negative metastatic breast cancer, hormone receptor
      positive (ER+/PR+, and Her2-) metastatic breast cancer, gastric/gastroesophageal junction
      cancer, and a combined maximum of 15 patients with metastatic CRC or advanced pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. The dose expansion will enroll approximately 75 patients. Accounting for
      patients who may withdraw or who may not meet the eligibility criteria, it is expected that
      this study will enroll approximately 120 patients.

      This is a multi-center, open-label, dose finding, phase Ib study to determine the MTD and/or
      RDE for the combination of LDE225 plus BKM120, followed by an expansion part to further
      assess safety and preliminary efficacy of the combination in patients with advanced solid
      tumors that are frequently associated with dysregulated Hh and/or PI3K pathways, specifically
      triple negative metastatic breast cancer, hormone receptor positive (ER+/PR+, and Her2-)
      metastatic breast cancer, advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma, metastatic CRC, recurrent GBM
      and gastric/gastroesophageal junction cancer patients. Patients will be treated daily on
      28-day cycles. Dose escalation will be dependent on the available toxicity information
      (including adverse events that are not DLTs), PK, PD, and efficacy information, as well as
      the recommendations from the Bayesian Logistic Regression Model (BLRM).
    
  