
    
      The Problem: Coma is a state of unconsciousness with a variety of causes. Traditional tests
      for coma outcome prediction are mainly based on a set of clinical observations (e.g.,
      pupillary constriction). Recently however, event-related potentials (ERPs; which are
      transient electroencephalogram [EEG] responses to auditory, visual, or tactile stimuli) have
      been introduced as useful predictors of a positive coma outcome (i.e., emergence). However,
      such tests require a skilled neurophysiologist, and such people are in short supply. Also,
      none of the current approaches has sufficient positive and negative predictive accuracies to
      provide definitive prognoses in the clinical setting.

      Objective: The investigators will apply innovative machine learning methods to analyze
      patient EEGs (50 patients and 40 healthy controls) to develop a simple, objective,
      replicable, and inexpensive point of care system which can significantly improve the accuracy
      of coma prognosis relative to current methods. The physical requirements of the proposed
      system consist only of an EEG system (inexpensive in terms of medical equipment) and a
      conventional laptop computer.

      Methodology: The investigators intend to extend the team's newest algorithms and develop
      machine learning tools for automatic analysis and detection of ERP components. Preliminary
      results by the team in this respect have been very promising. The most salient features
      (i.e., biomarkers) extracted from the ERP will be identified and combined in an optimal
      fashion to give an accurate indicator of prognosis. Features will be extracted from resting
      state brain networks and from network trajectories associated with the processing of ERP
      signals.

      Significance: The proposed work will enable critical care physicians to assess coma prognosis
      with speed and accuracy. Thus, families and their health care team will be provided the most
      accurate information possible to guide discussions of goals of care and life-sustaining
      therapies in the context of dealing with the consequences of devastating neurological injury.
    
  