
    
      Hypothesis:

      Optiflow high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygenation is a suitable technique for oxygenation
      and ventilation (apnoeic ventilation) for patients undergoing microlaryngeal surgery.

      Aims:

        1. Measure continuous pulse oximetry (oxygenation) and intermittent subglottic catheter
           sampling of end tidal carbon dioxide levels (ventilation) in the distal trachea during
           HFNC oxygenation

        2. Measure intra-tracheal airway pressure during HFNC oxygenation

      Methodology:

      As a pilot study, the investigators will recruit up to 20 patients within a 12 month period
      scheduled for elective microlaryngeal surgery and high frequency jet ventilation. Standard
      monitoring and standard conduct of anaesthesia will be carried out: induction of general
      anaesthesia, insertion of a narrow catheter into the trachea and insertion of laryngeal mask
      airway. In addition, the study device (HFNC) will be placed into the entrance of the
      patient's nostrils. After removal of the laryngeal mask, HFNC oxygenation will commence. A
      surgical suspension laryngoscope will be inserted for microlaryngeal surgery (standard
      technique). The investigators will measure the adequacy of gas exchange, during of HFNC
      oxygenation and complications (cardiovascular, airway and respiratory). Data will be stored
      on a secure REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) system.

      Importance:

      HFNC oxygenation is a novel technique that depends on apnoeic oxygenation. Even though the
      patient is paralysed and not breathing, oxygenation and carbon dioxide clearance still
      occurs. This is due to the difference between the alveolar rates of oxygen removal and carbon
      dioxide excretion which generates a negative pressure gradient. Oxygenation of the patient is
      therefore due to the high inspiratory fraction of oxygen, apnoeic ventilation and the small
      continuous positive airway pressure caused by the high flow of gas. This pressure increases
      lung volume and recruits collapsed alveoli. Carbon dioxide clearance is due to gas mixing and
      flushing of the airway dead space. The additional humidification of the high flow oxygen
      prevents mucociliary damage of the airway.

      HFNC has been shown beneficial in pre-oxygenation, oxygenation after extubation, and in the
      treatment of respiratory failure and heart failure. New uses in difficult airway management
      are now emerging. However, the main case series of HFNC use in difficult airways did not
      measure intra-operative airway pressures end tidal oxygen and carbon dioxide; these gases
      were only measured at the end of surgery and when a definitive airway was inserted. As far as
      the investigators are aware, there are no data on intra-operative, intra-tracheal airway
      pressures or oxygen or carbon dioxide during HFNC oxygenation. Our study aim is to fill this
      knowledge gap.

      Potential benefits and risks:

      The use of HFNC removes obstacles form the surgical field and this may make surgery easier
      and quicker to perform. Risks include: failed gas exchange, but this is minimized by
      abandoning HFNC oxygenation and instituting tracheal catheter jet ventilation via the in situ
      jet catheter (standard practice).
    
  