
    
      Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of biochemical and physiological abnormalities associated
      with the development of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The current
      study focused on type 2 Diabetes Mellitus(T2DM). T2DM is a chronic disease in which people
      have problems regulating their blood sugar. This disorder consists of an array of
      dysfunctions characterized by hyperglycemia and resulting from the combination of resistance
      of insulin action, inadequate insulin secretion and excessive or inappropriate glucagon
      secretion. Insulin resistance results from a complex interplay between nutrient overload,
      systemic fatty acid excess, inflammation of the adipose tissue, endoplasmic reticulum and
      oxidative stress.

      At the molecular lever, inflammatory cytokines, fatty acid derivatives such as ceramides,
      diacylglycerols and reactive oxygen species (ROS), activate several serine/threonine kinases,
      that have emerged as important negative regulators of insulin signaling. Because of their
      ability to directly oxidize DNA, protein and lipid damage, ROS are believed to play a key
      role in the metabolic syndrome and the possible development of T2DM. It is possible that ROS
      and oxidative stress, induced by elevations in glucose and possibly free fatty acid levels
      play a key role in causing insulin resistance, and beta cell dysfunction by their ability to
      activate stress sensitive signaling pathways.

      Lipids as signaling intermediates encompass a vast range of molecules with distinct function.
      The characteristics includes, lipid bodies(LB) are sites for the production of inflammatory
      mediators and LB within inflammatory cells contain arachidonyl lipids which serve as
      precursors for eicosanoids. In addition, formation of LB within inflammatory macrophages was
      positively correlated with augmented increase in prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in changes. LB also
      could function as a draining compartment to rapidly uptake and re-acetylate free arachidonic
      acid with the potentially detrimental outcomes for the host cell.

      Macrophage from cells with lipid bodies involves complex and multi step mechanisms that
      depend on different signaling pathways regulating lipid influx, metabolism storage and
      mobilization. In view of these clues the investigators have reason to believe that organic
      anion transporters might be resident or upon stimulation trans located to lipid bodies in
      order to export the newly synthesized lipid mediators into the cytoplasmic space. Once
      outside the lipid bodies the eicosanoids can exert intracrine functions or be exported to
      plasma membrane resident transporters to the extracellular space. Free fatty acids have
      adverse effects on the mitochondrial function including uncoupling of oxidative
      phosphorylation and the generation of ROS. Beta cell lipotoxicity has an amplifying effect
      only if mediated by concurrent hyperglycemia. The association of obesity, fatty acids and
      oxidative stress with insulin action clearly merits further attention with particular focus
      on the molecular mechanism.
    
  