
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is associated with significant morbidity and early mortality.
      Despite the discovery of the disease more than 100 years ago, only one drug, hydroxyurea
      (HU), has been FDA-approved. Hydroxyurea exerts its beneficial effects largely by inducing
      fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and thereby inhibiting red blood cell sickling. Hydroxyurea has been
      shown to decrease the frequency of acute complications such as painful crises and acute chest
      syndrome. However, previous studies are conflicting regarding whether HU improves survival; 2
      long-term studies where HU was titrated to the maximum tolerated dose show that HU improves
      survival. However, multiple studies performed in the era post-FDA approval of HU show no
      change in median survival. We and others have found that patients with SCD who die
      prematurely have more evidence of renal, hepatic, and cardiopulmonary damage. Our work also
      suggests that HU treatment per se is not sufficient to improve survival and decrease organ
      damage in patients with homozygous SCD (HbSS). Instead, patients treated with the highest HU
      doses and who had the highest HbF levels appeared more likely to survive and had less
      evidence of organ damage over time. Hydroxyurea management can be intimidating; therefore,
      many adults with HbSS are either not treated with HU or are treated with doses below that
      which are FDA-approved. A HU dosing algorithm may simplify dosing such that not only are more
      patients treated with HU, but more may be titrated to the maximal tolerated dose which may be
      necessary to prevent organ damage and prolong survival. Further, myelosuppression beyond what
      has traditionally been recommended may further maximize HbF response. This protocol is a
      prospective pilot study which follows a 2 month run-in period. Hydroxyurea dosing will be
      based on a written algorithm which will be derived manually, and by a computer program which
      was developed at the NIH Clinical Center. Clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic
      parameters will be monitored at baseline and after treatment to further study the effect of
      maximum HbF response on acute complications associated with HbSS and organ function.
    
  