
    
      The investigators propose a 2-arm randomized trial (group remote (GR) vs. individual home
      visit (IH)) using intent-to-treat principles, to compare body weight following weight loss (6
      mos.) and maintenance (18 mos.) in overweight/obese adults with Mobility Related Disabilities
      (MRDs). Adults with MRDs (n=128) will be randomized (1:1) to one of the 2 intervention arms
      for an 18-mo. trial (6 mos. weight loss, 12 mos. maintenance). Cohorts of ~30-45 individuals
      will be recruited. Following baseline testing, participants will be stratified by their
      primary mode of locomotion outside the home, i.e., ambulatory or assistive device
      (wheelchair, scooter, etc.), and randomized with equal allocation to GR or IH arms. Both
      interventions will be delivered in a format that eliminates the transportation barrier,
      prescribed an enhanced stop light diet, and will self-monitor body weight using electronic
      scales. The GR arm will include group behavioral counseling and group PA delivered remotely
      via video conferencing (Zoom trademark software) on a tablet computer (iPad mini) to
      participants in their homes, and use commercially available web-based applications for
      self-monitoring/participant feedback for diet (Lose It! software) and PA (Fitbit activity
      tracker). The IH arm will include behavioral counseling delivered during individual home
      visits, a prescription for self-directed PA, and self-monitoring of diet and PA using
      conventional paper and pencil self-reports. All outcomes will be collected by trained
      research assistants who are blinded to the study condition. The primary aim will be to
      compare weight loss (0-6 mos.) between the GR and IH interventions. Secondarily, the research
      team will compare mean weight loss from 0-18 mos., the proportion of participants achieving
      >=5% weight loss from baseline, changes in cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life,
      and conduct a cost analysis. In addition, the influence of behavioral session attendance,
      compliance with the recommendations for diet (energy intake, number of entrees/shakes,
      servings of fruits/vegetables), PA (min of moderate-vigorous PA, min sedentary time), and
      self-monitoring of diet and PA, self-efficacy for dietary change and PA, dietary
      self-regulation, social support for diet/PA, barriers to PA, sleep, and medications on weight
      loss between the IH and GR arms will be explored, with 80% power and a type 1 error rate of
      0.05, assuming a common standard deviation of 6 kg, will require 64 participants/group. A
      2-sample independent t-test will be used to compare 6 mo. weight loss (primary aim) between
      the 2 intervention arms in both an intent-to-treat and completer only analysis. For the
      secondary aim 1, comparison of 18 mo. weight loss, will mirror the analysis for the primary
      aim. A 2-sample t-test will be used to compare weight change (0-18 mos.) between the 2
      intervention arms. For secondary aim 2, a between arm comparison of the proportion of
      participants achieving >=5% weight loss (0-18 mos.) will be evaluated using a chi-square
      test. Secondary aims 3 and 4, between arm comparison of change in risk factors and quality of
      life (0-6 and 0-18 mos.), will be evaluated using a 2-sample ttest. Exploratory aims will
      examine the influence of the following on weight loss at 6 mos.: behavioral session
      attendance; compliance with the recommendations for diet (energy intake, number of
      entrees/shakes, servings of fruits/vegetables), PA (min of moderate-vigorous PA, min
      sedentary time), self-monitoring of diet and PA, sleep, and medications assessed over the
      time period of interest i.e. (0-6 and 0-18 mos.); and the changes in self-efficacy for PA and
      dietary change, dietary self-regulation, social support for diet/PA, and barriers to PA from
      0-6 mos. The influence of these factors as covariates will be examined, in addition to
      treatment, on weight loss at 6 mos. This will allow the ability to identify which variables
      most highly influence the outcome along with treatment and/or the mechanism(s) of action that
      are impacting weight loss.
    
  