
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is characterized by chronic abdominal pain related to
      alterations in defecation. Although the diagnostic criteria used in various consensuses may
      mask its true prevalence and incidence, it is known that it suffers between 5 and 15% of the
      population and it is more than two times more frequent in women. Only 10% of patients seek
      medical attention and even so it represents between 25 and 50% of gastroenterological visits
      in the United States. In Mexico the frequency is similar to that reported in the world.

      IBS does not have a specific biological marker, but it is known that there are multiple
      factors involved in its pathophysiology. However, alterations in the gut-brain (GBA) are
      considered the main mechanism in the generation of symptoms.

      The GBA regulates homeostatic functions through a set of organs that form a bidirectional
      network that links both elements. The neural portion includes peripheral elements (enteric
      nervous system, ENS), related elements (pairs of spinal and cranial nerves) and central
      (superior brain nuclei).

      The ENS (neurons in the intestinal wall, epithelial and endocrine elements, associated
      neurotransmitters, and visceral smooth muscle) is the third division of the autonomic nervous
      system.

      Once sensory information is captured in peripheral receptors, the information travels by
      intrinsic innervation to generate local reflexes in the viscera (absorption, secretion,
      motility and sensitivity) or by extrinsic innervations of the vagus nerve and thoracolumbar
      sympathetic afferent pathways towards the spinal medulla.

      The main route of afferent activation is through the prevertebral ganglia that carry the
      signal to the dorsal horns of the spinal cord that travel through the lateral spinothalamic
      tract that, through the thalamus; activates cortical areas of pain somatic location and by
      limbic areas for emotional evaluation. These changes in the brain connectome are diverse and
      it is an area in development.

      This complex GBA relationship in IBS patients includes differences in sex, comorbidities, and
      quality of life (QOL). These differences include the activation of estrogen receptors
      distributed along the visceral pain pathways (ENS, spinal cord and brain centers) as they
      modulate the opening of ion channels, regulate the tachykinin receptor NK1 and induce
      substance release. Additionally, estrogens modulate visceral information in the CNS. Elevated
      estrogen in the amygdale, increase the sensomotor response to rectal distention in
      oophorectomized rats. There are also studies that suggest that estrogens may alter the
      expression of specific pain receptors such as the glucocorticoid receptor and involve the
      opioid system. Changes have been observed in brain structure and functional connectivity in
      women, as well as other sexual factors. There are multiple overlaps with other functional
      digestive diseases, non-digestive diseases, and psychological and psychiatric disorders.

      These complex connections make us see the IBS as a multisystemic disorder with alterations in
      QOL and other comorbidities, such as sexual dysfunction (SD). Since 1987 it has been shown
      that up to 83% of patients with IBS have SD. In 1993 it was recognized that sexual abuse may
      be related to IBS and that it alters the perception of pain. In 1998, SD was positively
      associated with the severity of gastrointestinal symptoms. Patients with IBS have a greater
      number of problems of physical and psychological abuse, the symptoms are aggravated with
      menstruation and are related to hormonal changes.

      On the other hand, patients with IBS have shown visceral hypersensitivity. The best method to
      determine visceral mechanical sensitivity is the barostat. Recently, it has been shown that
      there is a relationship between the severity of symptoms, quality of life, psychological
      stress, colonic transit and visceral hypersensitivity in patients with IBS. Patients with IBS
      and a history of severe physical/sexual abuse have visceral hyposensitivity. IBS presents a
      higher frequency of SD, as well as a deteriorated QOL and visceral hypersensitivity.

      No studies with barostat and determination of QOL have been conducted in the same population
      of patients with IBS and SD, comparing them with patients with IBS and without SD.

      Establishing the relationship between QOL, SD and possible visceral hypersensitivity will
      make it possible to characterize this population and thus be able to establish new
      therapeutic strategies.

      General hypothesis: Women with IBS and SD have greater visceral rectal hypersensitivity than
      those without SD.

      Primary objective: To evaluate the pattern of rectal visceral sensitivity in patients with
      IBS and SD and compare it with patients with IBS without SD.

      Secondary: To assess the QOL in patients with IBS with and without SD. Universe: Women with
      IBS with and without sexual dysfunction, who are cared for in the Gastroenterology service of
      the General Hospital of Mexico.

      Sample. Group 1: Patients with IBS and sexual dysfunction (n = 20). Group 1: Patients with
      IBS without sexual dysfunction (n = 20). The assignment of patients with IBS to the study
      group with and without sexual dysfunction will be according to the consecutive order in which
      they present to their clinic visit and after determining the Global Assessment of the Female
      Sexual Function Index.

      Sample Size. The relationship between sample size, power and detectable difference was
      investigated, based on a previous study that evaluated the pain threshold recorded with the
      barostat in a problem group and a control group. The analysis was carried out comparing the
      two means with the unpaired Student's t, with two tails and an alpha value of 0.05. The
      anticipated standard deviation for each group resulted from the average between the standard
      deviation of the problem group (8.3) with the control group (8.8), resulting in a value of
      8.5. The difference between means of the control group (35.9) and the problem group (27.2),
      resulted in 8.7. With this data a sample size of 16 subjects per group was obtained with a
      statistical power of 80%. Twenty women will be recruited to prevent the probable loss of 20%.

      Measurements. Rome IV. The Rome IV, 2016criteria specify that abdominal pain must have
      occurred at least in the last 6 months with a frequency of at least once a week in the last 3
      months and be related with at least 2 of the following characteristics: (a) Related to
      defecation, (b) Associated with changes in the frequency of defecation and / or (c)
      Associated with changes in the appearance of stool. The subtypes (constipation, diarrhea,
      mixed or indeterminate) are determined with the Bristol scale. Its application does not
      require special permissions.

      Sexual function questionnaire. (Female Sexual Function Index, FSFI). The female sexual
      function index that we will use has been widely used in the Mexican population.40-42 It has
      19 questions that evaluate 6 domains: Desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction, and
      pain. The higher the score, the better the function. The optimal cut-off point to determine
      whether or not there is sexual dysfunction has been determined at 24.95 (sensitivity 64.15%
      and specificity of 75.76%). Does not require application permits.

      General quality of life questionnaire (Short Form 36, SF-36). The SF-36 questionnaire has
      been adapted to the Mexican population and consists of 36 questions that assess 8 domains:
      physical function, physical role, body pain, general health, vitality, role emotional and
      mental health. The studies published on the characteristics of the Spanish version of the
      SF-36 provide enough evidence on its reliability, validity and sensitivity. Does not require
      application permits.

      Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire for Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS-QOL) Developed in
      199545 it has been used and widely validated in the Mexican population. It consists of 34
      questions on a Likert scale from 1 to 5. It measures: Dysphoria, interference with activity ,
      body image, health concern, food avoidance, social reaction, sexual concern and social
      relationship. The total score and scores in each dimension are converted on a scale from 0 to
      100. Higher values indicate a better health-related quality of life. This questionnaire is
      copyrighted in favor of the MAPI institute.

      Barostat Visceral sensitivity will be evaluated using a rectal barostat. After an overnight
      fast, a warm water enema will be performed 60 to 120 minutes before the study. Subjects will
      be studied without sedation and in the left lateral decubitus position. A rectal barostat
      distention will be placed 5 cm above the anal margin. Before starting the distension test,
      the subject will be warned that a rectal stimulus will be applied without her knowledge and
      when the light is illuminated on the perception panel, she must indicate her degree of pain
      perception. Gradual isobaric distention will be performed with increases of 4 mmHg from IOP.
      Strains will be performed to a grade 5 sensation or up to 50 mmHg (maximum strain pressure)
      or at the request of the subject. Each distension will be 1 minute in duration, and a 1
      minute rest period will be observed between each step. At each pressure step, the volume of
      the bag will be recorded to assess rectal compliance. After 45 seconds of each distension
      step the light on the perception panel will illuminate to request the degree of rectal
      sensation of the subject under study. The intensity of the sensation will be quantified
      according to the control panel with numerical scales: 0 no sensation; 1 first sensation; 2
      sensation of gas; 3 sensation of defecation; 4 mild pain; 5 moderate pain and 6: severe pain.
      Between each distension the pressure will return to the internal operating pressure. After
      this first phase, previously standardized foods will be taken. The meal will consist of 831
      kcal and will be made with potato (100 g), mayonnaise (20 g), ham (100 g), margarine (20 g)
      and pineapple juice (250 ml). Each subject will consume the food completely in a maximum of
      15 minutes. Thirty minutes after finishing the food, the postprandial tone and MLA will be
      measured.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS Parametric data will be compared using Student's t test. Nonparametric
      data will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Symptoms and percentages will be
      evaluated with Fisher's exact test or chi square. The associations between data will be
      analyzed with the Spearman and Pearson correlation tests. The data will express the mean ±
      standard deviation and in percentages. Alpha = 0.05.
    
  