
    
      Background:

      Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) is the most frequently used mechanical circulatory
      support (MCS) for severe forms of cardiogenic shock (CS) when simpler measures like inotropes
      and the intra-aortic balloon pump fail. Despite improvements in technology and growing
      clinical experience mortality among patients supported with ECMO remains above 40%. In
      addition to bloodstream infections and circuit-related complications, disorders of
      coagulation which can result in life-threatening hemorrhage, thrombosis and thromboembolic
      events remain the most frequent and dangerous complications.

      Significant perturbations in hemostatic function are seen during extracorporeal therapies.
      The mechanisms of these are complex and relate to underlying pathology, blood-surface contact
      and pump mechanics. They are evidenced by platelet dysfunction and consumption,
      hyperfibrinolysis or coagulopathy secondary to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).

      Given the multifactorial disturbances of hemostasis that can result in hemorrhage during
      ECMO, standard laboratory hemostatic testing may not enable the clinician to specify the
      underlying cause of the bleeding. Consequently, bleeding events are typically managed with
      transfusion of coagulation factors guided by clinician judgment.

      Anticoagulation practice itself may also determine the bleeding risk and it has been noted
      that practice is variable. Heparin dosage and titration as well as stopping rules are not
      well defined and vary vastly in the literature.

      Historically, bleeding had been reported in clinical trials where high anticoagulation
      targets were used which contributed to excessive bleeding.

      Bleeding and the utilization of blood products have frequently been described as a predictor
      of poor outcome in the general ICU population.

      Guidelines suggesting high hemoglobin targets to optimize oxygen delivery in ECMO have
      subsequently been challenged to avoid potential risk associated with blood product
      transfusions.

      Excessive transfusion of blood products, which increases the risk of complications such as
      transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI), transfusion-related circulatory overload
      (TACO) and transfusion-related immunomodulation (TRIM) may outweigh the potential benefit.
      Unnecessary exposure to procoagulant factors also increases the risk of ECMO-circuit
      malfunction and thromboembolic complications. These additionally lead to increased ICU and
      hospital length of stay, and markedly increased costs. Improvement in the management of
      anticoagulation and hemostatic therapy in this setting may alter outcome in ECMO.

      Current knowledge is insufficient to provide high level evidence-based recommendations on
      anticoagulation, management of bleeding or transfusion triggers. Published literature is
      mostly drawn from retrospective single centre reports over different time periods, case mix,
      ECMO equipment and data points. In the absence of randomized controlled trials (RCT)
      addressing these multitude of issues, best practice should be based on multicenter cohort
      studies. A standardized multicenter approach is needed to observe associations between
      variations in practice and clinically relevant outcomes. These observations will support
      hypothesizes for future RCT and is crucial to propose feasible interventions.

      Hypothesis:

      • Bleeding, thromboembolic complications and blood product usage in ECMO for MCS

        -  Vary among centers providing the service

        -  Differ with different anticoagulation strategies

        -  Are dependent on diagnostic grouping and presentation category

        -  Are independently associated with morbidity and mortality

      Design:

      • An international, multicenter, observational cohort study.

      Aim:

        -  To prospectively describe bleeding, thromboembolic complications, blood management and
           anticoagulation in ECMO for MCS.

        -  Investigate its associations with morbidity and mortality.

        -  Identify risk factors for bleeding, thromboembolic complications and blood product
           usage.

        -  To provide information on current standard of care for future prospective interventional
           trials.

      Significance

      The Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO) maintains a registry and reports 4297
      annual adult ECMO runs worldwide in 2016. This number has more than doubled since 2012. Since
      this registry relies on voluntary contributions it is almost certainly only reporting a
      fraction of all global treatments. Using national insurance datasets McCarthy reports almost
      3000 usages in the US in 2012 (ELSO registry: less than 1000 for North America). Using a
      similar approach Karagiannidis found almost 4500 annual runs in Germany in 2014 (ELSO
      registry: 921 for Europe in total during the same year). Using the Japanese Diagnosis
      Procedure Combination national inpatient database 5263 patients were treated in that country
      for cardiac support only over a period of 3 years from 2010 to 2013 (ELSO registry: less than
      500 for the whole Asia-Pacific area). No global statistic of ECMO usage exists but it can be
      assumed that the largest registry probably underestimates the true utilisation by a factor of
      5-20. This would translate into an annual number of patients treated with ECMO of around
      20.000 to 100.000.

      The mortality attributed to bleeding and thromboembolic complications is also unknown. Based
      on ELSO data Lorusso found the incidence of stroke, cerebral haemorrhage, brain death and
      seizures to be 7% with an associated mortality of more than 70% in patients treated with ECMO
      for respiratory support. Given that these patients were primarily diagnosed with a pulmonary
      disease and a low risk profile for cerebral complications, ECMO may be a contributor to this
      negative outcome which may potentially be avoidable. Other causes of bleeding and
      thromboembolic complications during ECMO for MCS are more frequent and reported as:

        -  Clots: oxygenator 8.2%

        -  Other clots in the ECMO system 5.6%

        -  Gastrointestinal haemorrhage 4.4%

        -  Cannulation site bleeding 17.5%

        -  Surgical site bleeding 19.2%

        -  Haemolysis 5.5%

        -  Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) 3.5%

        -  Cardiac tamponade: blood 5%

        -  Pulmonary haemorrhage 2.8%

        -  Limb Ischemia 3.6%

        -  Compartment syndrome 1%

        -  Limb Fasciotomy 1.5%

        -  Limb Amputation 0.5% While these registry data do not allow insight into a causative
           correlation with mortality, bleeding and thromboembolic complications almost certainly
           contribute to morbidity and treatment costs.

      The need for blood transfusions has been quantified to be between 1 and 4 Units per day of
      ECMO treatment which may further contribute to mortality and morbidity through direct and
      indirect transfusion related complications. Best strategies to avoid blood transfusions in
      ECMO have not been identified.

      The costs directly related to ECMO are difficult to assess. However, so far the largest
      randomized trial has calculated the additional costs of patients treated with the modality at
      about 40.000 pounds while other observational studies measured a direct treatment related
      cost of 73.000 USD and 106.000 Euro. Even a conservative estimation of the annual case load
      would quantify the global treatment related costs at more than 1.5 billion USD. Using the
      same conservative approach and assuming an average ECMO treatment duration of 10 days would
      translate into 200.000 units of blood transfused. Given the reported direct costs of a blood
      transfusion of USD 265 the costs would be about 50 Million USD per annum for red blood cells
      alone. Indirect costs related to TRALI and other complications as well as administration
      costs cannot be assessed but are most likely much higher.

      Specific data on blood management and anticoagulation have only been published in single
      centre retrospective trials. This study's targeted recruitment of 500 patients would
      represent by far the largest contemporary sample in this area worldwide.
    
  