
    
      Honduras has one of the highest neonatal mortality rates in Latin America despite having made
      significant strides in reducing neonatal, infant, and child mortality in the last several
      decades. Although many neonatal and infant deaths can be prevented through provision of
      clinical care services, emerging evidence also suggests that a substantial reduction in
      neonatal and infant mortality can also be achieved with simple, low-cost interventions within
      family and community settings. This is particularly important in areas where functional
      community health facilities are not available. Family and community outreach programs can
      serve to educate families about beneficial home care practices.

      In order to accelerate neonatal mortality reduction , there is an urgent need to develop
      innovative solutions that are not only effective, but also more easily implementable and more
      readily scalable. An important component of this challenge, which has hitherto not been
      effectively measured and understood with respect to neonatal mortality, is the "embeddedness"
      of individuals within social networks. Hence, through a large-scale randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) in rural Honduras, we will deploy and assess social network targeting algorithms
      in order to maximize diffusion and adoption of the "Changing behaviors to improve neonatal,
      child, and maternal health using communication and social networks at the community level
      intervention (CBNH)". The CBNH intervention is a household-level intervention package that
      targets health behaviors surrounding neonatal and maternal health, and diarrhea and
      respiratory illness prevention and management implemented by the Inter-American Development
      Bank (IADB) and their partners.

      This RCT is aimed at discerning optimal methods for targeting delivery of the intervention to
      the population. Specifically we will (1) test what percentage of a community needs to be in a
      program to achieve social norms change around key neonatal care behaviors, and (2) test
      whether so-called nominated-friend-targeting, a method that targets individuals who are more
      highly connected in the network, is more effective than a control strategy. Our 2x8 factorial
      design will examine how large a subset of the population should be used as a "seed" group in
      order to maximize the chances of spread of the effect, and the efficiency with which such an
      intervention might be delivered in the future. To do this, we will assign each of the 176
      study villages to either one of the two groups: 1)random assignment (active comparator),
      where "seed" individuals are chose at random or 2) friend-of-random assignment
      (experimental), where "seed" individuals are chosen on the basis of being named as a friend
      of a randomly selected individual. Each of the groups of villages will also be assigned to
      one of eight treatment percentages (0%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30% 50%, 75%, 100%), where each
      represents the percent of targeted households in that village to receive the CBNH health
      intervention.
    
  