
    
      * Preoperative care

      Assessment will be done at the preadmission clinic or at the general ward. Fasting for
      patients will start at midnight before operation. Sedative premedication will not be
      prescribed.

      * Anaesthesia and intraoperative care

      = Group S (sevoflurane) - Patients from group S will be anaesthetized by inhalational
      anaesthesia using sevoflurane, according to the following protocol:

      On arrival to the operation theatre, a 20 or 22 gauge intravenous cannula will be inserted.
      Standard monitoring with pulse oximeter, non-invasive blood pressure, and three lead
      electrocardiogram will be applied prior to induction. Non-invasive blood pressure will be
      checked at least every 5 minutes throughout the operation.

      Propofol 1.5-3mg/kg, remifentanil 1mcg/kg, and rocuronium 0.6-1mg/kg or atracurium 0.5mg/kg
      will be used intravenously (IV) for induction of general anaesthesia. Intubation would be
      performed after induction of general anaesthesia. General anaesthesia monitoring will be
      used. Sevoflurane, air and oxygen will be used for maintenance of general anaesthesia. FiO2
      will be kept between 35-50%. BIS monitoring will be applied and level of anaesthetia will be
      titrated to maintain a BIS value of between 40-60. Intravenous remifentanil infusion between
      0.1-0.2 mcg/kg/min will be given and this will be titrated to provide optimal haemodynamic
      parameters. Muscle relaxants can be given during the operation as required.

      Intravenous phenylephrine, ephedrine or fluid administration with colloid or crystalloid will
      be given at the discretion of the anaesthesiologist for management of hypotension.
      Hypertension or tachycardia will be managed by titrating the remifentanil infusion up to
      0.2mcg/kg/min or sevoflurane up to 1.5 MAC. Intravenous anti hypertensive agents such as beta
      blockers (eg. esmolol, labetolol), hydralazine, glyceryl trinitrate, and phentolamine can be
      given if hypertension persists.

      Thermal blanket will be used with the aim of keeping a core temperature of 35.5-37.5 degrees
      Celsius. Ondansetron 4mg IV will be given 30 minutes before end of surgery.

      Sevoflurane and remifentanil infusion will be switched off at the end of the procedure.
      Reversal of muscle relaxation can be obtained if required with neostigmine 50mcg/kg IV and
      atropine 20mcg/kg IV after the operation. Patients will subsequently be transferred to the
      post anaesthetic care unit (PACU) for monitoring for at least 30 minutes.

      = Group P (propofol) - Patients in group P will be anaesthetized using total intravenous
      propofol, according to the following protocol:

      Monitoring and other anaesthetic procedures including the management of hypertension and
      hypotension will be the same as group S. The only difference is that induction and
      maintenance of general anaesthesia will be conducted using total intravenous infusion of
      propofol. Sevoflurane will not be used, and oxygen and air would be given to provide a FiO2
      of 30-50%.

      Target controlled infusion (TCI) with modified Marsh effect site model (Fresenius Kabi) will
      be used for induction and maintenance of general anaesthesia. Level of anaesthesia will be
      titrated to produce a BIS value of between 40-60. During induction of general anaesthesia,
      remifentanil 0.5-1mcg/kg, and rocuronium 0.6-1mg/kg or atracurium 0.5mg/kg will be given
      intravenously (IV). Remifentanil will be infused at a rate of between 0.1-0.2mcg/kg/min
      during maintenance of anaesthesia.

      * Analgesic modalities and pain assessment

      Both groups (Groups S and P)

      Morphine sulphate at a bolus dose of 0.1mg/kg will be given intravenously before skin
      incision. Additional 0.1mg/kg of morphine sulphate can be given in divided doses when the
      surgery has continued for more than 2 hours at the discretion of the anaesthetist. Ketamine
      0.5mg/kg intravenously will be given before skin incision. Patients will receive local wound
      infiltration with up to 2mg/kg of levobupivicaine during wound closure.

      Resting pain scores will be checked every 5 minutes in the post anaesthetic care unit. 2mg
      boluses of intravenous morphine sulphate will be given every 5 minutes until the NRS pain
      score is less than 4/10. Respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, Ramsay sedation scores, blood
      pressure and heart rate will be monitored every 5 minutes while the patient is in the post
      anaesthetic care unit. A PCA morphine machine will be connected to the patient once the NRS
      pain score is less than 4/10. The PCA morphine machine will be set to give 1mg of intravenous
      morphine sulphate with each patient demand, and lockout duration of 5 minutes will be set.
      Maximum dose limit will be 0.1mg/kg of morphine sulphate per hour and basal infusion will not
      be given.

      When the patient resumes fluid diet in the ward on postoperative day 0, regular oral
      dihydrocodeine will be prescribed at a dose of 30mg tds for two days. Afterwards,
      dihydrocodeine will be given as needed. Breakthrough pain will be treated by
      intramuscular/subcutaneous morphine 0.1mg/kg every 4 hours as needed starting from
      postoperative day 0.

      Respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, sedation scores will be monitored every hour while
      patient is using PCA morphine. Blood pressure and heart rate will be measured every 4 hours.
      Pain related parameters like the numerical rating scales (NRS) pain scores at rest and during
      cough, cumulative PCA morphine doses and number of PCA demands/goods delivered, and side
      effects will also be recorded very 4 hours. Anaesthesiologists will assess patients every day
      to determine the adequacy of analgesia.

      PCA morphine will be given for at least 2 days. PCA morphine will be stopped on postoperative
      day 2 if NRS pain scores during cough is less than 4/10 and morphine consumption is low. If
      PCA morphine consumption is high or NRS pain scores during cough is equal or greater than 4,
      PCA morphine will be continued. Assessment will be performed everyday. An NRS pain score that
      is 4 or higher during coughing on postoperative day 5 will require an evaluation for
      complications. The patient will be further managed at the discretion of the
      anaesthesiologist. After discontinuation of PCA morphine, NRS pain scores (at rest and with
      coughing) and the dose and frequency of rescue analgesia used will be recorded daily until
      patient discharge.

      NRS pain score and satisfaction with analgesia (scored from 0-10, where 0 is the least
      satisfaction and 10 most satisfaction) will be obtained.

      Quality of recovery 9 (QoR-9) is measured at 24h and 72h after surgery. The attending surgeon
      will determine final hospital discharge

      * A brief home telephone interview will be conducted at 3 and 6 months to assess the
      incidence of chronic pain. The severity of pain, if present, would be recorded using NRS
      (0-10) at rest and with coughing. Other information that will be obtained at 3 and 6 months
      after surgery include HRQOL obtained with the Chinese-HK version of the SF12v2- health survey
      and psychological condition will be assessed with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
      (HADS) questionnaire.
    
  