
    
      According to a working group of World Health Organization, arsenicosis is a chronic health
      condition arising from prolonged ingestion (not less than six months) of arsenic above a safe
      level, usually manifested by characteristic and most diagnostic skin lesions, like-
      melanosis, leucomelanosis and keratosis, with or without involvement of internal organs.
      Arsenical keratosis usually appears on palm of the hand and plantar aspect of the feet and
      may also develop on the dorsum of the extremities and trunk. It had been found in certain
      studies that there is an alteration of normal skin flora in patients with arsenical
      keratosis. The relationship between such altered skin flora and development of keratosis in
      arsenicosis is not established or explored. Treatment of all types of keratosis is difficult.
      The most common therapeutic option leads to short-term improvement and is frequently
      associated with various adverse effects. Treatment tends to be symptomatic and includes
      topical keratolytic, orally administered antioxidant vitamins and minerals, or reconstructive
      surgery with total excision of the keratotic skin followed by grafting. There is no such
      study where effects of antimicrobials have been evaluated as the treatment of arsenical
      keratosis. So the present study is designed to see the effects of antimicrobials on the
      altered skin flora (Enterobacter and Aspergillus) in patients with palmar arsenical
      keratosis. The present study will be a clinical trial. The study will take place at the
      Department of Pharmacology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology of Bangabandhu Sheikh
      Mujib Medical University and at Laksham Upazilla of Comilla District from September 2017 to
      February 2019. After including participants as per selection criteria, written informed
      consent will be taken from all of them. Then water, nail, skin swab and scrapping samples
      will be collected and analyzed in the laboratory. After doing culture sensitivity,
      antimicrobials will be given to the patients. The duration of treatment will be decided upon
      sensitive drugs. Keratotic nodular size will be measured of each patient to draw a conclusion
      about the effect of antimicrobials in patients with palmar arsenical keratosis. As it had
      been found in previous studies conducted at the Department of Pharmacology of Bangabandhu
      Sheikh Mujib Medical University that both skin bacterial and fungal flora were altered in
      patients with arsenical keratosis, this study will be done to establish the relationship
      between such alteration and arsenical keratosis by exploring the effects of antimicrobials as
      a treatment of keratosis.
    
  