
    
      Registry procedures:

      This study is the follow-up study of the Simple Intensive Care Studies I (SICS-I,
      NCT02912624). All eligible patients will first be included in the Simple Observational
      Critical Care Studies (SOCCS, NCT03553069) within 3 hours after ICU admission. The SOCCS
      includes all acutely admitted ICU patients by means of a standardized onetime physical
      examination and registration of observational standard care data to predict patient outcome.
      The SICS-II will screen these included patients within 24 hours of ICU admission and exclude
      patients with a non-traumatic neurological reason for admission. All eligible patients will
      undergo clinical examination and critical care ultrasonography on day one, three and five.

      Monitoring:

      Monitoring will be performed by independent researchers of the University Medical Center
      Groningen (UMCG). Audits are planned to take place once a year. The first audit is planned in
      August 2018.

      Recruitment:

      Inclusion of patients and measurements of variables will be performed by the study
      coordinator or a co-researcher under supervision and responsibility of the principle
      investigator. Due to its observational nature, informed consent is not deemed necessary for
      this study. However, we will obtain informed consent to also cover possible advances within
      this study.

      Source data verification At inclusion all conventional hemodynamic variables are derived by
      physical examination and recording data from the basic hemodynamic monitoring (Philips
      ImageVue monitor with tracing of heart rate, electrocardiogram (ECG), arterial oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), arterial pressure from arterial line pressure measurement and/or from
      non-invasively blood pressure monitoring. CCUS will be used to envision cardiac function,
      pulmonary edema, venal cave overload and renal perfusion. All variables are predefined (see
      data dictionary) to standardize all measurements conducted by the student researchers. A CCUS
      protocol was written before start of the study to train researchers in CCUS during a pilot
      phase. Researchers were trained by an expert cardiologist-intensivist. Measurements will
      later be validated by independent specialists blinded for all other measurements. General
      patient characteristics and laboratory measurements were recorded from patient's electronic
      charts and the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II and IV score,
      Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS) scores are extracted from our local National
      Intensive Care Evaluation database. Follow-up of all-cause mortality will be acquired using
      the municipal personal records database.

      Data collection:

      Data are collected on different moments as follows:

      T=0, patient admission, extracted from electronic patient file Date and time of admission and
      patient history are recorded. T=1, within 3 hours of inclusion, variables obtained through
      physical examination (SOCCS) Heart rate (HR): will be recorded from the bedside
      electrocardiographic monitor. In case of an irregular rhythm (i.e. atrial fibrillation) the
      investigators will use the mean heart rate over a minute. Presence of atrial fibrillation
      will be recorded.

      Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and mean arterial pressure
      (MAP): will be recorded from the bedside electrocardiographic monitor, measured using an
      arterial line Central venous pressure (CVP): will be recorded if a central venous line is
      situated in the internal jugular or subclavian vene.

      Respiratory rate: will be recorded from the bedside electrocardiographic monitor. If a
      patient is on mechanical ventilation, see below.

      Capillary refill time (CRT): will be measured after exerting firm pressure for 10 seconds,
      preferably on the sternum and on the central part of the knee. The original upper limit of a
      normal CRT was considered to be 2 seconds by Champions' Trauma score (Champion HR, Sacco WJ,
      Hannan DS, et al. Assessment of injury severity: the triage index. Crit Care Med 1980). CRT
      in a healthy population is age and temperature dependent with an upper limit for healthy
      older adults of 4.5 seconds (Schriger DL, Baraff L. Defining normal capillary refill:
      variation with age, sex, and temperature. Ann Emerg Med 1988). In 2011 Ait-Oufella et al
      found that an index CRT upper limit of 2.4 seconds is predictive of 14-day mortality in
      septic shock patients (Ait-Oufella et al. Capillary refill time exploration during septic
      shock. Intensive Care Med 2014). The investigators will therefore both use a cut-off value of
      2.5, 4.5 seconds and a continuous measure of CRT.

      Central temperature (Tcentral): will be measured using the already available temperature
      sensor which is attached through the bladder catheter. If this is not available, rectal or
      aural temperature will be recorded if available.

      Skin temperature (Tskin): will be measured subjectively and objectively. The subjective
      measure will be conducted by palpating the patient's extremities. A distinction between
      either 'warm' or 'cold' will be made using the dorsal surface of the hands of the examiner.
      Patients will be considered to have 'cold' skin extremities if all examined extremities are
      considered cool, or if only the lower extremities are cool despite warm upper extremities.
      The objective measurements will be performed with a skin probe, placed on the dorsum of the
      foot.

      Mottling score: this score was described by Ait-Oufella et al in 2011 (Ait-Oufella et al.
      Mottling score predicts survival in septic shock. Intensive Care Med 2011). The score ranges
      from 0 -5, depending on the extensiveness of the mottled area. A score of 0-1 is regarded
      mild, 2-3 moderate and 4-5 severe.

      Peripheral edema: Pit depth was estimated visually and according to Brodovicz et al: 0=no
      clinical edema, 1=slight pitting (2 mm depth) with no visible distortion, 2=somewhat deeper
      pit (4 mm) with no readily detectable distortion, 3=noticeably deep pit (6 mm) with the
      dependent extremity full and swollen, and 4=very deep pit (8 mm) with the dependent extremity
      grossly distorted. (Brodovicz KG, McNaughton K, Uemura N, Meininger G, Girman CJ, Yale SH.
      Reliability and feasibility of methods to quantitatively assess peripheral edema. Clin Med
      Res. 2009;7(1-2):21-31. doi:10.3121/cmr.2009.819).

      Urine output (ml/kg/h): measured as part of regular care. The investigators will use both the
      urine output over the hour before examination and the mean urine output per hour, calculated
      using the six hours prior to the physical examination. If these data are unavailable, the
      mean urine output of the previous hour(s) will be calculated depending on the available data.
      In patients with pre-existing renal failure, urine output will be recorded but not used for
      primary analysis of kidney function.

      Other variables:

      EMV score: this can be used to obtain a quick impression of a patient's state of
      consciousness. EMV score will be corrected in case of sedated patients.

      Serum lactate, creatinine and hemoglobin: are determined as part of regular care. For study
      purposes the investigators will use the value closest to our examination. Other biochemical
      values will also be recorded.

      Mechanical ventilation: data on the presence and type of mechanical ventilation will be
      collected, as well as basic information on respiratory conditions (i.e. PEEP and respiratory
      rate). Note: in case of mechanical ventilation the value 'respiratory rate' will be filled in
      twice in the CRF. If both values are the same, it will be assumed that the patient breathes
      at a machine-set respiratory rate. If they differ, spontaneous breathing will be assumed.

      Non-invasive ventilation: data on the type of ventilation (e.g. Ventimask, nasal cannula)
      will be gathered, as well as FiO2 and SpO2.

      Inotrope-, vasopressor and sedative use: any inotrope or vasopressin requirement, type, dose
      and speed will be recorded.

      Estimations of pump function and patient outcome: an estimation will be made, either by a
      member of the treating team, or by the researcher.

      T=2, within 24 hours of admission, physical examination, CCUS and biochemical variables All
      variables mentioned in T=1 will be collected again. Furthermore, a CCUS will be performed.
      Using CCUS, the following variables will be obtained by trained researchers. Exact methods
      are described in the CCUS SICS-II protocol.

      Cardiac output: will be measured by transthoracic echocardiography. Both cardiac output and
      cardiac index (i.e. cardiac output corrected for body surface area) will be calculated.

      Tricuspid Annular Plane Systolic Excursion (TAPSE): will be measured in the apical 4 chamber
      view using M-Mode, as a variable that reflects right ventricular function.

      Mitral Annular Plane Systolic Excursion (MAPSE): will be measured in the apical 4 chamber
      view using M-Mode, as a variable that reflects left ventricular function.

      Right Ventricular Systolic Excursion (RV S'): will be measured in the apical 4 chamber view,
      using Tissue Velocity Imaging, as a variable that reflects right ventricular function.

      Strain: Color Tissue Dopper Imaging is performed on the RV free wall, septum and LV free wall
      to study regional and global systolic function by means of strain.

      Kerly B-Lines: B-lines will be investigated using pulmonary ultrasound following the BLUE
      protocol (Lichtenstein D.A. BLUE-protocol and FALLS-protocol: two applications of lung
      ultrasound in the critically ill. Chest 2015). More than 3 B-lines per view point will be
      considered abnormal and as a possible sign of pulmonary edema.

      Inferior vena cava: the investigators will measure both diameter, obtained using CCUS just
      below the xiphoid process, and the Inferior Vena Cava Collapsibility Index (IVCCI), allowing
      analysis of fluid status.

      Renal ultrasound: the kidney will be envisioned using the 4C abdominal probe. The kidney size
      will be measured in centimeters. Doppler will be used to analyze the renal resistive index
      (RI), venous impedance index (VII) and the intrarenal venous flow pattern (IRVF).

      T=3 and T=4, respectively on day 3 and day 5 after admission, include the same variables from
      T=2

      Data management:

      Data will be recorded using OpenClinica and transferred for analysis. After export from
      OpenClinica, all data will be managed with Stata version 15 (StataCorp, College Station, TX)
      All study subjects will receive a study subject ID in line with the SOCCS. This study subject
      ID will be used in both OpenClinica and Stata. Only a researcher with 'study director'
      account properties in OpenClinica will be able to link study subject ID to patient number.
      Images will be saved anonymously and will be coded in a systematic fashion, using the study
      subject ID, session number, and image contents.

      Sample size assessment:

      As this is an observational and explorative study evaluating unknown associations, no exact
      sample size could be calculated. It is however estimated that around 900 subjects will be
      included based on admittance numbers and previous experience with SICS-I. Roughly 3000
      patients are admitted to the ICU in the UMCG each year, of which 50% (1500) is acutely
      admitted. It is expected that 70% (1050) of these unplanned admissions will fulfill the
      inclusion criteria. However, it will probably not be possible to include all eligible
      patients due to logistic and practical reasons. Therefore, the aim is to include at least 300
      patients each year, in total an estimated 900 patients during the entire study period. We
      have described overal statistical plan in the statistical analysis plan (SAP) of SICS-I.

      Plan for missing data:

      We will follow the steps proposed by Jakobsen et al and will first identify the mechanisms
      causing missing data: missing completely at random (MCAR), missing at random (MAR), and
      missing not at random (MNAR) [Jakobsen JC, Gluud C, Wetterslev J, Winkel P. When and how
      should multiple imputation be used for handling missing data in randomised clinical trials -
      a practical guide with flowcharts. BMC Med Res Methodol, 2017]. Missing values are MCAR when
      there is no correlation between the missing values and other observed data: a statistically
      insignificant Little's test (P>0.05) confirms that the missing values are MCAR, and a
      significant test confirms a MAR or MNAR pattern in our missing values.

      From our experiences with the SICS-I, we expect the data to be MAR. Therefore, we will
      conduct our primary analyses with imputation for missing data using multiple imputations
      (MI). A threshold of up to 50% missing data will be considered acceptable for use of MI.
      Robustness of conclusions will be checked by secondary sensitivity analyses including
      available data and imputation of worst-best and best-worst case scenarios covering also
      missing not at random (MNAR) scenarios. If our missing values are MCAR or missingness is only
      confined to the outcome variable, we will use complete case analysis for our primary
      analyses.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      The investigators will use the general characteristics to create a baseline table.
      Statistical analyses will be performed using the Stata 15 (StataCorp, College Station, TX).
      Data will be presented as means with standard deviation if normally distributed or as medians
      with ranges in case of skewed data. Categorical or dichotomous data will be presented as
      proportions with confidence intervals.

      Univariate analyses will be conducted and all variables with p<0.25 will be included in the
      multivariate models. Multivariate analyses will be conducted using forward stepwise
      regression by adding blocks of variables. All analyses will be adjusted for age and gender;
      other general characteristics will not be added to the model standardly. All analyses will be
      tested two-sided and p-values of less than 0.05 will be considered as statistical
      significant. Multiplicity issues will be addressed in our detailed SAP. Furthermore, we will
      assess the possibilities of Machine Learning.

      Machine Learning (ML) is a branch of Artificial Intelligence which allows data scientists to
      design supervised or unsupervised algorithms to "learn" from generally large data samples by
      means of inference. ML was mostly used as method in gene analysis but since then
      possibilities have increased. It has been proven that ML may boost clinically-oriented
      research and the analysis of big data. Furthermore, the use of ML-based frameworks in
      critical care has been reported in several studies, using different types of data. This data
      can be obtained in different ways, with the most common being through bedside measurements,
      which is how most data within this research will be gathered.

      The primary outcome of this study is mainly explorative because there is currently no
      consensus about which (combination of) variables to use to diagnose venous congestion. The
      aim is to define venous congestion after analysis of normal values and patterns within
      patients of the variables that reflect venous congestion. It is expected that then an
      algorithm can be generated to establish a cut-off for venous congestion. Longitudinal data
      analyses will be used to assess the differences in variables between different moments.
      Mortality will be modelled using multivariable logistic regression and survival analyses. A
      statistician will be consulted to further review the statistical analysis plan.
    
  