
    
      Trauma is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. After death due to direct
      craniofacial injury, exsanguination is the next major cause for trauma mortality.

      After initial pre-hospital treatment the patient is admitted to the hospital. If multiple
      injuries are present the patient is transferred to a specialized trauma center.

      Besides surgical treatment, the patient needs stabilization of the vital functions by the
      Anesthesiologist. Due to loss of blood volume, dilution of the circulatory blood volume and
      pathological activation of coagulation/fibrinolysis, trauma induced coagulopathy (TIC) is
      initiated. This needs to be treated and avoided whenever possible.

      Transfusion of allogeneic blood and coagulation product itself leads to an increased
      morbidity and mortality. Infectious and immunologic reactions account for that phenomenon.

      This led to a paradigm change in the therapy of TIC. In 2009 a new coagulation factor based
      coagulation algorithm was introduced in the Hospital Lucerne and the University Hospital in
      Zurich / Switzerland. With the help of point of care coagulation measurement, tailored
      coagulation factor based coagulation management and avoidance of allogeneic blood products
      was initiated.

      The investigators now want to analyze the impact of the coagulation algorithm by comparing
      the periods before and after the introduction of the algorithm.

      The consumption of blood and coagulation products (packed red blood cells, fresh frozen
      plasma, platelet concentrates, fibrinogen, coagulation factor concentrates, coagulation
      factor XIII, activated factor VII, van Willebrand factor and antifibrinolytics) before and
      after the introduction of a designated trauma related transfusion and coagulation algorithm
      will be recorded and compared. The periods 2005-2007 (before) and 2012-2014 (after) the
      introduction are reviewed. Predicted probability of a massive transfusion by the TASH score
      (trauma associated acute hemorrhage) is correlated with the actual rate.
    
  