
    
      The purpose of this study is to conduct a multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      evaluate the replicability and efficacy of a structured six-week, manualized, group therapy
      intervention, ReInventing Yourself after SCI that delivers positive psychology concepts
      within a cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)-based model. The goals of this RCT are to
      increase SCI-specific and general self-efficacy, enhance emotional well-being, and improve
      participation in society for people with SCI living in the community. Craig Hospital is the
      lead site for this study, collaborating with the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, and
      Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation in New Jersey.

      The intervention is delivered through six sessions, each lasting approximately 2 hours. Eight
      skills are presented over the course of the intervention to address reframing a person's
      method of looking at events, building confidence by focusing on personal strengths,
      developing methods of recognizing and appreciating the good in one's life and expressing
      gratitude for positive attributes. These skills are presented in a specific sequence through
      a workbook so that participants can gain mastery of introductory concepts before undertaking
      those that are both more difficult and complex.

      The RCT will have three research arms: 1) Group treatment plus workbook (Group), 2)
      individual self-study through YouTube video plus workbook (Indiv), and 3) no group or
      individual sessions, no workbook (Control). It is hypothesized that presenting the positive
      psychotherapy topics in an interactive structured CBT group format while restructuring
      maladaptive thought processes and providing experiential opportunities to reinforce
      behavioral change will result in increased self-efficacy, enhanced well-being and improved
      societal participation. Three specific hypotheses will be tested:

      Hypothesis 1 (Primary): Individuals in the Group arm will show greater improvements after the
      six week intervention in SCI-specific and general self-efficacy, emotional well-being,
      increased societal participation, less depressive and anxiety symptomatology, and improved
      resilience than participants in the Indiv and Control arms.

      Hypothesis 2 (Secondary): Individuals in the Group arm will maintain greater improvements
      through 46 weeks post-intervention in SCI-specific self-efficacy than participants in the
      Indiv and Control arms.

      Hypothesis 3 (Secondary): Individuals in the Group arm will show greater improvements after
      six weeks of treatment and through 46 weeks post-intervention in general self-efficacy, life
      satisfaction, community participation, resilience, and less depressive and anxiety
      symptomatology than participants in the Indiv and Control groups.

      The Moorong Self-Efficacy Scale (MSES) will serve as the primary outcome measure for this
      study. Secondary outcome measures include the General Self-Efficacy Scale, Diener
      Satisfaction with Life Scale, and measures of participation, resilience, anxiety and
      depression.

      Each collaborating site will enroll 84 individuals to be randomized into one of the three
      study arms in waves of 21 people per wave (up to 6 waves per site). Training of site
      facilitators will take place at Craig Hospital.
    
  