
    
      Pediatric anorexia nervosa (AN) affects 400,000 adolescents in the US with devastating
      consequences including growth delay, bone density loss, bradycardia, and the highest
      mortality rate of any psychiatric condition (11.5%), with half of all deaths due to suicide.
      Early intervention in adolescents is life-saving, making pediatric AN treatment an important
      public health concern. The goal of pediatric AN treatment is to restore the adolescent back
      to a healthy weight and reverse the dangerous effects of malnutrition. Family based treatment
      (FBT) is the gold standard of treatment for pediatric AN; however, 50% of patients do not
      respond. The consequences of treatment non-response are dire, underscoring the importance of
      improving treatment via augmentations to address non-response. One barrier to treatment
      response in pediatric AN is expressed emotion (EE), which is defined as a family's response
      to an ill patient that is characterized by hostility, critical comments, and emotional
      overinvolvement. Several studies have highlighted that families with high EE undergoing
      treatment for their adolescent with AN have poorer outcomes, including higher drop-out rates,
      lack of weight restoration, and less improvement in eating disorder symptoms. Conversely,
      parental warmth, a facet of EE, is associated with good outcomes in FBT. Recent parenting
      interventions focused on emotion coaching (EC) to address high EE have demonstrated success
      as adjuncts to evidence-based treatments in other pediatric populations (e.g., PTSD, ADHD)
      but have not been applied to pediatric AN. Given the detrimental effects that high EE has on
      the re-feeding process and the benefits of parental warmth, emotion coaching has the
      potential to reduce high EE, increase parental warmth, and improve weight restoration in
      adolescents with AN. The aim of this R34 pilot effectiveness trial is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of a FBT + EC parent group intervention in families with high EE. In Stage 1
      (Feasibility Stage; Year 1), the investigators will conduct preliminary feasibility and
      acceptability testing of an EC parent group intervention in 6 patients with pediatric AN and
      their families who exhibit elevated EE. The data from the Feasibility Stage will be used to
      modify session content to improve treatment delivery and the uptake of EC skills. Once our
      manual is refined and finalized, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled
      clinical trial (Stage 2) of 50 adolescents and their parents to compare FBT+EC parent group
      (n=25) versus FBT+support (n=25). The FBT+support condition is a general parent support group
      that is offered as part of standard care in the CCHMC Eating Disorders Program. FBT will be
      identical in both the treatment and control conditions, with the EC parent group sessions and
      parent support group sessions occurring separately from the FBT sessions. If the aims of the
      project are achieved, this study would have a large impact on pediatric AN with the potential
      to improve weight restoration outcomes by augmenting FBT for families high in EE.
    
  