
    
      It has been shown that quality of response corresponds with clinical benefit. Stable disease
      is not regarded as a satisfactory result of therapy for relapsed and refractory multiple
      myeloma. However, there is no consensus if, when and how treatment should be continued or
      changed in the case of stable disease.

      There are different strategies of achieving an optimal quality of response in relapsed and
      refractory multiple myeloma. One is to treat for a longer duration with one regimen. The
      alternative path can be a sequential approach adding another agent to the initial regimen
      depending on the outcome of therapy after a defined treatment period. These two principles
      will be evaluated in the present study.

      Both Cyclophosphamide and Lenalidomide have proven to be efficacious in multiple myeloma and
      combinations of both agents with bortezomib and Dexamethasone have been shown to be active
      and tolerable.

      In this study patients with relapsed/progressive or refractory multiple myeloma will start
      treatment with bortezomiib and Dexamethasone. Response will be evaluated after four cycles.
      Patients with complete, very good partial response or partial response will continue
      treatment as initiated. Patients with stable disease will either continue treatment with the
      bortezomib/Dexamethasone combination for another four cycles or will receive Cyclophosphamide
      or Lenalidomide as an additional third agent for another four cycles.

      Patients with multiple myeloma that are refractory to or have relapsed/progressed after
      primary treatment for multiple myeloma will be enrolled in the study. All patients will
      receive a combination of bortezomib plus dexamethasone for a total of four cycles. Based on
      the response to this treatment, further study treatment is customized. Patients with a
      complete, a very good partial or a partial response will continue to receive bortezomib and
      Dexamethasone for a maximum additional four cycles, to an overall maximum of eight cycles.
      Patients achieving stable disease, as defined by International Myeloma Working Group 2006
      (IMWG 2006) response criteria, will undergo a central randomisation to continue treatment
      with VD or VD plus cyclophosphamide or VD plus lenalidomide. Patients with progressive
      disease will go off study treatment. After randomisation, patients will receive therapy for
      up to four additional treatment cycles, to an overall maximum of eight cycles. Each cycle
      will consist of three weeks treatment. There will be a long-term follow-up period with
      monthly visits until relapse or progressive disease. Thereafter follow-up for survival will
      be continued by at least a phone call every other month. This will be performed for all
      patients until the last patient was treated and followed up for 1 year.

      Safety will be assessed by the monitoring of adverse events, physical examination (including
      neurological/peripheral neurological examinations), pulmonary examinations, vital signs
      measurements, and clinical laboratory tests.

      Patients will be treated in a 3-week cycle, up to a maximum of 8 cycles bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2
      will be administered on day 1, 4, 8 and 11 as i.v. bolus infusion.

      Dexamethasone 20 mg po will be administered on days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12. Dexamethasone
      will be administered as 2 tables of 8 mg plus 1 tablet of 4 mg Cyclophosphamide 500 mg po
      will be administered as 10 tablets of 50 mg on day 1, 8, 15 Lenalidomide will be administered
      as once daily 10 mg tablet from day 1 to 14
    
  