
    
      Study Design:

      Prospective single blinded randomised controlled study

      Null hypothesis: There is no difference in wound healing between patients on a very low
      calorie diet and those not on a diet prior to a Laparoscopic Roux en Y gastric bypass (LRYGB)

      Participants:

      All patients referred to King's College Hospital for weight loss surgery who are morbidly
      obese (BMI>40) who undergo LRYGB will be eligible. All patients undergo an introductory group
      education session after which they are counselled one to one where the patient and the
      clinician decide on the most appropriate bariatric procedure. Only those who will undergo a
      laparoscopic roux en y gastric bypass will be offered the opportunity to participate in the
      study by a member of the research team. The study is open to all irrespective of age, sex,
      ethnicity and religion.

      Written information will be given in the appropriate language.

      Interventions:

      Diet:

      Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be placed in 2 broad groups based on whether
      they smoke or not. In each group, patients will be randomly chosen in two subgroups:

      Group I:taking the pre operative diet Group II:no special diet. A preoperative, low energy
      diet will be used for 4 weeks. The diet contains 3 pints of semiskimmed milk. This is
      equivalent to 1704 ml and provides a total intake of 800kcal, 82 g carbohydrate, 61 g protein
      and 30g fat in a day. Each patient will also take multivitamin and mineral supplementation.
      This will further be supplemented with a minimum of 2 litres of energy free liquids (water,
      diet fizzy drinks, mineral water, black tea / coffee or squash (no added sugar)) per day. The
      longterm safety and success of VLCD has been demonstrated.It does cause shrinkage of the
      liver and can decrease the patients weight prior to surgery.

      Data collection:

      Patient characteristics and medical history will be taken

      Pre diet, post diet and prior to surgery:

        1. Anthropometric measurements:

           Height, Weight, BMI, Hip:Waist ratio

        2. Routine prediet blood tests and for routine preoperative evaluation:

           This includes full blood count,Lipid profile,Renal profile,Bone profile,Liver Function
           Tests

        3. Serum CK 18 (M30 and M65) levels before and after the diet, which is a marker of liver
           apoptosis.

        4. Imaging:

             1. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan - body composition (prediet,post diet
                and at 3 months)

             2. Ultrasound before and after the diet:

           The length and breadth of the liver will be measured, which will allow an estimate of
           the cross-section of the liver at a well defined constant point on each patient

        5. Two punch biopsies (4mm) from the abdominal wall where the patient is likely to have a
           laparoscopic port, before start of the diet

      Per operatively:

        -  Elliptical excision of skin of the operating ports during the operation

        -  Operative difficulty score assessed by blinded surgeon and independent observer

      Post operatively:

      Follow up:

      Patient will be followed at 1 week, 8 weeks, 3 months and then will continue to be followed
      according to our usual bariatric protocol.

      Wound Healing Assessment:

        1. Examine all wounds and define presence of wound infection

        2. Two 4 mm punch biopsies of one of the healing wounds will be taken under local
           anaesthesia, at 7 days and 90 days postoperatively
    
  