
    
      Background Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant disease in Danish women with about
      4,500 new cases per year and about 60,000 women living after a diagnosis of breast cancer
      (1). After lung cancer, it is the most common cause of death from cancer among Danish women.
      Despite that up 90% of patients with early-stage breast cancer receive adjuvant treatment,
      there are still about 300 patients diagnosed with primary metastatic breast cancer and about
      1,200 patients who develop metastases after the primary treatment each year in Denmark (2).
      Clinical guidelines unanimously recommend that diagnostic work-up for metastatic disease
      should be performed only when clinically indicated, or prior to primary treatment in patients
      at high risk of MBC, but they do not make clear recommendations on which diagnostic tool to
      apply for staging patients with suspected MBC (3-5). The investigators have shown recently
      that the molecular whole body imaging with FDG-PET/CT has a higher accuracy than conventional
      imaging with CT and bone scintigraphy when diagnosing MBC (6); the investigators results are
      in accordance with existing meta-analyses (7,8), and a recent review (9).The gold standard
      for verifying MBC is a biopsy from a metastatic lesion, but treatment decisions are often
      based on the biomarker profile of the primary tumor, since it has been assumed to remain the
      same in the corresponding metastatic lesions. The investigators own data (10) supported by a
      meta-analysis (11) point towards discordances between the primary tumor and the corresponding
      metastasis ranging from 9% to 23% for expression of estrogen receptors (ER), Human Epidermal
      growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2), and Topoisomerase 2A (TOP2A).

      It is essential to know the exact baseline stage of MBC in order to allow adequate evaluation
      of treatment response subsequently. Response evaluation criteria have traditionally been
      based on the morphological size of solid tumors as in the Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST)(12). The investigators consider it important to include changes in
      metabolic activity for evaluation of treatment response, since metabolic changes occur before
      morphological changes can be detected. The PET response Criteria in Solid Tumors (PERCIST) is
      a new standardized method to assess quantitatively the metabolic tumor response as seen on
      FDG-PET/CT (13). A recent pooled analysis and review comparing the PERCIST to the RECIST
      criteria concluded that the PERCIST criteria seem to be more suitable for assessing tumor
      response than the RECIST criteria, but that the role of the PERCIST criteria needs to be
      validated in relevant clinical settings (14).

      Monitoring response to therapy in skeletal metastases has been challenging because the RECIST
      criteria do not include changes in bony structures though the RECIST 1.1 accepts bone
      metastases with soft tissue masses measuring >= 10 mm as a target lesion (15). Up to 70% of
      patients with MBC present with bone involvement, characterized as osteolytic, osteoblastic,
      or mixed lesions on CT. Soft tissue metastases in the bone marrow may be overlooked by
      conventional imaging, but magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has shown high accuracy for
      diagnosing bone and bone marrow metastases (16, 17). Molecular imaging with FDG-PET/CT and
      diffusion weighted MRI both have the potential to detect metabolic activity in all types of
      bone and bone marrow lesions, and therefore a combination of FDG-PET/CT and whole body MRI
      (WBMRI) may give valuable information in assessing metastatic processes in bone.

      Aim The investigators hypothesize that

      •Molecular evaluation can provide a more accurate assessment of the metastatic spread than
      conventional methods and that molecular evaluation of response to breast cancer directed
      treatments allows an earlier detection of failure to respond to potentially toxic drugs.

      The aims of the project are to address the following questions:

        -  Does FDG-PET/CT allow an earlier detection of failure to respond to treatment for MBC
           than conventional CT?

        -  Does FDG-PET/CT or MRI allow an earlier detection of failure to respond to treatment for
           bone metastatic disease than conventional CT?

        -  Does the PET based criteria (PERCIST) have the potential to lead to changes in the
           treatment plans made from CT based criteria (RECIST)?

        -  Does FDG-PET/CT give a more accurate diagnosis of MBC than conventional CT in terms of
           number and distribution of metastatic sites?

      Method The project is divided into 2 parts. Part A - the accuracy study: The study population
      will comprise all women referred to Odense University Hospital (OUH) with a suspected first
      recurrence of breast cancer and newly diagnosed breast cancer at high risk of metastatic
      spread. Data will be collected from about 270 patients over a 2-year period (Figure 1) All
      patients will be examined by FDG- PET/CT with contrast enhanced CT in diagnostic quality at
      baseline. If bone metastases are detected, the patients will proceed to WBMRI. All patients
      with suspected metastases on FDG-PET/CT or WBMRI will have a biopsy from a suitable lesion.
      The tissue from the biopsy will be for standard diagnostic procedures, including
      immunohistochemistry for biomarkers (ER, HER-2).

      All non- metastatic patients will be followed for one year by medical records to detect
      potentially false negatives.

      Part B - the response evaluation study: The response evaluation part is planned as a
      longitudinal cohort design analyzing change of management and prediction og progression free
      survival. It will include about 90 patients expected to present with biopsy-verified MBC
      during the inclusion period. (Figure 1).

      Patients will receive oncologic treatment directed by the biomarker profile of the biopsy and
      according to national guidelines. Response to treatment will be evaluated by FDG-PET/CT with
      contrast enhanced CT in diagnostic quality after three series of chemotherapy (every 9 weeks)
      or after 3 months of endocrine therapy (every 12 weeks). Patients with bone metastases will
      be evaluated by WBMRI as well. Lesion based sensitivity analyses will be made for FDG-PET/CT
      and for diagnostic CT, and in patients with bone involvement also for WBMRI. A radiologist
      will apply the RECIST criteria from the CT and dedicated diffusion measurements from the MRI,
      while a Nuclear Medicine Physician will apply the PERCIST criteria along with other relevant
      quantitative measures. Test results will be blinded to each other, so that knowledge of other
      test results will be unknown for the reader of the CT, FDG-PET/CT or MRI, respectively.
      Treatment decisions will be made in a multidisciplinary conference form. Decisions will be
      based on the conventional imaging criteria (RECIST) in the first 30 patients, and for each
      patient the decision will be reconsidered by the PERCIST criteria and the metabolic
      measurements. Discrepancies in decisions guided by the different evaluation criteria will be
      registered and analyzed with regard to change of management in an interim analysis. The same
      will be done for the succeeding evaluations, but the choice of response evaluation criteria
      to guide clinical decision will depend on the result of the interim analysis.

      The investigators plan the data collection in a way that allows us to perform
      cost-effectiveness analyses for the response evaluation study.
    
  