
    
      Research Design:

      This is a pilot randomised controlled study to test the acceptability and feasibility of a
      sit-to-stand (STS) training system and gather preliminary data on its effectiveness.
      Participants will be randomly allocated to an experimental group where participants will
      receive sit to stand training enhanced by the feedback system or a control group where
      participants will receive the usual sit to stand training as provided by the treating
      therapist.

      Participants and recruitment:

      Patients with physical impairments that affect their capacity to perform the STS movement and
      who are about to start active rehabilitation will be identified by the clinical team on the
      ward. If individuals identified in this way indicate to the clinical team that they are
      willing to talk to the researcher about the study a mutually convenient time will be arranged
      for the researcher to speak individually to the patient about the study. An information sheet
      will be left with the patient and they will be encouraged to read this and speak to family
      and friends about their possible participation. No less than 48 hours after the information
      sheet is provided, the researcher will make contact with the patient to discuss their
      participation and take written consent if agreed. This recruitment process and their
      participation in the study will not interfere with discharge planning during the study.

      Group allocation:

      Sealed opaque envelopes contained randomly generated codes for treatment allocations will be
      given to a member of the clinical team. Once informed consent has been provided, the envelope
      will be opened randomising participants into two groups: 1) A control group who will conduct
      conventional sit-to-stand training and 2) An experimental group who will conduct augmented
      STS training using the feedback system. Twenty participants will be randomly allocated to
      each group. Participants allocated to either group will be attached with a physical activity
      monitor (ActivePAL sensor,PAL Technologies Ltd, Glasgow) by the researcher onto the
      unaffected or dominant side of the thigh. Full instructions will be provided on its use. The
      monitor is small and lightweight (<15 grams) but capable of detecting and storing information
      on movement and position (e.g. duration of sitting, standing and the number of STS execution
      24 hours aday for 28 days).Data to record from medical notes: Participants' background
      information (i.e. gender, age, height, weight, reasons for admission and number and type of
      co-morbidities) will be noted.Pre-assessments:

      Participants in both groups will be asked to carry out the following baseline measurements by
      the researcher: 1)Timed performance of up to five repetitions of the sit to stand movement
      (FTSTST), if able; 2) Abbreviated Mental Test -4 with a inclusion score of 4 or higher
      (AMT-4); 3) Tinetti Gait and Balance Assessment (TGBA); 4) Elderly Mobility Scale Test
      (EMST). These assessments are already being used by the clinical team. Training with the
      system:The rehabilitation staff will supervise all training sessions as per normal practice.
      The researcher will provide technical support for all the sessions. The participant will be
      asked to sit on an adjustable chair with armrests. The height of the chair to be adjusted by
      the researcher for individual needs. A loose vest with a pouch pocket fitted near the chest
      region will be worn by the participant. Help will be provided by the researcher if needed. An
      inertial sensor (Spatial 3/3/3, Phidgets Inc, Calgary, Alberta, Canada) will be placed into
      the pocket and connected by a USB (Universal Serial Bus) cable to a laptop computer. The
      participant will then be asked to place both feet on a portable balance plate (BP5046, Bertec
      Inc, Columbus, OH, USA), which is also attached to the laptop via the USB. The system
      provides a virtual reality environment that simulates user getting on and off a bus seat. The
      participant can observe their real-time movement as an avatar on a computerised image
      (projected on a wall by a projector). Real-time feedback on performance (balance, strength
      and/or coordination), verbally and visually, will be provided throughout training. The game
      can be personalised to suit different needs based on the participant's real-time performance.
      Training should be two to three times a week based on advice on current practice. During the
      study, the researcher will check with the ward staff that the activity monitor (ActivePAL) is
      still attached to the participant's thigh and that they are free of skin irritation. The
      researcher will also change the monitor after seven days so that the skin can be fully
      inspected and cleaned if necessary. After the study, the monitor will be completely removed
      by the researcher. The captured anonymised physical activity data will be downloaded to an
      encrypted folder on a computer and used exclusively for this study. It will then be
      transferred to a secured computer at the University of Strathclyde for safe storage.
      Post-assessment: The researcher will carry out a repeat of the baseline measurements at the
      end of the study.

      In addition, the following information will be recorded by the researcher on acceptability
      and feasibility: 1) Number of sessions attended as a proportion of a total number of the
      session available; 2)Adverse incidents, type and number; 3) acceptability of the system by a
      semi-structured interview with the clinical team and participants. The anonymised data will
      be analysed to address three questions:

        1. Is the system feasible to use with older people undergoing inpatient rehabilitation?

        2. Is the system feasible to use in a clinical environment?

        3. Can the system improve sit-to-stand performance compared to conventional training?

        4. Is the system acceptable from the point of view of users (patients and rehabilitation
           staff)?
    
  