
    
      Since the early 1970s, death rates for the major gynecological tumors have significantly
      declined, with a reduction of 42% for endometrial, 49% for cervix, 27% for vagina and vulva,
      and 11% for ovarian cancer. Thus, of the approximately 82,000 new gynecologic cases each
      year, more women will be living and, necessarily be forced to cope with psychological or
      behavioral morbidity. Psychosocial data on cancer patients portray significant fear and
      anxiety with diagnosis and treatments and the potential for high levels of psychological and
      sexual morbidity. While many studies have been done investigating sexual outcomes, little
      data is available on basic domains of quality of life, i.e. emotional or social adjustment,
      occupational outcomes, or aspects of physical health that might influence quality of life for
      gynecologic cancer survivors. There is a need for basic descriptive research in these areas,
      particularly in investigations that include representative samples from differing
      socioeconomic and racial/ethnic groups.

      The goal of the proposed study is to evaluate quality of life in long-term gynecologic cancer
      survivors. The specific aims are to:

        1. Describe quality of life (both mental health and physical functioning components),
           stress, and sexual functioning among survivors of gynecologic malignancies and

        2. Describe differences between disease site groups (i.e. cervical, endometrial, ovarian,
           and vulva).

      It has been shown with other cancer groups that improvements in mood and coping can be
      achieved with brief, cost effective interventions (e.g. ten therapy hours with delivery in a
      group format). These are multi-modal interventions with stress reduction, disease/treatment
      information, cognitive behavioral coping strategies, and social support. There is suggestive
      evidence that disease specific interventions, such as including sexual therapies for
      gynecologic patients, can result in improvements as well. Research focus on these issues is
      aided by the availability of reliable and valid strategies to assess both quality of life
      (SF-36; FACT) and sexuality. Before clinical trials are undertaken, research must provide a
      comprehensive assessment of quality of life for gynecologic cancer survivors.
    
  