
    
      PROTOCOL SUMMARY:

      Phase 1: Patients with non-hematologic malignancies that are recurrent, progressive, or
      refractory after standard up-front therapy receiving MEK162 will define the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), and toxicity profile.

      Phase 2: Patients with recurrent or progressive tumors signaling through the ras/raf pathway
      after standard up-front therapy will be treated in three strata to define the activity of
      MEK162.

      Stratum 1: Pediatric patients with recurrent or progressive low-grade glioma (LGG)
      characterized by a BRAF truncated fusion (KIAA1549 and similar translocations).

      Stratum 2: Pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and recurrent or
      progressive LGG.

      Stratum 3: Pediatric patients with recurrent or progressive tumors thought to involve the
      ras/raf/MAP pathway but not included in strata 1 or 2. This includes any LGG not included in
      strata 1 or 2 (i.e., any LGG without a BRAF truncated fusion in a patient without NF1), any
      tumor other than LGG in a patient with NF1, and any other tumor with a known activating BRAF,
      NRAS or KRAS mutation.

      Target validation phase: Patient enrolled on the phase 2 component (any stratum) for whom
      tumor biopsy or resection is clinically indicated. Patients will receive MEK162 for 7 to 21
      days prior to their surgery. Samples will be analyzed for concentration of drug and target
      inhibition.

      Length of therapy:

      Protocol treatment will last approximately 48 weeks from the start of MEK162 in the absence
      of significant toxicity. Treatment will be administered based on the dose escalation schema
      for phase 1. Patients in the phase 2 component of the trial will also receive a planned 48
      weeks of therapy. Those undergoing planned tumor resection based on clinical criteria will be
      eligible to receive 7-21 days of treatment with MEK162 prior to the surgical procedure.

      Imaging to assess response will be obtained at the end of cycle 1 (+/- 1 week), at the end of
      cycle 3 (+/- 2 weeks) and after every three cycles thereafter (+/- 2 weeks). A cycle will
      consist of 28 days (+/- 3 days) and MEK162 will be given continuously. Patients deriving
      benefit may continue therapy beyond study completion but all protocol specific evaluations
      (other than survival or progression) will conclude after one year. All patients will be
      followed with progression as the end point.
    
  