
    
      Approximately one third of Canadian children and adolescents can be classified as having
      overweight or obesity. Health-care professionals (HCP), particularly primary care physicians,
      play a critical role in helping to address weight-related issues with patients and their
      families. A primary care-based obesity treatment model may be a practical means of treating
      obesity and helping to prevent Type 2 Diabetes and other co-morbidities. At the same time,
      obesity is not currently being addressed or managed in a consistent way across primary care
      settings, representing a significant gap in care. Furthermore, the extant literature
      indicates that HCPs feel ill-equipped to address obesity prevention and management, during
      childhood in particular. A lack of self-efficacy and training are recognized as two
      significant barriers to discussing weight with patients and their families. Other challenges
      for HCPs include the fear of damaging their relationship with patients and their families and
      the apprehension of triggering other issues such as eating disorders. For these reasons,
      effective educational materials are required for HCPs to promote healthy and helpful
      conversations about weight and risk of comorbidities. Research has shown that educational
      videos are an effective and engaging means to improve knowledge, confidence, and attitudes in
      HCPs and trainees. The investigators use The 5As of Pediatric Obesity Management as a
      framework for the creation of these educational videos. Preliminary evidence indicates that
      implementation of the 5As of Adult Obesity Management can increase communication amongst
      providers and patients in weight management. In 2013, experts from The Children's Hospital of
      Eastern Ontario (CHEO) partnered with CON to adapt this framework for use in a pediatric
      setting. It was designed as a step by step approach for busy primary care physicians who see
      childhood obesity in their practice. The Pediatric 5As presently exists as a downloadable
      booklet on the CON website. Although this resource is a helpful tool for HCPs, feedback from
      focus groups indicate that HCPs would like an expanded version with practical visuals of how
      a 5As framed encounter would occur in a busy office setting. The investigators have developed
      6 videos to evaluate: Video #1: Weight Science 101, will present background information,
      including information on the factors driving body weight regulation. Video #2: A Word about
      BMI, will present background information on the advantages and disadvantages of using BMI.
      Video #3 ASK, reviews how to approach discussions about obesity with pediatric patients and
      their caregivers. Video #4: ASSESS, will review how to comprehensively assess children and
      youth with obesity. Video #5: ADVISE, AGREE, and ASSIST, will discuss the interventions for
      pediatric obesity management in the primary care setting, how to ensure patient engagement in
      the process, and how to sustain therapy. Our last video, Video #6: Putting it All Together,
      will summarize each of the 5As and how to use them as a comprehensive tool for pediatric
      obesity management.This study aims to evaluate the videos using pre and post questionnaires.
      With the questionnaires, the investigators want to evaluate the content, quality
      (acceptability, engagement) and impact of patient-oriented educational videos on HCPs'
      self-efficacy/confidence, knowledge, and change in practice in regards to addressing
      weight-related issues with pediatric patients and their families using the 5A framework.
    
  