
    
      This study was a 3 arm randomized single blind clinical trial involving 386 randomly selected
      and allocated adult HIV patients who were enrolled into Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) care at
      all 4 comprehensive ART sites in Yola. These comprehensive sites were the; Federal Medical
      Center (FMC) Yola, State Specialist Hospital Yola (SSHY), St Francis Hospital Jambutu and
      Adamawa Hospital. The trail took place from January to September 2014. A Clinician Client
      Centered training module was developed based on the Information Behavior and Motivation (IBM)
      Model. 9 Clinicians involved in ART care were trained with this module to deliver a 10 to 15
      minutes clinic based intervention (Clinician Client Centered (CCC) counseling). Intervention
      group 1 received 2 counseling sessions; at baseline then at 2 months. Intervention group 2
      received 1 counseling session at baseline only and the control group received routine care.
      An interviewer administered validated and reliable structured questionnaire was used for data
      collection. The questionnaire consisted of 5 sections; Section 1 consisted of a code number
      and socio-demographic variables. Section 2 consisted of questions on the knowledge of HIV
      transmission and prevention. This section has a total of 17 statements and answers that had
      the options of 'yes', 'no' and 'don't know'. Section 3 consisted of 5 statements to address
      patient's attitude towards HIV/AIDS. Answer options to these questions were from a 5 point
      Likert scale ranging from strongly agree, agree, don't know, disagree and strongly disagree.
      Total score possible for attitude range from 5 to 25. On the basis of summated scores
      respondents were divided into high or low attitude using the 50 percentile as cut off.
      Section 4; addressed sexual behavior patterns (condom use and number of sexual
      partners)questions in this section addressed; recent sexual activity in last 30 days
      preceding the survey, type of sexual relationship (monogamous or polygamous), condom use,
      gender of sexual partner and type of sexual practice. Section 5 addressed issues of status
      disclosure. Questions were directed at number of spouse/sexual partner who were aware of the
      respondents' HIV status. It also determine number of other persons HIV status had been
      disclosed and the effects of such disclosure. Data was collected at baseline, 2 months and 6
      months.

      Questionnaires were manually validated for errors and data analyzed using SPSS (Statistical
      Package for Social Sciences) version 22. All data with interval and ratio scale were explored
      using graphical methods (histogram with normal distribution curve and whisker box plot) to
      exam for normality. Parametric statistical test were used for normally distributed data and
      non parametric equivalent used were normality assumption was violated. For descriptive
      statistics measures of central tendency and dispersion were used for continuous data.
      Percentages were used to describe categorical data. The median and interquartile ranges (IQR)
      were used when the assumption of normality was violated.

      Inferential statistics was used to determine homogeneity of respondent's socio-demographic
      variable between intervention group 1, intervention group 2 and control group. Data
      transformation was performed on data which were not normally distributed. Data transformation
      performed on not normally distributed condom use scores with both log10 and square root
      transformation was unsuccessful. One way ANOVA was used to compare mean differences of scores
      of log HIV knowledge, log attitudes scores towards HIV/AIDS and HIV status disclosure scores
      among the two intervention groups and the control group at baseline, 2 months and at 6
      months. Kruskal Wallis ANOVA was used to compare median condom use scores among the 3 study
      groups at baseline, 2 months and 6 months. Spearman's correlation coefficient was used to
      investigate relationships between HIV knowledge, attitudes towards HIV and sexual behaviors
      (condom use, sex with unsteady partners and status disclosure).

      McNemar's test was used to asses treatment effects of the intervention on sound knowledge,
      categorical scores of attitude and categorical sexual behavior practices related to HIV in
      the present study. It was carried out for changes at 2 months and 6 months.

      Mixed design ANOVA was employed to determine the main effects of age, gender, group, time and
      group - time interaction effects for mean log scores of HIV knowledge, log attitude scores
      towards HIV/AIDS and log HIV status disclosure scores of the 3 study groups. Friedman's
      repeated measure ANOVA was used to look at main effects of group, time and group and time
      interaction effects of the median condom use scores of the 3 study groups. A partial eta
      square (ἠ2) as a measure of effect size representing the variance in proportions of the
      dependent variable that can be explained by the independent variable was applied to both
      mixed design ANOVA and Friedman's repeated measures ANOVA. The interpretation of the strength
      of eta squared values followed guidelines by Cohen, 1988: small effect (0.01), moderate
      effect (0.06) and large effect (0.14).

      All results of log transformed data considered underlying data transformation during result
      interpretation. The confidence interval was set at 95% for mean estimations. The level of
      significance; alpha (α) was set at 0.05. A p value of less than 0.05 pertains to the decision
      rule. The decision rule used was to reject the null hypothesis when p was less than 0.05.
    
  