
    
      This is a multicenter study. Patients who plan to receive or have received neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy are eligible. Patients undergo examination for breast and axilla lymph
      adenopathy and then undergo ultrasound of the axillary nodes prior to registration to confirm
      eligibility and after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Within 12 weeks of completing
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo a mastectomy or lumpectomy (per surgeon
      discretion) including both sentinel lymph node surgery and axillary lymph node dissection.
      The primary and secondary objectives of the study are described below.

      Primary Objective:

      1. To determine the false negative rate for sentinel lymph node (SLN) surgery. Among the
      patients who have at least one sentinel lymph node identified and removed, false negative
      rate is defined as the number of patients declared to have no evidence of cancer in the SLN
      and are found to have at least one positive lymph node in the ALND divided by the total
      number of patients with at least one positive axillary lymph node by ALND.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine how the axillary ultrasound status of the patient upon completion of
           preoperative chemotherapy (evidence of residual lymphadenopathy on the ultrasound
           examination versus no evidence of lymphadenopathy in the ultrasound examination) affects
           the false negative rate of SLN and how sonographic findings correlate with residual
           disease on final pathology.

        2. To determine the node status of patients after preoperative chemotherapy. Patients will
           be classified as node positive if they were determined to have at least one positive
           lymph node by SLN or ALND. Patients will be classified as node negative if all nodes
           examined by SLN and ALND were negative.

        3. To determine whether the false-negative rate for SLN surgery after preoperative
           chemotherapy is related to the extent of residual cancer burden (RCB) overall, or
           separately in the breast or regional nodal basin.

        4. To evaluate pathological complete response (pCR) rates (defined as no invasive disease
           in breast or lymph nodes) and disease-free survival (DFS) rates in node-positive
           patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy.

      After completion of surgery, patients will visit the office for follow-up exams at 1-2 weeks
      then patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years, yearly for 2 years, then every other
      year for 6 years. The study closed to accrual and treatment on 5/29/12.
    
  