
    
      Study Category and rationale:

      This study uses a well-known drug (tamsulosin) which is authorised in Switzerland and widely
      used to treat obstructive voiding problems. In our case the indication is different from that
      specified in the prescribing information, but it is within the same disease group, which in
      our case is to prevent urinary retention. Therefore according to the legal ordinance on
      clinical trials (ClinO), this study is classified as a clinical trial, research with
      collection of health-related personal data and placebo controlled of the category B.

      Objective:

      Our goal is to reduce the rate of postoperative urinary retention after lower limb
      arthroplasty. For this purpose, we plan to investigate whether an already known drug
      (Tamsulosin), which is widely used for bladder emptying disorders, could reduce the rate of
      postoperative urinary retention.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome is the occurrence of urinary retention during the 48 postoperative hours.
      The secondary outcome is the influence of other clinical factors on the occurrence of urinary
      retention as type of anaesthesia, preoperative residual volume, prostate size and
      international prostate symptom score (IPSS).

      Measurement and procedures:

      Once the decision for lower limb arthroplasty is made during the planned orthopaedic
      consultation, the patient will receive a participant information sheet and the informed
      consent. If the patient is interested to take part in the study he will receive an
      appointment in the urological clinic at least six days before the operation. During the
      appointment a urological specialist will explain the entire study. A uroflowmetry with
      sonographic measurement of residual volume and prostate volume will be performed.
      Furthermore, the patient will fill out an IPSS-questionnaire. After the appointment the
      drug/placebo will be handed out to the patient, which should be taken once a day five days
      prior to the operation, on the day of surgery and two days thereafter.

      Study product:

      The study specific product Tamsulosin 0.4mg, a tablet which is taken once a day per os five
      days prior to the operation and two days after the operation.

      Control intervention:

      Placebo.

      Number of participants with rationale:

      The number of participants projected for the entire study is 170. Thus 85 patients in the
      drug-treatment group and 85 patients for the placebo-treatment group.
    
  