
    
      Design:

        1. Phase: Empirical study (quantitative) of information needs - semi-structured interviews
           with family members, physicians and caregivers

        2. Phase: Development of user friendly homepage with University of Applied Sciences
           Joanneum and validation of the homepage with medical professionals and laypersons

        3. Phase: Randomized Controlled Trial (non-blinded) with "placebo home page" (N=110)

      Background:

      Relatives in intensive care units (ICU) are important partners in decision-making in the
      treatment of critically ill patients and provide a significant resource in the care and
      recovery of patients. Therefore, a professional, educational intervention targeting these
      caregivers may have fundamental benefits with little to no risk. As in other fields,
      information is searched in the internet, but this unselected information is often
      overwhelming and of little use in this context.

      In Austria there are 2784 systemized intensive care beds with an average occupation of 3,6
      days, representing 100 new admissions per year/ICU bed. This may translate to 500.000
      affected family members per year.

      The role of family members in the treatment process of ICU patients is a not very well
      studied subject, especially in German-speaking countries. In contrast, in the Anglo-American
      world, family members play a key role in the medical, financial and legal aspects of the
      treatment process and have a decisive role in the successful treatment during and after
      critical illness.

      Symptoms of anxiety, stress and depression are common in affected relatives . The majority of
      family members report some level of anxiety, depression and stress, sometimes even resulting
      in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Importantly, an association between lack of
      information and post-traumatic stress disorder PTSD has been reported. The large number of
      potentially affected families poses a particular challenge to healthcare and may cause
      substantial secondary costs to national economy.

      The participation of relatives in the decision making process of ICU patients is negatively
      affected by the uncertainty concerning the treatment path, medical procedures and
      consequences for the families' life after ICU discharge. This likely leads to unnecessary
      hospital readmissions, complicates rehabilitation of patients and requires adapted management
      strategies for relatives. Therefore, it is important to provide sufficient information to
      families in high quality.

      The relationship management with relatives places significant demands on ICU staff and
      conflicts between physicians and relatives are common. So far, only a few randomized
      intervention studies have been performed in this setting, but with promising results.

      The internet has revolutionized our world including the access to medical information. In one
      study, almost 50% of ICU patients' family members used the internet for information purposes
      within the first days of ICU treatment. This makes a web-based intervention in this setting
      very promising. To our knowledge however, no RCT has yet evaluated the usefulness of a
      web-based intervention on ICU patients' family members' quality of life.

      The following question should therefore be answered by our study:

        -  Does targeted information and communication using new media (INTERVENTION) have a
           beneficial influence on subjective and objective endpoints of patients and their
           families?

        -  Could this help in averting the negative effects of anxiety, stress, and depression? Are
           new media accepted in clinical routine?

        -  Does the project support the affected family members in their health literacy?
    
  