
    
      Background:

      Public Safety Personnel (PSP) is a term that broadly encompasses personnel who ensure the
      safety and security of Canadians across jurisdictions, including, but not necessarily limited
      to, public safety communications officials (e.g., call centre operators/dispatchers),
      correctional employees, firefighters, paramedics, border services personnel, operational and
      intelligence personnel, search and rescue personnel, and police officers. As a function of
      their vocations, PSP are frequently exposed to traumatic events (e.g., threatened or actual
      physical assaults, sexual violence, fires, and explosions) and are at risk of post-traumatic
      stress injuries. Results from a recent survey with a large Canadian PSP sample showed 44.5%
      screened positive for one or more mental health disorders, which is much higher than the
      10.1% diagnostic rate among the Canadian general public. For many Canadian PSP access to
      in-person evidence-based care is impeded for several reasons, including preference to
      self-manage symptoms, geographic barriers (e.g., difficulty accessing care while deployed to
      remote locations), logistical barriers (e.g., shift work limits access to standard service
      hours), stigma (e.g., perceptions of being evaluated negatively for having mental health
      concerns), growing waiting-lists, and limited resources (e.g., insufficient access to mental
      health care coverage).

      Transdiagnostic Internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) represents a convenient
      method for PSP to access care for mental health concerns, such as depression, anxiety, and
      post-traumatic stress. In transdiagnostic ICBT, clients receive access to standardized
      lessons that provide the same information and skills as traditional face-to-face CBT.
      Divergent mental health symptoms are targeted within transdiagnostic ICBT by educating
      clients in strategies that apply to multiple conditions (e.g., cognitive restructuring,
      graded exposure); this helps to ensure multiple concerns are addressed in an efficient
      manner. This is important given high rates of mental health comorbidity. In addition to
      weekly lessons, clients are encouraged to complete homework assignments to facilitate
      learning. Research shows that transdiagnostic ICBT is effective at reducing symptoms of
      anxiety, depression and trauma and there is also evidence that the findings of research
      trials translate into routine clinic settings. Most commonly, ICBT is delivered with brief
      once weekly e-therapist assistance (~20 minutes) via the telephone or secure email over ~8
      weeks. There are also encouraging research results that clients can benefit with lower levels
      of support, such as when treatment is largely self-directed but with automated reminder
      emails, e-therapist monitoring and optional e-therapist support as needed by clients.

      Research purpose:

      The purpose of the current research project is to explore outcomes of a transdiagnostic ICBT
      course that is specifically tailored for PSP (e.g., case examples are relevant to PSP),
      referred to as the PSP Wellbeing Course. Of particular interest in this study are: 1) the
      usage of the PSP Wellbeing Course among PSP from Saskatchewan or Quebec who are informed
      about the PSP Wellbeing Course (e.g., # enrolling, completion rates, use of e-therapist
      support); 2) outcomes of the PSP Wellbeing Course with respect to diverse outcome measures
      (e.g., depression, anxiety, trauma, disability) measured at 8, 16, 26, and 52 week follow-up;
      and 3) strengths and challenges of the PSP Wellbeing Course when offered to PSP in
      Saskatchewan and Quebec. In order to take part, PSP will first complete an online
      questionnaire and telephone screening to assess whether they meet the following inclusion
      criteria: 1) 18 years of age or older; 2) Saskatchewan or Quebec resident; 3) endorsing
      symptoms of anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress, but not high suicide risk or recent
      suicide attempts in the past year; 4) able to access and comfortable using computers and the
      internet; 5) not seeking help primarily for alcohol and or drugs, bipolar disorder, or
      psychotic symptoms; and 6) willing to provide an emergency contact. The PSP Wellbeing Course
      will be delivered by trained providers with graduate training in psychology or social work or
      graduate students under supervision. Of note, the program will first be offered in
      Saskatchewan, and when this is underway, materials will be translated to French and the
      program will be offered to PSP who reside in Quebec as well. The primary research questions
      to be answered include:

        1. ENGAGEMENT: How many PSP will enroll in and complete the PSP Wellbeing Course? What will
           be the uptake of optional e-therapist support, versus 1x week or 2x week e-therapist
           support? What will be the length of support selected (8 week-16 week)?

        2. OUTCOMES: What will be the impact of the PSP Wellbeing Course on symptom improvement and
           functioning at 8, 16, 26, and 52 weeks post-enrollment? What factors will predict
           outcomes (e.g., symptom severity, demographics, engagement)?

        3. IMPLEMENTATION: What are stakeholder experiences, positive and negative, with the PSP
           Wellbeing Course? What are the suggested improvements to ICBT to meet the needs of PSP?

      Significance:

      This project will provide information that will inform future use of ICBT to assist PSP with
      common mental health concerns. Data will be extracted and analyzed on a quarterly basis in
      order to provide a preliminary evaluation of engagement, outcomes and implementation
      experiences and determine if adjustments to ICBT are required. Once adjustments are completed
      or deemed unnecessary, data will be extracted and analyzed biannually.
    
  