
    
      Background. Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a progressive disease with high mortality rate,
      but due to the development of drugs, the prognosis of the disease has improved. However
      patients still have poor exercise capacity and decrease of the quality of life. Past studies
      have shown that idiopathic and secondary PH are different in etiology and prognosis. It is
      necessary to further understand the difference between exercise capacity and quality of life
      of these two types of patients.

      Purpose. The purpose of this study is the comparison of idiopathic and secondary PH in
      exercise capacity and quality of life, and analyzed the factors affecting.

      Method. The patients recruit from National Taiwan University hospital. Thirty patients who
      diagnosis with PH and willing to participant our study will recruited. According to the cause
      of disease patients will divided into two groups, idiopathic group and secondary PH group has
      fifteen patients. Both of group receive testing, including body composition, exercise
      capacity (six minutes walk test, cardiopulmonary exercise testing), record their regular
      physical activity( seven day physical activity recall questionnaire) , fatigue
      severity(fatigue severity scale), and quality of life (SF-36), monitor cardiac function
      (non-invasive cardiac output test instrument). Data are analyze using SPSS19.0 version. Data
      will be presented in mean ± standard deviation and percentage. Using Kolmogorov-Smirmov test
      to test, whether the data were normal distribution, when P> 0.05 is considered as a normal
      distribution. Mann-Whitney U test or Chi-square test to processing parameters between two
      groups. Independent sample t test will be used to compare whether there are between-group
      differences. Pearson correlation coefficient will be used to test correlations between the
      parameters. The study defines significant level at α = 0.05, two-tailed.
    
  