
    
      Investigators enroll 400 patients from February 2016 to February 2017, the principal
      inclusion criterion included CHF: left ventricular eject fraction (LVEF) <= 50%; moderate to
      severe chronic kidney disease(CKD) was diagnosed as an eGFR 15 to 59 mL/min per 1.73 m2,
      calculated via the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) study equation
      from SCr obtained within 72 hours of enrollment, patients were scheduled to undergo
      diagnostic cardiac angiography or percutaneous coronary interventions. We randomly assigned
      eligible patients in a 1:1 ratio to either the hydration therapy combined with intravenous
      infusion of isosorbide dinitrate or a standard hydration administration protocol. hydration
      therapy combined with intravenous infusion of isosorbide dinitrate refer to give intravenous
      infusion of isosorbide dinitrate on the basis of fully hydration to reduce cardiac
      preload.afterload and increase the the tolerance degreen of hydration in chronic heart
      failure patients. both study groups received intravenous fluids for the same hydration dose.
      All study participants received intra-arterial Visipaque(320 mg I/ml; GE Healthcare)
      iso-osmolar contrast medium.

      Primary end point of the study was the incidence of CIN: The median peak increase in serum
      creatinine concentration between day 0 (when contrast was administered) and day 7. Definition
      of CIN was an absolute increase in serum creatinine (SCr) >0.5 mg/dl or a relative increase
      >25% compared to baseline SCr. Definition of non-Q-wave myocardial infarction was a creatine
      kinase-myocardial band enzyme elevation 3 times the upper normal value without new Q waves on
      the electrocardiogram. Definition of Q-wave myocardial infarction was presence of new
      pathologic Q waves on an electrocardiogram in conjunction with an elevation in creatine
      kinase greater than 3 times the normal value. All adverse clinical events as well as study
      end points were monitored and adjudicated by the independent event committee. Each patient
      was contacted in every week after administration of the contrast, investigated if dialysis or
      main cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction,acute heart failure and death), and record
      any adverse events.
    
  