
    
      RTA 744 is designed to enter the spinal fluid and kill cancer cells both in the spinal fluid
      and in the rest of body.

      Before you can start receiving the study drug, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your complete
      medical history will be recorded. You will be asked about any drugs you have taken and are
      taking. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure,
      heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate). You will have a neurological exam. Blood (about
      2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw will include a
      pregnancy test for women who are able to have children. To be eligible to take part in this
      study, the pregnancy test must be negative. Urine will be collected over a 24-hour period to
      test kidney function and for routine tests. You will have a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      scan of the brain and spine.

      You will have a chest x-ray. You will be asked questions about your ability to perform daily
      activities (performance status evaluation). You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test
      that measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will have either a multiple gated
      acquisition scan (MUGA) or an echocardiogram to check your heart's health. Samples (1 1/2
      teaspoons) of cerebrospinal fluid from your spine and brain will be collected to look for the
      presence of cancer cells. The spinal sample will be collected through a lumbar puncture
      (spinal tap). The other sample will be taken from your brain through an Ommaya Reservoir tap.
      Radioactive dye will be injected into the CSF to make sure the CSF flows freely throughout
      the spinal canal. This is called an Indium-111 DPTA or Technetium 99m-DPTA Flow Study.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you should receive the same dose
      of RTA 744 throughout the study. The amount of study drug you receive will be determined by
      when you begin the study. Every 21 days on study is considered 1 study "cycle." If you have
      intolerable side effects, the drug dosing for the next cycle may be delayed for up to 21 days
      to allow any symptoms or side effects to resolve. You may be given a lower dose level.

      The first participant on this study will receive the dose that has been found to be
      well-tolerated in an ongoing study involving participants with primary brain tumors. After
      this participant has completed 1 study cycle, the next participant will be given a higher
      dose of RTA 744. Each new participant will receive a higher dose level until a patient has an
      intolerable side effect. When this happens, at least 2 more participants will be given the
      dose level that causes the intolerable side effect. If there are no further intolerable side
      effects to RTA 744, the next group of 3 participants will be given the next higher dose of
      RTA 744. Each time, the dose of RTA 744 will not be increased until the effects of the
      previous dose level have been studied. Doses will increase with each group of patients until
      the highest tolerable dose is found.

      On Day 1 Cycle 1, before you receive the first dose of RTA 744, you will have a physical
      exam, neurological exam, and a performance status evaluation. If the screening neurological
      exam was performed less than 1 week before Day 1, the neurological exam will not need to be
      repeated. You will also be asked about any drugs, treatments, or herbal medicines you are
      taking. You will be asked how you are feeling and if whether you are experiencing any
      symptoms or side effects. Blood (less than 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for
      routine tests, unless blood and urine were collected for screening within the past 72 hours.

      After completion of these tests, you will receive RTA 744 through a needle in your vein over
      a 2-hour period on Days 1-3. You must remain in the clinic for 2 hours after the drug is
      given to make sure you are not having any side effects.

      During Cycle 1, you will be asked to return to the clinic once a week for 3 weeks. At these
      visits, blood (less than 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will be asked
      how you are feeling and whether you are having any side effects.

      On Day 21, you will have a neurologic exam.

      Before receiving the study drug on Day 1 of Cycles 2-18, you will have a physical exam,
      neurological exam, and a performance status evaluation. You will also be asked about any
      drugs, treatments, or herbal medicines you are taking. Blood (less than 2 tablespoons) and
      urine will be collected for routine tests. You will have an ECG. Before Cycles 4, 6, 8, 10,
      12, 14,16, and 18, you will have a MUGA scan or an echocardiogram. Once you have completed
      the tests, you will receive the study drug in the same manner as Cycle 1.

      During Days 1-3, you will be asked how you are feeling and to report any symptoms or side
      effects you may have noticed during or after receiving RTA 744.

      On Day 15, blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This blood draw may be
      performed by an outside laboratory. If no clinic visit is scheduled on Day 15, you will be
      contacted by telephone to find out if you have experienced any side effects. This phone call
      should last less than 5 minutes.

      On Day 21, blood (less than 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      One time (per cycle) between Day 15 and Day 21 of Cycles 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18,
      a sample (about 2 teaspoon each time) of CSF will be collected from your spine through a
      spinal tap, and from your brain through an Ommaya Reservoir tap. This will be done in order
      to look for cancer cells. You will also have an MRI of the brain and spine.

      An ECG will be performed during the last week of all cycles. A MUGA scan or an echocardiogram
      will be performed during the last week of Cycles 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18.

      You will have an MRI within 1 week of the end of the last cycle.

      You may remain on study for up to 18 cycles (13 months). You will be taken off study if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Once you are off study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, your complete
      medical history will be recorded. You will be asked about any drugs you have taken and are
      taking. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs. You will have a
      neurological exam. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Urine will be
      collected over a 24-hour period to test kidney function and for routine tests. You will have
      an MRI of the brain and spine.

      You will have a chest x-ray. You will have a performance status evaluation. You will have ECG
      and MUGA scans or echocardiogram. Samples (1 1/2 teaspoons each) of cerebrospinal fluid from
      your spine and brain will be collected to look for the presence of cancer cells. The spinal
      sample will be collected through a spinal tap. The other sample will be taken from your brain
      through an Ommaya Reservoir tap. Radioactive dye will also be injected into the CSF to make
      sure the CSF flows freely throughout the spinal canal.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. RTA 744 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      has been authorized for use in research only.

      Up to 18 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  