
    
      CREBBP and EP300 are the two paralog genes associated with RSTS determinism and code for CBP
      and p300, respectively. These proteins are transcriptional coactivators that possess a
      catalytic lysine acetyl transferase (KAT) domain involved in the acetylation of lysine
      residues of histones but also other proteins. CBP and p300 promote transcription by creating
      a chromatin environment that is favorable for gene expression and by linking different
      transcription factors to each other. They thus orchestrate the regulation of the
      transcription machinery, from the basal promoter to the enhancers of the target genes.

      RSTS is considered a genetic model of neurodevelopmental anomaly with an epigenetic
      component.

      Histone acetylation is one of the major post-translational modifications (PTMs) of these
      proteins that provide for the formation and control of chromatin structure. When
      differentiating embryonic cells, this modification plays a key role in transcriptional
      activation.

      The mouse models of RSTS have made the link between the modulation of histone acetylation and
      the formation of memory by showing their key role in neuronal plasticity. However no data
      exists on the acetylation of histones in the neurons of RSTS patients. Furthermore, in
      humans, the molecular pathways impacted by these alterations during neurodevelopment are not
      specified, especially in the pyramidal neurons which are the precursors of hippocampal
      neurons involved in the encoding and storage of memory.

      In RSTS a loss of CBP function results in a deficit in KAT activity, which is responsible for
      altering histone acetylation, leading to inappropriate changes in chromatin structure. The
      consequence of a mutation is a result of a deregulation of the activity of genes involved in
      development. No neuronal level studies are currently available on the functional link between
      histone acetylation and deregulated genes in the RSTS.

      In this project, investigators will identify target genes whose epigenetic regulation is
      mediated by histone acetylation. More specifically, the study will focus on chromatin
      dynamics during normal and pathological neuronal differentiation of cortical and pyramidal
      neurons. Investigators will determine among the CBP-dependent histone markers, those that are
      modified in RSTS patients cells and the loci they control. In parallel, investigators will
      define genes whose neuronal expression is altered in RSTS patients.

      The integration of all these data will allow us to specify which genes are deregulated during
      neuronal differentiation as a consequence of CBP lysine acetyltransferase function loss.
    
  