
    
      Despite recent advances in perinatal-neonatal care, there is an increasing trend of
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) among survivors of prematurity1. Most infants developing BPD
      are born prematurely, and 75% of affected babies weigh less than 1000g at birth2. The risk of
      developing BPD increases with decreasing birth weight with reported incidence as high as 85%
      in neonates weighing between 500g and 699g, but only 5% in infants with birth weights over
      1500g2. Alberta has the highest rate (10%) of delivering premature infants in Canada. In
      Edmonton approximately 200 premature infants <1250 g birth weight are born annually and up to
      50% will develop BPD. This puts a heavy burden on health resources since these infants
      require frequent hospital re-admission in the first two years after birth and, even as
      adolescents have persistent respiratory symptoms.

      Hypothesis Preterm infants <33 weeks gestation requiring breathing support at birth, the
      delivery of SIs (SI group) before mask ventilation compared to standard mask ventilation
      (IPPV group) will reduce the incidence of BPD.

      Aim To determine if respiratory support at birth with initial sustained inflation compared to
      IPPV decreases BPD.

      Study population Entry criteria Infants <33 weeks gestation born in the Royal Alexandra
      Hospital who require respiratory support for resuscitation in the delivery room.

      Exclusion criteria Infants will be excluded if they have a congenital abnormality or
      condition that might have an adverse effect on breathing or ventilation, e.g. congenital
      pulmonary or airway anomalies, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, or congenital heart disease
      requiring intervention in neonatal period. Infants will also be excluded if their parents
      refuse to give consent to this study.

      Description of interventions "SI group" Infants randomized into the "SI group" will receive
      two initial sustained inflations before PPV or CPAP.

      "IPPV group" Infants randomized into the "IPPV group" will receive mask IPPV with an initial
      PIP of 20 cmH2O and PEEP of 5 cm H2O, and a ventilation rate of 40-60 inflations/min until
      spontaneously breathing, at which time CPAP will be provided.

      "Failed SI or IPPV" Babies who fail to improve or remain apneic, bradycardic or hypoxemic
      despite two SIs and/or 30 seconds of effective IPPV require an alternative airway. Unit
      policy also dictates elective intubation and instillation of surfactant if, despite CPAP, a
      preterm infant continues to have increased work of breathing or requires a sustained
      inspiratory oxygen concentration over 40%.
    
  