
    
      Purpose: To compare the efficacy of photodynamic therapy with verteporfin (PDT) and IVTA vs
      triple therapy (TT) in patients with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) secondary
      to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).

      Methods: Prospective, comparative, randomized, double blind, controlled study. 15 patients
      with classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to age-related macular
      degeneration were randomized. Group 1: receive PDT followed by 4 mg IVTA (n=7) or group 2: TT
      (triple Therapy) PDT followed by 4 mg IVTA + 0.5 mg Ranibizumab (n=8).The main outcome
      measures were visual acuity (VA), mean change in lesion size, mean change in foveal
      thickness, retreatment rate and the incidence and severity of adverse events.

      Results: At 6 months 5 of 7 patients (71.4%) of group 1 and 8 of 8 patients (100% ) of group
      2 had lost fewer than 15 letters (P<.001). Three patients (37.5%) of group 2 had an
      improvement of 3 lines or more. Lesion type, patient age, and lesion size had no influence on
      the outcome, but baseline VA had a statistically significant effect (P =.006). The median
      number of treatments in both groups was one. The 28% of PDT-triamcinolone group and 25% of
      triple therapy group had an increase in intraocular pressure (IOP) that required therapy.
      Progression or development of cataract was observed in 14.2 % in PDT- IVTA group and 12.5% in
      Triple therapy group. There were no cases of endophthalmitis. No cardiac or cerebrovascular
      accidents where presented.

      Conclusions: The combination of PDT, intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and intravitreal
      ranibizumab is a safe treatment option for neovascular AMD and prevents a considerable
      decrease in VA. In our patients it seems to be superior than combinated therapy with PDT and
      triamcinolone.

      Clinical Relevance: Triple therapy can potentially offer a new treatment modality for
      choroidal neovascularization in patients with macular degeneration and other diseases.

      :
    
  