
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the common malignant tumors of the digestive tract. The incidence
      of colorectal cancer in China has increased by 3%-4% annually . Colorectal adenoma is the
      most precancerous lesion of colorectal cancer. Screening for colorectal adenoma and
      endoscopic resection are the most effective measures to prevent colorectal cancer .
      Colonoscopy and endoscopic polypectomy can effectively prevent the occurrence of colorectal
      cancer, and it can reduce the mortality of colorectal cancer by more than 50% . Especially in
      the rectum and sigmoid colon and other high-intestinal segments of colorectal cancer, the
      reduction effect is very significant . However, colonoscopy, currently considered a "gold
      standard," still misses a significant number of lesions. A foreign meta-analysis showed that
      the rate of missed diagnosis of polyps in colonoscopy was as high as 22% . Especially for the
      right colon, the protective effect of colonoscopy is not ideal, and the incidence of right
      inter-coloanal cancer is significantly higher than that of the left colon . This difference
      may be caused by tumorigenesis and polyp morphology in the right colon and left colon. Flat
      polyps, which are more common in the right colon, are more likely to be missed than pedicle
      polyps, which are more common in the left colon. In addition, it is more difficult to observe
      the polyps in the right colon fold by conventional colonoscopy. Over the years, techniques to
      improve the positive rate of diagnosis of the right Semi-colon have emerged, including
      providing high-quality bowel preparation, setting up a standard time for the right Semi-colon
      independent decolonisation, repeated screening of the right Semi-colon and the conduct of the
      ascending colon inversion .

      Inversion technique is a special method of examination in colonoscopy. It was first used by
      Grobe in the examination of rectal lesions in 1982 and achieved good results. In addition,
      for some polyps near the proximal rectum, which are difficult to reach with endoscopy, the
      application of this technique can effectively perform polypectomy . At present, the most
      popular in the lower digestive tract examination is the inversion technique of the rectal
      abdomen, but it has not been popularized in colon examination . Conventional colonoscopy
      endoscopy is a direct-view type, and the visual field is limited. About 10%-24% of the
      lesions may be missed. The ascending colon is more difficult because of the deep folds, and
      the rate of missed diagnosis is higher. The colon reversal technique can observe the oral
      mucosa of the colonic meniscus, increase the observation of the colonic mucosa, and make up
      for the defects of the conventional retrospective, which is crucial for improving the
      positive rate of colonic lesion diagnosis. During retroflexion the tip of the colonoscope is
      turned 180 degrees; allowing the doctor to view the backs of colonic folds. If additional
      polyps can be identified in this manner colonoscopy will become a more efficient method of
      screening for colon cancer.However, inversion techniques may increase the incidence of
      complications and increase the time of examination to bring some painful experience to the
      subject. At present, there are many endoscopic reversal studies on the right colon in China
      and abroad. Luo Yuanqiang and Chen Peisong and other studies have found that ascending
      colonic reversal can improve the detection rate of polyposis and reduce the rate of polyps
      missed .A foreign meta-analysis showed that the inversion technique of the right colon can
      significantly increase the rate of adenoma discovery without increasing the incidence of
      adverse events . However, there is no research on total colon reversal at domestic and
      abroad. Observation of reversal of the whole colon may increase the detection rate of related
      lesions, but it may also increase the examination time and adverse events, and because
      colonoscopy has a relatively high rate of detection of left colonic lesions, so the
      investigators need to fully evaluate the overall colon inversion technique for disease
      detection rate and the degree of pain and adverse events in the subject.

      This study aimed to evaluate the value of inversion techniques in improving the detection
      rate of colorectal polyps and its safety and operational feasibility by comparing the
      inversion method with conventional direct observation method by randomized controlled method.
    
  