
    
      Uterine fibroids are the most common benign uterine tumors in women of reproductive age.
      Symptoms are depending on size, number and localisation of the fibroids. Heavy menstrual
      bleeding, anaemia, abdominal pain, dyspareunia and urinary symptoms are often put forward.

      Intramural and especially submucous myomas are known to decrease fertility and augment
      miscarriage rate. Some studies have demonstrated a negative effect of intramural fibroids on
      fertility outcome, while others do not. A recent meta-analysis found adverse pregnancy
      outcomes associated not only with submucous and intramural fibroids distorting the uterine
      cavity, but also with intramural fibroids not distorting the cavity.

      Ulipristalacetate (Esmya®) is currently used to pre-treat symptomatic women with fibroids
      before surgical intervention. Esmya® has been demonstrated to be safe and effective in the
      treatment of fibroids. Due to apoptosis sometimes a reduction in volume of the myoma is seen.
      This effect could influence the fertility and operative outcome.

      Current options are available before assisted reproductive technology (ART) for infertile
      women diagnosed with fibroids:

        1. no treatment

        2. medical pre-treatment before ART:

             1. with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-analogues followed by controlled ovarian
                stimulation

             2. with ESMYA followed by controlled ovarian stimulation

        3. surgical treatment after medical pre-treatment before ART:

             1. after pre-treatment with GnRH analogues followed by myomectomy

             2. after ESMYA followed by myomectomy

        4. surgical treatment without medical pre-treatment

      In our tertiary infertility centre, at the discretion of the physician, as well ESMYA
      treatment solely or surgery before starting an IVF/ICSI treatment in women with intramural
      fibroids are often used. Is there a difference in ongoing pregnancy rate after IVF/ICSI in
      these patients?

      Objective of the study Prospective and retrospective gathering of information regarding the
      efficacy of IVF/ICSI treatment (ongoing pregnancy rates) in patients undergoing medical or
      surgical treatment preceding their IVF/ICSI treatment in case of diagnosis of intramural
      fibroids. Especially ongoing pregnancy rates between patients receiving the ESMYA solely
      treatment and patients pre-treated by myomectomy before IVF/ICSI will be studied once
      sufficient data have been collected to deduce valuable study results.
    
  