
    
      RESEARCH PROBLEM:

      Although the diagnosis of hypertension and initiation of treatment is most frequently made in
      the primary health care setting, the perioperative period provides clinicians with a unique
      opportunity to identify patients with hypertensive disease, educate patients about the
      disease, and, if appropriate, initiate appropriate therapy. Furthermore it provides the
      opportunity to refer patients for further investigation or follow up at peripheral health
      care centres for ongoing management. The identification and diagnosis of hypertension as well
      as the effective management thereof is a primary health care target and serves as an
      efficient health care strategy in reducing long-term cardiovascular morbidity and mortality,
      as well as the burden of disease associated complications. There are however, a multitude of
      reasons to investigate and treat persistent hypertension in the perioperative period. The
      long-term end organ effects are numerous and add significantly to patient morbidity and
      mortality. Appropriate blood pressure control has an important long term impact on patient
      outcome. In the acute peri-operative setting the significance of hypertension is however less
      clear.

      AIMS & OBJECTIVES:

      Aim of the Study:

      The primary aim of the study is to identify and categorise the prevalence of hypertensive
      disease in adult patients presenting for non-cardiac, non-obstetric elective surgery in all
      surgical disciplines at 1 tertiary level institution and 6 secondary hospitals over the
      determined period of the study.

      The secondary aims of the study will include the following 1) categorise the degree of
      hypertensive disease in the study population 2) identify associated target organ damage and
      associated risk factors 3) determine patient compliance to treatment.

      In a sub-study, the primary objective will be to explore the relationship between
      pre-operative blood pressure measurement and intra-operative hypotension (mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) < 55mmHg for > 1minute as defined by Walsh et al.

      In order to achieve the aims of the study the following objectives will be sought:

      Objectives of the Study related to the prevalence of hypertension:

        1. Prevalence and degree of hypertensive disease in adult patients presenting for
           non-cardiac, non-obstetric, elective surgery in all surgical disciplines with elective
           theatre lists over the period of the study will be determined by measuring and recording
           preoperative blood pressure during the pre-assessment anaesthetic consultation and/or
           immediate preoperative period, using an automated oscillometric blood pressure
           measurement technique. If the blood pressure is noted to be elevated, two additional
           readings at least 10 minutes apart will be performed. The lowest recorded blood pressure
           will be used. The study will identify patients with preoperative in hospital blood
           pressure measurements as follows:

             -  SBP<140 mmHg and DBP <90 mmHg

             -  SBP<160 mmHg and DBP<100 mmHg

             -  SBP<180 mmHg and DBP<110 mmHg without end organ damage

             -  SBP<180 mmHg and DBP<110 mmHg with end organ damage

        2. Compliance to anti-hypertensive treatment will be assessed using the Morisky Medication
           Adherence Questionnaire.

      Objectives of the sub-study related to the association of pre-operative blood pressure
      measurement and intra-operative hypotension:

      1. Any episodes of low blood pressure defined as a mean arterial pressure of less than 55mmHg
      will be recorded as well as the cumulative time spend below this threshold.

      METHODOLOGY:

      Study Design & Data Collection:

      This is a prospective quantitative study at one tertiary and six secondary level institutions
      involving data collected on adult, non-cardiac, non-obstetric patients presenting for
      elective surgery for a period of one week (from Monday at 7am to Friday at 7pm).

      Data is to be collected by the anaesthesiology registrars and consultants providing
      anaesthetic services to elective patients, in all surgical disciplines, over the one-week
      period of the study.

      Quantitative data will be recorded on a clinical reporting form (CRF) evaluating:

        -  General demographic information e.g. age, gender, ethnicity

        -  General medical information e.g. co-morbid conditions, risk factors for hypertension

        -  Presence of target organ damage which will be assessed by the presence of appropriate
           electrocardiographic changes, presence of impaired renal function (elevated creatinine)
           and/or the presence of retinopathy

        -  General surgical information e.g. indication for surgery and type of surgery

      Study Population & Sample Size:

      The study population will involve patients presenting for elective non-cardiac,
      non-obstetric, surgery who are 18 years of age or older and are able to give consent. For the
      prevalence of hypertension and compliance to treatment part of the study, all patients
      regardless of the planned anaesthetic technique will be included. For the sub-study, looking
      at the pre-operative blood pressure and its association with intraoperative hypotension only
      patients who receive a general or neuraxial anaesthetic will be included. For the sub-study
      only, this effectively excludes patients who undergo some form of sedation or local block to
      facilitate their procedures e.g. cataract extraction.

      Measurements:

      Blood pressure measurements will be performed with an appropriately sized non-invasive blood
      pressure cuff, using an automated oscillometric method of blood pressure measurement.

      Recruitment & Consent:

      Participants will be recruited by convenience sampling. All patients compliant with the
      inclusion criteria will be included in the study. Data obtained will be collected by various
      anaesthesiology registrars and consultants, and will not include any specific patient
      information, thus ensuring patient anonymity. Demographic, medical and surgical information
      is generally routinely available prior to anaesthetic and surgical intervention. Furthermore,
      blood pressure measurements are routinely performed and documented. Obtained details will be
      captured on a clinical reporting form and so patient records will not be altered or removed
      for study purposes. Finally, no additional measurements, tests or investigations will be
      performed which might place the patient at risk, or discomfort, or impose any additional cost
      or burden on patient or institutional resources.

      Data Management & Analysis:

      Data capture forms will be collected and collated. The information will be captured in Excel
      for further statistical analysis.

      Patients will be risk adjusted for:

        -  Duration of surgery

        -  Need for blood transfusion intra-operatively

        -  Pre-operative anaemia

        -  ASA status

        -  Functional status

        -  Major surgery

        -  Type of anaesthesia (Dependant on sample size)

      ETHICAL & LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS:

      To ensure complete anonymity, no personal patient information or details will be recorded on
      the data collection form. As this is an audit, and the researcher will not be involved in
      delivery of anaesthetic care to the patients in the study, it will be the responsibility of
      the anaesthesiology registrars and consultants providing the anaesthetic, to ensure patient
      safety and well-being, at all times. This is routine, good practise and the study will not
      influence or detract from these patient specific clinical decisions or patient management in
      any way.
    
  