
    
      120 patients will be enrolled in this randomized clinical trial. Patients will be assigned,
      via a computer-generated randomized table, to either a neostigmine group or a no neostigmine
      group. Patients in the neostigmine group will receive neostigmine 40 µg/kg at the end of the
      surgical procedure when TOF ratios have recovered to 0.9 or greater. Patients in the no
      neostigmine group will be administered saline (control) at the time of neuromuscular
      recovery. Patients with TOF ratios < 0.9 will be excluded from either study cohort. These
      subjects will be administered neostigmine 50 µg/kg at the conclusion of surgery. The same
      postoperative data (see below) will be recorded in this group as will be collected in the two
      study cohorts in order to determine the characteristics of patients not achieving spontaneous
      recovery.

      Anesthetic care will be standardized in both study groups. Patients will be induced with
      propofol 1-2 mg/kg, fentanyl 100 µg/kg, and rocuronium as the NMBA (1 X ed 95 dose). No
      further rocuronium will be administered unless requested by the surgeon. Clinicians will be
      instructed to manage neuromuscular blockade so that full recovery of muscle strength is
      present at the end of the surgical procedure.

      Neuromuscular blockade in the operating room will be quantified with the TOF-Watch-SX, an
      FDA-approved quantitative monitoring device. After induction of anesthesia, baseline data
      will be collected. A 5-second 50 Hz tetanic stimulation will be applied to reduce the time
      required to achieve baseline signal stabilization. After signal stability is achieved, the
      TOF-Watch will be calibrated and then a baseline TOF value recorded. Rocuronium will then be
      administered and the oral endotracheal tube placed 2-4 minutes later. Neuromuscular blockade
      will be managed to allow spontaneous recovery of neuromuscular function to occur, with the
      goal of reaching a TOF ratio of ≥ 0.9 at the end of the surgical procedure. At the time when
      neostigmine is typically administered, one of two syringes will be attached to the
      intravenous line, and the clear solution (neostigmine or saline) given. These syringes will
      be prepared prior to the end of surgery. For patients in the in the neostigmine group, 40
      µg/kg of neostigmine (with an appropriate dose of glycopyrrolate) will be drawn up into the
      syringe and labeled accordingly. For patients in the no neostigmine group, an equal volume of
      saline will be drawn into a syringe, and a neostigmine label applied to the syringe. Both the
      neostigmine and saline solutions are clear and indistinguishable (to be prepared by
      pharmacy). Thereafter, all data collection will be obtained by research assistants blinded to
      group assignment.

      Immediately prior to neostigmine or saline administration, TOF ratios will be recorded, and
      then the syringe attached to the intravenous line and the solution injected. Train-of-four
      ratios will then be recorded every 12 seconds until the time of tracheal extubation.

      During transport from the operating room to the PACU, a research assistant will observe
      oxygen saturation levels, and the lowest value recorded. Oxygenation by pulse oximeter will
      also be monitored and recorded for the first 30 minutes of the PACU admission (every 1 minute
      via the PACU monitoring system). The need for addition oxygen therapy at any time following
      extubation will be noted. During this same time period (from extubation until 30 minutes
      after the PACU arrival) patients will be carefully observed for any evidence of airway
      obstruction or need for maneuvers to maintain a patent airway. This data will be recorded by
      the research assistant and the PACU nursing staff. In addition, 15 minutes after the PACU
      admission, subjects will be examined for 11 signs and 16 symptoms of muscle weakness. This
      examination will be performed by the blinded research assistant. The times required to
      achieve discharge criteria and actual PACU discharge will be recorded.
    
  