
    
      The prolonged conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have created a very large population of
      veterans who suffer from severe post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This has, in part,
      contributed to a rate of suicide that many clinicians and concerned citizens find alarming.
      In the last two decades, there has been some promising evidence coming to light showing that
      the medication ketamine can potentially suppress and/or alleviate some of the disturbing
      symptoms of PTSD such as hypervigilance, anxiety, anger, and recurrent nightmares. If
      ketamine could be shown to be be a valuable treatment option for PTSD then this could have
      potentially large positive ramifications for the treatment of PTSD in America's veteran
      population.

      Ketamine has historically been used as a dissociative anesthetic in emergency departments,
      operating rooms, and in austere military environments. It is a proven medication with a
      reassuring safety profile. This current study seeks to add to the body of knowledge regarding
      ketamine therapy by specifically looking at the combat veteran population. Eligible veterans
      will undergo the standard six-infusion Induction Series of ketamine infusions at Klarisana in
      San Antonio, Texas. Klarisana is a healthcare center which offers outpatient ketamine
      infusion therapy for the treatment of severe depression, PTSD, and various chronic pain
      conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia, neuropathy, and migraine headaches.
      Klarisana serves patients from all over south Texas including Austin, Houston, San Antonio,
      and Corpus Christi.

      Patients who enroll in the current PTSD study will receive a standard battery of survey
      instruments which Klarisana implements before and after a series of infusions. These
      instruments will assess each patient's level of depression, degree of PTSD symptoms, as well
      as their use of alcohol and recreational drugs. The specific instruments are the...

      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) PTSD Checklist (PCL-5) Drug Abuse Screening Test
      (DAST-10) Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT)

      The investigator's goal is to formally analyze what changes may occur the participants'
      symptoms of PTSD and try to better establish the role which ketamine infusion therapy may
      play in the treatment of PTSD in the combat veteran population.
    
  