
    
      Background:

        -  Fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma (FLC) is a rare liver cancer (0.5-9% of primary
           liver cancers), which affects younger age groups and is not associated with underlying
           liver disease or elevated serum alpha fetoprotein (AFP) levels.

        -  Surgery, either liver resection (LR) or liver transplantation (LT), is the only
           potentially curative treatment for FLC patients with resectable disease. Disease
           recurrence after complete resection is high (33-100%). In patients with unresectable
           disease, median survival is less than 12 months; with no patient expected to survive
           beyond 5 years.

        -  The role of systemic chemotherapy and radiotherapy is poorly defined, and has been
           reported to have only a modest or no therapeutic effect. To date no targeted therapy has
           been shown to be of any value in FLC.

        -  In mouse models, oral vancomycin alters gut commensal bacteria thereby inducing a
           liver-selective anti-tumor effect by increasing hepatic CXCR6+ NKT cells via increased
           CXCL16 expression of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells.

      Objective:

      -To evaluate the effect of oral vancomycin therapy on the relative CXCR6 gene expression
      levels in the liver in paired pre- and on-treatment biopsy samples from hepatic lesions in
      patients with unresectable FLC

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed FLC, not amenable to potentially curative resection,
           transplantation or ablation.

        -  Liver lesion measurable by RECIST criteria, accessible for biopsy.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 2

        -  Acceptable renal and normal liver function.

        -  Willingness to undergo pre- and on-treatment biopsies of liver tumor.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase II study of oral vancomycin in patients with unresectable FLC.

        -  Up to 14 patients will be treated with oral vancomycin 500 mg tid daily (1,500 mg total
           daily dose) from days 1 to 21, in a 28-day cycles. After completion of the first cycle,
           initiation of concurrent treatment will be allowed. Patients will receive oral
           vancomycin until off treatment criteria are met.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for toxicity every 4 weeks by CTCAE v5.0, and for response at
           the end of the first cycle and thereafter every 8 (+/-3) weeks by RECIST 1.1.
    
  