
    
      Objective:

      Determinants of health, particularly oral health, have not been evaluated in the context of
      Sjogren s Syndrome (SS) and other salivary gland dysfunctions. It is known that the
      quantitative and qualitative changes in salivary flow that occur in SS place those with this
      complex autoimmune disorder at increased risk of dental caries, oral infections, mucosal
      ulceration, salivary gland enlargement and functional impairment. There is conflicting
      evidence on the risk of periodontal disease in this population. Furthermore, it has been
      reported that this population experiences a greater number of dental visits, decayed teeth,
      and dental restorations in the preceding year, and have a 2-3 fold increased annual out-of
      pocket dental care expenditure compared to those without SS. Moreover, the oral and dental
      needs of those with SS have not been quantified in the context of oral health disparities,
      i.e., by strata of vulnerable groups. Those with other salivary gland dysfunction such as
      Sicca and those who have signs and symptoms of salivary gland dysfunction that only partially
      fulfill the classification criteria for SS, also known as incomplete SS (ISS), have neither
      been assessed for oral health needs nor have oral health disparities been ascertained in this
      high-risk population.

      Study Population:

      We will enroll adults classified as SS, Sicca, ISS, as well healthy volunteers as well as
      those excluded by the 2016 ACR/EULAR classification criteria for SS. Therefore, the aims of
      this study are to:

        1. Ascertain the oral health needs of those with SS, Sicca, and ISS in comparison with
           healthy volunteers (HV)

        2. Identify oral health disparities in this high-risk population (SS, Sicca, ISS) in
           comparison with HV.

      Design:

      This will be an observational study with a cross-sectional survey administered to the study
      population at enrollment, to ascertain their oral health needs and oral health disparities.

      Outcome Measures:

      Study participants have been evaluated and classified into SS, Sicca, ISS, and HV cohorts as
      part of the SS clinical protocols: 84-D-0056, 99-D-0018, 11-D-0172, 15-D-0051 and 94-D-0018.

      A. Primary outcome

      Oral Health Outcomes will be captured using the protocols described in the NHANES Oral Health
      Questionnaire, with the inclusion of additional dental/oral health questions. All oral health
      outcomes will be ascertained once at the time of study enrollment. Self-reported oral health
      needs and self-reported importance of key oral health needs will be ascertained as part of
      the double-scaled oral health study instrument. This will enable discrepancy scoring of key
      oral health outcomes and calculation of a numeric needs index. These instruments have been
      pilot tested.

      B. Exposures

      Oral Health Disparities will be based on indicators for the following and will be ascertained
      at enrollment:

        -  Age

        -  Race

        -  Ethnicity

        -  SES levels (Educational attainment, employment status, home ownership, food security)

        -  Geographic location (Six-level urban-rural classification scheme for U.S. counties and
           county-equivalent entities developed by NCHS).

        -  Gender

        -  Sexual orientation

        -  Marital status

        -  Disabilities (physical disability)

        -  Mental health
    
  