
    
      The exercise-induced muscle damage is associated with eccentric activities affecting muscle
      structural unit through micro-injury that can promote a local inflammatory response, muscle
      damage and delayed onset muscle soreness. These events can cause an impact on athletic
      performance and lower adherence to the training programs. To optimize muscle recovery after
      the damage caused by exercise is essential to ensure adequate caloric intake , with required
      amounts of macronutrients and micronutrients. Recent studies have been showed that the
      protein intake before sleeping is a effective strategy to inhibit muscle protein degradation,
      stimulate muscle protein synthesis and facilitate adaptive response of skeletal muscle to
      physical exercise. Furthermore, evidences on the use of anti-inflammatory nutrients have
      suggested that diets rich in omega 3 can reduce inflammation through inhibition of
      pro-inflammatory mediators. Therefore, the intake of this nutrient combined with a protein
      meal before sleeps and the control of food intake can improve adherence to sports training.
      The study will consist of three groups where everyone will receive an individualized diet. A
      randomization procedure will determine the type of intervention. The distribution of the
      groups will be as follows: group 1 (control) - volunteers follow individualized diet and
      olive oil capsules and maltodextrin; group 2 - intervention with omega 3 more individualized
      diet ; group 3 - omega 3 and whey protein isolate intervention more individualized diet.

      The order of procedures to be performed will be: (1) Nutritional and Anthropometric
      assessment; (2) Individual orientation of diet and distribution of supplements; (3) Baseline
      assessment (peak torque, muscle pain levels and vastus lateralis and rectus femoris echo
      intensity; (4) Muscle damage induction by eccentric exercise protocol; (5) Reviews after 24h,
      48h, 72h, which will follow the routine and the methods applied at baseline.
    
  