
    
      Background and study aims Pain management post laparotomy (abdominal surgery) can be
      difficult and in our trust we are increasingly using rectus sheath catheters (RSCs).This is
      achieved by placing catheters, done by either by the surgeon or anaesthetist into the
      potential space between the rectus muscle and the posterior rectus sheath. Two catheters are
      placed, one on either side of the mid-line wound. Local anaesthetic is then infused through
      the catheters for up to 3 days post-operatively. This provides analgesia to the central
      abdominal wall in the region of the T7-T11 dermatomes. It only provides analgesia for somatic
      pain, not visceral pain and hence needs to be used in addition to a multi-modal analgesic
      regime usually including a patient controlled analgesia device (PCA) containing either
      morphine or oxycodone. Advantages of a RSC infusion over an epidural include that it can be
      used in patients with coagulopathy or systemic infection and can be safely performed asleep.
      It is also less labour intensive to manage on the ward and does not carry the same risks of
      hypotension and excessive fluid administration that are associated with an epidural.

      There is randomised controlled trial evidence that RSC infusions in addition to PCA provide
      superior analgesia when compared to PCA alone in surgery performed through a midline
      incision. There is also a randomised controlled trial in progress that is comparing analgesic
      quality of epidural infusions to RSC with PCA. In most published literature to date, RSC are
      inserted by the anaesthetist using ultrasound to aid placement. In our hospital, some RSC are
      inserted by anaesthetists although the majority are performed by surgeons at the end of an
      operation. This is because we believe that this technique is less time consuming and both
      insertion techniques result in equivalent analgesia.

      The primary aim endpoint of this study is to determine any difference in insertion time for
      rectus sheath catheters between those inserted by surgeons and those inserted by
      anaesthetists. Observationally in our hospital, there is no difference in quality of
      analgesia provided by the two insertion techniques. However, surgical insertion of RSC causes
      less disruption of an operation as the patient already has their abdomen draped with
      sterilised skin as part of their surgical procedure. Also, surgical insertion of RSC with an
      open abdomen is potentially easier than ultrasound guided insertion by an anaesthetist before
      an operation.

      Who can participate? Any adults undergoing emergency or elective laparotomy (major abdominal
      surgery.) What does the study involve? All participants will receive rectus sheath catheters
      but will be randomly allocated to each group. Following the surgery, participants will have
      to answer questions about their pain on 3 consecutive days.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? There are no specific benefits to
      patients and the risks are the same if they were in the trial or not as it is routine in our
      hospital to use rectus sheath catheters as a means of analgesia post laparotomy. These risks
      include bleeding, dislodgement of catheter and failure of catheter and are low risk.

      Where is the study run from? This a single centre study at the Countess of Chester Hospital
      in the United Kingdom.

      When is study starting and how long is it expected to run for? We anticipate recruiting
      patient from June 2017 for 6 months. How long will the trial be recruiting participants for?
      No funding is required as all data collection will be carried out by doctors working in the
      departments but the study is being supported and supervised by the Hospital's Research and
      Development department.
    
  