
    
      Rationale: Multiple agents targeting specific signaling proteins important for tumor growth
      and angiogenesis, including (tyrosine) kinase inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies, have been
      developed and have reached clinical approval. In general, however, these targeted agents
      induce a response only in a subgroup of cancer patients, while all are exposed to potential
      toxic therapies. Prior to treatment, it is unknown which patients will respond and why kinase
      inhibitors are only effective in some, but not all, patients. Clearly, there is a need for a
      non-invasive in vivo technique to identify those patients who may benefit from treatment with
      a specific drug.

      Positron emission tomography (PET) is a non-invasive technique that enables quantitative
      measurements of molecular pathways and interactions with picomolar sensitivity and, as such,
      it has the potential to fulfill the need mentioned above. We expect that response to kinase
      inhibitors is dependent on achieving active drug levels in tumor tissue. Currently,
      intratumoral kinase inhibitor levels are being investigated at our institution (ICK study).
      However, these measurements require fresh tumor biopsies. We hypothesize that radiolabeled
      kinase inhibitor PET imaging can quantify concentrations of labeled drug in tumor lesions,
      thereby avoiding burdensome biopsies in the future.

      Objective: The main objective of this study is to determine whether tumor concentrations of
      kinase inhibitors at pharmacological active doses can be predicted from PET studies using
      tracer amounts (microdosing) of corresponding radiolabeled kinase inhibitors. This objective
      includes the development and validation of pharmacokinetic models for radiolabeled kinase
      inhibitors as well as validation of the microdosing concept for kinase inhibitors.

      The secondary objectives include exploration whether kinase inhibitor kinetics depend on
      perfusion (as measured by [15O]water PET) or size (as measured by diagnostic CT/MRI) of tumor
      lesions, to investigate the presence of a sink that accumulates kinase inhibitor, and to
      investigate (in)activation of key pathways targeted by the specific kinase inhibitor.

      Study design: Single center, non-randomized, interventional proof of concept study.

      Study population: Adult patients with advanced, biopsy accessible tumors for whom standard
      palliative treatment with the kinase inhibitor investigated in this study, i.e. erlotinib and
      sorafenib, is indicated.

      Intervention: Patients will be treated with the kinase inhibitor according to standard
      treatment. [11C] kinase inhibitor PET (i.e. sorafenib and erlotinib in this study, with the
      aim to investigate others in future studies) and [15O]water PET will be performed before and
      after two weeks of treatment. Tumor biopsies will be performed before and during therapy.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Enrollment in this study will require two tumor biopsies, 2x [11C] kinase
      inhibitor PET, 2x [15O]water PET and arterial blood sampling. The biopsies may cause physical
      discomfort. During therapy, follow-up will include standard laboratory analysis as well as
      regular visits to the outpatient clinic. The radiation exposure is acceptable. Patients
      treated with a kinase inhibitor as standard therapy may benefit from disease regression or
      stabilization as it has proven clinical benefit in the patient population under
      investigation. The results of this kinase inhibitor PET imaging study will be strongly
      supportive for the development of non-invasive, personalized treatment strategies thereby
      avoiding 1) cumbersome tumor biopsies, 2) unwanted exposure to potentially toxic drugs and 3)
      costly therapy without clinical benefit.
    
  