
    
      Rationale: Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality
      after allogeneic HSCT. The combination of a calcineurin inhibitor and methotrexate has been
      the standard GVHD prophylactic regimen for the past 20 years. However, the incidence of acute
      GVHD remains high, with reported cumulative incidence of grade II-IV up to 60%. Serious acute
      GVHD or chronic GVHD has detrimental consequences in patients including death, disability,
      infections, or prolonged hospitalization.

      Sirolimus is the first available inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). And
      sirolimus binds uniquely to FK-binding protein (FKBP12) and forms a complex with mTOR. This
      complex inhibits several biochemical pathways, resulting in a reduction in DNA transcription,
      DNA translation, protein synthesis, and cell cycling, ultimately leading to T-cell
      immunosuppression. Sirolimus has been used alone and in combination with calcineurin
      inhibitors for prevention of allograft rejection after solid organ transplantation. In the
      field of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the combination of sirolimus and tacrolimus
      has also resulted in a low incidence of acute GVHD and reduced transplant-related toxicity.

      In addition, the investigators demonstrated previously that the combination of tacrolimus and
      sirolimus is effective as a GVHD prophylaxis and well tolerated in cases of high risk
      transplantation using mismatched related or unrelated donor.

      As discussed above, sirolimus has emerged as one of the most promising immunosuppressive
      agents in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, the benefit of GVHD
      prophylaxis regimens including sirolimus has not been confirmed consistently and there is
      controversy that the incorporation of sirolimus into GVHD prophylaxis results in improved
      survival.

      Efficacy measures: Patients will be followed for 100 days post transplantation for evaluation
      of the primary endpoint (the incidence and severity of acute GVHD) and clinical data will be
      collected at 100 day after HSCT using case report form. And patients will be recommended
      additional follow-up to one year after HSCT for evaluation of secondary endpoints or
      parameters including clinical outcomes (disease-free survival and overall at 1 year after
      transplant). The investigators will perform the interim analyses at the time when 31 patients
      are enrolled during phase 1.

      Acute GVHD will be graded according to the consensus grading scale (appendix-1). The broad
      category of acute GVHD includes:

        1. Classic acute GVHD (maculopapular rash, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, profuse diarrhea,
           illus, or cholestatic hepatitis) occurring within 100 days after transplantation
           (without diagnostic or distinctive signs of chronic GVHD)

        2. Persistent, recurrent, or late acute GVHD: Features of classic acute GVHD without
           diagnostic or distinctive manifestations of chronic GVHD occurring beyond 100 days of
           transplantation (often seen after withdrawal of immune suppression).

      Safety: All the safety analyses will be based on safety population. The assessment of safety
      will be based mainly on the frequency of adverse events and on the number of laboratory
      values that fall outside of predetermined ranges. Adverse events will be summarized by
      presenting the number and percentage of patients having any adverse event as well as by
      severity to study treatment. In addition the summary of grade 3 and 4 will be presented.

      During administration of drugs as a GVHD prophylaxis, toxicities related to drugs will be
      graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v3.0). Patients
      will also be assessed regularly by physical examination and laboratory tests including CBC,
      biochemistry including liver function test and chest X-ray.

      Statistical Methods: Descriptive statistical analysis will be performed to assess patient
      baseline characteristics, engraftment, acute GVHD, and non-relapse mortality. Overall
      survival and relapse-free survival will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method and
      estimated using a competing risk of 100-day mortality for cumulative incidence rate of grades
      II-IV acute GVHD.
    
  