
    
      At study enrollment, the patient's scar will be evaluated using the vascularity category of
      the Vancouver Scar Scale. The vascularity rating is a four item likert scale that rates the
      scar as normal (0), pink (1), red (2), or purple (3). Scar height will be measured using a
      diagnostic ultrasound unit with a 20MHz transducer.27 Digital photographs will be taken with
      a color spectrum scale placed next to the scar. Laser Doppler imaging (LDI) will be used to
      assess scar perfusion at the regions of interest to determine whether treatment with silicone
      spay results in measureable changes in scar perfusion as well as to establish the time course
      over which these changes may be expected to occur. A spray template will then be created for
      the patient using thermoplastic material. It will consist of three (3) circles with an area
      of .785 inches, spaced one inch apart, which will section off the test areas. One of the
      areas will be treated with the spray silicone, one area will be sprayed with spray saline (to
      serve as a placebo), the remaining area will not be treated and therefore will serve as the
      control. The order in which each area is treated will be determined using a randomized block,
      computerized allocation developed by the study statistician. The spray silicone and spray
      saline will be applied via containers that conceal the contents and the patients will not be
      allowed to observe the application of the silicone or saline. Although the patient will be
      blinded to the test areas that have substances applied to them, there will be no blinding in
      regard to the control area that receives no treatment. The substances will be applied by
      trained investigators each weekday for a 12-week period to ensure the method of application
      is consistent. Both substances will be applied at a distance of 1.5 inches from the surface
      of the skin for a one second period. Patients will be instructed not to wash the treated area
      for 24 hours and not to apply pressure garments over the area. The treated areas will be
      re-evaluated and photographed every two weeks for a 12 week period. The clinician conducting
      the initial scar evaluation and re-evaluations will be blinded to the scar treatment. Each
      patient will also complete a scar assessment scale.28 The patient's participation in the
      study will be concluded 12 weeks after the initial treatment and he/she will be given the
      option of continued use of the spray silicone, resumption/commencement of pressure garment
      use or the provision of another appropriate scar management program. Because burn scar can
      take several months to years to reach the scar maturation phase, the patient will still be a
      candidate for an alternate scar management program if at the conclusion of this study they
      see no benefit from the use of spray silicone. If at any time during the 12-week period the
      clinician determines that the scar is worsening, then the patient will be removed from the
      study and offered another scar management program.
    
  