
    
      Lymphangioleiomyomatosis, or LAM, is an uncommon, progressive, cystic lung disease that
      predominantly affects young women. Pulmonary parenchymal changes consistent with LAM are
      found in about one third of women with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), an autosomal
      dominant tumor suppressor syndrome. LAM also occurs in a sporadic form that is not associated
      with germ line mutations in TSC genes. Recent evidence that recurrent LAM after lung
      transplantation results from seeding of the graft from a remote source and suggests a
      metastatic mechanism for the disease.

      Since LAM occurs almost exclusively in women, and exposure to estrogen either exogenously or
      during pregnancy can exacerbate LAM, estrogen suppression might be expected to prevent or
      delay progression of disease. In preclinical studies, estrogen induces the growth of
      TSC2-deficient cells and tumor cells derived from LAM patients. In a xenograft model of
      lymphangioleiomyomatosis presented by Dr. Yu at the 2008 LAM Research Meeting, estrogen
      promoted the pulmonary metastases of tuberin-deficient ELT3 cells (TSC2-deficient rat uterine
      leiomyoma cells) in female ovariectomized CB-17-scid mice, while the estrogen inhibitor
      fulvestrant completely blocked estrogen-promoted pulmonary metastases. This work was recently
      published.

      Letrozole is a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor (inhibitor of estrogen synthesis)(14). It is
      chemically described as 4,4'-(1H-1,2,4-Triazol-1-ylmethylene)diben-zonitrile.

      In postmenopausal women, estrogens are mainly derived from the action of the aromatase
      enzyme, which converts adrenal androgens (primarily androstenedione and testosterone) to
      estrone and estradiol. The suppression of estrogen biosynthesis in peripheral tissues and in
      the cancer tissue itself can therefore be achieved by specifically inhibiting the aromatase
      enzyme.
    
  