
    
      Objectives

      Primary objective:

      Comparison of Proportion of Adequate and Diagnostic Aspirates in the EUS-B-FNA versus
      EBUS-TBNA arms as the primary approach for mediastinal fine needle aspiration during Convex
      probe EBUS.

      Secondary objectives

        1. Topical Anaesthetic requirement between the two groups

        2. Intravenous Sedative / analgesic requirement between the two groups

        3. Operator rated overall procedure satisfaction (VAS)

        4. Operator rated cough (VAS)

        5. Overall duration of procedure Methods Study Design: Prospective randomised study. Sample
           Size: Number of Patients: 100 (50 -EBUS-TBNA arm, 50- EUS-B-FNA arm)

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age 18 years and Older

        -  Patients with predominant Subcarinal or Lower Left paratracheal located mediastinal
           lymphadenopathy/mediastinal lesions at least >1cm in Short axis diameter.

        -  Patients who give consent.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Refusal of consent for the procedure

        -  Any contraindications to Bronchoscopy or Endobronchial Ultrasound procedures

        -  Pregnancy Controls: None For all patients, a targeted history will be obtained to screen
           for diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension, bleeding disorders, cardiac disease,
           previous anaesthetic complications and any medication history including antiplatelet
           therapy. Baseline investigations like complete hemogram and prothrombin time will be
           done, and imaging prior to the procedure will include a chest radiograph and computed
           tomography (CT) scan of the chest (plain and contrast enhanced).

      The patients will then be randomised to 2 groups of 50 patients each. 50 patients in one
      group will undergo Transtracheal (EBUS-TBNA) approach, whereas in the other group, 50
      patients will undergo Transesophageal (EUS-B-FNA) route as the primary approach using the
      EBUS scope. Procedures will be performed under moderate sedation. Procedures will be
      performed in the Bronchoscopy Lab.

      The size and characteristics of the mediastinal lymph nodes as visualised during EBUS/EUS
      will be recorded. The concerned mediastinal lymph nodes will be sampled by EBUS-TBNA/EUS-FNA
      under direct ultrasonic visualisation. The aspirates will be expressed on to slides and will
      be placed into alcohol cytology bottles. The slides will then be dispatched to the
      Cytopathology Lab for appropriate stains and further analysis. Lymph node core if obtained
      will be sent in formalin for Histopathological analysis. Post procedure, the patients will
      remain in observation for a few hours and will be discharged on the same day. A patient
      proforma will be completed for each patient separately. The size and stations of the sampled
      nodes will be recorded. The total duration of procedure, the nature and total dose of
      anaesthesia or sedation will also be recorded. A Visual-analogue scale (VAS) will be used to
      assess operator rated procedure related cough and overall operator rated procedure
      satisfaction.

      Statistical Analysis - Descriptive statistics such as mean, median, standard deviation and
      range will be calculated for all continuous variables. Frequency distributions will be
      calculated for all qualitative data. Frequency data across categorical variables will be
      compared using chi-square and fisher's exact test. Among patients with adequate sample on
      EBUS-TBNA/EUS-B-FNA, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive
      values will be calculated using standard formulas. P-value of P<0.05 is considered as
      statistically significant.
    
  