
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid (AT-101) that can be
      combined with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed symptomatic multiple
      myeloma (MM). (Phase I) II. To determine the overall response rate (partial response or
      better) of AT-101 when used in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients
      with relapsed symptomatic MM. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with
      relapsed symptomatic MM following treatment with AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone.

      II. To determine the toxicities associated with AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone in patients with relapsed symptomatic MM.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine in vivo the anti-myeloma effect of AT-101 alone by assessing extent of decrease
      in M-protein (serum and/or urine) after 1 cycle of AT-101 alone.

      II. Determine the pharmacodynamics effect of AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone treatment on primary myeloma cell in vivo.

      III. Explore potential mechanism of resistance to AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone therapy and the role of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid followed by a
      phase II study.

      Patients receive R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid orally (PO) once a day (QD) on days 1-21.
      Beginning in course 2, patients also receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 and
      dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 3 years.
    
  