
    
      The actual frequency of infectious vaginitis is difficult to determine, due to numerous
      confounding factors, such as a high asymptomatic rate, inaccurate self-diagnosis and
      treatment, and population dependence. In the USA, the prevalence of cervicovaginal infections
      was 29.1% and that bacterial vaginosis was frequently found 19.7% among IUDs users 6 months
      after insertion.

      Vaginal douching (VD) is the process of intravaginal cleansing with any type of liquid
      solution. Douching is a common practice among women all over the world and is used for
      personal hygiene. Studies in the USA showed that about 37% of US women in reproductive age
      (15-44 Y) reported regular VD. The performance of this habit varied between different ethnic
      groups and different socioeconomic levels. In a Turkish study, VD reported to be performed by
      91.6% of women living in rural areas.

      There are cultural believes that VD is necessary for good hygiene. Other motives for douching
      are to clean the vagina after the end of menses or before and/or after sexual intercourse, to
      prevent or ameliorate an odor, to prevent or treat vaginal symptoms such as itching and
      discharge. Other factors contribute to a woman's decision to douche her vagina like the
      influence of patients' mothers, friends, and relatives. Some others consider VD as religious
      duty to be able to pray after menses or sexual intercourse.

      Previous studies have pointed to reproductive health hazards of VD. Women who perform this
      habit were 1.2 to 5.1 times more likely to develop bacterial vaginosis (BV); 1.6 -1.9 times
      more likely to experience a preterm labor (PTL). Women who adopt this habit were twice likely
      to develop cancer cervix; 1.7 times more likely to have sexually transmitted infections
      (STIs). Moreover, VD performers have 73% increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)
      and are 1.5 times more likely to develop endometritis.

      The intrauterine device (IUD) is the most widely used method of contraception because of its
      safety and cost-effective benefit. Over 100 million women are now using this device. However,
      the number of user is still much less than expected. This probably due to the doubt about
      complications from IUD, the most common medical reasons for early discontinuation of IUD are
      bleeding and/or pain along with genital infections.

      Many women who have vaginitis generally complain of some combination of discharge, odor,
      irritation, and itch. The most common causes of vaginitis in premenopausal group were
      bacterial vaginosis, vaginal candidiasis and trichomoniasis. Previous studies showed that
      copper IUD caused a change in the cervicovaginal flora that resulted in the predominance of
      anaerobic species. These alterations may affect vaginal health and cause more vaginal
      infection and symptoms for example itching, soreness and abnormal discharge.
    
  