
    
      Our research will be carried out in Pamukkale University Faculty of Medicine Department of
      Emergency Medicine in 12 months period. There will be a research assistant and / or a faculty
      member who will control the research for 24 hours in our emergency department with
      approximately 110000 adult patients / year.

      Study criteria: Female patients with primary dysmenorrhea (abdomino-pelvic pain) in the 18-45
      age range. The onset of symptoms should usually be a few hours - 1 day before the onset of
      visible vaginal bleeding. Possible systemic symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
      headache, fatigue, irritability, and dizziness are also questioned and recorded in the data
      form. Patients with a Visual Analog Scale > 5 and those who require or are recommended
      nonsteroid antiinflammatory treatment.Patients who come with dysmenorrhea will be randomly
      selected and will be divided into three groups according to the pre-planned drug
      administration.

      Group 1; Paracetamol 1000 mg Group 2; Dexketoprofen Trometamol 50mg Group 3; Ibuprofen 400 mg
      In the form of group to be administered intravenously. In case of unresponsiveness to
      treatment, intravenous Tramadol hcl 100mg will be administered after 45 minutes.

      Pain scores of patients will be recorded using the Visual Analog Scale, 0-10 cm Visual Analog
      Scale, to score the degree of pain.During the process, O2 saturation monitorization,
      automatic manometer (blood pressure), rhythm monitorization (speed and rhythm) will be
      provided and all other medications during the operation will be recorded.

      Pain scores will be recorded at 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes. In addition, heart rate,
      systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, respiration rate and O2 saturation (SPO2)
      will be recorded at 0, 15, 30, 60 minutes.

      In addition, any side effects that may occur are recorded in the data sheet. If side effects
      are necessary, treatment will be applied. All information will be saved to the created work
      form
    
  