
    
      Globally, diabetes mellitus has become a major threat to human health. An increase in the
      prevalence of diabetes has been observed, which in part can be attributed to the aging of the
      population, as well as to an increase in the rate of obesity and sedentary lifestyle in
      Canada and the United States.1 Diabetes mellitus is an emerging epidemic with an estimate,
      currently, of almost 18 million confirmed cases and another 20 million patients with impaired
      glucose tolerance at risk to diabetes, in the United States alone.2,3

      Diabetes mellitus, either Type-I or Type-II, is a very strong risk factor for the development
      of coronary artery disease (CAD) and stroke. Eighty percent of all deaths among diabetic
      patients are due to atherosclerosis, compared to about 30% among non-diabetic patients.2 A
      large NIH cohort study, the First National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, revealed
      that heart disease mortality in the general population is declining at a much greater rate
      than in diabetic patients. In fact, diabetic women suffered an increase in heart disease
      mortality over the same time period.4,5 Furthermore, despite recent reductions in
      cardiovascular events amongst adults with diabetes, the absolute risk of cardiovascular
      events remains 2- fold greater than amongst non-diabetic individuals.6

      There are various methods by which we can treat multivessel CAD in diabetic patients.
      Although conventional bypass (cCABG) is more beneficial than percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) with drug eluting stents (DES) for myocardial revascularization in
      diabetics with multivessel CAD, diabetics are also the patients who experience the most
      complications, infections, and highest costs with cCABG through a sternotomy. Recently, we
      developed and diffused MICS CABG, which can be combined with PCI/DES to vessels other than
      the one at the front of the heart in order to constitute hybrid coronary revascularization
      (HCR). The safety and efficacy of MICS CABG was recently validated in a multicentre study
      from our research team, with 100% patency of the left internal thoracic artery (LITA)-LAD
      axis on angiography7. Potential advantages of an HCR approach in diabetics include the
      avoidance of a sternotomy and the potential for earlier recovery, less bleeding and
      transfusions, fewer infections, decreased costs, increased patient acceptance, while
      potentially maintaining the benefits of cCABG due to the LITA-LAD axis in a diabetic
      population.

      Despite HCR's theoretical advantages as outlined above, it is a novel innovative approach
      that has not been studied in a randomized setting, nor in the context of diabetic patients.
      Its rationale and main research question stem from MICS CABG work by the principal
      investigator, as well as his recent, collaborative Lancet meta-analysis which revealed that
      diabetic patients with multivessel coronary disease (CAD) have better much survival with
      bypass surgery than with stents8. However, diabetics are also the patients who experience the
      most complications and infections from cCABG with incision of the breastbone. The
      investigators main hypothesis is therefore that a HCR strategy in diabetics with multivessel
      CAD will combine the benefits of bypass surgery on the artery at the front of the heart (the
      LAD), nearly eliminate the risk of complications and wound infection, and allow for faster
      recovery and improved quality of life when compared to cCABG. Other blockages would be
      treated with a PCI/DES to reduce the invasiveness of the procedure.

      Overall, the investigators believe that the equipoise as to whether HCR is better than cCABG
      in diabetic patients with multivessel CAD constitutes the next important question in the
      diabetes/CAD field. The investigators propose to evaluate the feasibility of a definitive
      trial examining this question by conducting the present pilot trial.

      Upon study approval, the time frame will be one year of recruitment, followed by 1 year of
      follow-up. Since this is a pilot trial, the investigators are assessing the feasibility of
      conducting this trial on diabetic patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. Should
      this trial be feasible, the investigators will extend the study to a full-scale study. At
      that time, an application will be submitted to conduct the study.
    
  