
    
      This acute intervention study will have a randomised controlled crossover design where the
      volunteers will return for 4 stand-alone study sessions. All study procedures will be carried
      out at the Human Nutrition Unit (HNU) of the Rowett Institute.

      The first study session will be an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The remaining three
      will be intervention sessions which will be identical in all respects except for the
      composition of the fruit bar. There will have a minimum of 1 week washout period. Volunteers
      will be asked to consume a low polyphenol diet three days prior to each intervention. To
      ensure compliance, participants will be provided with a list of 'allowed' and 'excluded'
      foods as well as food diaries to complete over the three day period. The Fruit bars will be
      made in the HNU kitchens by trained staff.

      Table 1. Study sessions Intervention/Meal

      Oral Glucose Tolerance test (OGTT) Fruit bar Plus OGTT Fruit bar with addition of 600 mg
      bilberry anthocyanins Plus OGTT Fruit bar with addition of 600mg bilberry anthocyanins and
      1200mg apple polyphenols Plus OGTT

      The glucose load for the OGTT in all sessions will be given as carbohydrate meal consisting
      of white bread, spread, low-polyphenol jam. (meal: 75g carbohydrate total)

      Screening session Once the volunteer expresses interest in the study, they will be invited to
      attend a screening visit lasting approximately 1 h. Informed consent will be obtained from
      all participants, ensuring that they have fully understood all the study procedures before
      continuing. A full eligibility assessment (for assessing inclusion and exclusion criteria)
      will be carried out following consenting. This will include the completion of a health
      screening questionnaire, anthropometric measurements (height, weight, BMI,). HbA1c will be
      measured using finger prick blood samples. Volunteers fulfilling all the criteria and who
      wish to continue will be accepted into the study.

      OGTT and Intervention sessions (study sessions 1-3)

      At each session the volunteers will return for 2 visits.

      Visit 1: Pre - Study Session Day This session will last approximately 1 hour. Volunteers will
      arrive at the HNU on the day preceding the study session day for the insertion of the
      continuous blood glucose monitoring (CGM) sensor (iPro 2, Medtronic Ltd, UK). Upon arrival,
      their weight will be measured for calculating BMI. Waist circumference and body fat
      composition using bio-impedance will be also be measured. The CGM records interstitial
      glucose levels at five minute intervals and provides a detailed picture of glucose fluxes.
      The CGM monitors are widely used by diabetics to monitor blood glucose fluxes and are
      designed for self-insertion. Their accuracy and level of data detail has also made them a
      powerful and widely used research tool. The sensor will be inserted into the subcutaneous fat
      layer (just below the skin surface) in the belly area by a trained researcher or HNU staff
      member. Insertion will be carried out using a tailor-made inserter provided with the CGM
      which causes minimum discomfort. Following stabilisation of the sensor a data acquisition
      unit will be attached to it. The sensor will be calibrated using a finger prick blood sample.
      Volunteers will be shown how to calibrate the CGM at home using a standard blood glucose
      meter and finger prick samples, and instructed on the times when they would have to do so.
      Wearing the sensor (which is about the size of a £2 coin) causes minimum discomfort to the
      wearer and does not hinder daily activities (including sleeping and having baths). The
      volunteers will be provided with a list of foods to consume that evening before each session
      day. We will ask the volunteer to consume the same meal before each session day. No
      restrictions will be made on water.

      Visit 2: study session day This session will last approximately 4 h. The volunteers will
      return to the HNU the following morning in an overnight fasted state of approximately 10 h. A
      cannula will be inserted into a vein in the antecubital fossa at the front of an elbow of the
      left or right arm and kept patent with sterile saline (0.9% NaCl). Baseline fasted blood (10
      mL) samples will be collected into K-EDTA tubes (6 mL serum). The plasma blood collection
      tubes will also contain DPP-4 inhibitors to preserve incretin hormone integrity. Following
      baseline sample collection, volunteers will consume the fruit bar and then the carbohydrate
      meal within 10 min. Periodic blood samples 10 mL will be collected into K-EDTA tubes at
      15min, 30min, 45min, 1h, 1.5h, 2h, 2.5h, and 3h post fruit bar/carbohydrate meal consumption.

      At the end of the 3 h, the cannula will be removed; volunteers will consume a standardised
      lunch the CGM sensor will be removed and volunteers will be free to leave the HNU.
    
  