
    
      Peripheral neuropathy is one of the most common chemotherapy side effects affecting the
      nerves. Each year, thousands of patients receive taxane-based chemotherapy and more than
      50-60% of these patients will have CIPN. CIPN can cause painful or abnormal skin sensation
      (such as pins and needles), numbness, and/or nerve damage that may affect movement.

      Baseline Visit:

      You have already had certain tests as part of your routine care that helped show that you
      were eligible to take part in this study. If you agree to take part in this study, the
      following tests and procedures will be performed at your first study visit:

        -  Your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate) will be
           measured.

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires about any symptoms you may have. The questionnaires
           should take about 15-30 minutes to complete in total.

        -  You will perform hand function and balance tests. For these tests, you will complete
           tasks such as putting pegs into a pegboard. These tests should take about 20 minutes to
           complete.

      Study Groups:

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Both groups will
      receive a total of 12 acupuncture treatments.

        -  Group 1 will receive acupuncture 2 times a week for 6 weeks.

        -  Group 2 will receive acupuncture 3 times a week for 4 weeks.

      Acupuncture Treatments (All Participants):

      Your acupuncture treatments will be given on an outpatient basis in private rooms. For the
      treatment, you will lay down on a table face up. The acupuncturist will disinfect the
      selected acupuncture points with alcohol. Then, the acupuncture needles will be placed so
      that you achieve a "de qi" sensation, which is often described as an achy, tingling, or numb
      feeling of pressure after an acupuncture needle has been properly placed in the skin.

      The acupuncture needles will be left in place for about 20 minutes. During this time, the
      needles will be charged with a small electric current, which is done to enhance the effect of
      the acupuncture treatment. The needles may also be twirled to cause the sensation of de qi.

      During each treatment session, you will receive acupuncture to the arms, legs, and abdomen.

      Study Visits:

      One (1) time every week:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

      At Weeks 3 and 6 (Group 1 only) and Weeks 2 and 4 (Group 2 only):

        -  You will complete the same 3 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  You will perform hand function and balance tests.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue your participation on this study for up to 10 weeks, as long as the study
      doctor thinks it is your best interest. Your active participation in this study will be over
      after you have completed the 4-week follow-up visit.

      Follow-Up:

      Four (4) weeks after you complete the acupuncture treatment, the following tests and/or
      procedures will be performed:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  Your medical history will be reviewed and any updates will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

        -  You will complete the same 3 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  You will perform hand function and balance tests.

      This is an investigational study. The acupuncture needles being used in this study are FDA
      approved for medical use. The use of acupuncture treatments for chronic CIPN on the schedules
      in this study is investigational.

      Up to 54 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  