
    
      Our current clinical trial proposal includes a short course of pre-operative, single agent
      erlotinib followed by post-operative erlotinib-gemcitabine in a neo-adjuvant/adjuvant
      approach to the treatment of patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The short
      course pre-operative erlotinib treatment serves two objectives: 1) erlotinib, through its
      cytostatic effects, may hinder the ability of tumor cells to metastasize at the time of
      surgical resection with minimal toxic effects and no delay in surgical treatment; 2) the true
      effects of erlotinib on potential determinants of response can be best assayed on the
      pancreatic cancer itself since no other model can better resemble the patients authentic
      tumor microenvironment. The post-operative treatment component of the protocol attempts to
      improve the demonstrated effects of gemcitabine by adding erlotinib in the adjuvant setting,
      a drug combination that, as mentioned, has already been proven to be advantageous for
      patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.

      Traditionally, chemotherapy for cancer has been conducted in an empiric fashion by first
      selecting a regimen based on clinical trial evidence and clinical parameters, and then by
      assessing the objective response to that regimen employing clinical and radiographic imaging
      means. This approach suffers from many disadvantages, most conspicuously the inability to
      select the better patient candidates prior to the initiation of therapy, thus sparing the
      risk and expense of ineffective treatment for patients who are unlikely to respond. Since
      pancreatic cancer expression of EGFR protein by itself is not predictive of therapeutic
      response, alternative methods of patient selection seem to be essential for the success of
      EGFR-targeted treatment. The understanding of EGFR molecular signaling has allowed the drug
      development process to shift from an empiric random screening approach to a more rational and
      mechanistic, target-directed approach. Among multiple attempts to identify molecular
      determinants of tumor cell sensitivity to EGFR inhibitors, there are two main paradigms that
      stand out: 1) activation of downstream pharmacodynamic effectors associated with response to
      the drug (i.e. phosphorylation of Akt or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK);
      expression of c-fos), and 2) prediction of sensitivity based on a "static" analyte (detection
      of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) sensitizing mutations; epithelial-mesenchymal
      transition profile). However, given the complexity of factors governing pancreatic cancer
      response to erlotinib, the biologic heterogeneity of malignant phenotype, and overall
      relatively low response rates, we believe that it is unlikely that analysis of a single
      biomarker will be useful for patient selection. A comprehensive analysis of a dynamic panel
      of biomarkers relevant to EGFR signaling and erlotinib mechanism of action seems more useful
      in that sense. Furthermore, the limited ability of pancreatic cancer tissue sampling often
      precludes biomarker correlation to assays worked out in xenograft models or in-vitro
      conditions.

      The translational rationale of this proposal is therefore to develop predictive chemotherapy
      sensitivity-resistance assays (CSRA) for pancreas carcinoma patients treated with erlotinib
      and gemcitabine. This will represent a major advance, because the CSRA would enable
      prediction of clinical response prior to initiation of therapy.
    
  