
    
      Pseudoexfoliation (PXF) is an age-related disease characterized by production of
      extracellular material in the anterior segment of the eye and other tissues of the body.
      While only 0.6% of people between 52 and 65 years are affected, 5% of people between 75 years
      and 85 years have Pseudoexfoliation syndrome. An estimated 70 million people may have PXF
      worldwide. PXF can be associated with glaucoma, cataract, reduced pupil dilatation, zonule
      weakness, and postoperative complications. After cataract surgery decentration and
      subluxation of the intra-ocular lens (IOL) is more likely in patients with Pseudoexfoliation
      syndrome due to the higher incidence of zonular weakness as well as the increased capsule
      fibrotic reaction. It has to be taken into account that an anterior chamber depth (ACD)
      shift, decentration, tilt or rotation of an IOL could result in a severe reduction in visual
      quality. For an aspherical IOL, for instance, it is essential not to be decentered and tilted
      more than 0.4 mm (0.8 mm 7) and 7° (10° 7), respectively. Otherwise it will be outperformed
      by a spherical IOL. We assume that the design of the IOL, more precisely the design of the
      anterior surface of the IOL, can influence the degree of capsule fibrosis and contraction,
      especially in patients who tend to have capsular instability like patients with PXF syndrome.
      The Tecnis 1-piece ZCB00 (AMO, California, USA), a single-piece hydrophobic acrylic open-loop
      IOL has its convex anterior surface not up to the edge of the IOL optic, but instead has a
      concave depression before reaching the edge. Due to this particular shape of the anterior
      surface, the anterior lens capsule typically only has contact at the IOL optic edge with the
      remaining central part up to the rhexis edge 'floating' over the optic without contact. Due
      to this situation, we expect less fibrotic reaction of the capsule because of a lack of
      contact between the lens epithelial cells of the anterior capsule not transdifferentiating
      into myofibroblasts and not laying down collagen that result in the typical contraction and
      whitening of the anterior capsule. On the contrary, another IOL, the ISERT 250 (HOYA, Japan),
      also a hydrophobic acrylic open-loop IOL, has an anterior surface which is convex all the way
      to the optic edge resulting in complete contact of the rhexis edge and overlying the anterior
      capsule on the IOL optic. This may aggravate the anterior lens capsule reaction to the IOL
      material which may result in more capsular contraction due to pronounced fibrosis of the
      capsule and in turn results in decentration and or tilt of the IOL.

      Aim of this study is to assess the differences of IOL tilt and decentration in patients with
      pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PXF) with two different IOLs, the Tecnis 1-piece ZCB00, (AMO,
      USA) and the ISERT 250 (HOYA, Japan), measured with an AS-OCT, Scheimpflug imaging and
      Purkinjemeter.
    
  