
    
      In the last few decades, the world has seen a significant increase in the occurrence of
      occupational diseases related to Burnout Syndrome (professional exhaustion) and stress in
      educators. These disorders affect mental health and teaching activity. In this way, they need
      to develop socio-emotional skills to cope with the psychosocial stressors related to the
      school environment. Currently, mindfulness-based therapies have been recommended to help
      educators acquire emotional self-control, and to improve self-esteem, metacognition,
      attention, resilience and affectivity, in addition to better the social skills needed in the
      school milieu. A few published studies indicate that mindfulness practices also reduce some
      inflammation- and stress- related molecules such as cortisol, receptor-interacting
      serine/threonine kinase 2 (RIPK2), cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2), interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor
      necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and epigenetic-regulation related histone deacetilases (HDAC).
      These indicator molecules can be measured in blood. The World Health Organisation (WHO-2013)
      recommends the worldwide implementation of strategies for the promotion of mental health,
      which are particularly aimed at preventing occupational diseases. The main objective of the
      proposed research project is to elaborate a program of Mindfulness-Based Health Promotion -
      educators (MBHP - educa) to be applied to a population of Brazilian public school educators.
      The efficacy of the program will be evaluated by cognitive testing. Blood tests for the
      above-mentioned stress-related molecules will be performed. The goal of developing the MBHP -
      educa Program is to promote and ameliorate the health care of public school teachers.
      Developing such a research proposal will contribute to debate and implement public health
      policies focussed on promoting the health of public school teachers in Brazil.
    
  