
    
      Intimate partner victimization (IPV) is a significant social and public health problem among
      perinatal women. IPV places a woman at high risk for several psychiatric disorders, which
      transforms the perinatal period from an already challenging process into a potentially
      overwhelming one. IPV and untreated mental illness during the perinatal period poses a dual
      risk of adverse physical and emotional outcomes for women and their developing fetus/infant.
      Given the high rates of IPV among women who seek mental health treatment, mental health
      clinics compared to other medical settings (e.g. primary care) are more effective sites for
      focused case finding and intervention. In addition, the presence of IPV increases the
      likelihood of disengagement from treatment, which could further compromise the health and
      safety of women and their fetus/infant. Despite the high-risk profile of women with IPV and
      mental health illness, there are low screening and intervention rates of female mental health
      patients with IPV within mental health settings.

      The objective of this R01 Award is to fill this critical gap by building upon our promising
      pilot findings to test whether the innovative intervention, "Strength for U in Relationship
      Empowerment" (SURE), reduces the frequency of IPV more than an attention, time, and
      information matched control condition in perinatal women seeking mental health care.

      The investigators propose a two-group, randomized controlled trial in which 186 perinatal
      women with IPV women seeking mental health care who will be assigned to either (a) SURE, a
      computer-delivered, single-session brief intervention plus one interventionist-led phone
      booster that is consistent with motivational interviewing and informed by the literature on
      effective interventions for our target population and targeted risk factors, or (b) a
      computer-delivered control + one interventionist-led phone booster condition.
      Computer-delivered follow-up assessments will occur at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months after the baseline assessment.

      Anticipated 25% of planned enrollment recruited by 5/14/2021. Anticipated 50% of planned
      enrollment recruited by 2/15/2022. Anticipated 75% of planned enrollment recruited by
      8/15/2022. Anticipated 100% of planned enrollment recruited by 2/13/2023. Anticipated
      completion of primary endpoints data analyses by 6/28/2024. Anticipated reporting of results
      in ClinicalTrials.gov by 6/30/2024.
    
  