
    
      Over 4,000 children are diagnosed with brain tumors in the U.S. each year and advances in
      treatment have led to significant increases in survival rates for these patients. However, as
      a result of the disease and treatment with surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, pediatric
      brain tumor patients show deficits in frontal lobe functions including several aspects of
      executive function, showing significant declines over time. Remediation of these deficits is
      a critical target for research. Major changes in brain maturation and connectivity occur
      during childhood and adolescence, making this a potentially critical window of opportunity
      for neuroplasticity-based cognitive interventions to support the neural changes that
      integrate multiple key regions. Computerized cognitive training programs have been used
      successfully with patients with schizophrenia, individuals with ADHD, and prodromal
      adolescents at risk for psychosis. However, these programs have been limited in their
      application to pediatric brain tumor survivors and untested in brain tumor patients who are
      undergoing treatment. We aim to blend longitudinal and intervention research designs used
      successfully in previous studies to test the feasibility, acceptability, and initial efficacy
      of a neuroplasticiy-based cognitive training program, Cogmed, to enhance working memory and
      attention in children and adolescents who have been diagnosed with brain tumors. First, we
      will use a longitudinal design in which, in collaboration with Dr. Wellons (pediatric
      neurosurgeon) and Dr. Friedman (pediatric hematology/oncology), we will recruit patients at
      the time of their diagnosis and conduct cognitive testing pre-surgery and at approximately 10
      weeks post diagnosis (randomization), 5-7 weeks post Cogmed start (post-intervention), 10-20
      weeks post Cogmed start (follow-up), and 1 year post diagnosis (long term follow-up). Second,
      we will embed a test of the efficacy of Cogmed in this longitudinal design by randomizing
      patients at 10-weeks post-diagnosis. Half will undergo Cogmed computerized adaptive cognitive
      training (treatment condition) for 5 weeks and half will be assigned to the non adaptive
      Cogmed computerized cognitive training (control condition). We will use near infrared
      spectroscopy, a noninvasive functional imaging method that uses infrared light to detect
      changes in cortical hemoglobin levels at randomization, post-intervention, follow-up, and
      long term follow-up. We expect that Cogmed, which will be administered at home or in the
      hospital, will be feasible and acceptable for the majority (85% or more) of patients.
      Further, we hypothesize that adaptive Cogmed training will help improve working memory and
      attention skills and increase frontal cortical activity in the brain tumor patients who
      receive the remediation program compared to those who receive the non-adaptive control
      version of the program. Using growth curve analyses, we expect that patients who receive the
      intervention will show a deflection in the negative trajectory of cognitive functions over
      time. Findings from this pilot study will be used to develop an application for a multi-site
      randomized clinical trial to test this intervention in a large sample of pediatric brain
      tumor patients.
    
  