
    
      Liver resection for colorectal metastasis is the only potentially curative therapy and has
      become the standard of care in appropriately staged patients, offering 5-year survival rates
      of approximately 35-40%. Also for symptomatic benign lesions and those of uncertain nature or
      large size, liver resection is a widely accepted treatment. Open hepatectomy (OH) is the
      current standard of care for the management of primary and secondary malignancies. Although
      the feasibility of laparoscopic hepatectomy (LH) has been established, only select centres
      have used this technique as their primary modality.

      Laparoscopic liver resection was first reported in 1991. Over the last decade the method has
      gained wide acceptance for various liver resection procedures. Multiple retrospective case
      series and reviews comparing open with laparoscopic liver resection indicate that
      laparoscopic liver resection can be applied safely for both malignant and benign liver
      lesions. Laparoscopic liver resection has been associated with shorter hospital length of
      stay, reduced intraoperative blood loss, less postoperative pain, earlier recovery and better
      quality of life. Initially the left lateral segments of the liver were chosen for anatomic
      laparoscopic resection with good results. Many liver centres worldwide are currently adopting
      laparoscopic surgery for resection of anterior segments, but relatively low volumes to
      operate on, a significant learning curve and lack of evidence restrict the majority of liver
      surgeons to further adopt and disseminate this technique.

      Recently, indications for resectability have been broadened by new (neo)adjuvant
      chemotherapies and (radio)embolisation techniques. A new impulse for the laparoscopic
      management of liver lesions came after the first reports of laparoscopic hemihepatectomies.
      Major hepatic resections can be technically demanding and hold an increased risk for
      morbidity. It was demonstrated that in expert hands major anatomical laparoscopic liver
      resections were feasible with good efficacy and safety. Expert liver centers are already
      performing laparoscopic (extended) hemihepatectomies. Currently, in European centers, a
      median hospital length of stay of 6.0 to 13.1 and 3.5 to 10.0 days is observed after
      respectively open and laparoscopic hepatic resection. In expert hands median duration of
      admission after major hepatic resection varies between 6 - 12.5 for open and 4 - 8.2 for
      laparoscopic surgery. However, reports are scarce and level 1 evidence on this matter is
      still to be presented.

      Within the framework of optimising postoperative recovery, broader indications for resection
      and further adoption of laparoscopic liver surgery there is a need for a randomized
      trial.Regarding postoperative care, enthusiasm has arisen for the Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery (ERAS®) program. This multimodal program, derived from Kehlet's 1990's pioneer work
      in the multimodal surgical care field, involves optimization of several aspects of the
      perioperative management of patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. In patients
      undergoing segmental colectomy, the ERAS® -program enabled earlier recovery and consequently
      shorter hospital length of stay. Furthermore, a reduction of postoperative morbidity in
      patients undergoing intestinal resection was reported. These results stimulated liver
      surgeons of the ERAS® group (Maastricht, Edinburgh and Tromsö) to adapt the ERAS®-program to
      patients undergoing open liver resection. Van Dam et al. found a significantly reduced
      hospital length of stay after open liver resection when patients were managed within a
      multimodal ERAS®-program. Besides a reduction of median total hospital length of stay from 8
      to 6 days (25%), the data also suggested that a further reduction of stay could be possible
      as there was a delay between recovery and actual discharge of the patients. Moreover, Stoot
      et al. showed - retrospectively - a further reduction in length of stay from 7 days to 5 days
      when patients were operated laparoscopically and managed within an ERAS®-program. In this
      study there was also a delay between recovery and actual discharge of the patients. Earlier,
      Maessen et al. reported a median delay to discharge of 2 days after patients had functionally
      recovered from colonic surgery managed within an ERAS®-program. This delay is often linked to
      social problems, problems in homecare support or logistic problems.

      The added value of the laparoscopic hemihepatectomy compared to the open hemihepatectomy has
      never been studied in a randomized controlled setting. Therefore, the multicenter
      international ORANGE II PLUS - trial has been constructed and will provide evidence on the
      merits of laparoscopic versus open hemihepatectomy.
    
  