
    
      Neuropsychological evaluation of older children than previously studied with histories of
      fetal exposure to antidepressants and maternal depression during pregnancy is needed and may
      inform whether a signal for neural disruption exists following fetal selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) exposure. Identification of genetic factors which may afford
      resilience or particular vulnerability to fetal exposure to antidepressants is a logical
      component of this translational initiative designed to answer the proposed research question.

      Because of the hypothesis that prenatal exposure to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-based
      drugs has the influence excitatory/inhibitory balance and to shift critical periods, there is
      reason to believe that some aspects of brain development may also be altered. To this end,
      this project aims to "scan" a variety of brain functions that include memory, attention, and
      executive functions; in addition, it will also examine the extent to which face and speech
      processing are altered in the target sample.

      This study will assess older children ages 6-17 with histories of fetal exposure to
      antidepressants and/or maternal depression during pregnancy. It will evaluate child behavior
      based on maternal report and utilize neuropsychological evaluation to inform whether a signal
      for neural disruption exists following fetal SSRI or depression exposure. The
      neuropsychological assessments will be paired with an analysis of genetic factors which may
      afford resilience or particular vulnerability to fetal exposure to antidepressants.

      This study leverages unique patient resources with respect to children of mothers with well
      documented histories of SSRI exposure who have been prospectively followed across pregnancy.
      The multidisciplinary collaboration between the lead investigator, Dr. Lee S. Cohen of the
      Center for Women's Mental Health (CWMH), and the Laboratories of Cognitive Neuroscience,
      Boston Children's Hospital (Dr. Charles Nelson), the Department of Molecular and Cellular
      Biology, and the Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit at Massachusetts General
      Hospital (Dr. Jordan Smoller) is a remarkable opportunity to better understand the effects of
      maternal antidepressant exposure during pregnancy on neuropsychological development of
      children.
    
  