
    
      Study AIM #1 To establish the sensitivity of FDG PET/CT in the diagnosis of acute VTE.

      Rationale: We believe that FDG PET/CT can be used to accurately diagnose the presence,
      extent, and acuity of VTE. It is unrealistic to assume that FDG-PET could or should become
      the primary imaging modality for evaluating VTE. The cost, compared to Doppler ultrasound,
      would be prohibitive, and would involve unnecessary radiation of the patient. We intend to
      establish the value of FDG PET, instead, as an alternative modality for the diagnosis of VTE.
      Clinical situations where this might prove useful include: 1) the presence of old clot, when
      the distinction between new and old may be important; 2) evaluation of abdominal, pelvic and
      thoracic thrombus, where Doppler is difficult-to-impossible because of patient obesity; 3)
      Complicated anatomy due to the presence of tumor or post-therapeutic changes.

      The sensitivity of FDG PET/CT will be established in patients with acute VTE. The accuracy
      with which sites of abnormal FDG uptake can be related, spatially, to vascular structures
      will be critical to the success of this study. There is little doubt that this can better be
      accomplished with PET/CT than with PET alone. PET/CT will be used for all of these studies.
      Patients with documented acute VTE, will be enrolled. To determine the utility of FDG PET/CT
      in distinguishing acute from subacute or chronic clot, and to establish the extent of acute
      clot, the initial whole body PET/CT scan must be performed within 2 weeks of onset of
      symptoms of DVT, and subsequent limited region PET/CT scans will be performed at 2-3 weeks
      and at 6 weeks following the initial PET/CT scan. Whenever possible, subjects will be
      recruited who have unprovoked VTE because the potential benefit to the patient for
      participating in this study will be greatest for these patients are at a higher risk for
      harboring an underlying occult malignancy. However, patients with both provoked and
      unprovoked VTE will be eligible for enrollment under this specific aim.
    
  