
    
      Depression is one of the most common invalidating mental disorders, ranked by World Health
      Organization as the single largest contributor to global disability. Diagnosis is currently
      based only on semi-structured clinical interviews focused on symptoms that patients may have
      experienced for at least two weeks. However, this approach comes with a very low diagnostic
      consensus and there is no objective biomarker accurate enough to be used to support clinical
      decision. Antidepressant medications have been associated with a modest advantage over
      placebos, psychotherapeutic treatments do not work for all patients. Typical response rate,
      in fact, may be less than 50%, especially for chronic depression. Given the high
      inter-patient variability, a clinical decision support system allowing for an objective
      diagnosis of depression and, consequently, a personalised treatment throughout EMDR therapy
      is very missing.

      This study has the following aims:

        1. To compare the effects of different therapeutic interventions (CBT and EMDR) on emotion
           processing and on autonomic response in adult patients with depression, as assessed
           through hd-EEG, fMRI and HRV recording during administration of images expressing the
           emotions of sadness, anger, fear, joy, or neutral images, in order to investigate
           specific potential of each treatment.

        2. To compare the efficacy of different interventions on clinical symptoms, as assessed by
           psychological questionnaires, and their correlation with neurobiological changes.

        3. To investigate the correlation between hd-EEG, fMRI and autonomic responses.

        4. To deepen the understanding of autonomic changes in different mood states, assessing the
           capability of HRV recordings to evaluate changes in mood states during therapy sessions,
           through videotaping sessions with identification of the following states through
           percentage variation of sympatho-vagal indices of HRV, as compared to resting-state
           baseline acquisitions:

             1. Emotional distress and resolution through therapeutic intervention

             2. Expression of resources and recovery of enriching emotions

             3. States of hyper and hypo arousal

             4. Correlations with specific practices of the EMDR process of therapy (Stabilization,
                Processing, Cognitive interwaves) The evaluation of EEG and fMRI alterations and
                autonomic nervous system dynamics across the clinical trial proposed in this
                project is the primary outcome of the experimental design and results.

      Moreover, autonomic biomarkers will be correlated with EEG-derived measures, providing a
      unique assessment of the EMDR effects on the so-called brain-heart axis during depression.

      Depression is one of the most common mental disorders, with more than 300 million people
      affected and it is ranked by World Health Organization as the single largest contributor to
      global disability [WHO 2017]. The occurrence and development of major psychiatric disorders
      including depression, in addition to stress and other neurobiological/genetic correlates
      [Nemeroff 2016], has been significantly associated with the exposure to adverse childhood
      experiences (e.g., physical and sexual abuse, emotional neglect [Felitti 1998; Norman 2012;
      Infurna 2016]. Note that the standard diagnosis of psychiatric pathological conditions is
      based on clinical evaluations through interviews and questionnaire scores only, completely
      disregarding any specific physiological or biochemical markers [APA DSM-5]. Current
      recommended treatments for depression include antidepressant medication, counselling,
      interpersonal therapy, and psychotherapy [UK NICE 2010]. However, despite the efficacy of
      these interventions [Butler 2006; Olfson 2006], they do have important limitations. Regarding
      antidepressant medications, several meta-analyses have concluded that they have only a modest
      advantage over placebos [Kirsch 2008; Khan 2015], though with greater benefits in the case of
      severe depression [Fournier 2010].

      Several studies have shown that patients with depression who have had adverse childhood
      experience (ACE) have a poorer clinical course of depression, including earlier age of onset,
      greater symptom severity, more comorbidity, episode persistence and recurrence, and a poor
      treatment response [Wiersma 2009; Scott 2012; Teicher 2013; Tunnard 2014; Paterniti 2017]. To
      this end, two psychotherapeutic strategies that could be of interest are Cognitive
      Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR). CBT is
      one of the best-known, empirically supported treatments for depression [UK NICE 2010], while
      EMDR is currently being used as a treatment for a wide range of disorders that follow
      distressing life experiences [Valiente-Gomez 2017] and has been recently evaluated as
      effective as CBT in treating depression [Ostacoli 2018]. Recent randomized controlled studies
      suggest that EMDR is effective in improving depressive symptomatology and quality of life of
      patients, especially in the presence of psychological traumas in their personal history
      (Ostacoli et al., 2018; Minelli et al., 2019; Hase et al., 2018). Therefore, it's essential
      to continue to evaluate EMDR as an evidence-based treatment for depression, in order to have
      EMDR recognized in the international treatment guidelines for depression.

      Moreover, it is known that depression has significant neurobiological consequences involving
      structural, functional and molecular alterations in several areas of the brain, and both
      drugs and psychotherapy have effects through different mechanisms on patients. Recent studies
      on the neurobiology of depression highlight the potential to customize on neurobiological
      basis in order to make even more effective psychotherapy treatments (Maletic et al., 2007).
      In fact, in recent years neuroimaging studies have investigated the neurobiological
      abnormalities associated with Major Depression Disorder (MDD). In particular, several
      prefrontal and limbic structures and their interconnected circuits have been implicated in
      affective regulation. These neuroanatomical areas include the ventromedial prefrontal cortex
      (VMPFC), lateral orbital prefrontal cortex (LOPFC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC),
      anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), ventral striatum (including nucleus accumbens), amygdala and
      the hippocampus. Abnormalities in these areas have been shown in patients with MDD compared
      with healthy controls and thus suggesting a foundation for the symptomatic expression of MDD.
      Findings from several studies that examined resting-state electroencephalograms (EEGs)
      suggest that there is a decreased left prefrontal activity in depressed individuals, relative
      both to depressed participants' right frontal EEG activity and to EEG measures taken from the
      left prefrontal regions of healthy individuals (Davidson, 2003). Researches that investigate
      neurobiological effects of psychotherapies show that different psychotherapy methods lead to
      metabolism and activity changes in the direction of recovery especially in the cingulate
      cortex, prefrontal cortex and amygdala (Sözeri-Varma and Karadağ, 2012; Roffman et al.,
      2005). The neurobiological processing of emotions can also be a parameter for evaluating and
      measuring the effectiveness of therapies that integrates, increasing the reliability,
      clinical rating scales that are influenced by contingent factors such as recent life events
      and social conditions (Trentini et al., 2015). Furthermore, depression and, in particular,
      MDD strongly affects the Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) dynamics in a manner characterised by
      a reduced parasympathetic and increased sympathetic tone. Features extracted from Heart Rate
      Variability (HRV) have been demonstrated to allow quantitative estimates of Autonomic Nervous
      System (ANS) dynamics, also characterizing mental disorders (Valenza et al., 2014; Valenza
      and Scilingo, 2014; Nardelli et al., 2014; Lanata et al., 2015). Agelink et al. studied the
      HRV frequency parameters in MD patients observed a decrement of HF power and an increment of
      LF/HF ratio (Agelink et al, 2002). Decreased HRV in depressed patients, reflecting
      dysregulation of the ANS, explains the increased risks for mortality and morbidity (Carney et
      al, 1995-2001). The loss of complexity and variability in physiological systems in general,
      and in the cardiovascular system in particular, has recently been linked with a number of
      diseases and dysfunctions (Leistedt et al, 2011, Valenza et al, 2014).

      In recent years the personalization of care has become a primary goal (Cuijpers et al.,
      2012). This is of fundamental importance in the context of depression, because many patients
      do not respond adequately to treatments, with substantial economic and social costs.
      Personalized medicine aims at identifying which characteristics of an individual predict the
      outcome of a specific treatment in order to get a better match between the individual and
      treatment received. These characteristics may include sociodemographic characteristics and
      clinical characteristics of the depressive disorder, as well as biological markers, such as
      neuroimaging or biological variation (Cuijpers et al., 2012).
    
  