
    
      Newly born babies have fluid-filled lungs that they must quickly aerate after birth. Compared
      to infants born at term, preterm babies have greater difficulty in establishing and
      maintaining aeration of their lungs; this leaves them at increased risk of developing
      respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). Infants who develop RDS are treated with nasal
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), and may progress to treatment with surfactant and
      mechanical ventilation, in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU).

      The Neonatal Task Force of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) makes
      recommendations on the treatment of infants at birth. ILCOR recommends assessing the
      breathing and heart rate (HR) of all newborns, and:

        1. Giving positive pressure ventilation (PPV) to babies who have a HR < 100bpm, gasping or
           apnoea

        2. Considering giving CPAP to babies who have laboured breathing or persistent cyanosis

      Most preterm infants breathe spontaneously at birth. Despite this, the majority of preterm
      infants have a facemask applied for respiratory support immediately after birth, usually
      before the HR has been determined. Clinicians presumably do this to give early support to
      infants they believe are at high risk of developing RDS in an attempt to prevent or lessen
      the severity of the disease.

      There is little evidence that giving preterm infants prophylactic nasal CPAP may be superior
      to supportive care with oxygen. A study that compared nasopharyngeal CPAP to supportive care
      with oxygen performed before antenatal steroids were routinely given found no difference in
      the rate of development of RDS with the application of CPAP. Two more recent studies did not
      show that early application of nasal CPAP reduced the rate of intubation or treatment with
      surfactant. In these studies CPAP was given by nasal prongs and was started at 15 - 30
      minutes of life, not immediately with a facemask. There is no evidence that facemask CPAP
      immediately after birth prevents or reduces the severity of RDS.

      Application of a face mask has been demonstrated to inhibit spontaneous breathing in many
      term infants. Cold gas flow, such as that provided by a T-piece, can inhibit spontaneous
      breathing in term infants. Application of a face mask for breathing support appears to
      inhibit breathing in a greater proportion of preterm infants. Considerable force is applied
      to the head when face mask PPV is given to a mannequin in the supine position.

      Routinely applying a face mask for respiratory support may be unnecessary in many premature
      babies. It may inhibit their spontaneous breathing and result in them receiving facemask PPV
      more frequently in the DR. It may also affect how well they breathe in the first day of life
      and increase the rate of treatment with nasal CPAP in the NICU.

      METHODS

      RANDOMISATION AND GROUP ASSIGNMENT Participants will be randomly assigned to "SELECTIVE" or
      "ROUTINE" groups in a 1:1 ratio. The group assignment schedule will be generated in blocks of
      4 using a random number table, and will be stratified by gestational age (23 - 27, 28 -
      31+6). It will be kept on a concealed from investigators and treating clinicians. Group
      assignment will be written on cards and placed in sequentially numbered, sealed, opaque
      envelopes. Infants of multiple gestations will be randomised as individuals.

      The envelopes will be contained in 2 boxes for GA strata and kept in the NICU. The next
      envelope in the sequence will be taken from the appropriate box and brought to the DR, where
      it will be opened just before delivery.

      MASKING It is not possible to mask caregivers to group assignment.

      INTERVENTIONS

      ALL INFANTS Infants in both groups will have their umbilical cord clamped at or after 1
      minute of age; they will not have a mask applied for respiratory support during this time.
      Infants will then be transferred to resuscitaire, placed supine under radiant heat and have a
      hat applied. All infants will be placed in polyethylene bag. A pulse oximeter will be placed
      on the right wrist.

      A T-piece device (Neopuff, Fisher & Paykel Healthcare, Auckland NZ; or Dräger Resuscitaire
      (Drager healthcare, Lübeck, Germany) and round face mask (Fisher & Paykel Healthcare,
      Auckland NZ) of appropriate size for the baby will be used to give respiratory support to
      infants in both groups. The T-piece will have gas flow set at 8 - 10 L/min, with settings
      PEEP 6cmH2O, and PIP 25cmH2O. There will be an air/oxygen blender in the circuit and the FiO2
      will be initially set at 30%. The FiO2 will not be adjusted before 5 minutes of age.

      SELECTIVE GROUP Infants assigned to the "SELECTIVE" group will be placed supine to breathe
      spontaneously. If SpO2 < 70% at 5 minutes and their respiratory effort is good, they will be
      given give free flow oxygen (i.e. the mask will be placed in front of, but not directly in
      contact with, the infant's face). The FiO2 may be increased at 1 minute intervals thereafter,
      aiming for SpO2 ≥ 90% at 10 minutes of life.

      Infants in the "SELECTIVE" group will have mask PPV if they are apnoeic or have HR < 100bpm
      at any time in the DR. Clinicians may consider applying facemask to give CPAP if the infants
      breathing is laboured (i.e. there are signs of respiratory distress - grunting,
      intercostal/subcostal/sternal recessions) after 5 minutes of age.

      ROUTINE GROUP Infants assigned to the "ROUTINE" group will be placed supine on the
      resuscitaire and have facemask CPAP applied as soon as possible after they arrive. If SpO2 <
      70% at 5 minutes, the FiO2 may be increased at 1 minute intervals, aiming for SpO2 ≥ 90% at
      10 minutes of life.

      Infants in the "ROUTINE" group will have facemask PPV if they are apnoeic or have HR < 100bpm
      at any time in the DR. Mask respiratory support may be withdrawn as and when desired by
      clinical staff.

      RESUCE TREATMENT All other treatments - i.e. endotracheal intubation for PPV, chest
      compressions, adrenaline, volume - w ill be given at the discretion of the treating
      clinicians and in accordance with ILCOR recommendations.

      SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATION To show a reduction in the proportion of babies receiving PPV with
      routine application from 60% to 40% with selective application with 80% power and α of 0.05,
      the investigators need to recruit 200 infants.
    
  