
    
      In studies assessing therapeutic interventions, an economic evaluation requires the
      collection of patients' healthcare consumption. Two methods are primarily used in accordance
      with the recommendations of the National Authority for Health (HAS): case report forms (CRF)
      for ambulatory care and the local hospital discharge databases (local PMSI) - extracted from
      participating centers - for hospital care. However, these conventional methods have limits.
      The first is a declarative and mostly retrospective collection, often misinformed and
      unverifiable. The second provides high quality data but is far from exhaustive as it only
      concerns hospitalizations that occurred in the participating center, not those that occurred
      in other hospitals.

      In France, medical administrative databases SNIIRAM (all care reimbursed by the statutory
      health insurance) and national PMSI (all hospital care) are the "gold standards" for
      collecting consumer personal care. However, the administrative difficulties associated with
      accessing these databases prevent researchers from extracting routine care consumption data
      from these databases for health economic studies, despite the fact that the unreliability of
      the conventional methods has been objectified in a small number of studies in the literature.
      These studies are few, have been conducted abroad and seek to compare declarative collections
      to non-exhaustive medical and administrative data. Moreover, they compare only the number of
      events collected and not the implication for economic evaluations using those numbers,
      limiting the applicability of their results to economic assessments.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of usual collection tools
      compared to the gold standards (medical and administrative databases) for estimating
      consumption of inpatient and outpatient care in health economic evaluations. The secondary
      objectives are to evaluate the impact of the potential underestimation of healthcare
      consumption on the estimated costs and results of economic assessments by studying the
      variation of the calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and the conclusion of
      evaluation.

      The COMERE population comes from studies in which an economic evaluation for an innovative
      therapeutic strategy was conducted by the principal investigators's research unity. These
      studies include at the minimum a collection of hospital care consumption. This data
      collection must be over by the time for the start of the project. The procedure code and
      studied pathology alone allow the investigators to identify patients in the national PMSI
      with a probability greater than 0.9. When adding other information available in the local
      PMSI, this probability reaches 0.99. The principal investigators of the studies agreed on the
      use of data from their studies in the context of this research project. Overall, among the
      studies carried out in our unit, 12 projects funded by the Ministry of Health's program
      supporting funds for expensive innovative technology (STIC) and 1 national registry matched
      the study's criteria and were retained. Of these 13 studies: 13 have collected data on
      hospital care consumption and 8 collected data on ambulatory care consumption. In total,
      these studies included 87 separate centers and 6,928 patients of which 2,661 have an
      ambulatory care collection. Their data are completely anonymous.
    
  