
    
      Narrowing of the spinal canal by osteophytes, ossification of the posterior longitudinal
      ligament, or bulging of a large central disk can compress the cervical spinal cord and
      impinge the spinal nerve roots, resulting in neck pain and various degrees of neurological
      symptoms and impairment.2 In severe cases, this can lead to stenosis of the cervical spine,
      resulting in upper motor neuron symptoms in the lower extremity and lower motor neuron
      symptoms in the upper extremity. When conservative measures such as traction, cervical
      collar, and postural exercises fail to prevent neurologic progression, surgery may be
      indicated.

      A variety of surgical approaches and procedures are available, and the optimal choice of
      treatment remains controversial. Surgical procedures designed to decompress the spinal cord
      and, in some cases, stabilize the spine have been shown to be successful, but there is a
      persistent percentage of patients who do not improve with surgical intervention.3
      Additionally, the potential complications of surgery for CSM may depend on the various
      methods of surgical management. Historically, cervical laminectomy, a posterior approach, had
      been regarded as the standard surgical treatment of CSM. However, over the past 20 years, it
      has been increasingly recognized that laminectomy without fusion is not appropriate for all
      patients and may result in instability and deformity. Because of the instability caused by
      laminectomies, alternate surgical approaches such as anterior approaches to the spine and
      laminoplasty have been developed, and have gained increasing popularity over the years.3 A
      range of factors must be considered when deciding which surgical technique to use. Surgeons
      are often challenged with determining the most appropriate technique because there is limited
      information about whether there is a difference between surgical procedures in terms of
      clinical and radiographic outcomes, in postoperative complication rates and in functional and
      quality of life outcomes. Methods of treatment include conservative and surgical management.
      Among surgically managed patients, an anterior or posterior approach may be employed. Among
      those managed posteriorly, laminoplasty or laminectomy with fusion are common surgical
      techniques. With several standards of care available for this population, a better
      understanding of the corresponding positive and negative outcomes with respect to clinical
      and patient-centered outcomes is warranted.
    
  