
    
      Recovery from surgery is a complex process, depending on the characteristics of the patient,
      the anesthesia used, and the time required for surgical management. This event is a source of
      stress, anxiety, pain, and even complications, both minor (nausea, vomiting) and major (such
      as surgical revision). The perioperative management and the psychological support allocated
      to each patient will have an impact on the hospitalization experience.

      In the context of emergency surgery, the perioperative period is associated with an increase
      in morbidity and mortality, which may lead us to suspect an alteration in the quality of
      recovery.

      Most clinical studies are interested in the reduction of perioperative morbidity and
      mortality (e.g. decrease in pain intensity measured by a visual analog scale, decrease in the
      frequency of nausea/vomiting, decrease in the time to remobilization, etc.) but still few of
      them evaluate in a global way the recovery, in particular in the emergency context.

      Currently there is a desire to improve the physical and psychological recovery of our
      patients. In this context, scales to measure the quality of post-operative recovery have been
      developed. The QoR-40 and QoR-15 questionnaires assess recovery after elective surgery.These
      scoring tools accurately measure postoperative recovery by addressing key domains: pain,
      physical comfort, physical independence, psychological support and emotional state. Their use
      is recommended as an endpoint for assessing patient comfort in clinical trials, according to
      the Standardized Endpoints in Perioperative Medicine (StEP) initiative. In addition,
      monitoring of the QoR-15 is recommended by the American Society for Enhanced Recovery. A
      recent French translation of the QoR-15 score has been validated for use in scheduled
      surgery.

      All of these scores, regardless of the language in which they are translated, have been
      developed and validated in patients who have undergone scheduled surgery. Until now, no
      validated scoring tool has been available to assess recovery after emergency surgery, whether
      traumatological or not.
    
  