
    
      Background/Rationale:

      People with serious mental illness (SMI) die, on average, many years prematurely, with rates
      of premature mortality 2 to 3 times greater than the general population. Over 60% of
      premature deaths in this population are due to "natural causes," especially poorly treated
      cardiovascular, respiratory, and infectious diseases. Although the VA is a centrally
      organized, comprehensive healthcare system, Veterans with SMI still have difficulty
      navigating the system, and are at substantially elevated risk for premature death. Too often,
      they do not attend scheduled appointments or fail to engage in primary care treatment, and
      consequently do not get valuable preventive and primary care services.

      Primary care in VA has undergone significant transformation under the Patent Aligned Care
      Team (PACT) model, which is based on the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) concept. PACT
      has the goal of improving the quality, efficiency, and patient-centeredness of primary care.
      But it remains unclear how PACT will impact the large populations of Veterans whose
      predominant illness is treated in specialty settings, such as people with SMI. Research can
      inform efforts to apply the PACT model. For example, while people with SMI do poorly with
      usual primary care arrangements, there is substantial evidence that integrated care and
      medical care management approaches can improve medical treatment and outcomes, and reduce
      treatment costs, in people with SMI.

      Objective:

      Using available evidence, the investigators propose to implement and evaluate a specialized
      PACT model that meets the needs of individuals with SMI ("SMI-PACT").

      Methods:

      This project will partner with leadership to implement SMI-PACT, with the goal of improving
      healthcare and outcomes among people with SMI, while reducing unnecessary use of emergency
      and hospital services. Evidence-based quality improvement strategies will be used to
      reorganize processes of care. In a site-level controlled trial, this project will evaluate
      the effect, relative to usual care, of SMI-PACT implementation on (a) provision of
      appropriate preventive and medical treatments; (b) patient health-related quality of life and
      satisfaction with care; and (c) medical and mental health treatment utilization and costs.
      The project includes a mixed methods formative evaluation of usual care and SMI-PACT
      implementation to strengthen the intervention, and assess barriers and facilitators to its
      implementation. Mixed methods will also be used to investigate the relationships between
      organizational context, intervention factors, and patient and provider outcomes; and identify
      patient factors related to successful patient outcomes.

      Significance:

      This project's approach to SMI-PACT is consistent with the VA PACT model, and with efforts in
      VA to improve care for Veterans with psychiatric disorders. This will be one of the first
      projects to systematically implement and evaluate the PCMH and PACT concepts for patients
      with serious mental illness. Should SMI-PACT be demonstrated to be feasible and effective,
      the model could be used more broadly to improve the quality and efficiency of care for
      Veterans.
    
  