
    
      The IPSS is a validated questionnaire (also in spanish language) widely used to evaluate
      lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in males. It contains 7 multiple-choice questions related
      to urinary symptoms with a Likert response scale and 1 question assessing quality of life.
      This test has been approved for self-administration and its purpose is quantifying and
      monitoring symptoms severity.

      The aim of this study is to compare the scores achieved in a self-administered IPSS
      questionnaire with those obtained when the questionnaire is answered with the help and
      supervision of a sanitary staff. These results will also be contrasted with the scores
      retrieved in a standard directed medical interview and correlated with objective functional
      parameters of lower urinary tract symptoms.

      A descriptive prospective study will be carried out analysing lower urinary tract symptoms
      from patients over 50 years old.

      All patients will be provided with a IPSS to be fulfilled at home and after a short period of
      time without any change in his LUTS treatment, the patient will repeat the questionnaire in
      the hospital under the supervision of a sanitary staff.

      A standard structured medical interview focusing in LUTS will be performed to every patient.
      In order to compare the results achieved with both IPSS with those obtained during the
      interview a Likert score was assigned to each question.

      At the same time, objective lower urinary tract symptoms data will be collected and compared
      to the results obtained previously with both the questionnaires and the medical interview.
      Uroflowmetry and post physiological void residual volume measurement with ultrasonography
      will be performed as evaluation of voiding symptoms. On the other hand, filling symptoms will
      be evaluated with a validated 3-day voiding diary to be accomplished previously to the
      medical visit.

      Data to be collected includes Uroflowmetry parameters Qmax, Qm, curve shape type and time to
      Qmax, ultrasonographic PVR (post-void residual) measurement and daytime and nightime number
      of voids, medium volume of void, number of urgency and urge incontinence episodes and maximal
      vesical functional volume wich will be extracted from the 3-day voiding diary.

      A statistical analysis will be performed to compare the scores obtained through the
      questionnaires and the medical interview and the correlation of each of them with the
      objective clinical parameters obtained.
    
  