
    
      To determine safety of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in presence of ICB in
      patients with advanced unresectable melanoma. Toxicity will be deemed acceptable if the rate
      of Grade 3+ adverse events (CTC v4) is ≤ 33%, with relevant AEs defined as either of the
      following occurring between the start of SBRT and 12 weeks following SBRT completion:

        -  Any grade 3-5 metabolic or hematological toxicity that is related, probably related or
           possibly related to nivolumab or SBRT.

        -  Any grade 3-5 non-hematological toxicity that is related, probably related or possibly
           related to SBRT.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      • To determine whether SBRT results in a clinical abscopal effect on unirradiated lesions.
      The hypothesized rate of abscopal effect is >14%.

      Exploratory Correlative studies:

        -  In select patients for whom TCRseq reveals clonal expansion in non-irradiated tumor and
           serial blood specimens, the relevance of such expansion to tumor-specific responses will
           be investigated using mutation-associated neoantigens (MANAFEST) assays.

        -  Serial stool specimens will be studied to correlate potential changes in microbiome with
           abscopal effect.

        -  To determine whether SBRT promotes clonal expansion of melanoma-specific T-cells, in
           both peripheral blood and within TME of non-irradiated lesions.

        -  To determine whether TCR clonal expansion correlates with clinically observed abscopal
           response.

        -  To identify additional immunological biomarkers in the non-irradiated (abscopal) TME
           using intratumoral gene expression profiling to assess for induction and upregulation of
           a Type I IFN signature among responders1-3. IHC in TME will be used to characterize
           modulation of immune cell populations pre- and post-SBRT, and to assess correlation of
           PD-L1 and other immune-checkpoint receptor expression with responsiveness to SBRT and
           changes in TME post-SBRT.
    
  