
    
      Many children with severe immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) present with mild symptoms and their
      disease spontaneously resolves within 3 to 6 months. However, a subset of pediatric ITP
      patients experience severe bleeds and their symptoms persist for more than 6 to 12 months.
      Both patient populations present with similarly low platelet counts, making it difficult to
      predict the disease course and to decide on a treatment plan. The current American Society of
      Hematology treatment guidelines advise that most cases of ITP may be managed through close
      observation, while pharmacological interventions that may result in treatment-related
      toxicities may be used in patients with more severe bleeding symptoms. In order to improve
      the care and management of pediatric patients with ITP, it is necessary to develop a better
      predictor of bleeding events and disease severity than the patient's platelet count.

      In a previous single-center study, investigators studied the association of different
      platelet parameters with patient bleeding severity. Using whole blood from patients diagnosed
      with severe ITP, investigators measured the immature platelet fraction (IPF) and absolute
      immature platelet count (IPC) through a hematology analyzer (Sysmex XN-1000). Investigators
      performed functional tests on the platelets and analyzed them through flow cytometry. In this
      study, the investigators found that the IPF and IPC is associated with patient bleeding
      severity, independent of platelet count. It was also determined that functional activation
      markers such as P-selectin and glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa are significantly associated with
      subsequent bleeding severity in children, independent of platelet count. The results of these
      proposed studies in ITP patients may suggest clinically relevant uses of these assays.

      To confirm these findings, this trial will repeat the previous study in a multi-center
      patient population, including a greater number of patients with severe bleeding and low
      platelet counts.
    
  