
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic disorder characterized by abdominal pain or
      discomfort associated with a change in stool form or frequency, in the absence of a
      biochemical or structural explanation for these symptoms. The prevalence of IBS in the
      general adult population is 9.8-12.8%, which is in accordance to the prevalence of IBS in
      children and adolescents (6.2%-11.9%). Patients with IBS report a decreased quality of life,
      high work or school absence, and are more at risk than healthy controls of developing
      depressive and anxiety disorders. Consequently, the healthcare costs are substantial; annual
      costs of care for adults with IBS in the USA are estimated to be over $20 billion. Total
      annual costs per paediatric IBS patient in the Netherlands are estimated to be €2500.
      Although the pathophysiology of IBS has not been fully elucidated, pathophysiological
      abnormal gastrointestinal motility, visceral hypersensitivity, altered brain-gut function,
      low-grade inflammation, psychosocial disturbance and intestinal microbiota characteristics
      have been proposed to contribute to the pathophysiology. Current treatment focuses on
      abnormal gastrointestinal motility, altered brain-gut function and psychosocial disturbances.
      However, a significant amount of IBS patients has remaining symptoms, despite these treatment
      regimens. These patients are considered to be therapy-resistant, also called refractory.
      Treatment focusing on other components of the underlying pathophysiology, such as the
      intestinal microbiota, might therefore lead to new therapeutic successes in this group of
      patients. In this light, being able to modify the intestinal microbiota inrefractory IBS
      patients could have beneficial effects on symptoms. Faecal transplantation, a relatively new
      treatment regimen that enables the modification of the microbiome, has been shown to be
      highly effective in treating Clostridium difficile infections and also yielded promising
      results in patients with other diseases such as diabetes.

      Objective: To investigate whether two faecal transplantations from either allogeneic
      (healthy) or autologous (own) donor, administered through a nasoduodenal tube, has beneficial
      effects on irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) symptoms such as abdominal pain frequency and
      severity. Secondary objective is to study microbiota changes in faeces samples.

      Study design: Double-blind randomised placebo-controlled pilot study as well as a reversed
      translational part.

      Study Population: Patients with refractory IBS, defined as a failure to improve after
      standard medical treatment, at least 6 sessions of a psychological therapy and absence of
      response to at least 1 pharmacological agent (aged 16-21 years, male/female, no concomitant
      medication, non-smoking), will be recruited by their (paediatric) gastroenterologist at the
      Academic Medical Centre (Amsterdam, the Netherlands) and patients from other hospitals will
      be enrolled. Donors: relatives or volunteers will serve as faeces donor, potential donors
      will be thoroughly screened.

      Treatment: After bowel lavage with Klean-Prep, patients will be treated with faecal
      transplantation at t=0 and t=6 weeks, processed for duodenal tube infusion. Faeces will be
      collected from a healthy donor (allogeneic) as well as the patient him/herself (autologous),
      in which their own faeces will be used as a placebo.
    
  