
    
      Metastatic breast cancer continues to account for more than 400,000 deaths yearly with HER2
      positive breast cancers representing approximately one third of cases. Despite the efficacy
      of trastuzumab in HER2 overexpressing breast cancer, progression of metastatic disease is
      inevitable. Lapatinib, when combined with capecitabine, improves time to progression in those
      with trastuzumab resistant disease, but lapatinib resistance also develops in the majority of
      these patients. HER2 overexpression is also reported in lung, gastric, ovarian, and
      pancreatic cancers, all of which are also in need of improved treatment options. Because HER2
      continues to be expressed in patients with refractory disease, using an immune-targeting
      approach against HER2 remains a promising strategy. A number of clinical trials have
      confirmed the ability of vaccines to activate T cell and antibody responses against HER2. We
      propose using a propagation-defective, single-cycle, RNA replicon vector system that
      expresses HER2 as an antigen-specific cancer vaccine in a Phase I clinical trial in patients
      with advanced or metastatic malignancies expressing HER2. The vaccine was prepared from an
      attenuated strain of an alphavirus in which 3 of the 7 viral genes were removed and replaced
      with a HER2 gene to create a self-amplifying RNA (replicon) that expresses large amounts of
      HER2. The HER2 gene used includes the extracellular domain (ECD) and transmembrane (TM)
      regions of HER2 but not the ICD region. The HER2 ECDTM replicon is packaged into virus-like
      replicon particles (VRP) by providing the alphavirus structural proteins from separate RNA
      molecules. When VRP are used for immunization, the VRP infect individual cells and the
      replicon expresses HER2 which then induces an immune response.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of immunization with HER2 ECDTM
      VRP in patients with advanced or metastatic HER2-expressing malignancies. The study will also
      monitor immune responses to HER2. Preliminary data on tumor response rate will also be
      collected.
    
  