
    
      Breast conserving therapy (BCT), consisting of surgical lumpectomy followed by whole breast
      radiation therapy has become the standard of care for treating early-stage breast cancers. In
      comparison with mastectomy, BCT demonstrated similar outcomes with superior cosmesis and
      reduced psychological and emotional trauma based on multiple randomized trials. At the time
      of the lumpectomy, the surgeon removes the tumor and a surrounding rim of normal tissue
      (margin), typically leaving surgical clips to help designate the resection cavity or tumor
      bed (TB) for the radiation oncologist. The current standard of radiation therapy for breast
      cancer is to deliver treatment to the whole breast to 45-50.4Gy in 25 to 28 treatments Monday
      through Friday. Following whole breast radiation, a 'boost' is delivered to the TB in order
      to deliver 60 - 66Gy to the tumor bed. Two prospective trials have demonstrated a
      statistically significant reduction in local failures with the addition of a boost of 10Gy(in
      4 fractions @ 2.5 Gy per fraction) or 16 Gy in 8 fractions @ 2 Gy per fraction),
      respectively.

      Boost treatments can be delivered through a variety of techniques including a single electron
      field (used for superficial tumor beds) or multiple photon fields (2 or 3 fields typically)
      for tumors that are deep to the skin (usually > 3 cm). With the use of CT simulation to guide
      the delivery of the boost, the need for deep TB coverage has become more apparent and now
      most patients receive photons for the boost portion of their therapy because the use of
      electrons often misses part of the tumor bed. However, when photon beams are used, in
      comparison to electrons, more generous margins posterior to the surgical cavity are required
      to account for daily set up error and respiratory motion which is not necessary for a single
      en face electron field. Furthermore, there are only limited directions along which the
      radiation can be directed to the TB, and as a result, large volumes of normal breast tissue
      receive a substantial fraction of the prescription dose which can lead to internal scarring
      (fibrosis) and poor cosmesis. The largest clinical series evaluating this issue demonstrated
      increased fibrosis and worse cosmetic outcome using photons. The clinical target volume for
      the boost is the TB, while an additional 1-1.5 cm margin of normal breast tissue is added
      isocentrically to account for daily set-up error and respiratory motion to define a planning
      target volume. Typically the boost is delivered after the whole breast portion of treatment,
      however, in various cases this sequence can be changed. For example, if significant skin
      breakdown occurs during the whole breast radiation phase, investigators can stop the whole
      breast radiation therapy and change to deliver dose only to the TB while allowing time for
      the rest of the breast to heal. This allows a continuous course of therapy to the highest
      risk of subclinical disease (i.e. the tumor bed).

      Hypofractionation, or delivery of greater than standard 1.8 - 2 Gy fraction sizes per day, is
      a method of shortening overall treatment time in early stage breast cancer. Historically,
      standard fraction sizes of 1.8-2.0 Gy for whole breast irradiation (WBI) were based primarily
      on studies examining squamous cell cancers from cervix and head and neck regions. The smaller
      fraction sizes exploited a biological differential in squamous cell cancer fractionation
      sensitivity versus normal tissue fractionation sensitivity. This allowed relative sparing of
      surrounding normal tissue from low dose per fraction. However, investigators from the United
      Kingdom hypothesized that the fractionation sensitivity for adenocarcinoma of the breast is
      close to that of the normal breast tissue. Therefore, with increasing fraction size a
      sufficiently large reduction of total dose could be implemented to keep late toxicity
      constant without reducing the probability of tumor control.
    
  