
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether the gradual weaning of an epidural opioid can shorten the duration of
           postoperative ileus, without worsening pain control, in patients who have undergone
           surgery for gynecologic cancer.

        -  Compare postoperative pain management in patients treated with perioperative epidural
           analgesia vs patient controlled analgesia.

        -  Compare time to ambulation, return of bowel function, and readiness for hospital
           discharge in patients treated with these pain management interventions.

        -  Compare the incidence of perioperative complications (e.g., bleeding, hypotension,
           thromboembolic events, pneumonia, wound infection, myocardial infection, or death) in
           patients treated with these pain management interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a partially randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study. Patients choose
      between epidural analgesia or patient controlled analgesia (PCA) for perioperative pain
      management. Patients for whom an epidural is contraindicated receive a PCA. Patients are
      assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients in group 1 are stratified according to bowel
      resection surgery (yes vs no) and prior abdominal surgery (yes vs no).

        -  Group 1 (epidural): Patients undergo placement of a thoracic epidural catheter followed
           by abdominal/pelvic surgery. Patients then begin an epidural infusion of ropivacaine
           hydrochloride and fentanyl immediately after surgery (postoperative day 0). Patients may
           also be supplemented with a patient controlled demand dose. The day after surgery
           (postoperative day 1), patients are randomized (as long as there is adequate pain
           control) to 1 of 2 epidural management arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients continue to receive the epidural infusion until they can be weaned
                to oral pain medication.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo daily weaning of the fentanyl concentration of the
                epidural infusion.

        -  Group 2 (PCA): Patients begin PCA immediately after undergoing abdominal/pelvic surgery
           (postoperative day 0). Patients receive a demand schedule of hydromorphone IV until they
           can be weaned to oral pain medication.

      In both groups, the Gynecologic Oncology pain service may make adjustments to the epidural
      infusion or PCA for optimal pain management until the patient can be weaned to oral pain
      medication.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 224 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  