
    
      This is a retrospective comparative study of two established therapies. It is designed to
      enroll patients who will be undergoing breast reconstruction with tissue expanders/implants.
      Two groups will be created. One with patients receiving acellular dermal allograft for
      submuscular coverage and a second group of patients undergoing dermal autograft for
      submuscular coverage. Patients with a lower abdominal scar and sufficient abdominal laxity
      for autograft harvest will be offered this technique. The subset of these patients who elect
      to undergo autografting will comprise the autograft group. The allograft group will consist
      of the patients without a suitable abdomen for autografting and those who decline the
      autograft procedure. Patients in the allograft group will have placement of dermal allograft
      over the lower pole of the tissue expander. Patients in the autograft group will undergo
      harvest of a dermal autograft from the lower abdomen at the time of mastectomy, which will be
      used to cover the lower pole of the tissue expander. The following data will be recorded in
      an unidentifiable fashion: age, medical history, type of breast cancer treatment, type of
      reconstruction to include implant type, brand, implant size and characteristics, time of
      surgery including autograft harvest, and cost of overall procedure. Patients will receive
      routine follow-up care only, and the presence of any complications will be recorded. Per the
      standard reconstructive sequence for implant-based breast reconstruction, all patients will
      undergo a second surgical procedure under general anesthesia approximately three months
      following the initial surgical procedure for replacement of the tissue expander with a
      permanent implant and capsulotomy. At the time of this procedure, three small samples of the
      internal capsule will be harvested from standard locations with a 4mm biopsy punch. Histology
      with H/E and factor VIII staining will be performed on these samples to measure inflammation,
      tissue architecture, and vascular ingrowth. Comorbidities between patients with and without
      acellular dermal matrices will be evaluated using the Fisher exact test. Group differences
      for continuous variables will be assessed with the t test.

      Statistical significance will be defined as p < 0.05.
    
  