
    
      Currently, regional anesthesia techniques for total hip arthroplasty are limited. Fascia
      iliac blocks have been employed to provide analgesia for hip surgeries with blockade of the
      femoral, lateral femoral cutaneous, and obturator nerves via injection of local anesthetic in
      the iliacus fascia. In addition, lumbar plexus blocks have also been employed for
      post-operative analgesia, but the complexity of the block is high, and complications
      including epidural anesthesia are not infrequent. The quadratus lumborum block is an
      abdominal truncal block in which local anesthetic is deposited into the thoracolumbar fascia
      or the quadratus lumborum muscle itself with the goal of providing analgesia to the
      ipsilateral T6 - L1 sensory dermatomes. It has already been demonstrated to provide effective
      post-operative analgesia for certain abdominal and pelvic surgeries, but its use in total hip
      arthroplasty is limited to case reports.

      The block is accomplished by identifying the quadratus lumborum muscle, which originates from
      iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserted on transverse processes of upper four
      lumbar vertebrae and posterior border of the 12th rib. Local anesthetic is then deposited at
      the anterior, posterior or middle thoracolumbar fascia, or intramuscularly, depending on the
      technique used. Cadaveric studies8 have demonstrated dye spread to the lumbar nerve roots and
      nerves within the transversus abdominis plane (TAP). Carney et al9 described a "posterior
      TAP" block, now known to be synonymous with QLB, that demonstrated contrast spread to the
      thoracic paravertebral space from T5-L1. Case reports have described analgesia in the
      corresponding sensory dermatomes after QLB4, and have demonstrated efficacy in patient
      undergoing THA. The QLB block has potential to cover lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, femoral
      nerve, obturator nerve and portions of lumbar plexus.

      This study has been designed to investigate the efficacy of the quadratus lumborum block as a
      primary method of providing post-operative analgesia in patients undergoing THA. Previous
      trials have demonstrated the effectiveness of the block for abdominal and pelvic surgeries,
      and case reports have shown its applicability in hip arthroplasty. In this randomized
      controlled study we aim to compare QLB (intervention) with control (no intervention) group in
      patients undergoing THA with regard to the VAS pain scores (at PACU arrival & discharge12, 24
      & 36 hours), duration of analgesia, time to first opioid medication, physical therapy
      evaluations, time to discharge, and surgeon and patient satisfaction scores.
    
  