
    
      Transdermal Patches ensure simple, painless procedure of drug usage even in patients with
      needle phobia. they are on par with sustainable plasma levels comparable with that of oral
      medication. With the local drug delivery method, hepatic first pass metabolism is bypassed.
      Offering increased flexibility in placing and removing the transdermal patch better patient
      compliance is achieved.

      This study was carried out comparing the efficacy of analgesia, occurrence of side effects
      from the drugs employed and patient compliance during the drug usage with diclofenac sodium
      trans dermal patch 100 mg, oral supplementation of diclofenac sodium 50 mg given as twice
      daily medication and intra muscular administration of 75 mg diclofenac sodium once daily for
      two days in patients having dental pain due to periapical or periodontal pathology.

      Material and Methods

      A total sample of 90 subjects of either gender, between 18 to 80 years attending Department
      of Oral Medicine & Radiology with dental pain and who were willing to be part of the study
      were included and divided randomly into 3 groups based on their preference and priority of
      the route of administration of the drug. As this was a pilot study, a sample size of 90 was
      chosen according to recommendations by Isaac and Michael, W. B

      The study was cleared by ethical clearance committee with necessary approvals. the subjects
      were informed thoroughly about the study and could withdraw from the study at their choice
      when there is no relief of pain with the medication.

      The groups included in the study were:

      Group A which included 30 patients of either gender who were prescribed tablet Diclofenac
      sodium 50 mg orally twice daily for 2 days which is the preferred adult dose for dental pain
      disorders

      Group B which included 30 patients who were prescribed Diclofenac sodium 100mg transdermal
      patch to equate the oral dosage of 50mg that is given twice daily once daily for 2 days (
      SPARSH PHARMA). It is a transparent patch that gave sustained release of the drug for 24
      hours at the local site applied. A total number of 2 patches were given to each patient one
      per day. The patches were applied at an hairless area on the left or right shoulders which
      were subsequently replaced the next day to another area of application in order to avoid
      contact dermatitis in the area of application.

      Group C which included 30 patients of either gender who were given intra muscular injection
      of 75mg which was the nearest available dosage to 100mg availability in India at deltoid or
      gluteus muscle once daily for 2 days using sterile and aseptic precautions.

      All the subjects were prescribed necessary antibiotics for reduction in peri apical
      /periodontal infections. The rescue medication tablet chosen was Paracetamol 325 mg, if any
      of the patients opted for further medication for pain relief. Also, a visual analog scale was
      provided to all the subjects during their presentation to the hospital for 2 consecutive days
      for treatment. the scales were obtained in all the subjects individually assessing the
      intensity of pain after the medication intake during the study period. Team of six doctors
      evaluated the patients in the study. 2 physicians were assigned the task of data collection
      from the study participants and assigning them into the group chosen by the patients
      themselves. 2 physicians had evaluated the patients VAS scores clinically and administered
      the necessary medication to the patients and rest of the doctors had evaluated the patients
      at each visit, making a note of inter observer variability. The enquiry of following adverse
      effects were noted from all 3 groups.

      Group A: Rash, Itch, Gastritis

      Group B: Rash at the delivery site, adherence of patch

      Group C: Pain at injection site, Nerve palsy, Hypersensitivity reactions.
    
  