
    
      Patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis are candidates to receive anti-TNF alpha
      therapies which require prior screening for latent tuberculosis (LTB). Currently, screening
      for LTB is based on tuberculin skin test (TST) , chest X rays, and a questionaire on
      predisposing factors for TB. The main drawbacks of TST are the lack of specificity due to
      cross reactivity with Bacille Calmette- Guerin (BCG) and other nontuberculosis mycobacteria
      and the risk of anergy in immunosuppressed patients. Furthermore, it has been suggested that
      the skin of psoriatic patients may be more sensitive resulting in increased TST which does
      not obligatory reflect the status of LTB.

      Recently, a new assay for LTBI has been developed, which evaluates interferon (IFN) -γ
      release by memory effector T-cells stimulated in vitro with specific mycobacterial antigens,
      ESAT-6 (early secretory antigen target-6) and CFP-10 (culture filtrate protein-10) [9-10].
      The QuantiFeron -TB Gold test (QFT-G) uses ELISA to measure IFN-γ concentrations in
      supernatants in plate format and "In tube" format (QFT-GIT) while the enzyme-linked
      immunospot (ELISPOT) detects individual IFN-γ producing T-cells (TS-TB, Oxford Immunotech,
      Abingdon, UK).

      The whole blood IFN-γ assays was approved by The Centers for Disease Control as an
      alternative screening strategy to TST in immunocompetent individuals [11], but its clinical
      utility as a single test for detection LTBI in immunocompromised patients is
      controversial.Furthermore, its utility in patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis has
      not been yet established One hundred patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis and 50
      healthy control will participate in this study.

      Enrolled subjects will be requested to complete a detailed sociodemographic and TB screening
      questionnaire including gender, age, place of birth and work, prior BCG vaccination, close
      contact with TB patients or TB prophylaxis in the past. Screening workup will includ
      assessment of clinical disease activity using the Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS-28)and
      Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI),documentation of past or current treatment with systemic
      corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs, and imaging (chest X-ray).

      All the subjects will undergo a TST and QFT-G test A 2-TU dose of PPD will be administered by
      a certified technician using the Mantoux method and induration measured after 72 h. TST will
      be deemed positive if bove or equally to 5 mm for RA patients and 10 mm for controls The
      absence of induration of <2 mm in diameter will be recorded as anergic and negative TST
      results was defined as having more than 2 but less than 5 mm reactions for RA patients.

      QFT-G test The second-generation QuantiFeron® (QIFN) whole-blood IFN assay (Cellestis) will
      be performed and interpreted according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      Briefly, the test consisted of a negative control (nil well, i.e., whole blood without
      antigens or mitogen),a positive control (mitogen well, i.e., whole blood stimulated with the
      mitogen phytohemagglutinin [PHA]) and two sample wells, i.e., whole blood stimulated with
      either of the M. tuberculosis-specific antigens, Early Secretory Antigen Target 6 (ESAT-6) or
      Culture Filtrate Protein 10 (CFP-10).

      Five ml heparinized whole blood will be drawn for QFT-G before for PPD testing. The blood
      specimens will be incubated for 16-20 h (overnight) at 37°C in a humidified atmosphere. IFN-γ
      levels in the nil well will be considered background and will be subtracted from the results
      of the mitogen well and the antigen-stimulated wells. The results will be considered positive
      if the concentration of.IFN-γ in the sample well after stimulation with ESAT-6 and/or CFP-10
      will be greater than or equal to 0.35 IU/ml (after subtracting the value of the nil well),
      regardless of the results of the positive control (mitogen well). The results will be
      considered negative if the response to the specific antigens (after subtracting the value of
      the nil well) is less than 0.35 IU/ml and if the IFN-γ levels of the positive control (after
      subtracting the value of the nil well) is greater than or equal to 0.5 IU/ml. The results
      will be considered indeterminate if both antigen-stimulated sample wells are negative (i.e.,
      <0.35 IU/ml after subtracting the value of the Nil well) and if the value of the positive
      control well is less than 0.5 IU/ml after subtracting the value of the nil well

      the nil well.

      QFT-G test The second-generation QuantiFeron® (QIFN) whole-blood IFN assay (Cellestis) was
      performed and interpreted according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      Briefly, the test consisted of a negative control (nil well, i.e., whole blood without
      antigens or mitogen) , a positive control (mitogen well, i.e., whole blood stimulated with
      the mitogen phytohemagglutinin [PHA]) and two sample wells, i.e., whole blood stimulated with
      either of the M. tuberculosis-specific antigens, Early Secretory Antigen Target 6 (ESAT-6) or
      Culture Filtrate Protein 10 (CFP-10).

      Five ml heparinized whole blood was drawn for QFT-G before for PPD testing. The blood
      specimens were incubated for 16-20 h (overnight) at 37°C in a humidified atmosphere. IFN-γ
      levels in the nil well were considered background and were subtracted from the results of the
      mitogen well and the antigen-stimulated wells. The results were considered positive if the
      concentration of. IFN-γ in the sample well after stimulation with ESAT-6 and/or CFP-10 was
      greater than or equal to 0.35 IU/ml (after subtracting the value of the nil well), regardless
      of the results of the positive control (mitogen well). The results were considered negative
      if the response to the specific antigens (after subtracting the value of the nil well) was
      less than 0.35 IU/ml and if the IFN-γ levels of the positive control (after subtracting the
      value of the nil well) were greater than or equal to 0.5 IU/ml. The results were considered
      indeterminate if both antigen-stimulated sample wells were negative (i.e., <0.35 IU/ml after
      subtracting the value of the Nil well) and if the value of the positive control well was less
      than 0.5 IU/ml after subtracting the value of

      the nil well.
    
  