
    
      -  Prior clinical information of donepezil treatment of post-stroke aphasia comes from
           single-case studies, small case-series and an open-label study. In addition, an
           extension phase of a small open-label study also suggest that the efficacy of donepezil
           in chronic post-stroke apahsia is maintained at long-term follow-up. These data
           collectively suggest that in post-stroke donepezil is effective and well-tolerated with
           a limited potential for causing clinically significant interactions when prescribed with
           other medications. However, these results are preliminary and should be judged
           parsimoniously until randomized controlled trials will be performed.Moreover, recent
           data by our group also showed that donepezil may improve sensorimotor deficits
           (hemiparesis)in some patients.

        -  The use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil in post-stroke may be
           justified because in vivo and postmortem studies have shown that patients with vascular
           dementia and lesions in subcortical and cortical structures have deficient cholinergic
           neurotransmission that results from interruption of cholinergic pathways linking the
           basal forebrain with the cerebral cortex, including the perisylvian language area.In
           addition, two large-scale randomized controlled trials in patients pure vascular
           dementia and vascular cognitive impairment found that donepezil was significantly
           superior to placebo on cognition, global function and activities of daily living.And the
           most noticeable benefits of donepezil over placebo at doses of 5-mg and 10-mg were found
           on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog/11), an
           assessment instrument highly reliant upon language variables (6 out of 11 items).

        -  We evaluated the efficacy of donepezil in patients with chronic aphasia associated with
           stroke.This is a 20-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind parallel study
           that enrolled aphasic patient with more than one year of evolution. During the study all
           patients continued receiving two hours weekly of conventional speech-language therapy.
           Patients were randomized in an 1:1 ratio to donepezil, 5-mg/day, for the first 4 weeks,
           followed by forced dose escalation to 10-mg/day thereafter (n =13), or placebo (n = 13)
           and then a 4 week washout period. The primary efficacy measures were the Aphasia
           Quotient (AQ) of the Western Aphasia Battery and the Communicative Activity Log.
           Secondary efficacy measures included selected subtests of the Psycholinguistic
           Assessment of Language Processing in Aphasia that examined phonological and
           lexical-semantic domains and the Stroke Aphasia Depression Questionnaire.
    
  