
    
      Evaluating the effectiveness of Wireless EEG-based BCI-controlled Rehabilitation System in
      patients with stroke

      Applying the brain-computer interface (BCI) to improve the life-quality of handicaps and
      conveniences of healthy people in real life has been listed as one of the top 20 issues in
      the neuroscience field in recent 20 years. Over past years, the Biomedical Engineering R & D
      Center in China Medical University (CMU) and Hospital has devoted to develop wireless and
      wearable brain-signal detection equipment and the related software and hardware. Recently,
      the wireless electroencephalogram (EEG) system has been integrated and tested, side-by-side
      with a commercially available wired EEG system, which is oftentimes used as a standard in
      most laboratories for EEG experiments. After some examinations with cognitive tasks, the
      quality of the device and detected signals has been comparable to that of a commercial EEG
      system. As a result, we are further integrating the wireless EEG system with an ordinary
      rehabilitation device (an upper limb ergometer, "arm bike") used in the Department of
      Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at our hospital for a BCI-controlled neurorehabilitation
      device, which we propose to use in the rehabilitation therapy for patients with stroke. We
      hypothesize that, the coupling of electroencephalographic signals related with initiation of
      limb movements with a mechanical device which assists the intended movement is effective to
      facilitate motor recovery in patients with brain lesion. To test the effectiveness of the
      proposed wireless EEG-based BCI-controlled rehabilitation device, we propose to enroll 20
      patients with cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (4-24 months after stroke attach) and the
      patients will be randomly assigned to experimental and control groups. Patients in the
      experimental group will undergo 80 minutes of standard rehabilitation therapy and 20 minutes
      of BCI-controlled upper limb ergometer training during one rehabilitation session; those in
      the control group will take 100 minutes of standard rehabilitation therapy. All participants
      will receive 3 rehabilitation sessions each week for 8 weeks (a total of 24 sessions). To
      evaluate the rehabilitation result with different training protocols, we propose to use the
      behavioral assessment and brain imaging tools (fMRI and DTI). To compare the rehabilitation
      results among these groups, we propose to use various assessment tools including clinical
      evaluation (Fugl-Meyer assessment, Modified Ashworth scale, Motor Activity Log, Functional
      Independence Measure) as well as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Diffusion Tensor
      Imaging before, immediate and 2 months after completion of the training protocol. If
      significant differences on behavioral and neuroimage evaluations between the two groups can
      be achieved, we will integrate the wireless-EEG rehabilitation system and
      behavioral-neuroimage assessment procedure as a new rehabilitation protocol for real clinical
      trial with a larger sample size.
    
  