
    
      Breast conservative surgery is the standard of care for early breast cancer patients. Large
      multi-center randomized trials have shown breast conservative surgery to be non-inferior to
      total mastectomy . Oncoplastic breast surgery consists of adequate tumorectomy followed by
      aesthetic repair of the partial mastectomy defect to achieve satisfactory cosmetic outcome.
      Oncoplastic surgery is recommended for all breast conservative operations. Level-I
      oncoplastic surgery is used to repair minor loss of breast volume. In this level,
      reconstruction is limited to mobilization and redistribution of the breast parenchyma to fill
      the tumorectomy defect. Larger volume loss requires complex procedures with significant
      morbidity and is called level-II oncoplasty. In level-II procedures, extra-mammary tissue is
      mobilized to fill the breast defect (volume replacement). Alternatively, bilateral reduction
      mammoplasty procedure (volume displacement) is used to reconfigure the breast, obliterate the
      tumorectomy defect and correct associated breast hypertrophy or ptosis. With either strategy,
      volume replacement and volume displacement require extensive skin incisions and tissue
      mobilization. Thus, level-II oncoplasty achieve maximum aesthetic outcome on the expense of
      major surgical trauma and significant probability of operative morbidity. Recent years have
      witnessed renewed interest in de-escalating oncoplastic surgical strategies. Level-I
      oncoplastic operations have been used more frequently to fulfil the cosmetic needs of the
      majority of breast conservative operations. Moreover, the patient acceptability of the
      complex level-II oncoplastic procedures is not universal. With the exception of level-II
      oncoplastic procedures, breast cancer surgery is a well-tolerated intervention that can be
      offered in a fast-track or day-case basis with economic, psychological and social advantages.

      In view of the above-mentioned considerations, The investigators and others have worked to
      expand the role of level-I oncoplastic surgery. Several innovative techniques have been
      recommended to allow repair of wider post-tumorectomy defects with simple mobilization of
      breast parenchymal flaps.

      The pectoralis major muscle flap is the classic workhorse of reconstructive surgery of the
      head and neck. The muscle has been extensively used as a pedicled or free flap to achieve
      reconstruction of major post-ablative tissue defects. In aesthetic breast surgery, pectoralis
      major muscle has been used as a sling to correct breast ptosis.

      The investigators hypothesized that mobilization of glandular tissue based on underlying
      pectoralis major fibres will allow repair of larger defects using an "extended level-I
      oncoplasty". Pectoralis major is known to have reliable segmental blood supply that allows
      muscle-sparing flap construction with minimal or no functional deficit.

      The aim of this work is to evaluate the operative and aesthetic outcome of extended-level-I
      oncoplastic reconstruction with pectoralis myo-parenchymal flaps.

      This is a pilot study that is equivalent to a phase I trial i.e. a safety study. The primary
      goal is to identify unforeseen surgical, oncologic or cosmetic drawbacks for the technique.
      This study will also evaluate the efficacy of the technique for providing satisfactory
      cosmetic outcome.
    
  