
    
      Fifteen WC patients will be enrolled in the study. A newly developed neuronavigated and
      robotized Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) mapping approach will be used. It will
      generate a linear mediolateral excitability profile for two intrinsic hand muscle based on
      the mean Motor Evoked Potentials (MEPs) amplitude at each stimulation site. Changes in
      excitability profiles will reflect spatial reorganization of cortical motor output maps of
      the hand muscles. To measure afferent inhibition, the same mapping procedure will be repeated
      with a brief peripheral electrical stimulation prior the TMS pulse. These Short Afferent
      Inhibition (SAI) profiles will reflect the influence of the primary sensory cortex over the
      motor cortex. Finally, the stimulation grid will be translated to the primary somatosensory
      cortex and a paired pulse TMS paradigm will be applied just after a digital nerve
      stimulation. It will generate afferent signal processing profiles based on subjective
      perception for the index finger and the little finger. Participants will be tested before the
      botulinum toxin injections and at three different time points after the injections (7 days, 1
      month and 3 months after). Botulinum toxin injections will be performed using ultrasound
      guide together with electromyography/nerve stimulation into the clinical affected hand
      muscles. Muscle selection for injections will be based on clinical criteria of postural
      deviation of the hand and fingers and responsible muscle forces. The dose will be chosen
      according to published clinical recommendation concerning starting dose for WC after the
      clinical examination, usually between 5 and 10 units of Xeomin® both for flexor and extensor
      hand/forearm muscles.

      To precisely assess treatment efficacy, the Writer's Cramp Rating Scale (WCRS) as well as
      computer-based hand writing analyses and standard sensorimotor tests of hand functions (the
      Nine Holes Peg Test, a tapping test and a tactile spatial acuity task) will be performed
      before the injections and at each follow up session.
    
  