
    
      The study is an extension of previously concluded and published study on electrochemotherapy
      of colorectal liver metastases (Edhemovic et al. JSO 2014). In this extension 15 patients
      will be included. Four groups of patients will be included. The patients from groups 1 and 2
      are patients with up to 3 unresectable liver metastases, demanding too excessive resection,
      or untreatable by standard thermal ablative methods due to the close proximity of major blood
      vessels. Electrochemotherapy will be offered to these patients as the only treatment option.
      In case of multiple, both resectable and non-resectable liver metastases, the latter will be
      treated with electrochemotherapy, whereas other metastases will be resected or treated by
      RFA. These groups of patients are:

        1. Patients with one to three (1-3) metachronous liver metastases of colorectal cancer, not
           larger than 5 cm, that are positioned in unresectable liver area, near blood vessels,
           but in otherwise operable patients.

        2. Recurrent liver metastases of colorectal cancer, not more than 3 and not larger than 5
           cm in diameter, each. For those patients any other treatment could represent
           unacceptable risk due to possibility of insufficient liver residual after resection or
           less effective radiofrequency ablation due to the proximity of blood vessels.

           Groups 3 and 4 include patients with intent to cure within standard of care using
           two-stage surgical approach. This two-stage surgical approach will allow adding
           electrochemotherapy during the first operation and tissue collection for histological
           analysis during the second operation. Adding electrochemotherapy to these patients will
           not affect their treatment within standard of care recommended in the current
           guidelines. These groups of patients are:

        3. Patients with synchronous metastases, but their general condition and extent of the
           disease will not allow simultaneous removal of the primary tumor and metastases. During
           the first operation, the primary tumor will be removed (colorectal resection) and some
           of the liver metastases will be treated by electrochemotherapy. About 6 weeks later,
           during the second operation for liver metastases, both treated and non-treated
           metastases will be removed with liver resection.

        4. Patients with bilateral, multiple, metachronous metastases in whom standard treatment
           includ two-stage liver resection, due to the extent of the disease and/or their general
           condition. During the first operation, right portal vein will be ligated and metastases
           on the left side will be excised or ablated with radiofrequency ablation. At the same
           time, up to three metastases on the right side were treated with electrochemotherapy.
           During the second operation, both treated and non-treated metastases on the right side
           will be removed with right hemihepatectomy.

      Electrochemotherapy will be offered to the patients also when they refuse standard treatment.

      Depending on the position of metastases, appropriate electrodes will be selected; hexagonal
      needle electrodes with fixed geometry for metastases not larger than 3 cm in diameter, where
      their lower edge is located up to 3 cm below the liver capsule. ECT will be performed based
      on standard operating procedures for treatment of cutaneous and subcutaneous tumors /
      metastases with ECT.

      Individual electrodes, positioned according to the prepared treatment plan will be used for
      metastases up to 5 cm in diameter, or located near vena cava or large hepatic or portal
      veins.

      Electrochemotherapy will be performed within 8-28 min after intravenous in bolus
      administration of bleomycin (15 mg/m2).

      Triggering of electric pulses will be synchronized with ECG signals, through the ECG
      triggering device AccuSync to avoid delivery of pulses in vulnerable period of the heart.

      All patients will be treated after the procedure has been thoroughly described to them, and
      have signed informed consent.
    
  