
    
      Study design Prospective nonrandomized controlled clinical trial, 1: 1 allocation
      Participants Study group. Boys and girls between 7 and 12 years skeletal class II, for the
      study group the individuals will be selected from the UNICIEO postgraduate clinic of
      orthopedic clinic orthodontics after conducting a full clinical case study exposed to a board
      of specialist teachers in orthodontics, where by means of several diagnostic methods a
      skeletal class II is confirmed that involves a treatment with myofunctional apparatus SN1;
      patients presenting syndromes that generate craniofacial alterations, patients with previous
      orthopedic treatment, patients with signs of condyle lesions, patients with Pierre Robin
      syndrome or any form of slit will be excluded.

      Control group. Children aged between 7 and 12 years diagnosed with class II dental
      classification, who attend the Leonardo Da Vinci School after carrying out an intraoral and
      extraoral photography study and diagnostic impressions with study models accepting
      participation in the study, children over the age of 12 will have to sign an agreement,
      patients who present syndromes that generate craniofacial alterations, patients with previous
      orthopedic treatment, patients with Pierre Robin syndrome or any form of slit will be
      excluded.

      Interventions or independent variables

        -  Use of Sn1 equipment in the study group: the study participants are placed, which
           correspond to the study group, the Sn1 apparatus of which is composed of dorsal arches
           with an hourly intensity of 12 hours a day, where a control will be carried out monthly.

        -  Six months of observation in the control group: patients in the control group will be
           given informed consent, children over the age of 12 will have to sign an informed
           consent, then a photographic study of intraoral and extraoral photos will be made,
           impressions to obtain models and have an observation of the molar classification, and
           verify if it has the inclusion criteria of the study, once that participation is
           confirmed, the muscular activity of the masticatory muscles will be observed, in two
           times, at the beginning and at six months after.

      Results or dependent variables.

      Masseter and temporal muscle activity measured with EMG (microvolts) in the following
      moments:

      Moment of measurement: the electrical activity will be taken at 2 moments of the study.

      T0: Initial Moment

        1. Rest: A record of electromyography will be taken where the patient has a natural
           position of the head and is in complete rest, resting time (60 seconds)

        2. Maximum intercuspidation: The patient will be instructed to perform a force that will be
           measured with a dynamometer where it generates a dental tightening, to verify the
           electrical activity that is generated in that maximum contraction of masseter muscles
           captured by the electromyograph.

        3. Use of the device: a record of the muscular activity will be made at the moment the
           patient puts on the Sn1 device.

      T1: six months of use of functional equipment (Sn1)

        1. Rest: A record of electromyography will be taken where the patient has a natural
           position of the head and is in complete rest, resting time (60 seconds)

        2. Maximum intercuspidation: The patient will be instructed to perform a force that will be
           measured with a dynamometer where it generates a dental tightening, to verify the
           electrical activity that is generated in that maximum contraction of masseter muscles
           captured by the electromyograph.

        3. Use of equipment (study group) will be a record of muscle activity at the time the
           patient puts on the Sn1 device

      Sample size To date, no similar studies have been located, therefore a pilot test will be
      carried out with 10 patients from each group and with the result the sample size of the study
      will be calculated.

      Statistical Methods The data will initially be tested using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Maximum
      changes in molar bite force during treatment or observation (T0 - T1) will be evaluated, and
      t-paired tests will be used to evaluate the statistical significance within each group. A
      comparison of the changes between the treatment and control groups will also be carried out
      using t-unpaired tests. Parametric analyzes will be used: Anova, Multivariate analysis of
      variance (Manova), T2 Hotelling test. All correlations were considered significant with p
      <0.05.
    
  