
    
      Objective:

      Cesarean section (CS) is a major surgical intervention that affects women at childbearing
      age. Scarring from CS is expected but certainly not desirable, potentially causes discomfort
      and psychological distress. Emerging evidence indicates that epidermal growth factor (EGF)
      plays crucial roles in wound healing with the potential of minimizing scar formation. This
      study aims to investigate the effect of microencapsulated recombinant human EGF (Me-EGF) in
      scar prevention. Silicone gel was incorporated as part of the routine scar treatment.

      Materials:

      The investigational dressing in this study: the microencapsulated polysaccharide and
      oligopeptide-1 is provided by Good-Care Biotech, Ltd. (brand NewEpi®: 10 mcg Me-EGF/ml,
      Taipei, Taiwan). The investigational dressing NewEpi® was formulated in spray solution with a
      proprietary drug delivery system in which rhEGF was encapsulated in chitosan as
      nanoparticles.

      Silicone-based scar therapy has shown the beneficial effects of improving the appearance of
      scars. Dermatix® (Dermatix® Ultra, Menarini Asia-Pacific, Taiwan) is a Taiwan-FDA approved
      topical silicone gel and commercially available. It is transparent, odorless and quick
      drying. Concerning the applicability over lower abdomen area, silicone gel (Dermatix®) was
      selected to be part of the routine care in this study.

      Study Procedures:

      Healthy women scheduled for cesarean delivery were enrolled and randomized to three groups:
      (1) no scar treatment, (2) silicone gel only, or (3) silicone gel plus Me-EGF. Vancouver Scar
      Scale (VSS: vascularity, pigmentation, elasticity, and height) was used for scar assessment
      at the 6th month and 9th month after CS.

      Eligibility was determined at the screening visit. Details of the study regarding
      eligibility, purpose, study procedure, scope of care and potential risks were explained. Upon
      enrollment, full medical history of the participants was obtained, including history of
      hypertrophic scar or keloid. Scars from previous injuries or surgical incisions were
      evaluated and recorded. Each patient was randomized to one of the three treatment arms: Group
      1 (receiving no scar treatment), Group 2 (silicone gel only), and Group 3 (silicone gel plus
      Me-EGF). Enrolled participants underwent Cesarean delivery performed by one of the four
      obstetricians at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of CGMH, as part of their
      prenatal care. Other than routine surgical wound care, participants in Group 1 did not
      receive any treatment pertaining to scar prevention.

      The day of Cesarean delivery was recorded as Day 0. For participants in Group 3, on day 0
      prior to final dermal closure, 4ml of Me-EGF (containing 40mcg microencapsulated
      polysaccharide and rhEGF) was sprayed evenly along the incision site, subsequently covered
      with antibiotic ointment and sterile gauze. Another 0.5 ml (5 mcg of Me-EGF) was sprayed
      during dressing change on day 1 and day 5 respectively. At each dressing change, the sutured
      wound was cleaned by sterile normal saline, followed by Me-EGF sprays, and waited for two
      minutes to allow for absorption, then covered with dry sterile gauze. Each participant in
      Group 2 and Group3 brought home two tubes of silicone gel when they returned for their
      follow-up visits on day 14. They were instructed to start applying silicone gel evenly to the
      wound twice a day for two months.

      Study Participants:

      This study is approved by the Institutional Review Board at Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital
      (CGMH, Linkou, Taiwan). All practitioners and research staffs are in compliance with Good
      Clinical Practice guidelines. A total of 60 females scheduled for cesarean birth will be
      recruited by their primary obstetricians at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of
      CGMH. Prior to their enrollment, the study procedures will be explained to obtain written
      informed consents. The inclusion criteria are: (1) Age of 18 or older; (2) planned for
      cesarean delivery with Pfannenstiel-incision, which is one common method of performing
      Caesarian sections today; (3) had not received any treatment for scars at least one month
      before enrollment; and (4) capable of understanding study protocol in order to sign the
      informed consent voluntarily.

      Patients will be excluded if: (1) currently taking any medication that might affect outcome
      evaluation of this study, including but not limited to: systemic corticosteroids or
      immunosuppressants; (2) currently undergoing any treatments involving lower abdomen, or
      planning to have such treatments; (3) having active infection involving abdomen at the time
      of recruitment; (4) concomitant severe or poorly-controlled illness (e.g., cardiovascular,
      renal, hepatic, pulmonary or gastrointestinal disease, malignancy or history of HIV
      infection); (5) with any abdominal tumor; (6) undergoing urgent cesarean delivery without
      proper pre-op standard procedure, or (7) having known allergy to any of the ingredients in
      any of the products used in this study.

      Clinical Evaluation and Outcome Measures:

      There were a total of four time points at which data were collected and photos taken using
      the same digital camera with fixed settings: day 0 (completion of suture on Cesarean
      incision), day 1, day 5 before discharge from the hospital, and at follow-up visits in month
      3, month 6, and month 9. After enrollment and before day 0, baseline photos of old Cesarean
      scars were taken from participants who had prior Cesarean childbirth, in addition to photos
      of other scars from those who had reported history of hypertrophic scar or keloid. Scars were
      assessed using Vancouver Scar Scale. The VSS consists of 4 parameters: vascularity (0-3),
      pigmentation (0-3), elasticity (0-5), and height (0-3). Prior to the study commencement, all
      personnel involved had received mandatory training on scar assessment and VSS scoring. At
      month 3, 6, and 9, a nurse practitioner took photos and evaluated the incision scar on each
      patient with VSS. Photos of each healing wound were taken with a ruler placed adjacent to the
      scar to measure the height raised above skin level. Subsequently all scores were validated
      twice by different research staffs by using the photos on record. No significant
      discrepancies were found. At each follow-up visit, the primary obstetrician also assessed
      each patient for any side effect or adverse event.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Clinical data and all scar measurements were recorded on case report forms and entered in
      Microsoft Excel database, later validated by different research staffs as the final scores.
      Data were analyzed using jamovi statistical software (Version 0.9). Means and standard
      deviations were presented for interval variables of baseline characteristics. Categorical
      data at baseline were presented in frequency and analyzed with Chi-Square tests.
      Nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis tests were performed on VSS scores for between group
      comparisons. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  