
    
      The NewMe™ (Eco-fusion, Ltd) is a science driven lifestyle change program for better living
      (www.eco-fusion.com).

      What's in the program? It starts with two weeks to shakeup the patient. It is focused on
      ridding the patient of known food addictions and helping the body patient return to its long
      forgotten normal operating environment. The patient is expected to notice a dramatic change
      in its well-being after those two weeks.

      The NewMe program uses mobile health and motivational psychology to help impact sustainable
      lifestyle changes. The program takes a holistic approach to the etiology of adverse lifestyle
      habits and personalizes the solution to each individual. It is based on a variety of clinical
      constructs, including multiple studies related to biofeedback and stress relief, appended
      with the latest scientific development in nutrition and fitness, and enhanced with a
      technology platform specifically developed to deliver such care. The goal of the program is
      rapid and sustainable life changes with measurable parameters such as increased quality of
      life, reduced stress level, improved blood pressure and cholesterol, blood sugar and weight.

      At the core of the system is a comprehensive clinical program combining nutrition, stress
      management, fitness, and social support, guided by a suite of software apps and emails which
      guide participants through a 16 weeks program, which is kick-started by a 2 weeks Rapid Start
      up Regimen. The solution combines a structured program and interactions and teaches
      participants how to integrate a healthier routine into their day-to-day life.

      Core content include a broad behavioral focus on the principles of making healthy food
      choices and meal planning, instructions on how to combine both healthy diet and inclusion of
      an activity, stress & sleep tracker. Stress gets special attention with the integration of
      breathing exercises, biofeedback training & meditation into a daily routine in order to
      control and reduce emotional eating and other eating binges. This is done through the
      Serenita App.

      To promote behavior change, the program introduces the cognitive and behavioral strategies,
      critical for long-term disease reversal. Other instructional content relates to the
      importance of including a modified high-nutrient density and fiber, low- caloric density
      foods in meal planning (although there is no caloric restriction in the program), managing
      self-defeating thinking patterns, and incorporating both fat burning & strength training into
      a physical activity regime.

      The program is divided into 2 stages:

        -  Stage One - Week 1 & 2- Rapid Start up regimen, in which the participants follow a
           nutrient rich, low processed and carbs dietary regimen.

        -  In addition, using a personalized sensor driven app, participants practice daily
           breathing exercises & guided meditation, intended to manage stress, and control food
           cravings. Physical activity regimen is also integrated into the daily routine. They
           confirm and log their daily activity which is software guided

        -  Stage two, weeks 3-16. During this period some of the restricted foods in Stage one are
           being reintroduced and the effect of reintroduction is explored.
    
  