
    
      This is a mixed-methods study that will be conducted over three work packages as described
      below and will be completed in 24 months. The investigators will have patient and public
      involvement throughout the study.

      Work Package 1 - Interviews:

      The investigators will interview 15-20 PwP and 15-20 caregivers (face-to-face, telephone or
      video calls) recruited from Parkinson's clinics in Hampshire and Dorset to identify factors
      that influence treatment burden and capacity among PwP and caregivers of PwP. Participants
      will be eligible to take part in the study if they have a diagnosis of Parkinson's or is a
      caregiver for someone with Parkinson's, and able to give informed consent. The investigators
      will use purposive sampling to include both genders, a range of ages, severity of Parkinson's
      and caregiver relationships. Potential eligible participants will be identified by the
      clinical team. Written consent will be obtained prior to each interview. Interviews will be
      audio-recorded and transcribed. The investigators will take an inductive approach to identify
      emerging themes until no new information arises.

      Work Package 2 - National Survey:

      Results from the interviews will then inform the development of a national survey for PwP and
      caregivers. The national survey will for the first time quantify treatment burden using the
      Multimorbidity Treatment Burden Questionnaire (MTBQ) and capture aspects of capacity such as
      severity and duration of Parkinson's, social and economic resources, medications, frailty and
      health literacy. Participants with mild, moderate and severe Parkinson's will be recruited
      with agreed support from Parkinson's UK and from Parkinson's clinics. Participants will be
      eligible to take part in the study if they have a diagnosis of Parkinson's or is a caregiver
      for someone with Parkinson's, and able to give informed consent. Each participant will be
      able to complete a separate survey online or on paper.

      The investigators will collect the following data from participants:

        1. Sociodemographic data: age, sex, ethnicity, cohabitation status, living situation,
           presence of caregiver, employment status, education level, access and ability to drive,
           access to information technology

        2. Multimorbidity Treatment Burden Questionnaire (MTBQ

        3. Information about Parkinson's including: - i) Year of diagnosis ii) Self-reported
           Parkinson's severity (Hoehn and Yahr)

        4. Other health conditions

        5. Single-item health literacy score

        6. Medications use and frequency

        7. Healthcare use of the person with Parkinson's in the last 12 months e.g. primary,
           secondary and urgent care

        8. Assessment of frailty with PRISMA-7: a brief 7-item self-reported questionnaire

        9. Quality of Life Measures with the 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12v2)

       10. A single question to consider the overall effort of looking after health

      The investigators will also collect data regarding non-motor symptoms from PwP using the
      Parkinson's Disease Non-Motor Symptoms Questionnaire.

      The investigators will collect the following data from caregivers of PwP: -

        1. Information about the Parkinson's of the person they care for including: - i) Issues
           with memory, mood and hallucinations ii) Awareness of deterioration from the person with
           Parkinson's

        2. Zarit Burden Interview: a 12-item scale that assesses the caregiver burden.

      Work Package 3 - Focus groups and Dissemination:

      Working with Wessex Parkinson's Excellence Network, the investigators will hold two to four
      focus groups with key stakeholders including PwP, caregivers, voluntary sector
      representatives, healthcare professionals, policy makers and managers. Participants will be
      recruited from each local area (Hampshire and Dorset) through Parkinson's clinics, support
      groups and local services depending on the findings from the interviews and surveys. Each
      focus group will have 6-10 participants and will be moderated by a member of the research
      team. Written consent will be obtained from each participant prior to the focus group. Focus
      groups will be conducted either face-to-face at a neutral location or conducted via video
      call. Each focus groups will be audio-recorded using a digital recorder with consent and
      transcribed for further data analysis. The focus groups will discuss the overall study
      findings and aim to develop and prioritise recommendations of ways to reduce treatment burden
      and enhance capacity among PwP and their caregivers.

      The investigators will then hold a dissemination event to share the outcomes with people
      affected by Parkinson's with support from Parkinson's UK and the Academic Health Science
      Networks. The investigators will work closely with Parkinson's UK Excellence Networks to
      share knowledge and implement changes that improve treatment burden and enhance capacity
      among PwP and caregivers. The findings will be disseminated through publications in
      peer-reviewed journals and presentations at regional and national conferences.
    
  