
    
      Various techniques have been developed to overcome this problem and achieve a tight dural
      closure. Although there is published evidence showing the efficacy and safety of some of
      these sealants in posterior fossa surgery, the different types of pathologies and various
      population risk factors included in these trials make it difficult to interpret the results.
      Having selective inclusion criteria and including patients with a selected pathology could be
      essential to obtain clearer results.

      Postoperative CSF leak has two aspects: one is pseudomeningocele (a subcutaneous collection
      of CSF); the other is a CSF fistula in which CSF reaches the skin. This second one is much
      more dangerous and constitutes one of the most important complications of this surgery, but
      the pseudomeningocele is a clinical demonstration of failure of the dural closure.

      HEMOPATCH is a soft, thin, foldable and flexible collagen patch, coated with NHS-PEG.
      HEMOPATCH is indicated as a hemostatic device and surgical seal for procedures in which
      control of bleeding or leakage of other body fluids or air by conventional surgical
      techniques is ineffective or impractical.

      Preliminary clinical evidence collects a prospective case series of 200 patients, in which
      the authors reviewed the use of HEMOPATCH for dural augmentation in high-risk patients from
      2014 to this year. After 2 years of refining the technique, a decrease in CSF leaks from 27%
      to 7% was achieved, and no adverse events related to the application of the product were
      observed. A retrospective cohort study has recently been published comparing the use of
      HEMOPATCH versus routine clinical practice in 290 patients, in which 147 used standard dural
      reinforcement techniques, and 143 used HEMOPATCH. The CSF fistula appearance rates were 7.69%
      in the HEMOPATCH group, compared to 32.65% in the control group.

      These recent results, along with the characteristics and properties of the patch, could make
      this sealant a safe and plausible option to achieve sealing after posterior fossa surgery.
    
  