
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of continuous infusion intravenous
           topotecan hydrochloride when administered with intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin and
           intravenous melphalan in patients with stage III, stage IV, or recurrent ovarian
           epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer.

        -  To describe the toxicities of each dose studied.

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of topotecan hydrochloride when administered at the
           maximum tolerated dose and cisplatin.

        -  To confirm the pharmacokinetic advantage of high-dose IP cisplatin and IP paclitaxel.

        -  To obtain tissue at the time of peritoneal catheter placement in order to evaluate the
           molecular determinants of apoptosis (including p53 status, p21 gene expression, bcl-2
           gene expression, and bcl-2/bax ratio) and the extent of apoptosis by the TdT assay.

        -  To evaluate the molecular determinants of DNA damage and repair, including expression
           levels of ERCC1 and MDR1, and HER2/neu expression by immunohistochemistry.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of topotecan hydrochloride.

      Patients undergo surgical placement of an intraperitoneal (IP) catheter. Tumor biopsies are
      obtained during surgery for laboratory analysis of molecular determinants of apoptosis
      (including p53 status, p21 gene expression, bcl-2 gene expression, bcl-2/bax ratio) and
      molecular determinants of DNA damage and repair (including expression levels of ERCC1 and
      MDR1, and HER2/neu expression by immunohistochemistry). The extent of apoptosis is also
      assessed using the TdT assay.

        -  Course 1: Patients receive paclitaxel IP on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV on day 2, and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 3 and continuing until apheresis
           is completed. Patients undergo apheresis until ≥ 2.5 X 10^6 CD34-positive cells/kg are
           collected. Two weeks later, patients proceed to course 2.

        -  Course 2: Patients receive cisplatin IP and melphalan IV on days -11 and -4 and
           topotecan hydrochloride by continuous infusion over 120 hours on days -10 to -6.
           Patients receive 25% of their peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) on day -3 and G-CSF IV
           beginning on day -3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients receive their
           remaining PBSCs on day 0.

      Patients undergo daily blood sample collection during topotecan hydrochloride administration
      for pharmacokinetic studies. Patients treated at the maximum tolerated dose of topotecan
      hydrochloride undergo additional blood sample collections for pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  