
    
      Adult endogenous hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia The most common form of functional
      neuroendocrine tumours of the pancreas are insulin producing pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors
      (IPPNET). These tumors are rare and have an incidence of 1-4 newly diagnosed cases per 1
      million per year and are malignant in about 10% of the cases. Another cause of AHH is
      nesidioblastosis, or adult beta cell hyperplasia. It is difficult to exactly determine the
      incidence of the disease, but it appears that in approximately 5% of the cases of AHH
      nesiodioblastosis may be the underlying pathology, while IPPNET are responsible for the
      majority of the cases. The pathophysiological cause of nesidioblastosis is not well
      understood, but the rising incidence of the AHH as a consequence of gastric bypass surgery
      for morbid obesity (although often reversible in these patients) may suggest an association
      with metabolic and hormonal changes.

      For IPPNET, surgical removal of the tumour is the therapy of choice and is considered
      curative in case of a benign tumour. Optimal preoperative localization of the lesion is
      warranted in order to reduce morbidity by helping to optimize the surgical procedure.
      Successful preoperative localization of IPPNET is a challenging problem since approximately
      30% of IPPNET cannot be visualized using the conventional imaging techniques CT and/or MRI
      and endoscopic ultrasound. Selective arterial stimulation with calcium with simultaneous
      venous sampling (ASVS) has been described to have a sensitivity and specificity of almost 90%
      in identifying IPPNET. This is, however, an invasive technique which is accompanied by an
      risk for complications. Functional imaging with somatostatin (sst) receptor scintigraphy
      (SRS) and SPECT/CT are able to detect less than 50% of benign IPPNET because of low or absent
      expression of sst receptor subtypes 2 and 5, which bind octreotide with high affinity. PET
      with 68Ga-labeled sst analogs has a higher sensitivity for smaller lesions than SRS. Also
      11C-5-HTP and 18F-DOPA, which are used as PET tracers for the detection of IPPNET in some
      centers may be more sensitive than SRS and CT with 11C-5-HTP showing the most accurate
      visualization. However, when compared to intra-operative findings, 2 out of 6 IPPNET could
      still not be detected preoperatively. Palpation and intra-operative ultrasound will allow
      identifying the lesion in approximately 70-80% of cases. However, it remains a challenge to
      find small or multiple tumours in the pancreas and partial pancreatectomy is frequently
      required, especially if the lesion is located close to the pancreatic duct. Precise
      preoperative localization of the IPPNET is therefore critical to minimize surgical
      intervention. If no IPPNET can be identified pre- or perioperatively, the diagnosis of
      nesidioblastosis may be established by resection and histopathologic evaluation of the
      pancreatic tail. If nesidioblastosis is present, partial pancreatectomy is required; the
      challenge is to remove enough tissue in order to avoid hypoglycaemia while keeping enough
      functional endocrine pancreatic tissue so that the patient does not become diabetic.
      Currently, with the risk of reoperation being considered lower than the consequences and
      complications of diabetes, surgeons usually choose a fairly conservative approach.

      Imaging of diseased beta cells Visualization of the beta cells by a highly specific
      radiotracer with which high target-to background ratios can be obtained would benefit
      preoperative visualization of IPPNET in patients with AHH. Reliable visualization of diseased
      beta cells would then benefit the optimization of treatment of patients with AHH. An
      innovative method for imaging of beta cells could allow to optimally guide surgical
      interventions In addition, this novel approach could lead to a minimization of side-effects
      from the treatment.

      Targeting of the GLP-1 receptor In this study we will compare the sensitivity and specificity
      of pre-operative imaging of IPPNET by GLP-1R scanning to the current standard imaging
      techniques.
    
  