
    
      This trial is a European, multicenter, open-label, randomized, Phase II trial using a
      pick-the-winner design aiming to the clinical and biological activity of anti-PD-L1
      (atezolizumab) in a population of operable localised soft tissue sarcomas (STS) patients to
      be treated with radiotherapy.

      Following inform consent signature and validation of eligibility criteria, patients will be
      randomized (1:1:1) into one of the 3 study arms:

        -  Arm A: Pre-operative radiotherapy followed by 2 cycles of atezolizumab then surgery

        -  Arm B: 2 cycles of atezolizumab followed by surgery then post-operative radiotherapy

        -  Arm C: Pre-operative radiotherapy followed by surgery then 2 cycles of atezolizumab.

      The sequence of treatment is different between the study arms, but the regimen of study
      treatments are the same. All randomized patients will received:

        -  The conventionally fractionated radiotherapy regimen of 2 Gy, 5 days a week up to a
           total dose of 50 Gy over 5 weeks. Radiotherapy will be either pre-(Arms A and C) or
           post-(Arm B) operative.

        -  Two cycles of atezolizumab (1200mg, IV, Q3W)

        -  Surgery will be performed as per institutional practice.

      Randomisation will be stratified according to histological subtypes as follows

        -  Group 1: Leiomyosarcoma [LMS], Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma [UPS], Liposarcoma
           [LPS], myxofibrosarcoma, angiosarcoma versus

        -  Group 2: all translocation sarcoma except Ewing, rhabdomyosarcoma RMS and myxoid LPS.

      Following this sequence of treatment, all patients will be followed-up 2 weeks after the end
      of the treatment period then W18, W24 (=M6) then every 3 months until disease relapse, death,
      loss to follow-up. The minimal follow-up will be 1 year for the last randomized patient.

      During the study period, the following tumor samples will be also collected for all
      randomized patients:

        -  A de novo tumor biopsy before study treatment start (pre-treatment tumor sample)

        -  A fragment of the surgery specimen.
    
  