
    
      A prospective, single blinded, parallel group, randomized controlled trial with 6 month
      follow-up will be employed to investigate the effects of treadmill training augmented with
      virtual reality on fall risk. The study will include 300 older participants who have
      experienced two or more falls in the previous 6 months. Participants will be randomized to
      either the intervention or control group. The intervention group will receive 18 sessions of
      Treadmill Training with Virtual Reality (TT+VR) and the active control comparison will
      receive 18 training sessions of treadmill training alone (TT) without the VR simulation All
      interventions will be delivered by therapists trained in the standard protocols. All subjects
      will be trained 3 times a week for 6 weeks, each session will last approximately 45
      minutes.Training progression will be based on increasing both motor and cognitive challenges,
      individualized to the participant's level of performance.

      Primary outcome measures:

      The primary outcome measure of the study is fall rate for 6 months post intervention.
      Secondary outcome measures will include gait speed and gait variability under usual and dual
      task conditions and while negotiating physical obstacles will be measured. Endurance will be
      assessed using the 2 Minute Walk Test and mobility will be assessed using the Four Square
      Step Test (FSST), The Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) and the mini-Balance
      Evaluation Systems Test (mini-BESTest). Community ambulation will be assessed using a
      tri-axial accelerometer ('Axivity' Ltd.)which will be worn by the participants for 7 days.
      Cognitive function will be assessed using a computerized neuropsychological test battery
      (Mindstreams, 'NeuroTrax' Corp., NJ) as well as standardized neuropsychological tests
      (Montreal Cognitive Assessment,The Trail Making Test; Verbal Fluency). Quality of life will
      be evaluated using the SF-36 Health Survey
    
  