
    
      The majority of HIV/HCV co-infected patients are non responders after 48 weeks of the current
      standard-of-care with Peg-Interferon/Ribavirin. The results of re-treatment are
      disappointing. The addition of Boceprevir to the current standard-of-care has been shown to
      increase the efficacy of therapy in HCV mono-infected patients previously treated with a
      bi-therapy. Knowing that HIV/HCV co-infected patients are subject to more rapid hepatic
      fibrosis as well as to increased risks of cirrhosis, end-stage liver disease and
      hepatocellular carcinoma, it is important to improve the response rate of the re-treatment of
      hepatitis C in these patients.

      Subjects enrolled in this trial will have many predictive factors of failure: HIV
      co-infection, previous failure to Peg-Interferon/Ribavirin, HCV genotype 1 infection. One
      study reported a SVR rate of 9% after re-treatment with Peg-Interferon/Ribavirin in such
      patients. Another trial has shown a substantial increase of the response rate with a
      tri-therapy in HCV mono-infected patients.

      The investigators propose to carry out a multicentric, national, non-randomized phase II
      trial in 80 patients.

      The proportion of patients with F4 cirrhosis will have to be inferior to 50% of enrolled
      subjects.

      The number of null responders to a previous treatment (HCV RNA drop < 2 log10 at W12) and
      without F4 cirrhosis will have to be lower or equal to 20.

      The primary objective of the study is to estimate, in Genotype 1 - HCV/HIV co-infected
      patients, non responders to a previous therapy with Peg-Interferon/Ribavirin, the rate of SVR
      after 48 or 72 weeks of a three-drug regimen containing Peg-Interferon, Ribavirin and
      Boceprevir according to the Virologic Response and to compare the SVR rate to a threshold
      rate 20%, lowest rate to consider a therapeutic benefit in this population.

      A pharmacokinetic sub-study including 30 patients will be performed to estimate
      pharmacokinetic parameters of antiretroviral treatment (Atazanavir combined with Ritonavir,
      Raltegravir, Tenofovir) in combination with anti HCV treatment at baseline and W8 and
      pharmacokinetic parameters of Boceprevir at W8.
    
  