
    
      Participants complete up to 2 separate parts.

      Part 1:

      For Part 1, participants complete a survey about their mental and physical health and their
      opinions concerning health information and the internet. The survey takes about 15-20 minutes
      to complete.

      Part 2:

      If the results of the survey show eligibility, participants complete Part 2 of the study. For
      Part 2 participants are randomly assigned (as in a roll of dice) to 1 of 2 study groups.
      Participants have a 1 in 3 chance of being assigned to receive standard care. Participants
      have a 2 in 3 chance of being assigned to use the ASPIRE website. This is done because no one
      knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other group.

      If participant assigned to receive standard care, he or she is shown a website that has the
      same information presented in ASPIRE, but in text form.

      Participants in both groups sit in front of a computer and go onto a website. Both the ASPIRE
      website and the text-based website have been designed for middle and high school students.
      The ASPIRE website has videos, activities, and health information facts about the effects of
      smoking, the benefits of meditation, and healthy living. The text-based website only has
      health information facts about smoking, the benefits of meditation, and healthy living.
      Participants complete 3 to 4 sessions using either the ASPIRE website or the text-based
      website throughout their first semester. Each session lasts about 40 minutes.

      The use of the websites will be videotaped.

      Follow-Up Surveys:

      Participants complete a follow-up survey about their opinions concerning health information
      and the internet immediately after they complete their last session on the website. The
      follow-up surveys take about 15 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      Active participation on this study is over after participants complete the follow-up survey.
      If participant does not continue onto Part 2 of the study, their active participation is over
      after they complete Part 1 of the study.

      Other Information:

      Participants take part in this study at their school during their after school program.

      During the use of the website, each study participant is individually videotaped and audio
      recorded. The videotapes and audio recordings are used to help the research staff analyze
      each participant's use of the websites. The video tapes and audio recordings are stored on a
      password-protected encrypted hard drive that is stored in a locked office at MD Anderson.
      Only the study researcher and authorized members of the research staff are allowed to use the
      videotapes and audio recordings (for research purposes).
    
  