
    
      The purpose of this study is to document the outcomes of islet transplant at our centre while
      replicating the Edmonton protocol. The Edmonton protocol, as described above, is currently
      the standard clinical protocol for conducting clinical islet transplantation in selected
      patients with type 1 diabetes. We propose to conduct a feasibility study to document the
      availability and frequency of donor organs, test the process of islet isolation, assess the
      implementation of procedures to transplant islets and administer immunosuppression, monitor
      the complications of immunosuppression and document the success and safety of the transplant
      procedure at our centre.

      The outcomes we propose to document include: 1) the number of patients who achieve insulin
      independence one year after completing the Edmonton protocol 2) the A1c value one year after
      completing the Edmonton protocol 3) graft survival as measured by basal and stimulated
      C-peptide levels 4) islet equivalents isolated from each donor organ and islet equivalents
      per kg transplanted 5) complications of islet transplant and immunosuppressive therapy.

      Eight patients who have had type 1 diabetes for more than 5 years will undergo islet
      allotransplantation using the Edmonton protocol. It is expected that most patients will
      require a minimum of two transplant procedures to receive enough islets to achieve insulin
      independence. Procedures will follow published guidelines.

      Pancreata will be isolated from brain-dead donors according to published protocols, including
      the two-layer cold storage method. Islets will be cultured for up to 48 hours to facilitate
      timing of the islet infusion.

      Islets will be infused into the portal vein. Post transplant immunosuppression will consist
      of the modified Edmonton protocol as outlined by Ryan et al including basiliximab induction
      therapy, sirolimus and tacrolimus maintenance therapy, aspirin and enoxaparin
      thromboprophylaxis, pneumocystis carinii prophylaxis with sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim for 6
      months and cytomegalovirus prophylaxis for 3 months if indicated. Insulin requirements will
      be monitored closely after transplant. Serum glucose, glycosylated haemoglobin, serum
      C-peptide, creatinine, and lipid concentrations will be monitored.

      Patients will be seen in follow up every month initially and longer term every 3 to 6 months
      as required. Glucose control, immunosuppressive levels and adverse events will be monitored
      regularly. Patients will be monitored for complications of diabetes as per standard
      guidelines. Tests of beta cell function (mixed meal Ensure test for glucose and C-peptide)
      will be performed every 3 months initially and then every 6 months once stable.
    
  