
    
      Objectives:

        1. Gather validity evidence for the 3D-Colonoscopy Progression score (3D-CoPS) and
           3D-Colonoscopy Retraction Score (3D-CoRS) in a clinical setting.

        2. Investigate the relationship between 3D-CoPS/3D-CoRS and a retrospective calculated
           Adenoma Detection Rate (ADR) of endoscopists with various experience.

      Background:

      Colonoscopy is the gold standard for diagnosing adenomas and colorectal cancer. High Adenoma
      Detection Rate (ADR) is essential to reduce the risk of subsequent colorectal cancer .To
      maximize the detection of adenomas during a colonoscopy the endoscopist need to see as much
      mucosa as possible. To increase the mucosa visualized quality indicators, such as bowel
      preparatin, cecal intubation rate and an average time of at least 6 minutes spent during
      withdrawal, should be used as supportive measures to minimize missed lesions and thereby
      decreasing interval cancer. Bowel preparation, cecal intubation and time spent during
      withdrawal are prerequisite measures for optimal visualization of the mucosa in the
      colorectum, but are not a quality measure for actual detected pathology. Time as a quality
      assurance for detection of adenomas means nothing if the physician isn't careful during
      withdrawal and look behind folds and change position to get a clear view of the mucosa
      surface. The ADR has been introduced as a surrogate measure of adequate visualization of the
      mucosa, but a recommend and a minimum number of 500 colonoscopies are needed to calculate a
      statistic reliable ADR. Although ADR is one of the most widely used and accepted quality
      indicators great variance in number of performed procedures and ADR among physicians exits,
      which makes ADR difficult to use in practice. Currently there is no quality parameter
      evaluating the individual procedure and to our knowledge no objective tools exits to help
      increase diagnostic accuracy during a colonoscopy. Objective, easy implementable and
      automatic measures are needed to ensure a high detection of adenomas and subsequently prevent
      missed lesions and interval cancers.

      In collaboration with the Technical University of Denmark we have developed a score of
      progression and retraction during a colonoscopy, called 3D-Colonoscopy Progression Score
      (3D-CoPS) and 3D-Colonoscopy Retraction Score (3D-CoRS). We predict the systems to be
      automated and objective tool correlated with the endoscopists technical level of expertise in
      clinical colonoscopy.

      Method and materials:

      Retrospective study part:

      The study is conducted at three different university hospitals. Twenty endoscopists with a
      lifetime experience of no less than 50 screening colonoscopies are voluntarily enrolled. To
      calculate the ADR for each endoscopist data of the last screenings colonoscopies is
      retrospectively collected (minimum 50 colonoscopies per endoscopist).

      The following will be noted for each endoscopist:

        -  Number of total colonoscopies

        -  Number of colonoscopies within the last year

        -  Number of other endoscopies

        -  Number of screenings colonoscopies

        -  Intern, junior resident, senior resident, consultant

        -  Surgical or medical gastrointestinal background

        -  Sex

        -  Age

        -  Time since graduation

      Prospective part:

      A minimum of five consecutive screenings colonoscopies for each endoscopist are included.
      Patients appointed to a screening colonoscopy are chosen due to a higher ADR (approximately
      50%) and a more homogeneous group. All procedures are performed with a standard Olympus
      colonoscope model in combination with the Magnetic Endoscopy Imaging system (MEI). Data
      collection starts at the intubation of the colonoscope in the anus and stops when the
      procedure is finished. The data collection is fully automated without any interference from
      the investigators during the normal clinical setup.

      Approval is applied at the Danish Data Protection Agency, the Danish Patient Safety Authority
      and the Regional Committee on Health Research Ethics.

      General mathematical formulation for 3D-CoPS and 3D-CoRS:

      Electromagnetic coils are built in along the length of the Olympus colonoscopes. They
      generate a pulsed low-intensity magnetic field that is picked up a receiver coil. The
      data-points for each coil are inserted into an algorithm for movement analyzing. The two main
      measurements conducted in relation with the colonoscopy is the Colonoscopy Progression Score
      (CoPS) and Colonoscopy Retraction Score (CoRS). Both of these have a joint basis for the
      analysis, in the form of a movement analysis. This analysis is done as a vector product
      between the tip of the scope, and the next tracked magnetic coil - where on the relative
      magnitude of the change in position is multiplied on. This results in a relative movement
      that is scaled with how much the scope moves in relation to the previous position, and how
      much this movement is deflected according to the direction the tip points in. This movement
      analysis is used for distinction between the progression- and retraction phase, which is
      essential, such that the CoPS and CoRS measurements is performed at the right times.

      3D-CoPS: To perform the CoPS measurement, the above definition helps by defining the
      progression phase. The general belief is that if the scope progresses smoothly, the
      colonoscopist is experienced, and vice versa. Therefor tracking how much time the tip of the
      scope is "stagnant", is used to define the CoPS. Specifically, a two dimensional histogram is
      used, spanned across the movement area of the colonoscopy. Filling the histogram is simply
      performed by sampling the tip position at each time step, and putting it into the respective
      bin. If the scope is then stagnant at many stages throughout the procedure, the bins values
      will be locally very high. On the other hand, if a smooth progression is present, the bin
      values will be smoothly distributed, across all the different bins. This is the basis for the
      CoPS value. Finally followed with a normalizing, and scaling of the 2D histogram value, for
      easing interpretation.

      3D-CoRS: Analyzing the retraction phase, must be done differently, as the tip is supposed to
      be stagnant, at different times, through this phase. Therefor the movement analysis, as
      described above, is used to measure how the instrument moves. This movement is then
      high-passed filtered, as experienced colonoscopist seems to have much more high frequency
      movements, where-in the novices moves with much lower frequency (more hesitant). This overall
      movement is evaluated as a difference between the different positions (by differentiation),
      and a count of peaks and valleys is done with a fitting margin. This final count is then high
      if an expert is performing the procedure, as more high frequency movements will take place,
      and low if a novice is performing the procedure.

      Patient related information:

        -  Number of polyps

        -  The polyp size

        -  Polyp type

        -  Polyp histology

        -  Polyp location

      Validity:

      Evidence of validity is based on Messicks five major sources (10).

      Content:

      1. 3D-CoPS and 3D-CoRS are being developed based on the evidence of an ongoing
      simulation-based validation study " A Validation Study of a Computerized Movement Analysis of
      the Colonoscope in Simulated Colonoscopy" and general good practice of how a colonoscope is
      withdrawn from cecum to anus.

      Response process:

      The process is standardized using an Olympus colonoscope and MEI system. All participants
      will be instructed informed of the systems and the data-collection. All data-collection
      regarding are presented in a uniform file-format. The 3D-CoPS and 3D-CoRS are objective,
      automated and unbiased tools.

      Internal structure:

      To ensure internal consistency of the 3D-CoPS and 3D-CoRS among the endoscopists a minimum of
      5 consecutive colonoscopies are needed (based on an article not yet published). The score
      system is automated and unbiased why the internal structure in this regard is consistent.

      Relationship to other variables:

      We assume the sample data reflects a population that follows a probability distribution based
      on a fixed set of parameters. The correlation between experience (logarithmic) and scores
      will be investigated using Pearson's r. Scores from 3D-CoPS and 3D-CoRS will be correlated
      with patient and endoscopist variables. The endoscopist is not blinded during
      data-collection, which might affect the performance. Even thou data collection is fully
      automated, the technic during withdrawal of the colonoscope from caecum to anus could change
      and increase mucosa visualized and therefore polyp detection (increased awareness of the
      endoscopist).

      Consequences:

      Contrasting groups' method will be used to set a pass/fail standard based on the scores
      imitating aminimum performance during intubation, a minimum ADR and false positive and false
      negative will be investigated.

      Ethics:

      The study contains no biomedical involvement. Participants and patients will not suffer from
      any physical or psychological discomfort. All endoscopists will be provided with oral and
      written information and sign a letter of informed consent before entering the study. The
      collected data are anonymized.
    
  