
    
      Objectives: The goal of this proposal is to study temperament and risk-taking as
      vulnerability factors for anxiety. Studies have documented that behaviorally inhibited (BI)
      children are at risk for anxiety disorders. This vulnerability may be associated with neural
      circuits underlying behavioral tendencies, such as components of the prefrontal cortex (PFC),
      striatum, and amygdala. Regarding risk-taking behavior, certain high risk-taking adolescents
      also carry enhanced vulnerability to anxiety. We use fMRI to examine local activity in PFC,
      cingulate, amygdala, and striatum, and functional connectivity with resting state methodology
      in two cohorts, one probing temperament and the other one risk-taking.

      Study Population: A total of 1010 individuals/ infants (0-29 yo) will be studied. This sample
      comprises 2 sets of study groups. First, the BI group includes individuals with (1) high
      motor arousal/high negative affect in early infancy to novelty and sustained BI (BI), (2)
      high motor arousal/high positive affect to novelty and sustained temperamental exuberance
      (exuberant), (3) average levels of both reactivity/affect from infancy to childhood
      (controls). Second, the risk-taking group includes 4 subgroups representing the interaction
      of two levels of anxiety (low, high) and two levels of risk-taking (low, high). Finally, a
      group of healthy individuals will be recruited as controls.

      Participants will be studied through their 20 s because both the risk for and expressions of
      psychopathology continue to change throughout early adulthood.

      Design: Assessments will include psychiatric, behavioral, and neuropsychological batteries.
      The protocol uses fMRI paradigms targeting different emotional, social, cognitive,
      motivational, and learning processes during activation studies, as well as the intrinsic
      function of the brain measured during a resting state.

      Outcome Measures and Predictions: The main outcome measures are fMRI BOLD signal changes,
      physiological, neuropsychological and behavioral variables. The proposed fMRI studies will
      test 2 sets of hypotheses. The first refers to the BI cohort. BI subjects will exhibit (1)
      enhanced amygdala activation to mild threats (e.g., angry facial), (2) PFC perturbations in
      associative learning, (3) abnormal fronto-amygdala connectivity, (4) heightened striatal and
      inferior PFC activation to reward stimuli, (5) unique neural patterns of attention bias and
      social challenges, (6) differential changes with age as a function of BI status (7) infants
      of differing temperaments will exhibit structural and functional differences in brain regions
      associated with salience and ventral attention networks. The second set of hypotheses
      pertains to the risk-taking cohort. (1) anxious adolescents will activate striatal regions in
      response to reward more strongly than non-anxious adolescents; (2) risk-takers will also
      activate striatal regions in response to reward more strongly than non-risk takers; (3) we
      expect an interaction between risk-taking and anxiety-related factors, such as a potentiation
      of striatal activation in anxious risk-takers, and a blunting of striatal activation in
      non-anxious risk-takers. These effects will be uniquely altered by social stress. Finally,
      repeat studies will be conducted with the BI cohort to examine stability/developmental
      changes with time.
    
  