
    
      Some studies have demonstrated a link between Vitamin D deficiency and poor asthma control.
      Vitamin D has been shown to have an immune modulatory role and plays a role in improving the
      response to corticosteroids which are the mainstay of treatment in persistent asthma.

      A randomized double-blind placebo controlled study will be performed to assess whether
      vitamin D supplementation will improve control in South African children with persistent
      asthma at an academic hospital.

      The researchers intend to enroll 100 children between the ages of 6 to 12 years with
      persistent asthma on inhaled therapy. The children will be enrolled from the pediatric
      outpatient department of Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital, which is in Pretoria, South
      Africa. After enrolment, the children will be randomized into one of two groups; one group of
      50 children will be given 1200 IU of vitamin and the other group of 50 will receive a
      placebo. The sample size calculations are based on the hypothesis that vitamin D
      supplementation will result in a 25% improvement in asthma symptoms as measured by the Asthma
      Treatment Assessment Questionnaire (ATAQ) and peak flow readings.

      The following groups of children will be excluded: children with intermittent asthma
      symptoms; children whose caregivers refuse to give signed informed consent; children who are
      not able to use a peak expiratory flow meter and those with concomitant chronic respiratory
      and/or cardiac conditions.

      The vitamin D or placebo will be given in the morning daily to each child for six months. The
      date when the child was first diagnosed as having asthma will be noted, as well as the date
      of asthma treatment initiation, and the current treatment at enrolment will be recorded. The
      children will be asked to come to the hospital for follow up at monthly intervals. At these
      monthly visits, the children will be evaluated for signs and symptoms of poor asthma control
      by the study physician. The heights and weights of the children will be measured and peak
      expiratory flow meter readings will also be obtained monthly for six months. Blood samples
      will be taken for Vitamin D levels, calcium, phosphorus levels at baseline, third month and
      at the end of the study. Treatment adherence will be assessed by counting the pills in the
      containers by the study physician at the monthly visits. All enrolled children will be
      required to produce their tablet containers for pill counting.

      Data will be analyzed using the IBM SPSS Statistics program. Analysis of variance will be
      performed in order to compare the difference in ATAQ scores and peak flow meter reading from
      baseline to six months post intervention between the two groups (vitamin D and placebo).
    
  