
    
      Hypothesis Our overall hypothesis is, that using the cardio-relay model it is possible to
      provide adequate treatment to frail patients that have difficulties to attend repeated visits
      at the hospital-based cardiologist office.

      Our concrete hypothesis is that a larger number of frail patients reaches adequate treatment
      with the cardio-relay model compared with conventional treatment and the patient remains
      confident with the distant support by the cardiologist.

      METHODS This is a pragmatic clinical trial that uses mixed methods in different stages of the
      project to test this hypothesis. Observational during the initial feasibility period, an
      open-label cluster-randomization trial and an iterative implementation period.

      Phase 1 - Feasibility During this phase, a single GP clinic is used to establish the elements
      that permit to establish the cardio-relay model. Hence, a field study is required to initiate
      the study.

      Subsequently, the first of such elements in the cardio-relay model is a text exchange
      initiated by the GP addressing a request to the cardiologist to assess the need for heart
      rhythm monitoring. This is a replacement of usual referral when the cardiologist is expected
      to plan an appointment for the patient In the cardiology outpatient clinic or reject the
      referral. In the cardio-relay model, through a text exchange. The GP may require further
      examinations and add eventual results available in the hospital electronic records from
      previous contacts. The GP, the cardiologist and the patient (welcoming help from relatives
      and carers) can then agree on need for heart rhythm monitoring. The GP has available compact
      Holter sensors, C3+, from Cortrium ApS and can immediately initiate recordings at their
      office or at the patient's home. The duration of the recording is 24 hours as standard, but
      can agreed to prolong or repeat between the GP, the cardiologist and the patient. C3+ has
      memory for continuous electrocardiogram recording and built-in accelerometer, for up to three
      weeks and battery capacity for one weeks. The finalized recordings can be uploaded to the
      cloud by the GP and the cardiologist provides the GP with a result of the recording and a
      proposal for treatment according to the findings or further evaluation, which continuous the
      dialogue across the sectors

      Phase 2 - Cluster randomization trial The terms of patient confidentiality are identic to
      those for usual care as patient management aims at best clinical practice according to local
      guidelines and data are recorded in the existing medical records. Hence, analysis of the
      observations gathered during Phase 1 correspond to those of a quality control project, with
      no requirement to gather specific informed consent for this part. The project has been
      accepted by the Ethics Committee of the Capital region (H-18052892) and published in
      clinicaltrials.gov for extending usual clinical management with questionnaires and structured
      interviews with patients to assess the satisfaction of the novel management with the
      cardio-relay model, with emphasis on the patient's perspective.

      To allow comparison of the novel collaborative model cardio-relay with usual care, there will
      be conducted a cluster-randomization trial. Firstly, other GP clinics will be recruited by
      personal visit at the clinics where the cardio-relay model is briefly introduced. GP clinics
      will be invited to participate from different regions, that is, Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg
      municipality and Holbæk municipality, four from each municipality. That is eight GP clinics
      in total. During a subsequent workshop, the participant GP clinics will be invited to a
      workshop where they will be informed on the project and discuss best pathways to achieve the
      goals of the project, based on the principle of the project, adapted to the local GP
      characteristics. Collaboration agreements will be signed with the participant GP clinics they
      will be allocated to cluster by Region and randomized to intervention or no intervention. All
      sites send an initial message to the clinics to discuss the wish of Holter monitoring. In the
      control group, the initial requirement for Holter monitoring will be handled according to
      usual care. In the intervention group, GP will receive advise to start a C3+ Holter or not,
      eventually after a dialogue to qualify indication for Holter monitoring, and receive a
      treatment and further evaluation proposal, as described in the feasibility phase.

      Measurements of efficacy will be initiated after the first two patients are managed in each
      site, both according to the control group and according to the intervention group. That is,
      16 patients in total in the run-in period. It is planned to evaluate the results of Phase 2
      when the first 50 patients are included and followed for six months (that is 16 patients
      run-in and 34 randomized). Measurements for the 34 patients managed according to
      randomization. This is an estimate based on an expected optimization of the following primary
      endpoint:

      • Completion of evaluation for definite or roll-out diagnosis within six weeks in 90% of
      patients included in the intervention arm compared to 70% within six weeks These estimates
      are based on the time from referral to clinical visit for treatment decision or completed
      rule-out evaluation time in current settings on 120 patients referred to
      Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg hospital for evaluation for atrial fibrillation in the period
      January-June 2019 (mean 58 days, CI 11.27). This will be recalculated when the results of
      Phase 1 are available.

      Questionnaires and patient interviews Questionnaires include validated assessment tools: Euro
      Quality of Life-5 Domain (EQ-5D) READY concept-based, psychometrically sound, validated
      instrument, the Readiness and Enablement Index for Health Technology (READHY), based on the
      concept of eHealth literacy supplemented with relevant scales from other instruments
      assessing aspects of self-management and social support: the eHealth Literacy Questionnaire
      (eHLQ) the Health Education Impact Questionnaire (heiQ) and the Health Literacy Questionnaire
      (HLQ).

      Measurements

      For questionnaires:

      All instruments are based on conceptual dimensions and are rated on a Likert-type scale from
      1 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree). The overall svore of each dimension is
      calculated as the mean of the items constituting the dimension.

      For interviews:

      All transcribed interviews will be were coded and categorized inductively using manifest
      qualitative content analysis, Qualitative data from the patient interviews will be reported
      in accordance with COREQ guidelines. Recruitment of patients for interviews will be
      prospective, with a "purposive approach. Every patient who agrees to take part in the project
      will be classified as "frail" or "not frail" pursuant to the pre-defined criteria (Table 1).
      Continuous comparison methods will be used to identify the population which could benefit
      from the cardio-relay model.

      Table 1. "Frail elderly" are aged ≥ 65 years and have at least one of the following
      impairments:

        -  Transportation: Need for help to get to hospital outpatient departments

        -  Personal care: Need for help in personal hygiene

        -  Walking impairment: Reduced ability to walk (takes more than 5 sec. for the patient to
           walk 5 metres)

        -  Weight loss: Unintentional weight loss within the past year

        -  Cognitive difficulties: dementia, memory problems, aphasia, etc.

        -  Social problems: due to alcohol abuse or other abuse, ethnic background, language, etc.

      Phase 3 - Iterative adjustment It is expectable that, after initial use of the cardio-relay
      model in REAFEL in the prior phases, there will be unforeseen improvement possibilities that
      can be adjusted in an iterative manner in the different settings for each participating
      sites. After a 6 months period it is expected to draw a generalizable guide for managing
      patients with the cardio-relay model.

      Reporting results of the entire trial will follow TIDieR checklist.
    
  