
    
      The use of point of care ultrasound (PoCUS) has grown rapidly. The incorporation of PoCUS in
      the assessment of patients in shock and to identify a reversible etiology to a patients
      cardiac arrest is widely practiced and endorsed by several organizations. While often
      overlooked, the right ventricle (RV) plays a critical role and often can provide clues to the
      etiology of a patient who is in shock. The right ventricle is very unique, as its anatomic
      structure, and function are markedly different then the left ventricle. What is often
      assessed is the size of the right ventricle. If dilated, which is defined as being >0.6 times
      that of the left ventricle, this could be indicative of elevated right sided pressures. In
      the right clinical context this may be caused by an acute pulmonary embolus. While this
      particular finding may raise clinical suspicion of acute right ventricular strain, point of
      care ultrasound cannot safely rule out acute pulmonary embolism. Several publications
      demonstrate the use of thrombolytics if a dilated RV is seen on PoCUS. This applies in
      patients with cardiac function who have not sustained a cardiac arrest. But in those patients
      who do sustain a cardiac arrest, these patients fall into a black hole of PoCUS findings
      related to the right ventricle. The international liaison committee on resuscitation has
      urged caution due to the unknown PoCUS findings during cardiac arrest. If one were to presume
      a dilated RV in a setting of a patient who sustained cardiac arrest was due to a pulmonary
      embolus, thrombolytics would be indicated. However, exposing the patient to thrombolytics,
      which in themselves carry a hemorrhage risk of 20%, is not a benign decision. Thus PoCUS
      findings as they pertain to the RV, in patient who sustain a cardiac arrest are unknown how
      they clinically correlate. Literature from critical care demonstrates that the right
      ventricle dilates, exhibits RV dysfunction, and carries a worse prognosis then that of the
      left ventricle. Recent animal data suggests that RV dilatation does occur in a porcine
      induced cardiac arrest model. To date, no human assessment of RV function and size in the
      immediate post-arrest state exists, and clearly a need to study this is evident.

      objectives and hypothesis Objectives To assess the right ventricular function and size in
      patients who are immediately post-arrest patients.

      Hypothesis Our hypothesis is that right ventricular dysfunction and dilatation is prevalent
      in the patients who are in cardiac arrest and in the post-cardiac arrest patient population,
      irrespective of they etiology of their cardiac arrest.
    
  