
    
      Background: Acute respiratory tract infections (ARTI) (i.e. common cold, pharyngitis,
      tonsillitis, rhinosinusitis, tracheo-bronchitis, otitis media, acute exacerbations of asthma
      (AEA) and of chronic pulmonary disease (AECOPD), and community acquired pneumonia (CAP)), are
      among the most frequent reasons for seeking medical attention in primary care. Although from
      predominantly viral origin, ARTIs are the most important condition for the prescription of
      antibiotics (AB), mainly due to the difficulty in primary care to differentiate between viral
      and bacterial etiology. Unnecessary AB use increases drug expenditures, side effects and AB
      resistance. A novel approach is to guide AB use by procalcitonin (ProCT), since serum levels
      are elevated in bacterial infections but remain lower in viral infections and inflammatory
      diseases.

      Aim: To compare a strategy based on evidence-based guidelines with ProCT guided AB therapy in
      ARTIs with respect to outcome (days with restriction) and AB use.

      Design: Randomized, controlled trial with an open intervention. Patients presenting with
      ARTIs to primary care physicians and are intended to be treated with AB based on guidelines
      will be included and randomized 1:1 either to standard management or to the ProCT guided
      prescription of AB.

      Setting: Primary care providers in the Northwest of Switzerland from cantons with or without
      drug self dispensation (Basel-Stadt and Baselland).

      Patients: 18 years or older, with ARTI of >1 and <28 days duration and in need of ABs based
      on the clinical judgment of the primary care physician. Excluded are patients without
      informed consent, not fluent in German, with AB pretreatment in previous 28 days or severe
      immune-suppression.

      Endpoints: Primary: Days with restrictions from ARTI. Secondary: Rate of AB prescriptions,
      days with AB use, symptoms from ARTI, relapse rate from ARTI within 28 days, days with side
      effects from ABs and off work. Endpoints will be assessed at baseline, days 1 to 3 by the
      physicians. Structured phone interviews at days 14 and 28 will be done in all patients from
      both groups.

      Intervention: All participating physicians will receive evidence-based guidelines for the
      management of patients with ARTIs. Patients with ARTI and in need of ABs by physicians'
      clinical judgment and with informed consent will be randomized to ProCT plus guidelines
      ("ProCT group") versus only guidelines guided AB treatment ("control group"). In patients
      randomized to the ProCT group the use of antibiotics will be more or less discouraged (<0.1
      or <0.25 ug/L) or encouraged (>0.5 or >0.25 ug/L), respectively. A re-evaluation in patients
      with ProCT (<0.1 or <0.25 ug/L) after 6 to 24 hours is mandatory. All patients will be
      reassessed at day 3 and it is recommended to stop AB in the ProCT group as described above.
      Blood specimens for ProCT, taken from all patients, will be shipped by courier to the central
      lab and results will be reported within 2 hours.

      Variables and measurement: Physicians have to consecutively enroll all patients with ARTI in
      whom they consider AB treatment. Baseline data on medical history and clinical items,
      additional diagnostic tests, co-morbidity and final prescribed treatment will be collected.
      The study will be conducted over a 12 month period in 2005.

      Expected results: We assume noninferiority if at worst the new procedure leads to an increase
      on average of one day with restrictions compared to standard procedure with a reduced total
      AB use.

      Our null hypothesis is: ProCT guided antibiotic management gives on average more than an
      extra day with restrictions than standard procedure.

      Alternative hypothesis: ProCT guided antibiotic management gives on average at most one day
      with restrictions more than the standard procedure

      Analyses: Analysis will be done based on the intention-to-treat principle. Sample size for
      type I error rate of 5% and type II error rate of 10% (i.e. 90% power) = 171. With allowance
      for a loss to followup of 10% the required sample size is 190 per treatment group. We intend
      to gain 24 primary care physicians to recruit the total of 380 patients.

      Significance: Because of the high prevalence of ARTIs, this study will offer potential for
      improving the management of ARTIs in primary care by avoiding unnecessary ABs in patients
      with ARTIs, along with the prevention of AB resistance. For these reasons, it has high
      relevance for the Swiss health care system and for public health in Switzerland.
    
  