
    
      Phase II trial, open label, clinical activity of metformin combination with high-dose
      dexamethasone (HDdexa) in patients with multiple myeloma relapsed-refractory.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, metformin will be given
      continuously until completion of the treatment, disease progression, severe toxicity or
      intolerance. The same duration of treatment will be applied to dexamethasone.

      The treatment will be initiated with dexamethasone (40 mg daily for 4 days on D1-D4, D9-D12
      and D17-D20) Before starting the HDDexa investigators will obtain blood and bone marrow
      samples for evaluation of response to the disease using biomarkers of multiple myeloma. On
      day 1, the patients will begin metformin XR (500mg daily with the evening meal) with gradual
      increase in the dose - 500 mg per week up to a maximum of 2.5 g / day if no toxicity grade ≥
      2 . Each cycle will be reset every 35 days in the 1st and 2nd cycle and every 28 days from
      3rd to 6th cycle. Patients who maintained clinical response to treatment after the first
      cycle should use the drugs for 6 cycles, or until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Oral
      dexamethasone (40 mg) is administered on days 1 to 4, 9 to 12 and 17 to 20 the first and
      second (cycles of 35 days) and on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of the third to sixth (cycle 28d), for
      a period of 190 days of treatment. Patients over 75 years will use 20 mg / day instead of 40
      mg / day.

      Patients will be submitted to collection of tissues: blood and bone marrow to evaluate the
      response to disease through multiple myeloma biomarkers before the first cycle, 4th and 5th
      cycle of treatment to assess the response according to IMWG criteria: blood count, creatinine
      , calcium, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH); Beta2 microglobulin; C-reactive protein (CRP) and
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR); Immunoelectrophoresis and immunofixation of the
      proteins in serum and urine 24 hours; 24h proteinuria; Myelogram and bone marrow biopsy (BMO)
      and Immunophenotyping. Clinical and laboratory exams will be conducted at the beginning and
      every 35 days on first 2 cycles every 28 days until the 6th cycle.

      Safety assessments will include history and physical examination, electrocardiography, blood
      count, biochemical tests (including glucose and glycated Hb) and pulse oximetry.

      Toxic effects will be analyzed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity
      Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4 (NCI CTCAE v4).

      This is an investigational study. Dexamethasone is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of many inflammatory diseases. Metformin is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The combination of these drugs to treat
      multiple myeloma is investigational.

      Up to 28 patients will take part in this study. This is a multicenter study, and will take
      place in the clinical research center at the Clinical Hematology of the Clinical Hospital,
      University of Campinas-UNICAMP and at the Cascavel Cancer Hospital - UOPECCAN. This study
      will be coordinated by the Hemocentro-UNICAMP
    
  