
    
      In December 2019, Wuhan, in Hubei province, China, became the center of an outbreak of
      pneumonia of unknown cause. In a short time, Chinese scientists had shared the genome
      information of a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) from these pneumonia patients and developed a
      real-time reverse transcription PCR (real time RT-PCR) diagnostic assay.

      Whilst the outbreak is likely to have started from a zoonotic transmission event associated
      with a large seafood market that also traded in live wild animals, it soon became clear that
      person-to-person transmission was also occurring. The number of cases of COVID-19 identified
      in Wuhan increased markedly over the later part of January 2020, with cases identified in
      multiple other Provinces of China and internationally. Mathematical models of the expansion
      phase of the epidemic suggested that sustained person-to-person transmission is occurring,
      and the R-zero is substantially above 1, the level required for a self-sustaining epidemic in
      human populations.

      The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 appears to be wide, encompassing asymptomatic infection, a
      mild upper respiratory tract illness, and severe viral pneumonia with respiratory failure and
      even death. Although the per infection risk of severe disease remains to be determined, and
      may differ from the initial reports of 10-15%, the large number of cases in Wuhan has
      resulted in a large number of patients hospitalised with pneumonia. Progression from
      prodromal symptoms (usually fever, fatigue, cough) to severe pneumonia requiring
      supplementary oxygen support, mechanical ventilation, or in some cases ECMO appears to occur
      most commonly during the second week of illness in association with persistent viral RNA
      detection. This provides a window of opportunity to test candidate antiviral therapeutics.

      This new coronavirus, and previous experiences with SARS and MERS-CoV, highlight the need for
      therapeutics for human coronavirus infections that can improve clinical outcomes, reduce risk
      of disease progression, speed recovery, and reduce the requirements for intensive supportive
      care and prolonged hospitalisation. In addition, treatments for mild cases to reduce the
      duration of illness and infectivity may also be of value were COVID-19 to become pandemic
      and/or endemic in human populations.

      Given no specific antiviral therapy for COVID-19 and the availability of remdesvir as a
      potential antiviral agent based on pre-clinical studies in SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV infections,
      this randomized, controlled, double blind trial will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      remdesivir in patients hospitalized with mild or moderate COVID-19.
    
  