
    
      In subjects with suspected acute coronary syndromes (ACS), females are significantly less
      likely to undergo investigations, receive evidence-based treatments, and consistently have
      worse outcomes than males. The gap in outcomes is particularly marked among adults < 55 years
      of age. Sex differences in symptom presentation and in the diagnostic threshold for cardiac
      biomarkers have been suggested as reasons for the under-diagnosis and under-treatment of
      women. Cardiac troponin (cTn) T and I are proteins specific to the myocardium, which with
      elevated and changing concentrations detected in the blood, along with signs or symptoms
      consistent with myocardial ischemia, are indicative of a diagnosis of myocardial infarction
      (MI). With the introduction of high-sensitivity (hs) cTn tests, which allow the detection of
      very low concentrations of troponin, it has become evident that the level of cTn in a healthy
      population is approximately two-fold higher in males than in females.

      Consequently, the 99th percentile threshold for cTn, the reference value used in diagnosis of
      MI, is lower in females compared to males. Despite this evidence and recent guidelines
      recommending the use of sex specific thresholds, a single, overall cTn threshold is still
      being used for diagnosis of MI, in both men and women, in most clinical settings.

      There is mounting evidence from several jurisdictions that the rate of MI is increasing among
      younger females, and that there is a persistent under-diagnosis, under-treatment, and high
      risk of adverse outcomes among females, especially younger females, compared to their male
      counterparts. A better approach to the diagnostic assessment of females presenting to the
      emergency department (ED) with chest pain is therefore urgently needed. Additionally, several
      Canadian hospitals have recently made the transition from sensitive to high sensitivity cTn
      assays, allowing for the examination of subtle but important sex-specific differences in cTn
      concentrations. With this background, the investigators propose a nationwide, randomized
      clinical trial (RCT) to determine whether establishing female thresholds results in improved
      diagnosis and treatment of MI and therefore improved prognosis in women.

      To determine whether the use of female hs-cTn thresholds in the assessment of women
      presenting to the ED with chest pain suggestive of cardiac ischemia, improves diagnostic
      assessment, treatment and 1-year outcomes. Specifically, the investigators will examine the
      impact of using female hs-cTn thresholds on:

        -  Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies;

        -  Prognosis: 1-year all-cause mortality, non-fatal MI, incident heart failure (HF)
           hospitalization or emergent/urgent coronary revascularization;

        -  Costs of diagnostic testing and treatment.
    
  