
    
      Methodology and Techniques:

      Patients would be screened at St Joseph-East End Pain Clinic for Chronic Lumbar Radiculopathy
      (CLR) of at least 4 months duration. Based on the history and clinical examination, a
      diagnosis of CLR involving one or more spinal segments is made and noted. The patient is
      considered eligible for the study if a CT or MRI of lumbar spine done within the last 4
      months demonstrates pathology that is concordant with the patient's clinical symptoms. The
      spinal level(s) targeted for treatment will be based on clinical findings, e.g. if a patient
      exhibits signs and symptoms of right L4 radiculopathy, and the MRI demonstrates right
      paracentral disc herniations at both L4-5 and L5-S1, only the L4 DRG will be targeted.

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be fully explained about the nature of study,
      interventions involved and the possible complications after which an informed consent will be
      taken. Enrolled patients would be randomized-according to the method chosen and included in
      the study according to previously randomized order. He/she will also meet the ASSESSOR (blind
      to intervention)-who would note down the baseline parameters of the patient and also collect
      a baseline Oswestry Score chart, along with noting down other parameters.

      A patient having bilateral radiculopathy will be treated for his most affected side in the
      trial. A patient having CLR of more than one segment on one side shall be treated for all the
      involved segments with the same technique and counted as a single procedure or intervention
      for the study.

      All OR (operating room) personnel, including the physician performing intervention and
      patient shall be blind to the randomization and treatment. The grouping code, hence the
      actual treatment will only be known by the person operating the RF machine.

      Only the RF technician shall be in view of the working details of the RF machine and the
      noise of the machine is cut off. This ensures blinding of all involved except the RF
      technician. After checking for informed consent and other safety checklist, patient will only
      be revealed as belonging to group A or B.

      All interventions will be done as day care procedures in the OR. Patients would continue to
      use their medications as before. If the pain relief obtained necessitates decrease in the
      usage of medications that shall be recorded. Similarly unsatisfactory pain relief obtained
      necessitating increase in the dose or change of medications shall be recorded. The other
      parameters to be used for statistical analysis are collected as mentioned in the data
      analysis paragraph.

      The patient will have an established IV access. He would be put in prone position. The
      involved area of back would be made sterile using chlorohexidine 2% and draped. The patient
      would be connected to continuous monitoring of 3 lead ECG, NIBP (Non-Invasive Blood Pressure)
      and pulse oximetry. Sedation, if used will be minimal (Grade I or II) to obtain the necessary
      response of the patient. Under fluoroscopy guidance- particular spinal segment(s) affected is
      (are) identified and confirmed. LA using 2% lidocaine is infiltrated to the skin at entry
      site. For both groups a RF needle (Bayliss: 22-G needle, 5-mm curved active tip and 10 cm) is
      used. With an appropriate fluoroscopy view needle is inserted to the target location in both
      the groups.

      Target location: the DRG which is an enlargement formed by the dorsal nerve root just
      proximal to its junction with the spinal nerve lies within the dural sleeve and occupies the
      upper, medial part of the intervertebral foramen (22). It is confirmed with an
      anteroposterior fluoroscopy view in which it is advanced, if required, until the tip is
      located one-third to halfway into the pedicle column (18).

      Target Confirmation (Malik et al): Appropriate fluoroscopic placement of needle-near DRG at
      the lumbar area is noted; on anteroposterior x-ray projection, the DRG is described to lie
      immediately behind the lateral aspect of the facet column at all spinal levels and on lateral
      x-ray projection, it is localized to the dorsocranial quadrant of the IVF (intervertebral
      foramen) Proximity of the needle to the DRG is determined by appropriate sensory stimulation
      with 50 Hz, at more than 0.4 V (avoids intraganglionic placement) and less than or equal to
      0.6 V; motor stimulation at 2 Hz with threshold 1.5-2 times greater than sensory threshold to
      avoid placement near the anterior nerve root. A radiculogram done also confirms the
      appropriate placement and helps recognise intradural placement of the needle.

      Both the groups will have their respective DRG stimulated for sensory confirmation.

      Treatment: Once positioned the physician shall indicate to the RF technician as "treatment"
      only, at which time either PRF or placebo (only continuing sensory stimulation at a low
      frequency is applied), without revealing.

      Application of Intervention: In Group A-PRF; PRF would be applied for 120 seconds at 42
      degree centigrade. Group B-placebo; the needle would be continuously stimulated at a low
      voltage to give a sensation of PRF application and also to obtain the necessary noise to
      blind the patients.

      Only lidocaine 1% 0.5 ml shall be given in both groups before carrying out the treatment.

      In both groups the same procedure is done at all the involved spinal segmental levels. After
      the procedure the patient is shifted to recovery area to be monitored, observed and managed
      for any side effects. The observer, blind to the interventions, will record the pain scores
      and also check for side effects observed before the patient is discharged home.

      Blinding and Bias control In our study we plan to blind the patient, the treating physician
      and the assessor for the actual intervention being done. The randomization code, hence the
      actual treatment will only be known and administered by the person operating the RF machine.
      The randomization will be concealed in sealed envelopes

      Blinding of patients will be achieved by:

      Randomization: Patients will be randomly allocated to each group using a 1:1 ratio. The
      allocation will be blocked using block sizes of 2, 4, 6.

      Both interventions will be similarly, including the use of fluoroscopy. Both interventions
      will be done using the same kind of needle and technique of stimulation.

      Patients belonging to placebo group will have a continuous low voltage stimulation to mask
      the effect of "no intervention".

      Blinding of assessor will be achieved by:

      Will not know the randomization order, Will not be present during the intervention, Will not
      be able to access any written or dictated notes regarding the intervention.

      Blinding of the treating Physician will be achieved by:

      Will not know the randomization order or grouping of patients, Will not be revealed the
      treatment applied.

      Duration of treatment period Treatment intervention period will involve approximately 30 mins
      to 60 mins of actual intervention done in the OR.

      Duration and Frequency of follow up The duration of follow up will be 3 months after the
      intervention. The frequency of follow up will be as follows,

      The patient would be assessed post-intervention on the following days:

        1. 30 minutes post-procedure in recovery

        2. 24 hrs after-by a phone call (only VAS and side effects)

        3. At 1 week post-procedure-Visit to Observer (VAS, ODI, medications, side effects)

        4. At 4 weeks post-procedure-Visit to Observer -assessment for success (VAS, ODI,
           medications, side effects).

        5. At 2 months post-procedure-Visit to Observer (VAS, ODI, medications, side effects)

        6. At 3 months post -procedure-Visit to Observer-last follow up visit (VAS, ODI,
           medications, side effects)

      Sample Size, Recruitment Rate:

      Sample size has been determined based on feasibility considerations. Total duration of
      recruitment planned is 8 months The proposed target is recruitment for 8 months, with an
      expectation of 4 patients/month, making a total of 32 patients for the study.

      Potential to recruit patients, as 4 patients every month has been calculated based on the
      TransForaminal Steroid Injections (TFESI) performed in the last 3-6 months and also booked
      for the next 3-6 months (calculated as monthly) at St Joseph's Healthcare; data obtained from
      St Joseph's Healthcare Department of Anesthesia and Pain Dept Secretary Office.

      TFESI represents a well accepted, presently performed intervention for patients of CLR and
      most patients suitable for that are potential recruits for this study.

      Statistical Tests The Characteristics of the trial participants will be described using mean
      (standard deviation) or counts as appropriate. We will use a flow diagram to summarize the
      flow of patients in the trial.

      Feasibility outcomes will be reported as counts (proportions).

      Duration of The Trial The proposed study would only recruit patients for 8 months and compare
      with the expected estimation of the recruitment.
    
  