
    
      This prospective randomized double-blind study will be carried out on 80 adult patients who
      will be presented for different spine surgeries in Tanta university hospitals after obtaining
      the approval from the institutional Ethical Committee, informed written consent will be
      obtained from all the participants.

      Patients will be randomly classified using a computer-generated software of randomization
      into 2 groups:

        -  Group I (40 patients) (ESP block): patients in this group will receive ESP block after
           induction of general anesthesia.

        -  Group II (40 patients) (TLIP block): patients in this group will receive TLIP block
           after induction of general anesthesia

      Anesthetic technique

        -  The patients will be assessed preoperatively in the anesthesia clinic. On arrival of
           patients to the preparation room, an intravenous line will be established and the
           patient will be connected to a monitor. All the patients will receive pheniramine
           hydrogen maleate 45.5 mg intravenous as an antihistamine, Cefazolin30 mg/kg, and 40 mg
           pantoprazole.

        -  Induction of anesthesia will be carried out by fentanyl 1 ug/kg, propofol 1.5 mg/kg, and
           atracurium 0.5 mg/kg to facilitate tracheal intubation. After securing the airway
           through a suitable sized endotracheal tube, the patient was connected to a mechanical
           ventilator with its parameters adjusted to maintain the end-tidal carbon dioxide 34-38
           mmHg.

        -  Maintenance of the anesthesia was performed by isoflurane 1.2 % and incremental doses of
           atracurium 0.1 mg/kg. A temperature probe was inserted in the nasopharynx for core
           temperature monitoring. The depth of anesthesia was monitored by the bispectral index
           (Covidien, Mansfield, MA, USA). The BIS values were kept 40-60. An additional bolus dose
           of fentanyl 0.5 ug/kg was used in case of increase BIS more than 60 or increase in the
           heart rate or mean arterial pressure by more than 15 % of the baseline values.

        -  All patients received tranexamic acid 30 mg/kg through intravenous infusion. Before skin
           incision, patients of group I will receive ultrasound-guided ESP block, while patients
           in group II will receive ultrasound guided TLIP block.

        -  At the end of the surgery, the isoflurane was switched off with reversal of muscle
           relaxation and awake tracheal extubation and transfer of the patient to the recovery
           room for postoperative monitoring and supplementation of oxygen through a nasal cannula
           (2-3 L/min). All the patients will receive 4 mg dexamethasone I .v after induction of
           anesthesia and 4 mg of ondansetron i.v at the end of the surgery to guard against
           postoperative nausea and vomiting. All patients will receive paracetamol 1 g every 6
           hours daily If a patient complained about pain score of more than 3, rescue analgesics
           of IV ketorolac 30 mg and morphine 3 mg will be administered.

        -  Morphine PCA will be started with bolus dose of 1mg, a lockout interval of 7 min and a
           maximum dose of 34.2 mg per 4 h. Morphine PCA will be started on-demand after the time
           to first analgesic request and continued on the patient's need.

      Measurements will be obtained by an assistant nurse not participating in the study and
      blinded to its groups.

        1. Patient age, ASA class, BMI, duration of surgery, and number of levels operated.

        2. The presence of comorbidities, smoking, or alcohol abuse.

        3. block performance time.

        4. The length of hospital stays after surgery and time to first ambulation

        5. Postoperative Numerical rating score (NRS) every 2 hours in the first six hours, then
           every 4 h till 24 h. When NRS scores reach 4 or more, 3 mg of i.v morphine will be given
           and can be repeated if required with a calculation of the total postoperative morphine
           consumption in mg in the first 24 hours after surgery and the time to the first request
           of rescue analgesia.(Secondary outcomes)

        6. Intraoperative fentanyl consumption.

        7. Postoperative analgesic consumption.

        8. Time of return of bowel function.

        9. The patients will be asked to grade their degree of satisfaction regarding postoperative
           analgesia using a 4-point scale, where 4 = very satisfied, 3 = satisfied, 2 =
           dissatisfied, and 1 = very dissatisfied.

       10. The incidence of postoperative complications including nausea and vomiting, pruritis,
           respiratory depression, and sedation.
    
  