
    
      The We Grow Together intervention is designed to help caregivers understand how caregiver
      interactions with children support the children's development to strengthen high quality
      caregiver interactions with infants and toddlers. The starting point for the We Grow Together
      process is assessment of a caregiver's interactions with infants and toddlers in early
      childhood care and education (ECE) settings, using the Quality of Caregiver-Child
      Interactions with Infants and Toddlers (Q-CCIIT) observational measure. Data from the Q CCIIT
      observations highlight areas for growth in the caregiver's practices and inform a PD
      goal-setting process, with the support of a PD Provider.

      The investigators have developed an array of We Grow Together materials targeting principles
      and practices assessed by the Q-CCIIT measure, organized into modules, and delivered on an
      interactive website. Over the course of a program year, each caregiver in the study will work
      with a PD provider who is trained in guiding caregivers through the use of We Grow Together
      materials.

      As part of the We Grow Together intervention, all PD providers will receive training in using
      We Grow Together to support caregivers' understanding and practices. PD providers' training
      will focus on understanding the caregiving principles, relationship skills, adult learning
      principles, and coaching strategies that facilitate use of We Grow Together and promote
      growth of caregivers' knowledge and skills. PD providers will also have access to a set of PD
      provider materials to support implementation of We Grow Together. These materials support the
      ongoing relationship-based PD between the PD Provider and caregiver.

      The purpose of information collected under the current request is to examine the
      implementation and the outcomes associated with use of We Grow Together. The goals of the
      field test will be to: (1) implement We Grow Together for five months in a variety of
      settings, (2) collect information on the implementation of We Grow Together, and (3) collect
      information on care practices the investigators hypothesize are associated with use of We
      Grow Together. The investigators propose the following data collection activities, to be
      carried out in fall 2018 through spring 2019:

        -  An ECE setting eligibility screening will determine if a setting is eligible and if
           family child care (FCC) and center directors and individual personnel are willing to
           participate in the field test.

        -  A background survey, completed by all caregivers and PD providers

        -  Observations of caregiver interactions by the investigators using the Q-CCIIT measure,
           to assess the quality of care provided by participating caregivers.

        -  A classroom information roster, completed by caregivers at the time of the observation,
           about the composition and activities within care settings.

        -  Web-user pop-up questions for caregivers and PD providers, collected monthly at website
           login.

        -  A feedback survey, completed by caregivers and PD providers.

        -  A PD provider training survey.
    
  