
    
      The study will be conducted in the clinic of Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of
      Dentistry, Cairo University; the operator in charge samah mohamed bahig, The subjects
      fulfilling the eligibility criteria of the trial will be selected from the regular attendees
      at the clinic of Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.
      Patient examination will be done including medical history, dental history, extra-oral
      examination and intraoral examination. A periapical radiograph will be taken prior to
      restorative procedures to assess the degree of approximation of caries to pulp, intactness of
      lamina dura and/or presence of any periapical radiolucency to exclude the case. The field of
      operation will be isolated with the application of a rubber dam if possible. Otherwise,
      cotton rolls and the saliva ejector will be used for moisture control. For cavity
      preparation, local anesthetic (MepecaineL, Alexandria Company, Egypt) solution will be
      administrated to control patient discomfort during the procedure. The cavities will be
      prepared by using cylindrical #314 (Komet®, Germany) in a high speed handpiece (Sirona,
      Germany) rotating at high speed with copious coolant. Remaining soft caries

      -if present- will be removed using sharp excavator (Maillefer, Dentsuply, Switzerland).After
      the cavity preparation is finished, it will be thoroughly air-water cleaned. The bonding
      system; the Prime and Bond universal adhesive (Dentsply De Trey GmbH, Konstanz, Germany) will
      be applied according to the following instructions recommended by the manufacturer and rubbed
      for 20 seconds then blown with a gentle air blow for 5 seconds to evaporate the solvent and
      then light curing for 10 seconds using LED light curing unit (>700 mW/cm2).The prepared
      cavities will be restored with Zenit Nano Ceramic Composite (PRESIDENT DENTAL, GmbH, Munich,
      Germany) will be applied with incremental placement technique (maximum: 2-mm layer).
      Increments will be light curing for 40 seconds according to manufacturer's instructions. and
      for the control group cavities will be restored withCeram•X (Dentsply De Trey GmbH, Konstanz,
      Germany) with incremental placement technique (maximum: 2-mm layer). Increments will be light
      cured for 20 seconds according to manufacturer's instructions.
    
  