
    
      This is an exploratory single centre, randomised controlled trial of a complex intervention
      based on cognitive behavioural therapy principles for patients with a recent episode of
      suicide and who have personality disorder/s and or substance abuse (complex comorbidity).
      Patients who join the study will be randomly allocated to receive either ENGAGE CBT or
      Treatment as Usual (TAU). We will compare the effectiveness of ENGAGE with TAU. The primary
      outcome will be engagement with services - the number of contacts with mental health services
      (e.g. drug, alcohol and CMHT) in the 3 months following the participant's randomisation.

      We will recruit 30 patients seen in the hospital by the Liaison Team with a suicide attempt
      who score above the threshold for personality disorder and drug or alcohol abuse using
      SAPAS,AUDIT and DAST assessments. If the patient is interested in the study a research
      assistant will obtain consent and conduct a baseline interview at which full personality
      disorder diagnostic status will be confirmed and further psychological measures will be
      taken. The patient will be randomised to ENGAGE (CBT) or TAU and interviewed again by the
      research assistant at 3 months post randomisation. The research assistant will be blind to
      treatment group. Those patients randomised to ENGAGE CBT will receive 6 sessions of the
      intervention from a CBT therapist. ENGAGE will help patients to identify problems, use
      problem solving to help prioritise and resolve problems and motivate patients to attend the
      treatment recommended by the liaison team. The ENGAGE therapist will encourage and, if
      necessary, facilitate patients with substance abuse and personality disorder to engage in the
      appropriate NHS services.

      TAU - usual treatment is the services that patients may already be involved in or services
      that the patient has been referred to following the suicide episode.
    
  