
    
      Restoration of pulp treated or badly broken down deciduous teeth with full coverage
      restoration have shown superior success rate to all other restorative materials.

      Restoration of deciduous teeth with esthetic full coverage restoration has been a challenging
      aim especially for the more functionally loaded posterior teeth. Due to the continuous
      increase in socio-economic standards; restoring posterior teeth with esthetic restoration is
      on high demand nowadays.

      The recently introduced zirconia pediatric crowns have been very promising in terms of
      strength and toughness. Clinical trials on maxillary incisors have shown very high success
      rates in terms of retention and gingival health.

      The problem of restoring posterior deciduous teeth with pre-fabricated zirconia crowns is
      that its retention is only and totally dependent on luting cement, in addition to the problem
      of the deteriorated gingival condition around crowns in general.

      Being recently introduced to the market; there have not been any clinical trials studying
      retention of zirconia posterior pediatric crowns published yet.

      Recently introduced bio-active cement [NuSmile® BioCem™] is claimed by the manufacturer to be
      the solution of this problem due to the shock absorbing effect, bioactive components, and
      antimicrobial effect making it tougher than traditional cements and more gingival friendly.

      Also, experienced clinicians have found that packable glass ionomer gives very acceptable
      results for retention of zirconia pediatric crowns. This may be due to the fact that,
      pre-fabricated pediatric crown is not well adapted to the prepared tooth creating a greater
      gap between the prepared tooth and the crown, resulting in a greater film thickness of luting
      cement, which may benefit from the stronger, tougher and less soluble packable glass ionomer
      rather than the conventional glass ionomer cement for cementation of zirconia crowns.

      There is no clear evidence whether it's better to cement zirconia based crowns with
      conventional or adhesive cement; and to the investigator's knowledge, there is no data
      available for the best clinical practice in cementation of zirconia pediatric crowns; and so,
      this study was carried out to compare the effectiveness of bio-active cement with packable
      glass ionomer when used for cementation of zirconia pediatric crowns.
    
  