
    
      Sarcopenic Obesity is associated with advanced ageing and is characterised by increased
      adipose tissue and loss of muscle mass, strength and/or function. The combination of
      sarcopenia and obesity can predispose older individuals to more functional disabilities than
      either of these two conditions alone, leading eventually to increased rates of morbidity and
      mortality. Lifestyle interventions focusing on physical activity and diet have been suggested
      as an effective tackling strategy. However, there is limited evidence on the efficacy of such
      interventions in sarcopenic obese individuals over 65 years of age. Therefore, the aim of
      this study is to assess the impact of a high protein energy-restriction diet and a mixed
      exercise program on body composition, strength, functionality and quality of life in older
      people with sarcopenic obesity.

      This is a prospective randomised control trial among independent living sarcopenic obese
      community-dwellers. Eligible participants are people over 65y who experience increased
      adiposity (% body fat >28% in men and >40% in women) and low skeletal muscle index (SMI
      <10.75 kg/m2 in men and <6.75kg/m2 in women). Fifty (50) participants will be randomly
      allocated to either the exercise group (EX) or the exercise plus high protein
      energy-restricted diet group (EXD). Each group will undergo 3 exercise sessions/ week for a
      period of 16 weeks. The exercise sessions will be similar for both groups and will
      incorporate aerobic, resistance, balance and flexibility elements. The EXD group will receive
      a 500kcal-deficit diet plan and a milk-based protein supplement (ProMilk 50 by Myprotein; 50
      g milk protein/ 500 ml bottle) to consume every day (at post-workout on exercise days or as a
      pre-bed snack on non-exercising days). The protein consumption will be in the range of
      1.2-1.5 g.kg bw-1. A total weekly dose of 75mcg Vitamin D3 (3 x 25mcg) will be administered
      orally to all participants to avoid potential confounders associated with Vitamin D
      deficiency/hypovitaminosis. The primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated at baseline,
      week 10 and week 16.
    
  