
    
      This is a cross-over study. Totally 15 participants will be randomized (or other number later
      determined by power test). The duration of the study is 9 days that will include 3 visits and
      screening visit before starting the study.

      Screening (day -1) Inclusion criteria are fulfilled before approaching Visit 1 on screening.
      Participants are instructed do come next day fasting and to collect 24h of urine sample.

      Visit 1 (day 1) Participant voluntarily agrees to participate by giving informed written
      consent. Baseline study assessment is going to be performed fasting: blood count and
      differential, blood chemistry (liver enzymes, sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorus,
      magnesium, chloride, serum amorality, urea and creatinine, lipid panel including cholesterol,
      triglycerides, HDL and LDL cholesterol, coagulation, uric acid, glucose and insulin, renin
      activity, aldosterone, GLP1 level, T4 TSH-thyroid stimulating hormone, ADH, BNP) In the 24 h
      urine collection sodium, chloride and calcium excretion, osmolality, creatinine are going to
      be measured, glomerular filtration is going to be assessed by creatinine clearance, urin
      analysis with microscopy is going to be preformed, EKG, kidney ultrasound together with 24-h
      blood pressure monitor. HOMA2 (The Homeostasis Model Assessment ) index is calculated and a
      total body water percentage determinated via Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis. All samples of
      renin activity and aldosterone in a study are going to be taken while being in horizontal
      position at least for 3 hours. Participants are going to be randomized regarding the glucose
      tolerance test. First group it the one with fasting glucose 4,5 -5,7 mmol/L and at 2 hour
      OGTT (the amount of sodium in OGTT fluid used is 0,4 mg of sodium and 0,3 mg of chloride in
      0,2 L of water) glucose level below 7.8 mmol/l. The other group is the one with fasting
      glucose from 5,7 to 7 mmol/l and/or at 2 hour OGTT glucose level form 7.8 mmol/l to 11,1
      mmol/L (venous sample). Patients are instructed to come on the next day fasting again.

      Visit 2 (day 2) is a next study assessment: 24-h blood pressure monitor is removed, after the
      overnight fast oral saline load is going to be given in a form of a standardized meal (soup)
      in a amount of 12 g of NaCl (average daily intake of salt in Croatia). The soup is going to
      be consumed in 30 minutes. Volunteers are going to be instructed to drink afterwards 1/2 L of
      water during next 1 h. Placebo in a form iv infusion of hypertonic saline is going to be
      given at a rate of 0.06 ml/kg/in and infused during 3 hours from beginning of oral sodium
      load. During 6 hours (from oral sodium load) urine is gong to be collected. Finally, blood
      samples are going to be drawn for glucose, insulin, sodium, potassium, serum osmolality,
      serum creatinine, renin activity, and aldosterone, BNP, ADH and GLP1 level after 3 and 6
      hours. Sodium, chloride and calcium excretion, osmolality and creatinine are going to be
      measured in the urine after 3 hours. Patients are instructed to come again after 7 days
      fasting.

      Visit 3 (day 9) after the overnight fast again oral sodium load is going to be given in a
      form of a standardized meal (soup) in a same amount as previous day and again consumed in 30
      minutes, they are going to drink afterwards 1/2 L of water during next 1 h like pervious day.
      Synthetic GLP-1 (1.5 pmol/kg/min) dissolved in 500 ml 0.9% saline is going to be infused
      during 3 hours from beginning of oral sodium load. During 6 hours (from oral sodium load)
      urine is gong to be collected, blood samples are going to be drawn after 3 and 6 hours for
      the same analysis as in Visit 2, just like urine collection after 6 hours.
    
  