
    
      This pilot trial will examine the feasibility of administering induction high-dose therapy
      with antimetabolites, followed with consolidation using high-dose single alkylating agent
      therapy and finally intensification therapy with sequential cycles of very high doses of the
      natural products (paclitaxel followed by doxorubicin) to patients with metastatic breast
      cancer (stage IV), and to patients with lesser stage disease at high risk for relapse
      (patients with four or more positive nodes (stage II), locally advanced breast cancer (stage
      III)), and patients with locally or regionally recurrent breast cancer.

      Patients will receive induction therapy with antimetabolite agents (methotrexate, leucovorin
      and 5-fluorouracil) for four cycles. Patients will then receive consolidation therapy with
      three cycles of high-dose alkylating agents. First, patients will receive one cycle of
      high-dose cyclophosphamide administered with growth factor support. PBPCs will be harvested
      during the recovery phase of the cyclophosphamide cycle.

      The next cycle will consist of high-dose single agent thiotepa. Hematopoietic stem cells
      mobilized and collected during the previous cyclophosphamide cycles will be reinfused
      following treatment with thiotepa to augment recovery of bone marrow function. After
      recovery, intensification with natural product chemotherapy will be administered, consisting
      of four cycles of paclitaxel given as a 24-hour infusion followed by four cycles of single
      agent doxorubicin.

      This protocol combines several highly active chemotherapeutic agents in an attempt to improve
      upon response rates achieved with current combinations. For high-risk stage II and III
      patients, this chemotherapy regimen (without genetic manipulation of PBPCs) will serve as a
      chemotherapy backbone onto which a companion immunotherapy protocol will be offered. An
      identical chemotherapy regimen will be offered to stage four patients as a backbone for a
      trial of retroviral transduction of the MDR1 and NeoR genes into harvested PBPCs.
    
  