
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of two concentrations of
      intralesional triamcinolone, triamcinolone 40mg/mL and triamcinolone 10mg/mL, with normal
      saline as a placebo control. For subjects with lesions deemed appropriate for the study,
      between one and three treatment sites will be marked with sequential lettering with a skin
      marker and documented by body location. Baseline pain level of each lesion will be recorded.
      At that time each lesion will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion to be treated with
      intralesional triamcinolone 10mg/mL, triamcinolone 40mg/mL, or normal saline placebo.

      Following treatment, subjects will be given a paper questionnaire that will ask them to rate
      their level of pain on a 1-10 scale for each lesion, and whether they believe the target
      lesion has resolved on days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 14. On day 14 they will also rate how
      helpful they think the treatment is on a scale of 0-4. These will be patient-reported
      outcomes only without any physician assessment as this is felt to be a more clinically
      relevant outcome.

      Aim 1. Characterize and compare the 3 regimens in terms of days to resolution of treated
      lesion.

      Hypotheses for Aim 1: Days to resolution of treated lesions will be fewer in the treatment
      groups compared to normal saline placebo, and will be fewer with triamcinolone 40mg/mL
      compared to triamcinolone 10mg/mL.

      Aim 2. Characterize and compare the 3 regimens in terms of pain level on day 5.

      Hypotheses for Aim 2: Rating of pain will be less in the treatment groups compared to normal
      saline placebo, and will be less with triamcinolone 40mg/mL compared to triamcinolone 10mg/mL
      at day 5.

      Aim 3. Characterize and compare the 3 regimens in terms of patient rating of the "benefit of
      the treatment Hypotheses for Aim 1: Patient rating will be more favorable the treatment
      groups compared to normal saline placebo, and will be more favorable with triamcinolone
      40mg/mL compared to triamcinolone 10mg/mL.
    
  