
    
      20 physicians will be given an activity monitoring accelerometer (GRUVE from MUVE, inc.) for
      2 weeks prior to starting the study (without feedback) and will continue to have their
      activity monitored for the duration of the study. The accelerometer (monitors movement and
      accurately estimates physical activity energy expenditure). The physicians will be randomized
      to 12 weeks with accelerometer monitoring but no feedback or counseling (control) or to 12
      weeks of accelerometer monitoring (experimental) with feedback about activity levels and 20
      minute weekly counseling sessions on how to increase activity (including walking while
      working). In the 12 week period where physicians receive feedback and counseling, they will
      also be provided a walking workstation. The walking workstation (assembled by the
      investigators) has a computer keyboard, computer monitor and telephone attached to an
      exercise treadmill. This allows the user to walk at 1 mile per hour while dictating, typing,
      responding to e-mail, etc. The treadmill can be placed in an examining room if the physician
      wishes to use it while dictating notes or it can be placed in a separate office.

      Those physicians assigned to monitoring only for the first 12 weeks will then receive
      monitoring plus feedback, counseling, and walking workstation use for the next 12 weeks.
      Those physicians assigned to feedback, counseling, and walking workstation use for the first
      12 weeks will continue to receive accelerometer feedback but will no longer receive
      counseling or use a walking workstation for the subsequent 12 weeks.

      Ten physicians will complete the above for the first 26 weeks of the study and 10 physicians
      will complete the above for the last 26 weeks of the study.

      The time line of the study is as follows:

      12 Wks Experimental → 12 Wks Control 10 MDs (Wk 1-26) → 2 wks Monitor 12 Wks control → 12 Wks
      Experimental

      12 Wks Experimental → 12 Wks Control 10 MDs (Wk 27-52) → 2 wks Monitor 12 Wks control → 12
      Wks Experimental

      In summary, physicians use an accelerometer without feedback while in the control group. In
      the experimental group physicians receive three interventions: accelerometer with feedback,
      exercise counseling, and the use of a walking workstation (treadmill desk).
    
  