
    
      This is a prospective, double-blind randomized clinical trial under the recommendations of
      CONSORT. The statistical unit was considered the patient (n=60), with at least 3 composite
      resins with marginal defects , randomized into 3 groups A=Sealed with flow composite
      reinforced with nanofiller , B= Sealed with resin sealant , and C=Control, without
      intervention.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age 18 or older

        -  High risk of caries.

        -  With restorations of resin composite occlusal, molars or premolars, with values of 3 or
           4 for the parameter marginal adaptation according to the FDI criteria.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with the impossibility of mouth opening or dental treatments.

        -  Patients with allergies to any of the materials used.

        -  The presence of adjacent to the restoration or secondary caries.

        -  Patients with prior sealed of their restorations.

      The volunteers were informed of the objectives and risks of treatment, as well as the freedom
      to leave the study. It explained in detail the clinical procedure which was submitted and
      proceeded to sign the informed consent according to the rules of the Ethics Committee of the
      Faculty of Dentistry of the University of Chile.

      Then were assigned the sample within 3 groups of randomly with software Eclipse SDK 4.2.1:
      (1) sealing with fluid composite resin restorations with nano filled and universal adhesive,
      (2) sealant adhesive based on resin composite resin with universal adhesive and (3) group
      control or untreated.

      Initial examination Examination of patients was performed independently by two calibrated
      evaluators, in case of disagreement operators were consulted with a third operator, this in a
      clinical field well lit, with the tooth surface clean with brush of prophylaxis and water,
      for the clinical examination was used to mirror No 5 (Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co. Inc., Chicago, IL,
      USA), probe of caries straight with active diameter of 150 μm portion (Deppeler, Swiss
      Dental) and caries probe straight with active portion of diameter 250 μm (Deppeler, Swiss
      Dental), both indicated by the FDI. For an optimal value in the parameter of marginal
      adaptation, the gap should be a size less than or equal to the diameter of the active portion
      of the probes.

      Procedure

      Once selected patients and their restorations, were polished using aluminum oxide disks with
      complete series (Sof-Lex. 3M ESPE) and polished tips (Diacomp, Brasseler).

      Each restoration to seal received an identification code, which was awarded randomly belong
      to an experimental group, as described previously. The tabulation and data of each treatment
      were conducted in the program Microsoft Excel 2011.

      Software Cariogram was used to assess the parameters for the analysis of risk cariogenic: the
      experience of caries, diseases related, content diet, the frequency of diet, the quantity of
      plaque, fluor exposition , salivary secretion, capacity buffer and clinical judgment.

      Treatment and clinical intervention groups

      Group 1::Sealed with fluid resin composite with nanofiller.

      Once cleaned the restoration with prophylaxis hard brush and water, at low speed. The
      procedure was performed under absolute isolation with a rubber dam and using ejector to
      remove saliva and excess water. Following the protocol of conditionate surface with
      orthophosphoric acid 35%, for 15 seconds, washed ( abundant water by 30 s) and dried with
      compressed air from the syringe for 15 s. Then proceeded with the application of adhesive
      (Single Bond Universal, 3M ESPE) with brush (Microbrush International, Grafton, USA) and
      friction against the surface for 20 seconds, dried for 5 seconds for evaporation of the
      solvent remaining and photopolymerized for 10 seconds, using light curing (2500 Curing light,
      3M ESPE).

      Applied in marginal defects of nanoparticle flowable composite resin (Filtek Flow Z350XT, 3M
      ESPE) with instrument for cement application of calcium hydroxide (PICH, Hu Friedy Mfg. Co
      Inc., Chicago, IL, USA), it is polymerized for 20 seconds (2500 Curing light, 3 M ESPE).

      The occlusal checked was controlled with paper articulate with 200 microns of width (Bausch
      Articulating Papers, Inc., USA), occlusal adjustments and wear were carried out with a stone
      No. 3 high speed (SSWhite, USA).

      Group 2: Sealed with sealant based on resin. Once cleaned the restoration with prophylaxis
      hard brush and water, at low speed. The procedure was performed under absolute isolation with
      a rubber dam and using ejector to remove saliva and excess water. Following the same Protocol
      of conditioning, this was done with orthophosphoric acid 35%, for 15 seconds, wash by 30
      seconds and dried with compressed air from the syringe for 15 seconds. Then proceeded with
      the application of adhesive (Single Bond Universal, 3M ESPE) with brush (Microbrush
      International, Grafton, USA) and friction against the surface for 20 seconds, flow of air for
      5 seconds for evaporation of the solvent remaining and polymerizing for 10 seconds, using
      light curing (2500 Curing light, 3M ESPE).

      Applied in marginal defects sealant of pits and fissures based on composite resin (Clinpro
      Sealant, 3 M ESPE) instrument of cement application of calcium hydroxide (PICH, Hu Friedy
      Mfg. Co Inc., Chicago, IL, USA), polymerized for 20 seconds (2500 Curing light, 3 M ESPE).

      The occlusal checked was controlled with paper articulate 200 microns width (Bausch
      Articulating Papers, Inc., USA), occlusal adjustments and wear were carried out with stone
      No. 3 high speed (SSWhite, USA).

      Group 3: control. The restorations were evaluated without treatment about defective
      restoration that was considered clinically acceptable.

      Evaluation of treatments

      Clinical assessments were made at 6 and 12 months in the parameters marginal adaptation,
      marginal staining and secondary caries and sealant retention.

      Examination was performed independently by two calibrated operators, in case of disagreement
      were consulted with a third operator, this in a clinical field well lit, with the clean tooth
      surface with brush of prophylaxis and water, for the clinical examination was used the same
      methodology and instrumentation that examination.

      Analysis of the clinical performance of the treatment groups

      To evaluate the behavior of these treatments, after 6 and 12 months, was made the comparison
      versus baseline, whose valuation assigned to the subsequent application of seal evaluation
      was 1 (FDI), with the current state of the restoration.
    
  