
    
      The goal of the proposed project is to evaluate outcomes of a telehealth nursing intervention
      based on a social cognitive behavioral model to promote self management in pressure ulcer
      prevention, reduce costs and identify barriers and facilitators of using telehealth
      technology in the home environment. The telehealth intervention links to the Medical Home
      Model in the areas of providing self-management, patient education and family involvement in
      the veterans' care at home. NRI research focuses on nursing interventions that are
      patient-centered, culturally congruent, cost-effective and outcome-driven. Improving SCI care
      and the quality of life in veterans is a critical component of the VA mission. Veterans with
      SCI face many secondary complications including pressure ulcers (PU). Although PUs in SCI has
      been conceptualized as a mechanical alteration in skin integrity, there is ample evidence
      that supports the presence of a behavioral component to PU development. Based on promising
      results from our feasibility and validation pilot study, we propose "TELEPUPPS" (TELE
      pressure ulcer prevention problem solving), a program that innovatively combines two unique
      and complementary telehealth technologies--wireless tele-technology with camcorders and an
      in-home messaging device for veterans and their informal caregivers to prevent PUs. The
      proposed project is a randomized, controlled multi-site trial. The study will be conducted at
      the NF/SG VHS in Gainesville and Lake City, Florida and the VA Caribbean Healthcare System
      (VACHS) in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Two hundred and thirty-two Hispanic and non Hispanic white
      veterans with SCI, caregivers and the absence of a PU for at least six months will be
      randomly assigned to one of two study arms: (1) TELEPUPPS; or (2) telephone attention control
      (TAC). Both groups will receive the usual medical care provided by the VA. The TELEPUPPS
      participants will learn self care management of PUP through a program based on a social
      cognitive behavioral model to reinforce problem solving and self-efficacy in preventing
      pressure ulcers. The program has been translated and validated for Puerto Rican veterans
      using focus groups. The TELEPUPPS participants will receive six TELEPUPPS sessions and the
      TAC participants will have six phone contacts every other week for three months. All
      participants will be assessed at baseline (T1), three months (T2), and nine months (T3).

      Assessments will focus on 1) the study outcomes: PU prevention (Number of PUs and stage of
      PU), QOL, depression, adherence to self-management strategies for PUP, veteran and caregiver
      satisfaction, costs, and barriers and facilitators; (2) potential mediating variables:
      problem solving and self-efficacy; and (3) covariates including demographics and socio
      economics: age, ethnicity, education, marital status, rural vs. urban, caregiver, income,
      employment/retired status and health status variables. VA Project
    
  