
    
      It is generally accepted that female sex hormones influence the morphology and physiology of
      vaginal tissues. Peripheral estrogen affects urogenital connective tissue composition and
      structure, vaginal blood flow, and thickness of vaginal epithelium. Estrogen and progestagen
      receptors are also abundantly present in the lower urinary tract, which has the same
      embryonic origin as the vagina. decline in circulating estrogen levels may result in atrophy
      of vaginal, urethral and bladder trigonal epithelium, as well as initiate metabolic changes
      in the subepithelial supportive tissues. This process forms the biological rationale for the
      common clinical practice of prescribing hormone treatment to menopausal women with lower
      urinary and genital tract symptoms.

      Contrary to widespread belief, the Womens Health Initiative (WHI) randomised trial showed
      that menopausal hormone therapy with conjugated estrogen alone, or in combination with
      progestagen, increased the risk of de novo or aggravated urinary incontinence after one year
      of treatment. In premenopausal women, oral contraception is the most common source of hormone
      intake but very few studies have endeavored to determine the effects of oral contraception on
      premenopausal urinary incontinence. The aim of this nationwide cohort study was to assess the
      influence of contraceptives on the risk for lower urinary tract dysfunction in young
      female.at is time-related with the beginning of hormonal contraception, health care providers
      should give information about other methods and try to switch them to a method less
      associated with sexual dysfunction. However, there are contradictory results between the
      different studies regarding the association between sexual dysfunction and hormonal
      contraceptives, so it could be firmly said that additional research is needed.

      Meanwhile, it could be said that hormonal contraception has been associated with different
      alterations in sexual functioning.

      To conclude, a multidisciplinary approach to the management of female sexual dysfunction is
      mandatory, and health care providers should give lifestyle counselling apart from proposing
      different treatment options. An adequate relationship with the patient, as well as the
      routine monitoring of possible sexual dysfunction, are essential in addressing these
      difficulties. Undoubtedly, the best contraceptive is one that fulfills the women's needs with
      acceptable side effects and agreed with the prescribed
    
  