
    
      The aims of this project are to: (1) test a method that could increase personal endurance and
      reduce excessive rise in blood carbon dioxide during underwater exercise in divers; and (2)
      understand the mechanisms by which red blood cells transport oxygen and carbon dioxide and
      their possible effects on exercise capacity. During underwater exercise, personal endurance
      capacity and elevated blood PCO2 are key parameters that affect a diver's safety and
      performance. Unlike exercise on dry land, hypercapnia often occurs during dives and can
      impair cognitive function and predispose the diver to central nervous system (CNS) oxygen
      toxicity and convulsions underwater. Some people intrinsically have low ventilatory
      chemosensitivity, and are more likely to develop hypercapnia during a dive. Lack of stamina
      may also be a mission-critical variable, and both endurance and the ability to control blood
      carbon dioxide depend on the respiratory muscle (mainly diaphragm) function, for which
      endurance capacity is related to mitochondrial number. Previous studies from our lab have
      demonstrated increased mitochondrial biogenesis with training while breathing a low,
      sub-toxic (200 ppm) level of carbon monoxide. In this study we will test the effect of daily
      respiratory muscle training with and without added carbon monoxide on respiratory muscle
      power, diaphragm thickness, respiratory muscle endurance and exercise endurance during a
      subsequent dive to 50 feet of sea water. Arterial PCO2 and lactic acid levels will be
      measured during exercise tests before and after training. Transport of O2 and CO2 through
      erythrocyte cell membranes occurs mostly through channels. Erythrocytes from volunteers in
      this study will be tested for O2 and CO2 permeability, and to correlate gas transport
      efficiency with exercise performance and blood PCO2.
    
  