
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial to assess the hypothesis that patients prescribed fewer
      or no opiates will have no difference in satisfaction with pain control.

      Safety/Data Monitoring:

      Any adverse event or unanticipated events will be reported immediately to the IRB using IRB
      WebKit. All events will be recorded and kept in a research binder assigned to this study in a
      locked office. Monthly reviews during the study period will be done by all involved study
      staff members to ensure that events are not occurring, and if they are, that they are being
      handled and reported properly. The study will be terminated if over 50% of patients in the
      decreased opiate group request more or stronger medication during interim analysis or have
      >20% decreased satisfaction to the control group; this will be assessed monthly at the
      reviews mentioned above.

      STUDY PROCEDURES Study Identification and Recruitment Potential subjects will be identified
      by members of the Center for Urogynecology and Pelvic Reconstructive Surgery at the Cleveland
      Clinic Main Campus. At the time of decision for surgery, attending staff who have been
      counseled about how to discuss the study will bring up the study. Fliers will be available to
      give to patients. Patients will be offered a visit with research staff at this time. They
      also will have the opportunity to meet research staff at their preop visit which is when
      consent forms would be signed and prescriptions given. Phone calls from research staff will
      also be made to interested patients or potential subjects. Eligible patients who agree to
      participate will be provided written informed consent administered by the collaborators
      listed on the IRB. Consents can be obtained at the Cleveland Clinic Main Campus or Fairview
      hospital.

      Randomization All subjects will be scheduled for surgery by their surgeon. Consenting
      patients who meet inclusion criteria will be randomized into one of two arms: "routine opiate
      prescription" or "decreased opiate prescription" according to a computer-generated
      randomization schedule with random block sizes with the use of the JMP statistical software.
      The routine arm will receive twenty-eight tabs of oxycodone at discharge - thirty was the
      usual number prescribed for these surgeries, but new opiate prescribing guidelines limit the
      amount prescribed as 28 tablets based on morphine equivalent doses and a 7 day prescription
      limit. The decreased prescription arm will receive five tabs of oxycodone. All subjects will
      be instructed to use the opiate pills only as a back-up pain plan after the NSAID and
      acetaminophen. All subjects will be instructed to use the same schedule: schedule ibuprofen
      and acetaminophen for 3 days followed by these as needed. Subjects will have their
      prescriptions filled on day of discharge at the Cleveland Clinic pharmacy based on the
      randomization in addition to the following medications that per protocol all patients will
      receive unless contraindicated due to allergy/medication interaction: Colace (100mg tablets
      to take PO BID, #60), Miralax (17gm packets to take PO daily, #30), and ibuprofen (600mg
      tablets to take PO every 6 hours for 3 days postoperatively then as needed, #60. The use of
      scheduled NSAIDs is based on benefit of multimodal therapy in an effort to minimize opiate
      use. Despite these medications' potential effect to decrease effect seen between the study
      groups, their use in the trial provides increased clinical applicability.

      Dispensing Medication If the patient approves to participate in the study, they will receive
      the allotted post-operative medication at time of discharge prescriptions for their
      postoperative medications as above at their preoperative visit. In addition, patients will
      also receive a sealed envelope with a prescription for a back-up supply of pain medication
      (10 pills of oxycodone 5mg). They will be instructed to fill these only if they run out of
      the previous supply and are still requiring stronger pain medication. Because of the way the
      prescription will be written (with instructions to the pharmacy not to fill before the date
      of post-operative day 2), they cannot automatically fill the same day as discharge
      (post-operative day 1) and this prescription is only valid for two weeks after this date.
      They will be instructed that if they require more pain medication than this, they will need
      to be seen. Patients will be provided with a daily pain and activity diary and medication
      log. At their 6-week postoperative visit, patients will bring in this diary as well as any
      remaining opiate medication and/or the sealed envelope containing the back-up prescription.

      Data Collection & Management:

      Other than the study forms, the electronic medical record (EPIC) will be used to obtain basic
      medical information including medical problems, height & weight/BMI, past surgeries, current
      medications, and allergies.

      Preoperative data will include the following:

      • Patient age, race and ethnicity, menopausal state, tobacco use, BMI, education level,
      patient income level

      Peri-operative data will include the following:

        -  Surgery performed

        -  Surgical complications

        -  EBL (estimated blood loss)

        -  Hospital complications

        -  Delayed complications

        -  Prescribed medications (with detail given to agreement with randomization arm and if
           multimodal agents were not prescribed and for what reason)

        -  Post-operative pain scores at last RN assessment on day of discharge

        -  Medication records of quantity of narcotics used perioperatively (to be standardized to
           morphine equivalents)

      Postoperative data will include the following:

        -  Patient's daily pain diaries including medications used which can be completed on paper
           diaries to be turned in at their post-operative visit OR entered electronically using
           REDCap (see below)

        -  Patient satisfaction with post-discharge pain control

        -  Patient's daily activities

        -  Whether patient received additional narcotic prescription through the following:

             -  Study protocol through a phone call

             -  Study protocol through an outpatient visit

             -  Other (e.g. emergency room, urgent care)

        -  Patient satisfaction with bowel symptoms and constipation treatment as needed

        -  Number of pills used (as calculated by pill count or pain diary if pills not returned)

        -  Number of remaining pills (as calculated by pill count or pain diary if pills not
           returned)

        -  Patient's willingness to destroy remaining pills

      Protection of each subject's personal health information will be a priority in this study.
      One master excel file containing subject personal information including name and medical
      record number will be kept in a password-protected file, on a designated protected research
      drive on a password-protected computer in a locked office at the Cleveland Clinic. In that
      file, each subject will be assigned a subject identification number that will be used for the
      purposes of data collection in order to de-identify subjects.

      All paper forms used for data collection will be kept in a research cabinet dedicated to this
      project which will be locked at all times, in a locked office at the Cleveland Clinic. All
      forms will contain de-identified information - identification numbers will correspond to the
      subjects listed in the master excel file.

      All study data will be transferred and managed electronically using REDCap (Research
      Electronic Data Capture). Each subject will be entered into REDCap using the assigned
      identification number from the master excel file. REDCap is a secure, web-based application
      designed to support data capture for research studies, providing user-friendly web-based case
      report forms, real-time data entry validation, audit trials, and a de-identified data export
      mechanism to common statistical packages. They system was developed by a multi-institutional
      consortium which was initiated at Vanderbilt University and includes the Cleveland Clinic.
      The database is hosted at the Cleveland Clinic Research Datacenter in the JJN basement and is
      managed by the Quantitative Health Sciences Department. The system is protected by a login
      and Secure Sockets Layers (SSL) encryption. Data collection is customized for each study
      based on a study-specific data dictionary defined by the research team with guidance from the
      REDCap administrator in Quantitative Health Sciences at the Cleveland Clinic.
    
  