
    
      In order to achieve the goals of the project, a cohort of 50 patients and 50 volunteers is
      expected, and the following evaluations will be performed:

      For the patients group, after signing the informed consent form, a clinical data collection,
      a serum-based injury biomarkers study, a brain damage assessment, a cognitive and motor
      assessment, and a quality of life evaluation will be performed.

        -  Data collection: injury patterns, injury severity, co-morbidities and post-traumatic
           history will be prospectively registered in our cohort of patients in order to study
           which types of accidents are risky to result in poor outcome. This will be done through
           the data collection in medical records of the patients. Advanced statistical methods,
           such as Gaussian models, will be applied in order to find relations between input and
           outcome to the best extent possible. In addition, injury mechanisms will be categorized
           into classes with more or less similar magnitudes of force and acceleration inputs.

        -  Serum based injury biomarkers study: blood samples from our cohort, taken by UZ Leuven
           nurses in the context of routine-clinical practice will be studied by the Laboratory for
           Molecular Neurobiomarker Research in UZ Leuven, through Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent
           Assay (ELISA). No data will be available for the control group. The results will be
           compared to results previously obtained in the Laboratory for Molecular Neurobiomarker
           Research from healthy patients with similar demographic characteristics.

        -  CT imaging: CT images performed in the context of routine clinical practice at admission
           and follow up will be obtained from the hospital's database. The scans will be carefully
           studied, using automated reports created by Icometrix and the Marshall Head Injury
           Scale, in order to quantify brain damage. No data will be available for the control
           group, so results will not be compared between both groups. These findings will be
           related with the results obtained in the serum-based injury biomarkers study and
           cognitive and motor assessments.

        -  Economic impact prospective analysis: hospital costs for the clinical management in our
           cohort will be extracted from the financial database of UZ Leuven, in order to know what
           is the economic impact that TBI in the elderly has on society.

           1st evaluation session with the patient: 6 months after the injury, the patient will be
           called back to UZ Leuven for evaluation.The protocol for this session will be done in 1
           or 2 sessions, depending on the preferences of the patient, and will consist of:

        -  MRI: High-resolution T1 and T2 weighted imaging sequences will be used to study
           volumetric and morphological changes in the brain. Moreover, Diffusion Tractography
           Imaging (DTI) will be used to study changes in white matter. Susceptibility Weighted
           Imaging (SWI) sequences will also be included in order to study axonal injuries and
           microbleeds. One MRI scan will be obtained from each patient and the results will be
           interpreted with the Icobrain TBI report, provided by Icometrix.

        -  Cognitive assessment: the CANTAB test will be used to study cognitive functions after
           TBI, as it is a validated and reliable computerized neuropsychological battery,
           consisting of memory, learning, attention, problem solving and executive function test.
           Moreover, the patients' level of education will be asked, registered and correlated with
           the results obtained in our evaluations.

        -  Motor assessment: it will be performed using the Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Timed Up an
           Go (TUG) test, Timed Up and Go with cognitive dual task (TUGcog) test, Box-and-block
           test and a cycling test performed with a bicycle simulator created by the IMPAct group
           (KU Leuven).

        -  Quality of life evaluation: The quality of life in our cohort will be assessed with the
           Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLIBRI) tool, in the same session as cognitive and
           motor outcomes, in order to understand how the quality of life is affected in the
           elderly population after TBI.

      All the results will be compared with the results obtained in the control group.

      If the patient chooses to have two evaluation sessions, instead of one, the first session
      will be dedicated to the MRI scan and the second session will be dedicated to the cognitive,
      motor and quality of life evaluation. Both sessions will be performed within the same week.

      For the control group, after signing the informed consent form MRI scans, cognitive and motor
      assessment, and quality of life evaluation will be performed in this group at the time of
      recruitment, in one or two sessions, depending on the preference of the volunteer. All the
      assessments will be performed in University Hospitals Leuven and the results will be compared
      with the patients group's results.

        -  MRI: High-resolution T1 and T2 weighted imaging sequences will be used to study
           volumetric and morphological changes in the brain. Moreover, Diffusion Tractography
           Imaging (DTI) will be used to study changes in white matter. Susceptibility Weighted
           Imaging (SWI) sequences will also be included in order to study axonal injuries and
           microbleeds . One MRI scan will be obtained from each volunteer and the results will be
           interpreted with the Icobrain TBI report, provided by Icometrix, and compared with the
           results obtained for the patients.

        -  Cognitive assessment: CANTAB test will be used to study cognitive functions in this
           group, as it is a validated and reliable computerized neuropsychological battery,
           consisting of memory, learning, attention, problem solving and executive function test.
           Moreover, the volunteers level of education will be asked, registered and correlated
           with the results obtained in our evaluations.

        -  Motor assessment: it will be performed using the Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Timed Up an
           Go (TUG) test, Timed Up and Go with cognitive dual task (TUGcog) test, Box-and-block
           test and a cycling test performed with a bicycle simulator created by the IMPAct group
           (KU Leuven).

        -  Quality of life evaluation: The quality of life in this group will be assessed with the
           Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLIBRI) tool, in the same session as cognitive and
           motor outcomes, in order to understand how the quality of life is affected in the
           elderly population after TBI.

      If the volunteer chooses to have two evaluation sessions, instead of one, the first session
      will be dedicated to the MRI scan and the second session will be dedicated to the cognitive,
      motor and quality of life evaluation. Both sessions will be performed within the same week.
    
  