
    
      Baylor College of Medicine (BCM), University of Pittsburgh (UPitt) and Brown University will
      collaborate on this research project. BCM will be the only site that will enroll study
      subjects and perform study assessments. UPitt and Brown will supervise data management,
      measurement and modeling of multimodal signals and collaborate on research design and machine
      learning.

      Following initial screening, subjects will participate in one testing session lasting about 2
      hours. The addition of these preliminary studies will allow investigators to obtain
      information in order to differentiate and code OCD-distress versus social anxiety and
      identify rituals related to OCD.

      Research Material, Data, and Information to be collected:

      Interviews, rating scales, video, audio, behavioral assessments, and heart rate will be
      obtained.

      Preliminary Testing in Un-implanted Subjects: Automated Behavioral Measures of OCD-related
      Distress (i.e., obsessions and urge to ritualize) and Overt Rituals:

      The Provocation OC task (Provoc) and the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) will be used to
      evoke OC-related distress and anxiety unrelated to OCD (e.g., performance anxiety),
      respectively. These tasks will be preceded by a neutral baseline (the subject may be asked to
      describe how they traveled to the clinic to the experimenter) and a positive affect
      induction, the Broad-Minded Affective Coping procedure (BMAC) a clinical technique that uses
      recalled positive autobiographical memories and mental imagery to elicit positive affect.
      Because anxiety and negative affect may have carryover effects, neutral baseline and BMAC
      will be presented prior to the non-OCD and OCD distress inductions. In the BMAC, subjects
      will be instructed to recall and describe a recent positive memory/experience. The order of
      Provoc and TSST will be counterbalanced across the subjects. Use of a conveyor belt may be
      used during the Provoc tasks to present the evoking stimuli. Simultaneously recorded measures
      are noted in the Table attached in Section S and include: AFAR, new suite of behavioral
      measures (shown as shaded), hand/arm movements and heart rate.

      A third provocation task will be added to elicit overt rituals (e.g., handwashing) in the
      clinic. It will occur following the BMAC and TSST/Provoc tasks and a relaxation break.

      Subjects will be asked to wash their hands at a sink in our clinic inside an exam room where
      their behaviors will be recorded using hardware-synchronized cameras: one, to capture frontal
      view of the face for AFAR; and another, to record full body movement for CPM. The
      investigators are aware of only one prior study of automated coding of compulsive behavior.
      In that study, a computer vision approach was able to discriminate subjects with OCD from
      healthy subjects on the basis of handwashing videos in which regions of interest (ROIs) were
      defined for objects (e.g., soap dispenser) used for handwashing. The investigators will
      combine this ROI paradigm with a CPM approach that captures hand and body movements. Dropouts
      from the ritual paradigm will be replaced.

      These same tasks will also be performed on up to 4 subjects that have consented to receive a
      DBS implant on a separate protocol. Informed consent will also be collected from these
      implanted subjects for the purpose of completing the tasks described above on this study.
    
  