
    
      Background:

      Tamoxifen (TAM), a member of the selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) family, is
      widely used in the treatment of estrogen receptor (ER) expressing breast cancer. It has
      previously been shown that high-dose TAM has cytotoxic activity against glioma cells, but
      whether this effect is drug-specific or represents a general property of SERMs was unknown.
      We have now demonstrated that suppression of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of
      activated B cells (NF-kB) activation markedly enhances SERM-induced apoptosis, suggesting a
      role for NF-kB in protecting glioma cells from SERM-induced cytotoxicity.

      Bortezomib is a potent inhibitor of the 26S proteosome and causes significant
      anti-proliferative and cytotoxic effects in a number of cell lines through its protean
      effects on a variety of cellular signaling pathways, including its ability to potently
      inhibit the NF-kB pathway. We have recently demonstrated that bortezomib has significant
      anti-glioma activity in vitro and a ongoing clinical trial has demonstrated some possible
      activity in patients with recurrent gliomas. We have now also generated preclinical data
      demonstrating that bortezomib in combination with Tamoxifen has synergistic cytotoxic effects
      on glioma cells.

      Thus, given the minimal to modest activity of both drugs in patients with recurrent gliomas,
      given their spectrum of non-overlapping toxicities, and given the marked synergistic glioma
      cell killing of the combination of drugs in our preclinical screens, we are now proposing a
      phase II trial of bortezomib in combination with Tamoxifen in patients with recurrent gliomas
      not taking enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAEDs).

      Objectives:

      The primary statistical endpoint will be response (defined as either stable disease or
      objective response as is standard in neuro-oncology clinical trials) after 6 weeks of
      treatment.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with histologically proven high-grade gliomas or patients with a clinical and
      radiographic diagnosis of brainstem glioma will be eligible for this protocol.

      Design:

      The phase II study will be stratified by the type of high grade glioma (anaplastic glioma
      (AA) or glioblastoma (GBM)) and a two-stage min-max design with a maximum of 41 patients in
      the GBM stratum and 36 patients in the AA stratum.
    
  