
    
      Most liver transplant recipients receive an immunosuppressive drug regimen that contains
      either cyclosporine or tacrolimus. Although these drugs have revolutionized transplantation,
      in many patients their long-term use is a major cause of serious side effects, including
      kidney failure, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and/or neurologic side
      effects. Stopping or reducing the dose of cyclosporine or tacrolimus can ameliorate the above
      side effects but may increase the risk of rejection. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), a safe and
      effective immunosuppressant that does not cause the above side effects, is typically used in
      combination with cyclosporine or tacrolimus. Attempts in liver transplant recipients at using
      mycophenolate mofetil alone or with reduced dose cyclosporine or tacrolimus have been
      successful but some patients developed rejection, and a few patients suffered liver failure.
      Most rejections after liver transplantation are easy to successfully treat with increased
      immunosuppression, but such treatment may carry risks such as increased susceptibility to
      infection. There have not yet been any large trials to adequately assess the safety and
      efficacy of using mycophenolate mofetil this way (alone or with reduced dose calcineurin
      inhibitor (CNI)).

      The purpose of this trial is to evaluate whether mycophenolate mofetil as monotherapy or with
      reduced dose cyclosporine or tacrolimus long-term after liver transplantation is safe and
      decreases side effects related to calcineurin inhibitor use.

      Only liver recipients expected to have a relatively low risk of developing rejection and/or
      liver failure are eligible for this trial. Some reasons for considering them low risk are
      their stable liver function, having had the transplant for over a year, having had one or
      fewer prior rejection episodes, having had non-autoimmune liver disease, their currently
      requiring low dose/level cyclosporine or tacrolimus, and the plan to use high dose
      mycophenolate mofetil and to exclude patients that fail to attain target values for
      mycophenolic acid area under the concentration-time curve (MPA AUC - MycoPhenolic Acid Area
      Under the Curve).

      Eligible patients will be randomized to receive either mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy
      (MMF; CNI discontinued), or mycophenolate mofetil and half their baseline dose of calcineurin
      inhibitor (MMF; CNI decreased). The primary outcome is biopsy proven rejection and the
      secondary outcomes include patient and graft survival, adverse events, hepatic profile, blood
      pressure, renal function, diabetes, and lipid profile. Additionally, mycophenolic acid
      concentrations will be measured; a mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy trial provides unique
      opportunity to study the implications of such monitoring. Patients will be followed for 12
      months; there will be 16 visits during the trial.
    
  