
    
      The vaccines will be administered to 1,500 healthy participants of 6 months to 45 years of
      age and followed up for 24 weeks after the injection for safety. Adult participants (N=500)
      will be followed up for immunogenicity at 4 weeks and all participants till 24 weeks for
      safety post single dose of either MD & SD formulations. 300 healthy participants will be
      given control vaccine (locally available licensed Meningococcal conjugate vaccine) to check
      the background safety events. The primary objective is to demonstrate the equivalence of
      immunogenicity as measured by anti-Vi IgG GMT titer at 4 weeks after a single dose of MD/SD
      formulation in adults. The secondary objective is to demonstrate the equivalence of
      immunogenicity in terms of seroconversion rates as measured by anti-Vi IgG ELISA antibody
      titers, at 4 weeks after a single dose of MD/SD formulation in adults. A descriptive
      evaluation of safety at 4 and 24 weeks post single dose of (SD/MD/Meningococcal vaccine),
      will be performed. The Vi-DT vaccine from both MD & SD formulations will be administered as a
      single dose of 25 µg/0.5 mL.

      Eligible participants enrolled into the study will be randomized into one of the three study
      groups within each age stratum of 6 months to less than 2 years, 2 to less than 18 years, and
      18 to 45 years. Participants will be observed at the study site for 30 minutes after
      vaccination for safety assessment. Solicited adverse events will be recorded on a diary card
      during 7 days after vaccination. Unsolicited adverse events will be recorded during the 4
      weeks after vaccination. Serious adverse events will be recorded during the entire study
      period. With the exception of designated study site personnel responsible for vaccine
      administration, site investigators, study nurse, and those assessing clinical outcomes, and
      data analysts will be blinded to vaccine allocation until data base lock for the final
      analysis.

      Blood samples will be collected at baseline prior to vaccination and at 4 weeks post
      vaccination from adults (18-45 years) for immunogenicity assessment
    
  