
    
      We propose to evaluate the real-world use of the Scanadu ScoutTM by a cohort of self-selected
      investors in an earlier crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo for the Scanadu Scout™, through a
      prospective observational study. Using validated survey tools and through the remote tracking
      of frequency of use and physiological measurements from the Scanadu Scout™ device and app,
      this study will provide preliminary evidence for:

        1. Level of engagement and impact of Scanadu ScoutTM on health behavior with a focus on
           potential risks and safety.

        2. Long term (up to 18 months) recurrent usage rate of the various physiologic measurements
           linked to users and survey data.

        3. Ease of use and acceptance of the Scanadu ScoutTM technology.

      This study will utilize a longitudinal cohort design. All Scanadu Scout investors (~5000
      individuals) will be invited to participate in the study prior to receiving their Scanadu
      Scout™. Potential participants will receive a link to an online study platform. The platform
      will contain the Informed Consent form and all the study materials. After a participant reads
      and signs the Consent the participant will be enrolled in the study and a Scanadu Scout™
      device will be sent. The participant will download the Scanadu Scout™ app from the App Stores
      (iOS/Android). The app will require a handshake with a Scanadu Scout™ device before it
      becomes fully functional to limit access to study participants.

      After signing the Informed Consent form the participant will be asked to complete baseline
      surveys to assess participant characteristics, health self-management and health-related
      quality of life prior to using the Scanadu Scout™. At 3 months, 12 months, and at 18 months,
      a participant will be asked to complete Health Self-Management and Health-Related QOL surveys
      as well as an additional assessment of their perceptions of the device. Backers who do not
      wish to partake in this study will not receive the device and will be entitled to get their
      contribution back.

      Participants will be instructed to use the device as much as they would like over the course
      of the study. The parameters that will be functional on the device and available for
      measurement by the participant are:

        -  Heart rate

        -  Respiratory rate

        -  Temperature

        -  Oxygen saturation

        -  Heart rate variability

        -  Blood pressure

      Data analysis will examine individual participant and aggregate level:

        1. Usage and physiologic measurement data of the device,

        2. Perceptions of the device, and

        3. Changes in self-reported health self-management, health-related quality of life,
           participant- physician communication and medication adherence between baseline and
           follow-up.
    
  