
    
      This is a phase 1 study to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of AZD8154
      following single and multiple ascending dose administration in healthy participants. This
      study will have 3 parts (Part 1, Part 2, and Part 3). Part 1 consists of six cohorts, each
      consisting of 8 participants. Depending on emerging PK and adverse event (AE) data, 1 to 2
      additional inhaled dose levels, within the pre-specified dose range, may be added at the
      discretion of the Sponsor. One dose level cohort selected based on emerging data will be
      repeated using the same formulation of AZD8154 but with a larger particle size. The selected
      cohort (e.g., Cohort 5), referred to as the "Large Particle Size Cohort", will be dosed at
      the same dose level with a larger particle size after a minimum washout period of 7 to 14
      days between each dose administration.

      Small Particle Size Cohorts:

      Within each cohort, 6 participants will be randomized to receive an inhaled dose of AZD8154
      (small particle size) and 2 participants will be randomized to receive inhaled placebo.
      Dosing for each ascending dose cohort will proceed with 2 participants in a sentinel cohort,
      such that 1 participant will be randomized to receive placebo and 1 participant will be
      randomized to receive AZD8154 (small particle size).

      Large Particle Size Cohort:

      For the selected Large Particle Size Cohort, the 6 participants that received AZD8154 (small
      particle size) will return for a second Treatment Period after a minimum washout period of 7
      to 14 days. All 6 participants will receive an inhaled dose of AZD8154 (large particle size),
      at the same dose level that they received AZD8154 (small particle size) in Treatment Period
      1. The duration of the washout period is based on the predicted half-life of AZD8154 and was
      selected to diminish the impact of carry-over effects from the first Treatment Period.

      Part 2: Part 2 of this study will be a single cohort. One cohort consisting of 6 participants
      will be enrolled into Part 2 of the study. All subjects will receive AZD8154 IV in Treatment
      Period 1 and then after washout, receive inhaled AZD8154 (small particle size) in Treatment
      Period 2. Intravenous dosing will proceed with 1 participant in a sentinel cohort, no
      sentinel dosing will be done in the inhaled dosing period.

      Part 3: Three cohorts (MAD Cohort 1 to Cohort 3), each consisting of 8 participants, will
      participate in Part 3 of the study. Within each cohort, 6 participants will be randomized to
      receive an inhaled dose of AZD8154 and 2 participants will be randomized to receive inhaled
      placebo. Dosing for each ascending dose cohort will proceed with 2 participants in a sentinel
      cohort, such that 1 participant will be randomized to receive placebo and 1 participant will
      be randomized to receive AZD8154. In Part 3, participants will be randomized to receive an
      inhaled dose of AZD8154 nebuliser suspension or placebo. Three (3) inhaled dose levels of
      AZD8154 that are administered once daily are planned to be investigated. Based upon emerging
      PK and safety data in MAD Cohorts 1 to 3, up to 2 additional inhaled dose levels, within the
      pre-specified dose range, may also be added at the discretion of the Sponsor.
    
  