
    
      Fear of childbirth and labor pain are big problem that needs to be resolved as a priority
      since this situation continues by starting the vicious cycle of fear-anxiety-pain during
      childbirth. The persistence of the cycle increases the fear and pain related to childbirth,
      and thus delivery may result in emergency cesarean or elective cesarean. According to the
      data of Economic Development and Cooperation (OECD), the cesarean section rate in Turkey is
      53.1% and so higher than the recommended rate, even Turkey has the highest rate among the
      OECD countries . High cesarean rates are an important problem that negatively affects
      maternal and infant health and increase health expenditures and costs. Therefore, the
      pregnant women education programs aimed at lowering the rate of cesarean section are still
      important in Turkey as in other countries. While the childbirth education programs for
      pregnant women are not widely practiced in Turkey, the Turkish Ministry of Health (TMOH)
      started to provide childbirth preparation courses to reduce the rate of cesarean section in
      recent years. In the circular issued by the TMOH in 2018, it was determined that these
      programs should be managed by physicians, obstetrics nurses, and midwives. Nurses are
      actively involved in pregnancy training programs where different methods are applied in
      Turkey as well as all over the world. The most common training methods applied in other
      countries are Lamaze Method, Bradly Method, and Hypnobirthing.

      Hypnobirthing is a childbirth preparation method that aims to prepare pregnant women for
      delivery mentally and physically and to give birth in a less painful, conscious, and
      fear-free way. This method was developed based on the fear-stress-pain cycle. The persistence
      of this cycle exacerbates stress and pain, prolongs the birth period, and negatively affects
      the success, way, preference, course, and satisfaction of the birth. Thus, the birth does not
      proceed properly and results in an emergency or elective cesarean section. Hypnobirthing can
      prepare women for childbirth to eliminate all these negativities.

      Hypnobirthing training can be considered as a new technique for Turkey and therefore we
      conducted this study to determine its effects on the pain, fear, satisfaction related to
      childbirth and childbirth outcomes.
    
  