
    
      Participants will be randomized to start induction with 4 or 6 ampoules of gonadotropins from
      day 2 till the day of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), dose adjusted according to ovarian
      response monitored by serum E2 and ultrasound evaluation. All patients were followed up by
      TVUS scan daily or on alternate days according to the ovarian response to treatment starting
      on treatment cycle day 6 for folliculometry and endometrial thickness and pattern. Cetrotide
      (MerckSerono, Germany) 0.25 subcutaneously will be added when the leading follicle (DF)
      reaches >12 mm and HCG 10 000 IU intramuscularly (Pregnyl, Merck Sharp, United Kingdom)will
      be given only if we have at least 3 mature follicles >14 mm and the leading one >17 mm; then,
      ovum pickup (OPU) was done after 36 hours of HCG and metaphase II ocytes were analyzed. The
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) procedure will be performed in all cases to avoid low
      fertilization rate by conventional IVF. Fertilization was assessed 16 to 18 hours after ICSI,
      and embryo quality will be evaluated 2 and 3 days after ICSI according to the number of
      blastomeres and the degree of fragmentation and multinucleation. Oocytes were collected and
      embryos will be cultured in ISM1 culture medium (Origiomedicult media, Denmark). Transfer of
      cleaving embryos will be done on day 3 after oocyte retrieval (using Labotect semirigid
      catheter; labotect GmbH, Germany), when the woman has at least 1 embryo (GI) otherwise
      canceled embryo transfer (ET). The ET was done by 1 person in each center. Both of the
      transferring consultants have more than 5 years experience in IVF unit. . All patients will
      receive luteal support in the form of daily progesterone cyclogest (Actavis, United Kingdom)
      800 mg daily starting from day of ovum retrieval till day of hCG testing. Serum b hCG level
      was assessed on day 14 after ET and considered positive if >5 mIU/ml. The TVUS was performed
      28 days after ET to confirm ongoing pregnancy by visualization of intrauterine sac.
    
  