
    
      Treatment plan and Randomization scheme:

      HBsAg+, HCC< 5 cm with curative resection Stratified with HBV DNA < 105 OR ≥ 105 copies/mL
      Genotype B or C RANDOMIZATION Prophylactic group Therapeutic control group Adefovir Dipivoxil
      10mg/day x 36 months Lamivudine 100 mg/day x 18 months#, when HBV DNA =/> 105 copies/mL and
      ALT > 2.0 x UNL

        -  When YMDD mutant present, switch to Adefovir dipivoxil 10mg/day x 24 months. Selection
           of patients

             1. Eligibility Criteria (1)Histologically proven hepatocellular carcinoma. (2)HCC
                underwent curative resection within 6 weeks before registration. (3)Grossly, the
                resection margin should be > 1 cm. (4)Tumors, either single, < 5 cm in size or no
                more than 3 for size < 3 cm. (5)Patients must have a performance status of ECOG
                score < 2. (6)Patients must have adequate liver reservation and adequate hemogram.
                (i)Pugh-Child's Score < 7. (ii)The serum total bilirubin level are < 2 mg/dl.
                (iii)The prothrombin times are < 3 sec above normal control. (iv)The platelet are >
                7.5 x 104 / mm3. (v)The WBC are > 3,000 / mm3. (7)Patient must have serum
                creatinine < 1.5 mg/dl (8)Cardiac function with NYHA classification < Grade II
                (9)HBsAg (+) . (10)Signed informed consent.

             2. Ineligibility Criteria

             1. Patients who have non-curative resection are not eligible.

             2. Resected HCCs with histologically positive margins are not eligible.

             3. HCCs with radiological evidence of portal vein thrombus are not eligible.

             4. Patients with other systemic diseases which required concurrent usage of
                glucoticosteroid or immunosuppressant agent(s) are not eligible.

             5. Patients with advanced second primary malignancy are not eligible.

             6. Patients with pregnancy or breast-feeding are not eligible.

             7. Patients with severe cardiopulmonary diseases are not eligible.

             8. Patients with clinically significant psychiatric disorder are not eligible.

             9. Patients who had antineoplastic chemotherapeutic or immuno-therapeutic drugs or
                corticosteroids within 6 weeks of commencing the protocol are not eligible.

            10. Patients who had prior lamividine and/or adefovir dipivoxil therapy are not
                eligible.

            11. Anti-HCV positive patients are not eligible. Statistical Consideration

                Sample size:

                With a phase III superior study design, to give an 80% power with a two-sided 5%
                significance level, 139 patients per each treatment arm should be included in the
                study. If a 10% drop-out rate is included, totally, 309 patients (155 per study
                arm) will be required.

                Analysis

                The objectives are as follows:

           1.Primary endpoint: the 3-year recurrence rate (excluding those recur within 1st year)

             1. Second endpoints the recurrence-free survival.

             2. Second endpoints: the overall survival.

             3. Second endpoints: anti-viral efficacy, in terms of sustained biochemical response
                rate and viral response rate. To correlate the changes of viral titer with the
                clinical outcome 2 RFS and OS are computed from the date of randomization.

           (1) In analysis of RFS, patients died without disease recurrence will be censored for
           recurrence at the date of death (2) In analysis of OS, an event is defined as death from
           any cause. (3) The survival distributions of RFS and OS will be estimated by the Kaplan
           and Meier method.

           (4) Statistical comparisons of RFS and OS between the two treatment arms will be
           performed with the log-rank test.

           (5) Cox proportional hazards model will be used to assess the importance of potential
           prognostic factors, as well as to test the significance of treatment when adjusting for
           factors [39].

           3.Tumor size, Liver inflammation, viral status, i.e. HBV genotype and DNA titer
    
  