
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in adults 65 years and older.
      Unchecked, the disease will reach epidemic proportions in the United States and worldwide by
      2050, and presently, there is no intervention that has shown a clear effect on AD
      progression. Over the past several years, there has been increasing interest in re-purposing
      the use of lithium for diseases involving neurodegeneration. Lithium treatment has been
      associated with neurogenesis in the hippocampus, up-regulation of important neurotrophic
      factors such as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and
      inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) isoforms α and β. In particular, GSK-3α
      interacts with gamma-secretase playing a critical role in the conversion of amyloid precursor
      protein (APP) to amyloid-beta (Aβ); lithium has been shown to reduce Aβ production and memory
      deficits in AD transgenic mouse models. GSK-3β phosphorylates tau, a critical step in the
      formation of neurofibrillary tangles, and lithium has been shown to reduce tau
      phosphorylation in vivo and in vitro. That lithium may alter the AD trajectory is supported
      by numerous observational reports showing delay of dementia onset in those treated with it.
      However, the results of the few human lithium trials conducted have been mixed. Additional
      research is needed to determine whether lithium has a role as an anti-dementia agent. In
      contrast to previous studies, we will implement an Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) with a
      more integrative, comprehensive approach than done before involving state-of-the-art
      ultra-high field (7T) human Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), neurocognitive assessment, and
      blood- and Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF)- based biomarker measurement to investigate the role of
      lithium as an anti-dementia agent. The specific aim of this pilot-feasibility study is to
      examine the potential disease modifying properties of lithium in individuals with mild
      cognitive impairment (MCI) in delaying conversion to dementia. The study will enroll and
      randomly assign 80 individuals 60 years and older with MCI to take lithium, titrated to a
      maximally tolerated blood level (0.5 to 0.8 meq/L), or placebo for two years to assess
      lithium's effects on preserving cognition and delaying conversion to dementia. Participants
      will receive annual neurocognitive assessment, blood- and CSF-based biomarker measurement,
      and 7T MRI of structural brain volumes (e.g., hippocampal, total cortical gray). At baseline,
      all subjects who are able will undergo Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging for Aβ. The
      following hypotheses will be tested: H1: a) Participants randomized to take lithium for two
      years, compared to placebo, will better maintain cognitive function, primarily in memory,
      which b) will be associated with changes in biomarkers (e.g., GSK-3β, BDNF). H2: a)
      Participants randomized to take lithium, compared to placebo, will have larger hippocampal
      volumes and lower total gray matter thinning, which b) will be associated with changes in
      biomarkers and c) better cognitive function, primarily in memory. The exploratory aim
      examines whether lithium is related to additional markers of enhanced brain integrity (e.g.,
      lower level of microbleeds, higher white matter integrity, better network connectivity, or
      decreased CSF phospho tau levels).
    
  