
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of delivering the immune nanoparticle liposomal
      HPV-16 E6/E7 multipeptide vaccine PDS0101 (PDS0101) with standard-of-care chemoradiation
      (chemoRT) in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Rate of complete metabolic response on day 170 (+/- 14 days) positron emission tomography
      computed tomography (PET CT).

      II. Rate of >= 90% gross tumor volume reduction day 35 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (+/-
      5 days).

      III. Report rates of local control (LC), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall
      survival (OS) at 12 and 18 months following chemoRT completion.

      IV. Long-term safety: rate of grade >= 3 chronic toxicity (from day 81 to completion of
      trial).

      EXPLORATORY HPV-SPECIFIC IMMUNE RESPONSE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assays on interferon-gamma and granzyme B
      levels in E6/7-specific T cells isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

      II. Compare intratumoral T-cell receptor (TCR) clonality at baseline and end of treatment by
      TCR sequencing.

      III. Measure CD4+ and CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) from cervical brush samples
      by using markers of T-cell exhaustion (PD1, CTLA4) and T cell-activation (granzyme B, CD69+).

      IV. Assess the intestinal and cervical microbiome by analyzing rectal and cervical swab
      samples with 16s ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) sequencing.

      V. Additional assays such as circulating tumor cells, circulating cell-free tumor
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ccfDNA), and other assays will be performed at the discretion of
      the principal investigator.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo radiation therapy over 1 hour 5 days per week (Monday-Friday) for 5-7 weeks
      and receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 4 hours once per week (QW) during the 5 weeks
      of radiation therapy in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients also receive PDS0101 subcutaneously (SC) on days -10, 7, 28, 49, and 170 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 1, 4, 6, 12, and 18
      weeks, and 18 months.
    
  