
    
      This is a prospective single cohort study to evaluate the diagnostic utility of 18F-DCFPyL
      PET/CT in detecting sites of recurrent prostate cancer, in patients who have negative or
      equivocal findings on conventional imaging. Eligible subjects will undergo a 18F-DCFPyL
      PET/CT at the British Columbia Cancer Agency (BCCA) - Vancouver Centre.

      18F-DCFPyL- Each subject will receive an 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT scan at the BCCA - Vancouver
      Centre, as part of this research study. Each study subject will receive a bolus intravenous
      dose of 18F-DCFPyL. The subject will rest in a comfortable chair for 120 minutes and will
      then be taken to the PET/CT scanner for images. The PET/CT scan will take approximately three
      hours extra of patient time above and beyond the time needed for standard of care.

      Medical History Questionnaire- Demographic and medical history data will be collected either
      in person before the PET scan appointment or by mail or phone, whichever is the most
      convenient to the subject.

      Follow-up assessments- Positive 18F-DCFPyL findings should be investigated and correlated
      with other imaging modalities and/or biopsy whenever possible. These additional procedures
      are left at the discretion of the referring physician for the clinical management of their
      patient, and will not be mandated by the study. The results of such investigations will be
      captured during the follow-up period, to verify the accuracy of 18F-DCFPyL findings.

      All subjects will be requested to either return to the functional imaging department
      approximately 24 hours (acceptable range 16-28 hours) after the injection of 18F-DCFPyL or
      agree to be contacted by phone. The subjects will be asked if they experienced any
      undesirable effects following the administration of 18F-DCFPyL, or in the intervening 24
      hours. The local site attending nuclear medicine physician will then make an assessment as to
      whether these effects are likely related to 18F-DCFPyL administration.

      All subjects will receive up to three clinical follow-up evaluations at 12, 24 and 36 months
      following the 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT exam to assess the presence of recurrence, once presence of
      recurrence is confirmed follow-up will be discontinued. The evaluation will include a chart
      review of available imaging, laboratory tests, and treatment along with review of any
      symptoms. The data required can be obtained from a review of the patient's paper and
      electronic charts, supplemented by telephone contact as needed to complete the information.
      The treating oncologist will fill out a survey to determine the clinical impact of the
      18F-DCFPyL on clinical managements. This will be categorized into 'minor' (change in
      treatment site or dose) or 'major' (change in treatment modality).
    
  