
    
      The proposed study employs a mixed-methods research design. The investigators will first
      develop narrative videos in collaboration with community organizations of WLHIV in Boston.
      Second, the investigators will conduct a two-arm RCT assigning participants at a ratio of 1:1
      to either one of the two arms (Experimental: HIV-tailored plus SNC interventions vs. Control:
      HIV-tailored intervention). Both arms have eight weekly sessions of a 30-minute HIV-tailored
      cessation intervention (cognitive behavioral therapy plus nicotine patches). The experimental
      arm will receive three 5-7 minute SNC videos, each per month between the first and third
      month of quitting, whereas the control arm will receive three 5-minute attention control
      videos at the same monthly interval.

      A total of 60 WLHIV will be recruited via online and offline advertisements and personal
      networks of community organizations and health care providers who work for people with HIV.
      To participate in the study, the following criteria must be met: women who 1) are able to
      speak English; 2) self-report HIV infection and submit a supplementary document if necessary;
      3) are between the ages of 18 and 65; 4) have been smoking at least 5 cigarettes a day for
      the past 6 months; 5) own a mobile phone with an access to a video call application such as
      Skype, Imo, Tango, and Face Time; 6) are willing to quit smoking within the next 4 weeks from
      the baseline assessment; and 7) agree to use an approved form of birth control (e.g., oral
      medications, condoms, and intrauterine devices) during the study period. Individuals will be
      excluded if they: 1) are not able to speak English; 2) are pregnant or lactating; 3) have an
      active skin disease or serious alcohol use problems (≥ 26 on the Alcohol Use Disorders
      Identification Test), 4) self-report currently receiving treatment for a serious mental
      illness (e.g., schizophrenia and bipolar disorder); or 5) currently use any illegal
      substances excluding marijuana.

      The investigators will recruit participants with frequent announcements of the study in
      Craigslist and paid online advertisements. The majority of intake interviews will be
      conducted via telephone, which will take 30 minutes at most. To prevent attrition, the
      investigators will execute several strategies, including tracking subjects at least every
      other month and providing incentives for follow-up testing. Counselors will proactively call
      participants prior to each therapy session and confirm the appointment a few hours before the
      session. A research assistant (RA) who will be blinded to the intervention condition will
      conduct all follow-up assessments via telephone calls and videoconferencing for saliva
      cotinine tests.
    
  