
    
      For urothelial carcinoma (UC), which accounts for over 90% of bladder cancers, more than 70%
      of bladder cancer patients present with non-muscle-invasive disease. Approximately 40-80% of
      these tumors will recur within the first year, of which 10-25% will progress to
      muscle-invasive disease.

      Intravesical treatments with cytotoxic chemotherapy and immunotherapy have become the
      mainstay following transurethral resection (TUR). Increasing knowledge of BCG use allows for
      effective management of these once debilitating side effects. The majority of patients will
      still experience cystitis-like symptoms to some degree, including urinary frequency (71%),
      cystitis (67%), fever (25%), and hematuria (23%).

      Oxybutynin increases in fever, flu-like symptoms, dry mouth and constipation. However, in
      this study oxybutynin started the night before treatment causing an element of incomplete
      bladder emptying and allowing an increased BCG dwell time. We think that these effect can be
      reversed by use anticholinergic 6 hours post BCG instillation Anti-inflammatory drugs
      significantly reduced BCG-induced granulocyte activation and did not impair BCG-induced
      lymphocyte cytotoxicity against bladder tumor cells in mice. The committee of International
      Bladder Cancer Group (IBCG) recommend use of anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) for treatment
      of non-bacterial or chemical cystitis and other systemic BCG side effect.

      Fluoroquinolone with tuberculostatic properties, has been shown to significantly prolong
      survival in mice with BCG systemic infection and did not affect the antitumor efficacy of
      BCG. ofloxacin significantly decreased by 18.5% the incidence of class II or higher moderate
      and severe adverse events of BCG.

      Because of sparse published studies on BCG side effect management, the 2016 European
      Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines management options for side effects associated with
      intravesical BCG modify the IBCG committee clinical practice without any degree of
      recommendation. So, in this study the investigators will try to fill the gap in the
      literature.
    
  