
    
      Intratumoural treatment with tigilanol tiglate combined with systemic anti-programmed cell
      death receptor 1 (PD 1) immunotherapy may enhance anti-tumour immune responses and improve
      outcomes for patients with melanoma.

      Primary Objectives:

      1. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum feasible dose (MFD) level of a
      single intratumoural treatment of tigilanol tiglate (Tx1) administered in combination with
      pembrolizumab.

      2. To assess the safety and tolerability of: i) A single treatment (Tx1) of intratumoural
      tigilanol tiglate at escalating dose levels (dose-escalation) administered in combination
      with intravenous (IV) pembrolizumab (200 mg); and ii) Repeat treatments of intratumoural
      tigilanol tiglate (maximum of 3 treatments) administered in combination with IV pembrolizumab
      (200 mg, Q3W). Repeat treatment(s) of intratumoural tigilanol tiglate to be administered at
      the same dose level at Tx1 as follows:

        1. If the initially injected tumour(s) are not fully ablated, then intratumoural tigilanol
           tiglate Tx2 +/- Tx3 may be re-administered to the same tumour(s).

        2. If the initially injected tumour(s) are fully ablated and additional pre-identified
           tumours can be treated, then intratumoural tigilanol tiglate, Tx2 +/- Tx3 may also be
           administered to those tumours.

      Note: Tumours identified at Screening that are designated as "not to be injected" tumours
      (i.e. non-injected tumours for observation) cannot be treated at Tx1, Tx2 or Tx3.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate tumour response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, including loco-regional
           control of injected tumour(s) and non-injected tumour(s), and survival in patients
           treated in this study.

        2. To assess the safety and tolerability of ongoing treatment with pembrolizumab up to a
           total of 35 cycles (Q3W), including the combination with up to 3 treatments of
           intratumoural tigilanol tiglate (Q3W).

      Exploratory Objectives:

      1. To evaluate the tumour response of tumours following treatment with intratumoural
      injection with tigilanol tiglate in combination with pembrolizumab
    
  