
    
      Background: Cooled radiofrequency ablation (cRFA) of the knee geniculate nerves is a
      promising treatment option for knee osteoarthritis, but has variable efficacy. Fluoroscopy is
      the typical guidance of choice, but uses bony landmarks to target these nerves which have
      variable positions around the knee. Alternatively, ultrasound allows for targeting based on
      visualization of bony landmarks, the nerves, and their accompanying vascular structures, and
      thus may offer greater accuracy. However, there are few studies which directly compare the
      clinical efficacy of these two guidance options. Objective: To compare the effectiveness of
      geniculate nerve cRFA on knee osteoarthritis outcomes when using either ultrasound or
      fluoroscopic guidance. The primary outcome measures will be patient pain levels and
      patient-reported function. The secondary outcome measures will be objective performance-based
      functional outcomes. The exploratory outcome measures will be blood biomarkers of
      inflammation, extracellular matrix turnover, and cartilage degradation. Methods: Knee
      osteoarthritis patients (Kellegren-Lawrence Scale 2-4) that have been refractory to
      conservative treatments and report at least 80% pain relief with diagnostic geniculate nerve
      blocks will be enrolled and randomized to fluoroscopic (N=45) or ultrasound (N=45) cRFA
      treatment arms. Baseline assessments will include 1) Numeric Pain Rating Scale, Western
      Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, and PROMIS depression and pain
      interference measures; 2) the Osteoarthritis Research Society International recommended
      physical performance assessments including the 30-Second Chair Stand Test, Stair Climb Test,
      40m Fast Paced Walk Test, Timed Up and Go Test, and Six Minute Walk Test; and 3) in a subset
      of patients (N=24), blood biomarkers including MMP-3, IL-1β, TNF-α, COMP, and CTX-II. These
      measures will be re-assessed at one month (pain and patient-reported function only, via phone
      contact), three months, and 6 months after the cRFA procedure. Study endpoints will be
      assessed using a mixed model repeated measures analysis of variance using an alpha level of
      0.05. Statement of Relevance: Knee osteoarthritis patients are commonly treated by sports
      medicine providers, who are typically well-trained in the use of ultrasound. Should
      ultrasound be demonstrated as effective for cRFA, sports medicine providers would be
      well-positioned to use relatively low-cost and accessible imaging technology to significantly
      improve patient pain and function using cRFA.
    
  