
    
      The liver transplantation is the only treatment for end-stage liver failure. Lack of
      sufficient organs from the cadaver to meet the organ needs has increased the interest in a
      live organ donor transplantation. A peripheral nerve block, transversus abdominous plane
      block (TAP block); When combined with general anesthesia in live liver donors, it has been
      shown to significantly reduce perioperative and postoperative opioid consumption, provide
      shorter recovery time and shorten hospital stay.Immunological, metabolic and endocrine
      reactions occur due to tissue damage, pain and anesthesia caused by surgery. It has been
      shown that regional block techniques using local anesthetics and analgesic adjuvants modulate
      both local and systemic inflammatory reactions caused by surgical injury. Cytokines are
      important mediators of local and systemic inflammatory response including hyperalgesia after
      surgery. Cytokines are indispensable for wound healing and restoration of homeostasis, but
      usually the overactivity of either proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory cytokines damages the
      host. With Preemptive epidural analgesia, peripheral nerve block and thoracic epidural
      analgesia; postoperative pain and proinflammatory cytokines have been reduced. In literature,
      the effect of TAP block on anti-inflammatory cytokines in live liver donors was not shown.
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of bupivakine TAP block on
      antiinflammatory response in live liver donors.This prospective clinical study will performs
      in 72 liver transplant donors aged 18-65 years, ASA I-II, schedule for right hepatectomy
      surgery. Peripheral vascular access will open and blood samples will take for preoperative
      cytokine and bupivacaine measurements.The primary aim of this study was to investigate the
      effect of TAP block on the inflammatory response by cytokine level. The secondary aim of this
      study is to determine the plasma bupivacaine concentrations in patients undergoing TAP block
      and to investigate the relationship between plasma bupivacaine level and cytokine levels.
    
  