
    
      This research project consists of two complementary yet distinct initiatives:

        1. First, we will prospectively evaluate spinal cord perfusion pressure(SCPP)in patients
           with acute spinal cord injuries, to provide scientifically-based guidelines on the
           management of blood pressure during the acute injury phase.

        2. Second, we will evaluate cerebrospinal fluid(CSF) samples from these patients with the
           goal of prospectively validating a series of biochemical markers that correlate with
           injury severity and predict neurologic outcome. Ultimately, our goals are to enhance the
           neurologic outcome of individuals with spinal cord injuries by improving upon their
           acute clinical care, and to establish biological surrogates of injury severity that may
           be used to facilitate clinical trials of novel therapeutic interventions for acute
           spinal cord injury.

      Specific Aims

      This multicenter study will enroll patients with acute traumatic cervical and thoracic SCI
      within 48 hours of their injury. A lumbar intrathecal catheter will be inserted
      pre-operatively for the measurement of intrathecal pressure (ITP) and the collection of CSF
      samples. Spinal cord perfusion pressure will be calculated as the difference between mean
      arterial pressure (MAP) and the ITP. The objectives of this aspect of the study will be to:

        -  Document the changes in SCPP over the first 5-7 days post-injury (with an intrathecal
           catheter that is in place for 5 days).

        -  Determine the effect of different vasopressor agents on SCPP.

      Additionally, CSF samples will be obtained from the intrathecal catheter at 8-hour intervals
      to analyse the expression of the following biochemical markers: including interleukin (IL)-6,
      IL-8, monocyte chemo-attractant protein (MCP)-1, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP),
      S100beta, and tau. The objectives of this aspect of the study will be to:

        -  Evaluate the accuracy of these inflammatory and neuronal markers at classifying the
           initial severity of paralysis and at predicting the extent of neurologic recovery.

        -  Characterize the temporal pattern of expression of these proteins to provide a more
           complete description of the human pathophysiology of SCI.
    
  