
    
      Background:

        -  Metarrestin is a first-in-class investigational agent targeting the peri-nucleolar
           compartment (PNC), a marker of genome organization associated with metastasis.

        -  Preclinical studies have shown that metarrestin effectively suppresses metastasis and
           extends overall survival in different cancer models.

        -  Multi-species allometric scaling and good laboratory practice (GLP) toxicology and
           toxicokinetic studies indicate that metarrestin administered at a calculated safe
           maximum recommended starting dose (MRSD) to human subjects is predicted to afford
           intratumoral exposure levels within the therapeutic range observed preclinically.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase IA: To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of metarrestin.

        -  Phase IB: To determine the Objective Response Rate (ORR) according to Evaluation
           Criteria (RECIST 1.1) in patients treated with metarrestin at the MTD.

      Eligibility:

      -Adult subjects with any advanced solid tumors (Cohort IA), or pancreatic or breast tumors
      (Cohort IB1).

      OR

        -  Pediatric subjects age 12 and older with solid tumors other than rhabdomyosarcoma and
           related skeletal muscle tumors (Cohort IB2).

        -  Patients must have progressed on prior standard chemotherapeutic therapy.

      Design:

        -  This is first-in-human Phase I trial to investigate the safety and clinical activity of
           metarrestin in subjects with metastatic solid tumors.

        -  During Phase IA MTD of metarrestin will be estimated in adult patients with solid
           tumors.

        -  During Phase IB adult patients with breast or pancreatic cancer and pediatric patients
           with solid organ cancer will be treated at dose level of estimated MTD.

        -  Patients will receive treatment in cycles consisting of 28 (+/- 3) days.

        -  Metarrestin will be administered PO until progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  