
    
      Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders that are characterized by low levels of hemoglobin
      and healthy red blood cells, which can lead to anemia. There are many different types of
      thalassemias, and TI is one type. People with TI often have moderate to severe anemia and may
      have a shortened life span, organ damage, and a lower quality of life as a result of the
      disease. Decitabine is a medication used to treat people with diseases that affect bone
      marrow and blood cells. The medication may be an effective treatment for people with TI
      because it may have the ability to interact with a person's DNA and increase hemoglobin
      levels. Previous studies in people with anemia have shown that decitabine has increased
      hemoglobin levels in some participants. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety
      and effectiveness of decitabine at increasing hemoglobin levels in people with TI.

      This study will enroll people with TI. Following an 8-week screening period, participants
      will attend a baseline study visit, which will include a blood collection, pregnancy test,
      physical exam, and echocardiogram heart imaging procedure. Decitabine will be injected under
      the skin in the abdomen, thigh, or upper arm. Participants will be observed for a minimum of
      30 minutes after the injection to assess pain or adverse reactions. Participants will then
      receive low doses of decitabine twice a week, on consecutive days, for 12 weeks. They will be
      closely monitored and dosages will be adjusted or stopped as needed. Every 2 weeks,
      participants will undergo a blood collection for safety testing. Every 4 weeks, participants
      will attend a study visit for a pregnancy test, physical exam, blood collection, and review
      of medication effects. Additionally, at the Week 12 visit, a repeat echocardiogram will
      occur. During Weeks 12 to 24, participants will not receive decitabine injections but will
      attend monthly study visits for repeat testing. Study researchers will contact participants
      by phone every 3 months during Year 1 and then every 6 months for the duration of the study
      to collect long-term survival and medical information.
    
  