
    
      This study aims to investigate the capability of different analgesia-monitors (PhysioDoloris,
      MetroDoloris, Lille, France, SPI (Surgical Plethysmographic Index), GE Healthcare, Helsinki,
      Finland and AlgiScan, IDMed, Marseille, France) in tracing unconscious pain sensations during
      general anesthesia. Many surgical procedures require general anesthesia. In order to induce
      hypnosis and analgesia, which are the main components of general anesthesia, the anesthetist
      usually combines a hypnotic drug with an opioid analgesic.

      Until today, however, there is no standard-monitoring to specifically reflect the analgesic
      component of general anesthesia. Because over dosage as well as under dosage of opioids (e.g.
      remifentanil) may increase postoperative pain, the development of a depth-of-analgesia
      monitor is not only desirable but necessary. Quality and safety of general anesthesia are of
      major clinical importance and can be improved by limiting the administration of opioid
      analgesics to the minimum dose needed. This study therefore examines the quality of the
      monitoring technique, i.e. the sensitivity and specificity in assessing the level of
      analgesia during general anesthesia under standardized conditions.

      Levels of analgesia are traditionally evaluated by clinical signs such as an increase in
      heart rate, blood pressure, lacrimation, sweating and defensive movements. Recent research
      has been able to demonstrate the possibility of assessment of the level of
      nociception-antinociception balance by applying a tetanic stimulation (30 s, 60 milliampere,
      50 Hz) above the ulnar side of the wrist using a standard muscle relaxometer on the patients
      arm. In these investigations the stimulation led to a decrease of the vagal tonus resulting
      in changes in sinus arrhythmia and in a smaller area under the plethysmographic curve.
      Different devices were able to reflect a painful stimulus during propofol-remifentanil
      anesthesia. However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no data on the ability of the
      monitor-devices to detect a reproducible quantified painful stimulus under standardized
      conditions.

      Bromm et al. thus established the intracutaneous pain model in the Department of
      Neurophysiology at the University-Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf more than 20 years ago. This
      model involves removing a small core of epidermis from the skin on the pulp of the finger and
      placing an electrode directly in the vicinity of Aδ- and C-fiber terminals. Corresponding
      stimulation evokes clear pinprick pain of the patients. Utilizing Bromm et al.'s methodology,
      we actively contribute to the ongoing debate on the clinical use of analgesia-monitors in
      tracing unconscious sensation of pain during general anesthesia. For better comparability to
      previous studies the Bromm et al's methodology will be complemented by a measurement after a
      tetanic stimulation on each analgesic level.

      The hypotheses will be examined in a prospective clinical study by means of tetanic
      stimulation, tested on presumably 30 elective patients. The study was approved by the Ethics
      committee of the Medical Board of the City of Hamburg, Germany and informed consent will be
      obtained from all patients. After induction of deep propofol sedation a laryngeal mask is
      inserted and sedation is maintained by continuous bispectral index-guided propofol-infusion.
      Next, remifentanil is increased step-by-step according to the study protocol.

      After ensuring a steady-state period of remifentanil infusion of at least 5 minutes, the
      standardized painful stimuli consisting of the intracutaneous pain model and tetanic
      stimulation for the time period of 30 s with 80 milliampere, 50 Hz are applied. All
      stimulations are accompanied by the measurement of the analgesic monitoring-indices. Moreover
      the investigators measure and inspect changes in heart rate and blood pressure as well as
      occurrence of defensive movements of the patients.
    
  