
    
      Flupirtine is a centrally acting analgesic drug. Its mechanism of action differs obviously
      from opiates because flupirtine antagonizes the morphine-induced tail phenomenon in mice in
      relatively low doses. The drug exerts no relevant anesthetic activity and it has only slight
      inhibitory effect on prostaglandin formation in animals. As major action mechanism,
      activation of descending noradrenergic neuronal pathways is discussed, thereby inhibiting
      afferent nociceptive stimuli on spinal, subcortical and cortical brain areas. Recently has
      been shown, that flupirtine exhibits functional NMDA receptor antagonistic properties by
      selective opening the neuronal potassium channel.

      The anticonvulsant drug retigabine, which chemical structure only slightly differs from
      flupirtine (aromatic ring instead of the pyrimidine ring), is subjected to intensive
      glucuronidation and N-acetylation in man. In-vitro, retigabine is a substrate of the
      recombinant uridine glucoronosyl transferase (UGT) 1A1, 1A3, 1A4 and 1A9. Disposition of
      retigabine, however, was not influenced by the frequent UGT1A1*28 polymorphism
      (Gilbert-Meulengracht syndrome) whereas the polymorphism of the N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2)
      resulted in significant changes in retigabine disposition.

      Similar to retigabine, the carbamate group of flupirtine is hydrolyzed by carboxyl esterases.
      The decarbamylated product undergoes N-acetylation to form the major metabolite D13223. This
      acetylation is catalyzed in-vitro both by recombinant human NAT2 and NAT1. Furthermore,
      relatively stable quinone diimines for flupirtine and D13223 as catalyzed by peroxidases were
      detectable in in-vitro experiments. After repeated oral administration of flupirtine in man,
      quinone diimines and glutathione adducts of them in the form of mercapturic acid conjugates
      were detected.

      Therefore, we hypothesize, that highly reactive diimine radicals may appear as intermediates
      which are detoxified by conjugation with glutathione via a glutathione S-transferase (GST).
      Diimine intermediates are known to have high cell toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity
      as shown for the intermediates of acetaminophen. By analogy to acetaminophen, the GSTP1 might
      be the isoform that is involved also in detoxification of flupirtine intermediates.

      According to our hypothesis, the net appearance of toxic intermediates with diimine structure
      in hepatocytes is dependent on the activity of NAT1/NAT2, UGTs and GSTP1. Because NAT2,
      UGT1A1 and GSTP1 are highly polymorphic enzymes, the risk of flupirtine hepatotoxicity may be
      dependent on the genotype of the subjects that are treated with the drug.

      Our clinical study was initiated to confirm, whether polymorphisms of NAT2, UGT1A1 and GSTP1
      may significantly influence disposition and analgesic effect of flupirtine and whether the
      genetic background is of risk for the appearance of toxic intermediates and its stable
      terminal conjugates.
    
  