
    
      This will be a prospective comparative cohort study analyzing the practices of three
      surgeons, one of whom routinely uses CPM following fixation of pelvic and acetabular
      fractures, and two surgeons who do not.

      All patients, over the age of 18 years who have undergone open reduction and internal
      fixation (ORIF) of isolated acetabular fractures, supracondylar femur fractures, or tibial
      plateau fracture will be asked to participate. Those who consent will be randomized into two
      groups. The experimental group will have a CPM applied in the PACU immediately post-op and it
      will be utilized while the patient is awake in bed for 2 hours on and 2 hours off, when not
      mobilizing with Physical Therapy (PT). The experimental group will also have traditional PT,
      including sessions 1 to 3 times a week. The control group will have typical care, including
      working with physical therapy 1 to 3 times a week. The investigators will directly compare
      the VAS scores and narcotic pain medication requirements in the patients who have CPM versus
      those who do not during the course of the hospital admission. VAS scores will be assessed
      throughout the day by RN and/or PT. Functional outcomes will be assessed at the one-year mark
      using the Iowa and Majeed pelvic functional outcome tools along with the SF-12. Orthopedic
      Resident or Nurse Clinical will check the patient for incision integrity each day and each
      session of using the CPM, the patient will be monitored for adverse events. Data will be
      collected using Epic.

      The investigators will record patient demographics including age, sex, and pre-existing
      narcotic usage. Fracture type according to the Orthopaedic Trauma Association will be
      recorded. VAS scores and pain medication requirements will be recorded from the first 48
      hours during the patient's stay. Pain scores and CPM use will be obtained from Epic using the
      flowsheet.

      Functional outcomes will be assessed at the one-year mark using the Iowa and Majeed pelvic
      functional outcome tools along with the SF-12.
    
  