
    
      BACKGROUND

      Symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress is common among both cancer patients and cancer
      survivors and can lead to prolonged hospitalization, reduced quality of life, and deteriorate
      prognosis. In Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) participants practice attention
      towards the present moment and acceptance of feelings and physical discomfort. This is in
      particular relevant for cancer patients and -survivors who often experience psychological
      symptoms connected to negative thoughts about the past and worries about the future.

      MBCT is an 8-week group intervention and has shown to be effective in treating psychological
      distress in cancer survivors. Many cancer survivors experience challenges in following a
      group intervention because of health related reduced mobility and work- and family schedule
      conflicts, and hence it is relevant to investigate an internet-delivered alternative to MBCT.

      I-MBCT is a manualized treatment for breast- and prostate cancer survivors, based on the
      manual for Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for depression. I-MBCT consist of 8 weeks of
      mindfulness practice combined with reading theory and supported by weekly text messages and
      answers from a therapist.

      AIMS AND HYPOTHESES

      In a randomized controlled trial the efficacy of 8-weeks I-MBCT for breast- and prostate
      cancer survivors will be investigated.

        1. The primary aim of the study is to investigate if Internet-delivered Mindfulness-Based
           Cognitive Therapy (I-MBCT) will reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety among women
           treated for breast cancer and men treated for prostate cancer and that the effect is
           remained at 6 months after the treatment.

        2. The secondary aim is to explore the effect of I-MBCT on symptoms of stress, insomnia,
           and quality of life.

        3. Furthermore, the study aims to explore the potential mediating effect of working
           alliance, self-compassion, and mindfulness.

        4. Finally, the cost-effectiveness of the I-MBCT intervention will be explored.

      PARTICIPANTS AND PROCEDURES

      A total of 155 breast- and prostate cancer survivors are consecutively recruited from Aarhus
      University Hospital, Denmark. Staff at the Outpatient Clinics at Department of Oncology and
      Department of Urology will screen patients for psychological distress at follow-up check-ups.
      If the patients indicates a moderate to high level of psychological distress, further
      information about the project will be given and patients can sign up for study enrollment.

      Participants will after initial screening receive a phone call from a project staff to
      clarify if inclusion criteria are met. After informed consent all participants will fill out
      the online baseline questionnaire and then be randomized to either I-MBCT or a wait-list
      control group receiving treatment as usual in a ratio of 7:3 by means of a computer-generated
      randomization list.

      Participants fill out online questionnaires at baseline, midway (after 5 weeks), post
      treatment (after 10 weeks) and at follow-up after 6 months.

      The intervention group receive the 8-weeks of therapist-assisted I-MBCT which contains
      assessment of the Therapeutic Alliance at 2, 4, and 7 weeks after treatment onset.

      The statistical evaluation of the effect I-MBCT compared to the waitlist control will be
      performed with Multilevel Linear Models and post-hoc tests. The possible mediating effects
      will be evaluated using Preacher & Hayes bootstrapping method. All analyses will be performed
      with a two-sided significance level of .05.

      REGISTRATION DETAILS

      The study record reported in ClinicalTrials.gov is completely consistent with the protocol
      approved by the Central Region Denmark Committee on Health Research Ethics before enrollment
      start. The study was registered in ClinicalTrials.gov after enrollment had started but before
      any data analysis was initiated.
    
  