
    
      Background & significance

      Uterine fibroids are non-cancerous overgrowths of smooth muscle in the uterus. As they grow,
      a proportion of fibroids give rise to problems, such as heavy menstrual bleeding, pelvic
      pain, discomfort during sexual intercourse, and/or difficulty becoming pregnant. Some
      fibroids cause miscarriage, preterm birth, and increase the risk of cesarean birth. Multiple
      treatments are available: medication, removal of the inner layer of the uterus wall
      (endometrial ablation), removal of the uterus (hysterectomy) or part of the fibroid
      (myomectomy), or blocking some of the blood supply to the uterus (uterine artery
      embolization). Given the different consequences of treatment options, such as time away from
      work and impact on fertility, choosing the best option is sensitive to individual
      preferences. This study seeks to improve healthcare delivery and treatment choices for women
      of different socioeconomic status (SES) and health literacy levels experiencing symptoms from
      uterine fibroids.

      Approximately 50% of women of reproductive age have fibroids, and at least 50% of these women
      have significant symptoms. These women report substantial impairment in quality of life and
      increased costs associated with the impact on daily living. While existing evidence is
      inconclusive about disparities in treatment choice, the associated socioeconomic burden is
      even greater in African-American women and those of lower SES. Despite a greater incidence
      and severity of symptomatic fibroids among African-American women, Hispanic women, and women
      of lower SES, one study shows that these women are less likely to undergo laparoscopic
      intervention, while another study found no significant differences between procedure rates
      between African-American and white women. Nevertheless, African-American women are more
      likely to experience poor treatment outcomes than white women.

      A systematic review (2002) indicated that insufficient evidence exists about the comparative
      effectiveness of treatments for uterine fibroids. Viswanathan confirmed this view in 2007,
      saying that "the dearth of high-quality evidence is remarkable given how commonly this
      problem occurs." A report by Velentgas et al demonstrated similar outcomes between the
      uterine-sparing treatment options (endometrial ablation, uterine artery embolization, and
      myomectomy) on the onset of new or recurrent symptoms post-treatment. Myomectomy and uterine
      artery embolization led to a reduced risk of having a subsequent procedure compared to
      endometrial ablation. The lack of comparative evidence demonstrating superiority of any one
      treatment reinforces the role of shared decision making (SDM) in this context.

      SDM is considered the pinnacle of patient-centered, ethical care and aims to promote two-way
      communication between clinicians and patients. Patient decision aids are interventions that
      provide evidence-based information to patients so they can make decisions that align with
      their preferences, thus facilitating the SDM process. For example, Option Grid encounter
      patient decision aids (ePDAs) are available in various formats (paper, picture, online
      interactive) and present information in a tabular format so patients can compare options. The
      use of Option Grids, and other similar ePDAs in other settings, also provide evidence that
      these tools are effective. A stepped-wedge study showed higher levels of SDM when Option Grid
      decision aids were used with patients who had knee osteoarthritis, as well as an increase in
      patient knowledge, without lengthening the encounter's duration. Similar results were found
      when Option Grid ePDAs were used by pediatricians with parents facing decisions about
      circumcision. In addition, five randomized trials using ePDAs at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
      Minnesota, have demonstrated their impact on SDM, whereas there is less evidence that PDAs
      used solely by patients before clinical encounters lead to observed changes in SDM.

      The investigators have clear evidence from existing research and their own consultation with
      patient partners that women with fibroids wish to consider treatment trade-offs and engage in
      decision making processes. A trial of a pre-ePDA for women with uterine fibroids demonstrated
      impact on knowledge and satisfaction but no effect on concordance between preferences and
      decisions. A pre-post study by the current team has demonstrated that using the existing
      uterine fibroids Option Grid led to higher levels of SDM according to both observational and
      patient-reported measures. Despite interest among patients with uterine fibroids to
      participate in their healthcare decisions, and the positive impact of uterine fibroids ePDAs
      on SDM, implementation of SDM approaches in routine care remains challenging.

      Implementation of SDM remains difficult across a range of healthcare settings, and success
      depends on more than simply distributing PDAs to patients. System and organizational barriers
      exist, related to incentives and established behavior patterns. There is evidence, however,
      that it is possible to implement SDM, particularly if it is supported by clinical champions,
      organizational strategies, and effective electronic medical record integration efforts,
      especially where tools fit well into workflows) and are useful with a diverse range of
      patients. The investigators searched for, but were unable to find, implementation studies of
      uterine fibroids ePDAs in clinical settings and conclude that a relevant gap exists.

      To fill this gap, the investigators will use a multi-component SDM implementation strategy
      guided by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research and the Normalization
      Process Theory. The strategy includes: (1) assessment of organizational readiness for SDM
      using Measuring Organizational Readiness for patient Engagement (MORE) - a team-based survey
      to develop a tailored strategy at each site addressing potential organizational barriers to
      implementation; (2) online or in-person introduction to SDM and the Option Grid tools (this
      will include feedback and coaching); (3) clinician access to multiple formats of Option Grid
      ePDAs (text, picture, and online interactive version and printed Spanish versions), and; (4)
      the integration of a suggested SDM approach and new evidence (as appropriate) into existing
      clinical practice guidelines where feasible (e.g., the American College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists).

      Study aims

      The investigators propose to incorporate new comparative effectiveness evidence about uterine
      fibroid treatments into a multi-component SDM implementation strategy. The investigators will
      evaluate the impact of a multi-component SDM implementation strategy for the care of women
      who seek treatment for uterine fibroids at five diverse gynecology settings and across
      socioeconomic strata. The investigators will also examine the real-world clinical context
      from the five participating sites to determine the characteristics of a successfully (or not
      successfully) sustained a multi-component SDM strategy.

      Study description

      Procedure Prior to the pre-implementation phase, a minimum of 10 stakeholders from each site
      will complete the Measuring Organizational Readiness for patient Engagement (MORE) survey
      which is designed to measure a healthcare organization's willingness and ability to
      effectively implement patient engagement in healthcare. Participating clinicians will also
      complete the ADOPT survey to assess their attitudes toward patient decision aids at the start
      of the pre-implementation phase.

      During the pre-implementation phase, eligible patients will be identified in advance by the
      project team at each project site through the sites' outpatient appointment systems. After
      their clinical encounter, clinic staff will provide eligible patients with a tablet computer
      to complete the consent form and fill out the survey. Patients will provide their email
      address in the survey so they can receive the follow-up survey three months post-encounter.
      To measure the extent to which clinicians involve patients in decision-making process,
      research assistants at each site will randomly audio-record five clinical encounters for each
      participating clinician.

      The study interventions will be carefully described during a two-month initiation period for
      clinicians at participating sites, to occur between the pre- and active implementation
      periods.

      Each site will decide which intervention (or a combination) they want to implement, as well
      as potentially suggest new ways of introducing the tool(s) to patients. This will be part of
      the implementation strategy and informed by the assessment of organizational readiness for
      patient engagement at each site completed during the pre-implementation phase. The study
      staff at each site will identify eligible patients ahead of their visits through their
      outpatient scheduling systems and will have the opportunity to mail or, where allowed by
      clinic policy, email the Option Grid before their appointment. Patients receiving the tools
      in advance would be instructed (with a cover letter) to use the tool to prepare for their
      encounter with their clinician. Patients will be encouraged to assess whether the frequently
      asked questions are issues that are also of concern to them, and to ask clinic staff to
      explain any parts which seem unclear to them.

      The clinician will also have the option of presenting the Option Grid during the clinical
      encounter. To facilitate this process, the reception staff (or someone else in the clinic)
      could provide the tool to the patient before the visit just in case they did not bring their
      mailed copy. Or, the medical assistant can provide the tool to the patient upon rooming. The
      method of Option Grid presentation will be tailored to best fit the clinic flow at each site.
      Clinicians who have access to the online version of Option Grid will record use of the
      electronic tool into the patient's electronic medical record. Third, clinicians can give the
      Option Grid to the patient at the end of the encounter, so they can take it home and review
      its contents with others. This can be done by printing a paper copy, or if using the online
      version, by sending a URL link to the patient via email. Following the encounter, the patient
      will be provided with a tablet computer in order to provide consent and fill out the study
      surveys. Patients will be sent a follow-up link via email three months after the encounter to
      complete the follow-up survey. Like the pre-implementation phase, a research assistant at
      each site will audio-record five consecutive clinical encounters for each participating
      clinician to measure the extent to which clinicians involve patients in the decision-making
      process and complete the fidelity checklist.

      To assess whether the intervention was sustainably implemented, the investigators will
      capture the perspective of professionals directly involved in the work of implementing
      complex interventions in healthcare using the NOMAD Normalization Process Theory instrument.
      The investigators will also assess clinician attitude using the ADOPT survey and conduct
      interviews with participating clinicians to determine the utility of the intervention,
      conduct a fidelity assessment, and calculate the percentage of eligible patients receiving
      the intervention. In addition, the investigators will have interview data which will help the
      investigators determine if systemic use is sustained.
    
  