
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the reasons for nonadherence to follow-up in Hispanic women with abnormal Pap
           smear findings.

        -  Assess the effect of written educational information and phone calls on follow-up rate
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, cross-sectional, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are
      sequentially assigned to 1 of 3 intervention groups.

        -  Group 1 (control): Patients complete a standardized Spanish survey questionnaire,
           assessing their demographic information, knowledge, attitudes, behaviors, experiences
           with cervical screening, past medical history, and prior treatment, either in person
           (for those who kept their colposcopy appointment) or over the telephone (for those who
           did not keep their colposcopy appointment). Additional questions are added for patients
           who did not keep their colposcopy appointment to test for differences and to learn the
           reasons for not keeping their appointment.

        -  Group 2 (written educational information): Patients receive notification of their
           colposcopy appointment and an educational letter about Pap smears, cervical cancer risk,
           and the purpose and procedure of colposcopy. They complete the standardized Spanish
           survey questionnaire as in group 1.

        -  Group 3 (phone call): Patients receive notification of their colposcopy appointment and
           a personal telephone call educating them about Pap smears, cervical cancer risk, and the
           purpose and procedure of colposcopy. They complete the standardized Spanish survey
           questionnaire as in group 1.

      All patients are asked to agree to submit residual Pap smear fluid to the Comprehensive
      Cancer Center of Wake Forest University tumor bank, and be included in a tracking system to
      insure future follow-up communications.
    
  