
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The psychosocial data (e.g. anger-expression, stressful life events) and some medical data
      (e.g. blood pressure, smoking) were collected in 1971/72, while additional information about
      other medical risk factors was collected in 1968/69. Mortality ascertainment and cause of
      death was completed by the end of 1989, through TCHS staff, using the National Death Index
      (NDI). The estimated cumulative 18-year mortality rate as of 1989 for the Tecumseh cohort of
      the same age as the LCES sample was 26 percent for males and 16 percent for females.
      Approximately 144 deaths were expected. Out of the total TCHS cohort deaths, 35 percent were
      estimated to be due to CHD. Research questions tested included: (1) did suppressed anger
      predict coronary heart disease mortality as well as all-cause mortality; (2) was the
      relationship between suppressed anger and mortality modified by other risk factors (e.g.
      blood pressure, marital stress, gender); (3) were there certain anger-coping strategies among
      married couples which increased mortality risk for one or both members of the marital pair.

      Analyses were done at three levels: for the whole sample, separately for males and females,
      and for a subgroup of 192 married couples it was done by 'pairs'. To determine univariate
      association between anger-coping types and all-cause mortality, the percent deceased was
      compared among persons grouped according to their anger responses. For the situation-specific
      and total suppressed anger indices, the distribution of scores was divided into thirds. The
      significance of each association was tested using chi-square statistics. Logistic regression
      was employed to test for the significance of the association between anger-coping measures
      and mortality controlling for sex, age, education, marital stress, relative weight, smoking,
      systolic blood pressure, CHD status, bronchitis, and FEV1 scores. Logistic regression was
      also used to determine whether any of the risk factors, particularly blood pressure, gender
      and marital stress, significantly modified the relationship between suppressed anger and
      mortality. The design and measures of this study had the potential to further identify
      specific person-situation characteristics associated with higher risks of total as well as
      cause specific mortality which then could be used to make more knowledgeable recommendations
      for health behavior interventions.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  