
    
      Investigators first tested a biopsy of the tumor that has already been done to see if the
      tumor cells are EBV positive. They then got permission to take up to 60ml (12 teaspoonfuls)
      of blood from the patient or their donor on one or two occasions and used this blood to grow
      T cells in the laboratory. They first grew a special type of cell called dendritic cells
      stimulate the T cells and put a specially produced human virus (adenovirus) that carries the
      LMP-2a gene into the dendritic cells. These dendritic cells were then treated with radiation
      so they could not grow. They were then used to stimulate T cells. This stimulation trained
      the T cells to kill cells with LMP-2a on their surface. Investigators then grew these LMP-2a
      specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV infected cells (which were made from the patient's
      blood or their donor's blood by infecting them with EBV in the laboratory). The investigators
      also put the adenovirus that carries the LMP2 gene into these EBV infected cells to increase
      the amount of LMP2 that these cells have. Again, these EBV infected cells were treated with
      radiation so they could not grow. Once sufficient numbers of T cells were made, investigators
      tested them to make sure they kill cells with LMP2a on their surface. These cells are now
      ready to give to the patient if they agree to being on this study.

      Investigators also took up to 500 ml (2 1/2 cups) of extra blood from the patient or their
      donor, which were frozen. In case the patient's own cells do not recover as expected after
      the antibody and cell infusions, these cells can be thawed and given back to the patient.

      If the patient agrees to this treatment they will get treated with the CD45 antibodies for 4
      days in a row and then 2-3 days later get a dose of LMP2 specific CTLs.

      The CD45 antibodies will be given to the patient through a vein for 6-8 hours and monitored
      for at least 6 hours after the infusion. After the infusion The patient will be checked for
      the levels of CD45 in the blood at 24 hours (optional) and/or at 48-72 hours after the last
      infusion to check the level is low enough to give the patient the CTLs.

      The CTLs will be thawed and injected through a central line, if the patient has one, or
      through a vein in their arm over 10 minutes, after pretreatment with Tylenol and Benadryl. We
      will then monitor them in clinic for 4 hours after the injection.

      All of the treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas
      Children's Hospital or the Methodist Hospital. We will follow the patient in the clinic after
      the CTL injection. If there is a reduction in the size of the lymphoma on CT or MRI scans as
      assessed by a radiologist, they can receive up to six additional doses of the T cells if they
      wish.
    
  