
    
      Participants will have a baseline visit (day 1, visit 1) following identification as
      potentially eligible. The baseline visit will be face-to-face with a member of the research
      team, held at routine facilities used by the IAPT service. At the baseline visit, the
      participant will be consented for participation, have a urine pregnancy test first (if a
      female of child bearing potential) and the research team will administer the GAD-7 secondly,
      followed by EQ-5D-5L, WASA, PHQ-9, Athens, and CSRI surveys. Participants will then be
      instructed on how to use the Alpha-Stim AID device, and will have their first 60 minute,
      self-directed treatment session at home.

      All further visits will be facilitated via telephone, scheduled between the research team and
      participant, within a 5 calendar day window of each time point.

      At visit 2 (week 4), visit 3 (week 6), visit 4 (week 8), visit 5 (week 12) and visit 6 (week
      24), the research team will administer the GAD-7, EQ-5D-5L, WASA, PHQ-9 and Athens. The CSRI
      will be repeated only at visit 5 and 6. Compliance with the 60 minute daily treatment session
      will also be assessed during the 6 or 12 week treatment window, in addition to any adverse
      events.

      The 60-minute self-directed Alpha-Stim AID treatment sessions are undertaken at participant's
      home, on a daily basis for 6 weeks for all participants. During this 6-week period,
      participants will be on the waiting list for high intensity psychological therapy
      interventions.

      Following 6 weeks of Alpha-Stim AID CES treatment, participants have the option to receive a
      further 6 weeks of treatment, which is likely to coincide with start of high intensity
      psychological therapy interventions as clinically indicated.

      Following a maximum of 12 weeks' treatment with Alpha-Stim AID CES, all participants will
      cease to receive treatment on study.

      All participants will continue to receive standard care assessment, as undertaken by the NHS
      IAPT service, standard care high intensity psychological therapy interventions as clinically
      indicated and provided by the NHS IAPT service, and standard care pharmacological treatments
      as prescribed by the participant's GP. Participation in this study will not influence nor
      compromise standard care treatment - all study procedures are additional to standard care.
      Participation in the study will have no impact upon the duration of the waiting time for high
      intensity psychological therapy interventions.
    
  