
    
      Patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) who survive the acute event, very often
      present a significant deterioration of their clinical status with progression towards heart
      failure, which is directly linked to the extent of myocardial injury and the remodeling
      process starting immediately after infarction. The major aim of the urgent revascularization
      in STEMI is to save myocardial tissue from death and necrosis, in order to recover viable
      myocardium. It is well-known that one of the major factors that trigger an AMI is the
      systemic inflammation, which has a direct influence on coronary plaque vulnerability. At the
      same time, 20% of patients surviving an AMI present a recurrent cardiovascular event in the
      following 12 months, as a result of increased systemic inflammation triggered by the
      infarction, which leads to vulnerabilization of other atheromatous plaques from all the
      circulatory system in the post-infarction period. While the role of inflammation in acute
      coronary events is well established, the impact of inflammatory-mediated vulnerability of
      coronary plaques from the entire coronary tree on the extension of ventricular remodeling and
      scaring has not been elucidated so far.

      This is a clinical prospective, descriptive, single-center study which will be carried out in
      the University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Science and Technology Tîrgu Mures, Romania, in
      collaboration with two clinical sites: Center of Advanced Research in Multimodal Cardiac
      Imaging Cardio Med Tîrgu Mures, Romania and County Clinical Emergency Hospital Tîrgu Mures,
      Romania. The duration of the study is 2 years which includes the initial screening and the
      follow-up period.

      The study will enroll 100 subjects with STEMI who underwent successful revascularization of
      the culprit lesion in the first 12 hours after the onset of symptoms. Imaging biomarkers and
      laboratory analyses such as: high sensitive C Reactive Protein (hsCRP), matrix
      metalloproteinases (MMP), interleukin-6 (IL6) and N-Terminal Pro-B-Type Natriuretic Peptide
      (NT pro-BNP) will be determined in the first 24 hours after the index hospitalization. At 1
      month postinfarction all patients will undergo Dobutamine stress test associated with speckle
      tracking echocardiography for evaluation of myocardial function and viability, CMR for
      assessment of myocardial scar, function and remodeling, and Multislice Angio CT for
      assessment of pancoronary vulnerability, by complex characterization of vulnerability
      features in all the coronary plaques present in the coronary tree. All these parameters will
      be investigated in patients with successful primary percutaneous coronary revascularization,
      who will be divided into 2 groups: group 1 -patients with persistent elevation of systemic
      inflammatory biomarkers at discharge from the hospital or at day 7 (whichever comes first)
      (inflammation+ group); and group 2 - patients with no persistent elevation of systemic
      inflammatory biomarkers at discharge from the hospital or at day 7 (whichever comes first)
      (inflammation- group). In all patients, the following biomarkers will be determined: serum
      levels of inflammatory biomarkers, adhesion molecules and NT-proBNP at 24 hours and 7 days
      post procedure, the amount of myocardial fibrosis and scar in the left ventricle at 1 month,
      the degree of ventricular remodeling and myocardial perfusion at 1 month and the amount of
      epicardial fat surrounding the heart and the plaques. The study will be conducted over a
      period of 2 years, in which patients will be examined at baseline, and will be followed-up
      for MACE incidence.

      All patients will sign an informed written consent and will be checked for the exclusion
      criteria prior to enrollment.

      Study objectives:

      Primary: To investigate the link between coronary inflammation-mediated plaque vulnerability,
      myocardial viability and ventricular remodeling in the post-infarction period.

      Secondary:

        -  To investigate the impact of systemic inflammation on structural remodeling of the left
           ventricle in the post-infarction period

        -  To investigate the impact of local inflammatory response on pancoronary plaque
           vulnerability following an acute myocardial infarction.

      Study Timeline:

        -  Baseline - visit 1 (day 0)

        -  Obtain and document consent from participant on study consent form.

        -  Verify inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        -  Obtain demographic information, medical history, medication history, alcohol and tobacco
           use history.

        -  Record results of physical examinations and 12-lead ECG.

        -  Collect blood specimens (complete blood count, biochemistry, inflammatory biomarkers,
           acute adhesion molecules).

        -  Imaging procedures: transthoracic 2-D echocardiography/speckle tracking

        -  Visit 2 (day 7 / discharge from the hospital)

        -  -hsCRP

        -  Visit 3 (month 1)

        -  Coronary Computed Tomographic Angiography (vulnerability features, epicardial fat,
           myocardial perfusion)

        -  Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (myocardial fibrosis/scar, remodeling, viability)

        -  Dobutamine stress echocardiography / speckle tracking (viability)

        -  Visit 4,5,6 (month 3,6,9)

        -  Record results of physical examinations, 12-lead ECG and medical history.

        -  Imaging procedures: transthoracic 2-D echocardiography

        -  Final study visit (month 12)

        -  Record results of physical examinations, medical history,12-lead ECG

        -  Imaging procedures: transthoracic 2-D echocardiography

        -  End-point evaluation.

      Study procedures:

        -  Medical history, clinical examination, laboratory tests (complete blood count,
           biochemistry, serum level of hs-CRP, MMP, IL6, NT-pro-BNP, adhesion molecules);

        -  12-lead ECG

        -  2D transthoracic echocardiography with measurement of: cardiac diameters, volumes, left
           ventricular systolic and diastolic function, speckle tracking echo, dobutamine viability
           test.

        -  Late Gadolinium-Enhancement Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (LGE-CMR) with the evaluation of
           myocardial scar and fibrosis, ventricular function and remodeling index.

        -  Angio Computed Tomography with assessment of coronary plaque vulnerability (based on
           vulnerability features: positive remodeling, spotty calcification, napkin-ring sign, low
           density plaque) and myocardial perfusion Data collection: All the information will be
           collected in a database that consists of patient's background, medical history,
           medication, imaging features provided by cardiac ultrasound, Cardiac magnetic resonance,
           Angio CT and imaging post-processing data.
    
  