
    
      The pH of the oral cavity is a synthetic parameter that underlies a multifactorial process of
      continuous adjustment that includes the effect of salivae as a buffer and the contribution of
      the oral cavity microbiome. In some diseases of the oral cavity an alteration of these
      adjustment mechanisms is supposed to alter the normal flow of salivae and, consequently, the
      pH and the oral microbiome with the expansion of potentially pathogenic strains such as e.g.
      streptococcus viridans.

      Carnosine (Car) is an endogenous dipeptide, composed of β-alanine and L-histidine, that was
      originally discovered in larger amounts in skeletal muscle of some vertebrates, including
      humans, showing a greater dependence on non-oxidative forms of energy metabolism. This
      peculiar association with muscular tissue and its pH-buffering properties has led to
      associate Car with the intracellular acid-base homeostasis of muscles. More recently, the
      physiological role of Car has been expanded beyond the intracellular buffering properties,
      supporting a role in sarcoplasmic Ca2+ regulation and neutralisation of reactive oxygen
      species (ROS). It is well known that ROS induce the formation of reactive electrophilic
      carbonyl species by reacting with lipids and sugars which, in turn, react with proteins
      forming irreversible adducts (AGEs, ALEs and EAGLEs) and cross-links that may affect the
      cardiovascular wall matrix that becomes less distensible, especially during the ageing
      process and/or diseases. Thus it is thought that Car and, indeed, other histidine-containing
      peptide (HCD), may prevent chronic diseases via their anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative,
      anti-glycating, anti-ischaemic and chelating properties. Furthermore, the localisation of Car
      in other tissues such as brain, olfactory bulb, heart, stomach, pancreas, kidney has
      suggested further potential uses in preventing e.g. neurodegenerative disorder and cognitive
      function or the development of type II diabetes.

      The oral microbiome (OM) is a relevant part of the whole human MO since it contains several
      different niches, with distinct microbial communities, colonising the oral cavity (OC),
      including not only bacteria but also fungi, viruses, archaea and protozoa. These communities
      form a complex ecological system that influences OC and systemic health. Indeed the prevalent
      oral diseases (OD), namely dental caries and periodontal diseases, are believed to be
      microbiota-related. Furthermore, several evidences support the theory that many systemic
      diseases are associated with an altered OM, among these the most frequently associated
      diseases are metabolic, such as diabetes, cardiovascular and oncological ones. For their
      prevalence worldwide, among OD, periodontal infection, including gingivitis and chronic
      periodontitis, is possibly the most prevalent human microbial diseases (HMD).

      In order to protect the OC from HMD, in the present project Car has been chosen as a possible
      preventive and/or therapeutic principle for its aforementioned multiple biological effects.
      Thus the safety and efficacy of AqualiefTM (Metis Healthcare s.r.l., Milano, Italy) a 400 mg
      mucoadhesive oral tablet (13 x 4 mm), that recognise Car as main ingredient, will be tested
      on healthy volunteer and in subjects affected by common OD.

      The main objectives of this protocol are to estimate the quantity/quality of oral salivae and
      OM in healthy volunteer and in patients affected by common OD, before and after 7 days of
      treatment with AqualiefTM, 1 tablet twice. The characteristics of oral salivae (Sal) that
      will be studied are:

      a - unstimulated and stimulated (paraffin-activated) salivary flow rates, pH and buffering
      power; b - quantitative proteomics (QP), on selected targets, representing the main
      metabolites/components of OM.

      By matching Sal characteristics with OM and comparing them with OD, it is expected to
      elucidate their mutual relationship; furthermore, by using specific bioinformatic tools to
      analyse the data, the potentials of Car in preventing/treating OD and its mechanism of action
      will be addressed by using QP.

      The study will take place at the Odontoiatric University Clinic (OUC), Istituto Stomatologico
      Italiano (ISI) of Milan, Italy, in a prospective, randomised, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled fashion.
    
  