
    
      Introductions:

      Fall is a very important and challenging question among acute care and long-term care
      facilities. The average incidence rate of fall is approximately 40% of total anomalous
      reports among hospitals in United States. Fallers may suffer many severe injuries, including
      fracture and brain concussions. Even fall had become interesting and popular topics for
      medical issues, the efforts of precaution for the fall incidents are still not evident. After
      Wanfang Hospital was established in 1997, the fall problems associated with inpatient fallers
      is one of most emphasizing issue in our medical cares. Since 1998, we began to implement
      policies in screening the risk factors associated with falls and to involve in the
      precautionary measures for the fallers. But the results come out not effectively.

      Specific Aims:

      The specific aims of this research proposal are the following:

        1. Among inpatients, we will investigate the causes/reasons and risk factors associated
           with fallers and the incidence rates of falls. The consequences related to falls will
           also be studied.

        2. We will evaluate our strategies on the efficacy of the precautionary measures for
           inpatients fallers.

      Experimental design: The "Observational cohort experimental design" will be applied in this
      research proposal.

      Data collections:

        1. Data are collected mainly from wards of medicine and surgery. The project period is from
           1/1/2009 to 12/31/2009.

        2. The inpatients history, diagnosis, prescribed drugs, hemoglobin value, and blood sugar
           value of inpatients fallers will be collected and analyzed.

        3. Associations between variables and falls among each individual faller will be assessed
           and evaluated thoroughly. If fall incident actually occurred, data on patient falls will
           be gathered within 48 hr and compared with each own relevant individual case by full
           evaluators.

      Statistical analysis The Student-t test, Chi-square test, and one-way ANOVA will be preformed
      for the whole experimental data analysis.

      Goals and future prospects:

        1. To finish the survey of the high risk factor ratios and high incidence rates associated
           with falls among inpatient fallers.

        2. To investigate the risk factors associated with falls and the consequential analysis
           related to falls among inpatient fallers.

        3. A good precautionary measure of falls will reduce damages and injuries for the fallers,
           especially inpatients welfare. Our accomplishments of this research proposal will
           provide sufficient information and reference for the precautionary strategies associated
           with fall incidents. More importantly, the experiences and results will be further
           explored and shared among all other hospitals.
    
  