
    
      Background:

      Delayed cerebral ischaemia (DCI) is a major complication after aneurysmal subarachnoid
      haemorrhage (SAH). The proportion of SAH patients who develop DCI is around 30%. Many centres
      around the world use induced hypertension, alone or in combination with haemodilution and
      hypervolaemia, so called Triple-H, as standard therapy in the treatment of DCI, but the
      efficacy of induced hypertension in reducing DCI is based on case series only, and not on a
      randomised clinical trial.

      Objective:

      To test the feasibility of a trial on induced hypertension to improve neurological outcome,
      and to assess whether induced hypertension results in improved cerebral blood flow (CBF) as
      measured by means of perfusion-CT.

      Study design:

      A randomised controlled feasibility trial.

      Study population:

      Patients admitted to the UMC Utrecht after recent SAH, who develop DCI. Twenty four patients
      will be randomised into a standard care group or one of the intervention groups.

      Interventions:

      Patients in the intervention groups are treated with induced hypertension (30 mmHg increase
      in mean arterial pressure) in order to improve CBF. Patients in the standard care group are
      treated according to the standardised SAH treatment protocol of the UMC Utrecht by monitoring
      mean arterial pressure and preventing dropping of mean arterial pressure to under 80 mmHg.
      24-36 hours after instalment of the treatment, a perfusion CT scan is performed. In patients
      that do not show any neurological improvement within 24 hours after starting the hypertensive
      treatment, the administration of norepinephrine will be tapered. In patients who show
      improvement, induced hypertension will be continued for a total period of 72 hours, after
      which norepinephrine will be gradually tapered. Measurement of CBF is performed in all
      participants with perfusion CT-scanning of the brain at the beginning of the study (as part
      of regular patient care) and after 24-36 hours after starting .

      Main outcome measurement:

      The number of patients with the diagnosis of DCI after SAH, in which the intervention
      (induced hypertension) was adequately performed, included within 18 months after the start of
      the study.
    
  