
    
      The aging process is characterized by a loss of lean mass simultaneously to an increase in
      visceral adipose tissue (Bruseghini P. et al. 2015). This may result in reduced glucose
      uptake and increased levels of pro inflammatory cytokines, which leads to a chronic low grade
      inflammation state, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and elevated
      cardiovascular risk (CVR) (Krause, M.S. et al. 2013). Reductions in lean mass are also
      associated with reductions in muscle strength and power, inducing functional declines that
      result in difficulties to perform daily activities, and eventual loss of physical
      independence (Cadore, E.L. and Izquierdo, M. 2013) Costs with the treatment of
      aging-associated comorbidities are elevated for the health systems (Bielemann, R.M.K. et al.
      2010). Searching for low cost strategies of prevention, with long term results, is essential
      then, especially the ones which may prevent dependence in a large spectrum (at the physical,
      social and cognitive levels), such as dancing (Laddu, D.R. et al 2020). Particularly, due to
      the pandemic of Corona Virus Disease-19 (COVID-19), long periods of self-isolation and social
      distancing have resulted in dramatic changes in the lifestyle of this population, beyond the
      risk of viral infection (Laddu, D.R. et al 2020). In this context, regular physical activity
      is considered to be a preventive strategy against chronic diseases due to its beneficial
      effects on global health (physical, mental, and social domains) (Fletcher, G.F. et.al. 2018).
      Particularly, dancing has been suggested as a strategy to increase levels of physical
      activity during quarantine periods (Jiménez-Pavón, D. et al. 2020), considering they can be
      adjusted for different ages, physical limitations, and levels of previous experience
      (Rodrigues-Krause, J.C. et al. 2019).

      Therefore, the goal of this randomized controlled trial is to investigate the effects of a
      dance intervention on cardiovascular risk factors and functional capacity of older people,
      with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), comparing dancing to an active control
      group of walking exercise. The participants will include men and women between 65 and 80
      years old, with body mass index inferior to 35 Kg /m2 and independent for performing daily
      activities. They should not be engaged in any type of regular physical activity in the past 6
      months. Exclusion criteria will include cardiovascular complications, mobility limitations
      and neurodegenerative diseases.

      The experimental design will include 3 parts: 1) Pre-intervention assessments: medical
      evaluation, fasting blood exams, maximum exercise test, assessments of body composition,
      balance, gate ability, muscular strength and power. 2) Control Period: 4 weeks for the follow
      up of the maintenance or changes in the primary and secondary outcomes responses of the
      participants. Primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated before and after the control
      period. 3) Period of interventions: patients will be randomized in blocks
      (randomization.com), in accordance to their VO2peak, gender, and the presence of T2DM, to one
      of the two groups: dance or walking. The duration of the dance and walking interventions will
      be 12 weeks, including 3 sessions per week, each lasting 60 min. performed at home, guided by
      an expertise instructor, as live online sessions. Session will include several styles (salsa,
      jazz, aerobics), basic technical elements, no partner required. Walking: performed as a
      continuous aerobic exercise, outside, at a self-selected intensity, with no simultaneous
      supervision. Both interventions will include a warm-up (10 min), main part (40 min) and
      cool-down (10 min). All participants will complete an exercise diary after each exercise
      session (reporting perception of subjective effort, affective responses, and others). 3)
      Post-intervention assessments: the same protocols of testing of the pre-interventions
      assessments will be repeated. 4) Follow-up assessments: participants will be evaluated in 12
      weeks times, for primary and secondary outcomes, after the end of the exercise intervention
      period.

      The main outcome of this study is the peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak), as it has been
      associated with both, cardiovascular risk and functional performance in aging individuals.
      The secondary outcomes are: (1) cardiovascular risk associated factors: C-reactive protein,
      TNF-alpha, triglycerides, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, fasting
      glucose and insulin, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). (2)
      Functional performance: muscle strength and power, balance, gate ability and muscle quality.
      (3) Cognitive function: executive function (random number generation and trial making test).
      In the following outcomes description of this Clinical Trials record, protocols of assessment
      for outcomes 1 to 20 are based on Rodrigues-Krause, J.C. et al. 2018. For outcomes 21 and 22
      the reference is Forte, R. et al. 2013.

      Results will be expressed in mean and confidence interval. All the assessments will be held
      at the Laboratory of Research in Exercise (LAPEX-UFRGS). Statistics: Generalized estimating
      equations, followed by the post hoc of least significant difference (LSD) (p<0.05).
      Comparisons before and after the interventions will be made among groups 1=dancing, 2=dancing
      T2DM, 3=walking, 4=walking T2DM.

      Considering the well known benefits of the exercise, it is expected that our interventions
      will result in improvements on CVR (increases in cardiorespiratory fitness, reductions in
      adiposity, lipemia, insulin resistance and systemic inflammation), functionality (muscle
      strength and power, balance, gate and flexibility), and cognitive function (executive
      function). Our results will add on knowledge regarding the magnitude of possible gains from
      dancing at home, when compared to other forms of traditional aerobic exercise, a lack in the
      literature so far. Finally, the application of a purpose for an intervention of low cost and
      high levels of adherence, which stimulates multiple factors that decline with aging, may be a
      step forward in terms of strategies of prevention of aging-associated diseases on the public
      health context.
    
  