
    
      Background: Interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome (IC/PBS) is a debilitating chronic
      disease of unknown etiology characterized by urgency frequency and suprapubic pain at full
      bladder. Current treatments are usually unsuccessful in completely eradicating bladder pain
      and increasing bladder capacity. Autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is growing in
      popularity as a therapy to augment wound healing, speed the recovery from muscle and joint
      injuries, and enhance recovery after surgical repair. PRP is extremely rich in growth factors
      and cytokines, which regulate tissue reconstruction and has been studied extensively among
      trauma patients and trauma experimental models. Tissue regeneration can be improved by local
      application of autologous bone marrow derived progenitor cells and PRP.

      Aim: This clinical trial attempts to use autologous PRP in treatment of interstitial cystitis
      refractory to currently available medical treatment or intravesical therapy. The results of
      this study might provide clinical evidence for a novel therapeutic regimen in the treatment
      of IC/PBS.

      Setting: Department of Urology, Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital.

      Materials and Methods: A total of 30 patients with IC/PBS who have failed conventional
      treatments for at least 6 months will be enrolled in this study. A diagnosis of IC/PBS has
      been established based on characteristic symptoms and cystoscopic findings of glomerulations,
      petechia, or mucosal fissures after hydrodistention. All patients have been treated with at
      least two types of treatment modalities including oral PPS, intravesical instillation of
      heparin, hyaluronic acid, or tricyclic antidepressant for at least 6 months but the symptoms
      remained unchanged or relapsed. All patients should have IC symptoms for at least 6 months,
      and proven to have grade 1 diffused glomerulations after cystoscopic hydrodistention (HD)
      within recent 1 year without Hunner's lesion. Eligible patients will be admitted for the
      treatment. The patients will receive intravesical injection of 12ml PRP (extracted from 50ml
      of patient's own whole blood) followed by cystoscopic hydrodistention under intravenous
      general anesthesia in the operation room. The procedure will repeat every one month for a
      total of four treatments. Blood (10ml) and urine samples (30ml) will be collected before
      intravesical PRP injection and at 4, 12 and 24 weeks after PRP injection.

      Assessment: Primary end-point is the change of the O'Leary-Sant symptom score (including ICSI
      and ICPI) from baseline to 6 months after the first treatment day. Secondary endpoints
      include VAS, daily frequency, nocturia and FBC as record in 3-day voiding diary, Qmax, vided
      volume, PVR and global response assessment (GRA). Four visits are required at baseline
      screening (before first treatment) (V1), 1 month after the first treatment (V2, primary
      end-point), 4 weeks after the fourth treatment (V3), 24 weeks after the first treatment (V4,
      secondary end-point).

      Urine samples will be collected at each time-point for NGF and cytokines tests. Bladder
      biopsy will be performed at baseline and 6 months after the first treatment day if possible.

      Adverse events including UTI, AUR, large PVR (>150ml), dysuria and micturition pain will be
      recorded
    
  