
    
      In the proposed study (XACT III) the investigators will use the same approach (as for XACT
      II), but it remains to be shown that such a strategy is scalable and feasible in different
      settings where the challenges and conditions vary. More importantly, the investigators need
      to methodologically optimize the ACF model. Thus, the investigators aim to determine where
      Xpert (the diagnostic test) should be optimally placed from a physical location
      point-of-view, i.e. does it really need to be installed in the mobile mini clinic, or, can it
      be located in centralized laboratories (as it is now) with samples being sent to these
      laboratories? This is a very important question: it is known that sending collected sputum
      samples to centralized laboratories will be much easier as it uses existing infrastructure,
      however, the downside is between 20 and 40% of patients fail to come back to collect their
      results (pre-treatment loss to follow-up; PTLF). Using the diagnostic in the mobile mini van
      (at point-of-care; POC) dramatically reduces this PTLF enabling quick diagnosis and
      interrupting transmission. To definitively settle the question, a study is needed using the
      two different strategies to find out which strategy is most cost-effective yet can rapidly
      pick up the most cases and minimize transmission.

      There are two other important sub-questions that the study will answer. Chest X-rays, which
      can identify people at high risk of having TB, can now be automatically read by a computer
      algorithm (called computer-assisted diagnosis of TB; CAD-TB). It will be very important to
      know whether mass screening using CAD-TB can triage individuals i.e. narrow the net so that
      the investigators target the ACF only to those at high risk of having TB. This could save
      even more money yet be just as effective.

      Secondly, a fundamental unanswered question is why individuals with minimal or no symptoms
      can be highly infectious (transmit disease)? The investigators need to study this phenomenon
      in greater detail using cough aerosol readouts, chest X-rays, and looking at the TB strains.
      In addition the investigators would like to screen contacts of individuals with confirmed
      tuberculosis This might provide medical science with the information it needs to design
      diagnostic or therapeutic interventions to address this important problem.

      However, the key priority now is to show that the XACT approach is feasible in different
      settings and to clarify how the molecular diagnostics should be optimally located. Answering
      these questions will allow the initiation of ACF programmes in many countries and will
      contribute critical data to policy makers so that guidelines on ACF can be disseminated and
      implemented.
    
  