
    
      Liver Transplantation and Limitations of DCD Transplantation:

      Liver transplantation (LT) is the sole curative therapy for end stage liver disease and has
      emerged as the treatment of choice for hepatocellular carcinoma. Recent evidence has also
      demonstrated efficacy in a growing number of malignancies including intra/extra-hepatic
      cholangiocarcinoma, metastatic neuro-endocrine tumors, and colorectal liver metastases.
      Despite these advantages, LT is limited by the availability of suitable donor organs
      resulting in lengthened LT waitlist times. However, during this waiting period patients may
      deteriorate making them ineligible for LT. In the US, 16,000 patients are listed for LT, and
      approximately 2000 die annually while waiting for suitable organs. In 2017, over 500
      Canadians were on a waiting list for LT and nearly 200 died or withdrew from the transplant
      list while waiting. Additionally, while LT secondary to hepatitis C is declining,
      nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver disease and transplant oncology indications are
      growing, increasing the overall demand for liver transplant.

      One strategy to expand the donor pool has been to optimize utilization of organs from
      donation after cardiac death (DCD). While outcomes of DCD kidney, pancreas and lung
      transplants show similar patient and graft survival to donation after brain death (DBD)
      transplants, DCD livers have worse patient and graft survival, higher complications, and
      costs, along with worse quality of life. DCD liver grafts have twice the rate of early
      complications including primary non-function (PNF) and early allograft dysfunction (EAD). EAD
      is a transient condition with the potential for graft function recovery whereas PNF is a more
      severe complication leading to graft failure requiring emergency re-transplantation. In the
      long term, the use of DCD liver allografts is associated with a 10 fold increase in biliary
      complications, typically resulting in graft loss or death. Moreover, there is a high cost
      associated with complications and readmissions following LT, which can be upwards of $50,000
      per patient. Studies investigating factors contributing to these costs have revealed that DCD
      allografts had the greatest impact on transplant costs. Consequently, initial enthusiasm for
      the use of DCD livers for LT has waned such that utilization is restricted to only ideal DCD
      livers from younger donors with short warm and cold ischemia times. Developing methodologies
      to reduce the complications associated with DCD organs and improve overall outcomes would
      have an immense impact on the lives of transplant patients while concurrently reducing costs
      on the healthcare system.

      Abdominal Regional Perfusion and Limitations of Normothermic Machine Perfusion:

      Conventional DCD recovery utilizes a rapid recovery technique which flushes abdominal organs
      with cold preservation solution to slow cellular metabolism and evacuate blood/clots to
      preserve the integrity of the microvasculature. This is preceded by the agonal phase between
      withdrawal of life support and cessation of cardiac function. During this period, abdominal
      organs are subject to warm ischemia resulting in accumulation of toxic metabolites, depletion
      of intracellular energy and anti-oxidant stores, leading to exacerbation of ischemia
      reperfusion at the time of implantation.

      Abdominal Regional Perfusion (ARP) is a technique that has been developed to recondition DCD
      organs prior to transplantation through the perfusion of abdominal organs in-situ with
      re-oxygenated blood. This process reverses the effects of ischemia and hypoxia by restoring
      cellular energy stores and reducing oxygen free-radicals. Additionally, this period of
      restored abdominal perfusion also allows for functional evaluation of organ viability prior
      to graft use through measurement of donor serum/bile biochemistry throughout the perfusion
      process, thereby maximizing the yield of high quality grafts and avoiding the use of grafts
      that have impaired function.

      In the few studies published to date, ARP has demonstrated a decrease in biliary
      complications by 86%, a decrease in ischemic cholangiopathy rates from 27% to 0% and a drop
      in EAD from 32% to 12%. Most importantly, graft loss at 30 days was only 2% in ARP compared
      with 12% in conventional DCD LT. Emerging evidence suggests that with ARP, transplants
      performed using DCD organs can result in outcomes similar to conventional DBD donors. In
      addition, other investigators have successfully used ARP to further expand the DCD donor pool
      by including donors beyond the traditional age limit of 50 years to patients greater than 75.
      This approach has the potential to dramatically increase the donor pool and has even been
      demonstrated to improve the quality of other organs used for transplant including kidney and
      heart transplantation.

      Although normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) systems have demonstrated non-inferiority
      compared to static cold storage in LT by dropping perfusate lactate, improving intraoperative
      mean arterial pressure, reducing vasopressor requirements and reducing blood product
      transfusions, the majority (80%) of these donor livers were procured from DBD donors in which
      static cold storage continues to be the standard of care based upon three decades of
      favorable outcomes. There remains a paucity of data demonstrating the benefit of NMP in the
      setting of expanded criteria livers from donors with advanced age, steatosis, and DCD livers
      where ARP has been of proven benefit. In addition, ARP may also be advantageous due to its
      in-situ nature with preservation of the neurohormonal axis and communication with other
      abdominal organs. Few clinical studies have investigated the role of measurable variables in
      predicting ARP-DCD transplant outcomes; however, some correlation has been found between the
      effects of lactate levels, transaminase levels and the level of fibrosis on donor organ
      function. To address these unknowns, an additional goal of this study will be to identify
      possible mediators for the improved outcomes with abdominal-regional perfusion, and evaluate
      the utility of biomarkers to predict graft function.
    
  