
    
      This study is a prospective double blinded randomised controlled trial. 140 women will be
      recruited from the office hysteroscopy clinic in Cairo university hospitals.

      All patients attending the outpatient hysteroscopy clinic will be invited to participate in
      the study. The invitation will include a clear full explanation of the study and patients
      will provide written consents. Only patients consenting to participate will be included in
      the trial.

      Tramadol and placebo will be enclosed in sealed envelopes which will be numbered using a
      computer generated random table. Neither the patient nor the physician will be aware of the
      drug used. Patients will be categorized into 2 groups: Group I who will receive Tramadol 50mg
      (Tramadol, October Pharma, Giza, Egypt) 1 hour before the procedure, group II who will
      received a placebo acting as the control group.

      Full history will be taken followed by general and local examination. The procedure will be
      done in the lithotomy position. Hysteroscopy will be done using a 5mm outer diameter
      continuous flow hysteroscope with a French working channel and a 30 degrees direction of view
      provided by Techno GmbH and CO. The hysteroscope will be introduced using the vaginoscopy
      technique, in which no speculum will be used. The cervix will be detected and the external os
      will be identified using the hysteroscope. The hysteroscope will be introduced in the uterine
      cavity. Saline will be used as the distension medium and the pressure will be set at 100mm
      Hg. The anterior wall, posterior wall and tubal ostea will be visualized, any polyps,
      adhesions septa, congenital malformations or submucous fibroids will be noted.

      Base line characteristics will be compared and the main outcome measure will be patients'
      pain perception during the procedure and 30 minutes later, this will be determined using a
      visual analogue scale.
    
  