
    
      In the repair of tetralogy of Fallot, pulmonary insufficiency used to be tacitly accepted as
      a result of extensive transannular patching (TAP) and considered unobjectionable. In fact,
      this is well tolerated during the first postoperative years, but today there is increasing
      evidence that the resulting chronic volume stress to the right ventricle is harmful on the
      long run, in particular if there are stenoses of the pulmonary artery in addition. Such
      stenoses, partly due to distortions after shunt surgery, together with pulmonary
      insufficiency, lead to a combined volume and pressure load of the right ventricle. The
      chronic volume stress results in a decrease in biventricular function and exercise tolerance,
      associated with increasing electrical instability with frequent, mostly ventricular,
      dysrhythmias. This constellation brings about a significantly increased risk of cardiac
      death.

      Pulmonary valve replacement can improve haemodynamics, exercise tolerance and dysrhythmia.
      However, it is still unclear, which criteria best indicate the need for re-operation or other
      re-intervention, such as balloon dilatations of peripheral pulmonary stenoses, and what may
      be the best point in time.

      Cardiac MRI has been established as non-invasive method to quantify right and left
      ventricular function without radiation exposure. Correlating quantitative functional data to
      clinical conditions may permit the evaluation of factors that influence the long-term course
      after surgical repair of Fallot's tetralogy.

      The objective of this study is to establish a broad database of cross-sectional and
      longitudinal (after one year) findings from extensive standardised examinations, including
      MRI, echocardiography, pulmonary function and ergometry tests, ECG, quality of life
      assessments performed and cardiac catheterisation, if indicated, on a large number of
      subjects with surgically corrected tetralogy of Fallot. The data obtained are supposed to
      determine parameters indicating beginning irreversibility of decreased cardiac function, to
      provide information on the long-term outcome of surgical correction, to help establish
      criteria for necessity and time of re-intervention or re-operation, and to assess the
      effectiveness of re-interventions and re-operations.
    
  