
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse represents a common female pelvic floor disorder that increases with
      age and has a serious impact on quality of life. It is estimated that 30% of women aged 50-89
      years will seek consultation for pelvic floor disorders. The purpose of any surgical repair
      of pelvic organ prolapse is to restore pelvic anatomy, preserving urinary, intestinal, and
      sexual function, with the lowest rate of recurrences and complications.

      In the history of surgical repair for pelvic organ prolapse vaginal or abdominal approach has
      been performed. In spite of decreased morbidity and shorter hospitalisation advantage with
      vaginal procedures, they have consistently lower long-term success rates compared to
      abdominal sacrocolpopexy. In contrast, the abdominal approach is considered the gold standard
      for surgical correction of vaginal vault prolapse, with reported long-term efficacy rates.
      However, the associated morbidity of open laparotomy has made this procedure less favourable.
      In an effort to overcome these drawbacks, a minimally invasive laparoscopic approach has been
      adopted. However, the rigidity of the laparoscopic instrumentation makes intracorporeal
      suturing and dissection in the narrow pelvis challenging. Robot-assisted technology, with its
      stereoscopic vision and the use of instruments which easily moved by wrist movement, offers
      an ergonomic platform that simplifies complex laparoscopic tasks and has been widely adopted
      by pelvic surgeons.

      Most complications following sacrocolpopexy can occur with either an open or a minimally
      invasive approach, typically at similar rates. Bladder injury, postoperative voiding
      dysfunction and lower urinary tract symptoms may occur. Lower urinary tract symptoms may
      develop postoperatively for reason that are still not clearly understood. De nova lower
      urinary tract symptoms may appear after laparoscopic or robot-assisted sacrocolpopexy with a
      range from 0% to 27%. As with urinary system complication, bowel complications (bowel injury,
      bowel dysfunction) may occur intraoperatively and postoperatively. Constipation is the mostly
      reported with a range from 0% to 19%. Retroperitonealization of the mesh used in laparoscopic
      sacrocolpopexy or robot-assisted sacrocolpopexy is thought to reduce the risk of bowel
      injury, although some authors have noted a lack of bowel injuries when the mesh was left
      exposed to the peritoneum.
    
  