
    
      COVID E-WHELD: Eﬀectiveness and Cost-Eﬀectiveness

      COVID-19 adapted WHELD (with digital resources and virtual coaching) will be compared to
      usual care in a 4 month randomized, parallel group, cluster RCT with 1280 care homes
      (allowing for 75% drop out because of COVID-19 outbreaks). Care homes will be randomly
      assigned to WHELD or treatment as usual in a 1:1 ratio. All care homes receiving treatment as
      usual will be offered the WHELD intervention after 4 months.

      Recruitment will build upon a number of networks and contacts. The investigators already have
      a network of more than 1300 care homes who would be our ﬁrst point of contact (100 additional
      care homes from Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) care home network. The investigators have a
      long established and successful record of recruiting large numbers of care homes to clinical
      trials (WHELD programme, FITS programme, Pimavanserin programme which involved more than 160
      care homes).

      Evaluation will be undertaken at baseline, 4 weeks and 4 months post-baseline.

      The primary outcome measure will be quality of life in care home residents at 4 months,
      measured by the DEMQOL proxy, which has shown signiﬁcant beneﬁts in previous WHELD RCTs. The
      secondary outcomes will include cost-eﬀectiveness (EQ-5D), health utilization, use of
      sedative medications (anti psychotics, hypnotics), neuropsychiatric symptoms, staﬀ conﬁdence
      (CODE), staff self-eﬃcacy (SCIDS) and staff mental health (PHQ9) and a COVID-19 tracker.

      Process measures collected by coaches will include Goal Attainment,

      Assessments will be conducted by telephone or Microsoft Teams, by trained Research
      Assistants, or with the added option of being collected digitally for staff self-report
      measures.

      Data will also be collected on numbers of remote health and social care (HSC) consultations
      and on unplanned hospital attendances/admissions (including fall-related injuries).
      Researchers will also fully cost the COVID eWHELD intervention. To examine the opportunity
      costs of the intervention, champions will be asked to identify activities that were not
      undertaken in order to participate and to report any paid and unpaid overtime related to time
      spent in the champion role. Unit costs will be obtained from nationally applicable sources
      (PSSRU UC, NHS Reference costs) or calculated anew where necessary.

      Key elements of the WHELD intervention include:

        -  Coaching/training to deliver the WHELD programme which includes person-centred care and
           person-centred activities and person-centred care plans.

        -  A COVID-19 speciﬁc resource toolkit - digital bite-sized practical content to stay
           connected, develop new routines, how to respond to virus-related fear and anxiety

        -  Facilitated online peer support network for care home managers to share stories and
           solutions for COVID-19 challenges

        -  Pooling insights from others to create short, digestible digital resources, such as:
           checklists, video tips, one-page guides, do's and don'ts, infographics, etc.

        -  Providing communal, collaborative online group supervision calls, to promote staﬀ
           well-being and peer-to-peer communities in an online gathering place

        -  Developing easy reference guides to enable staﬀ to support residents, where appropriate,
           to use virtual communication tools to stay connected with family and friends

        -  Providing a series of suggestions, activities, and games all designed to foster
           connection during a time of isolation

      As the intervention is optimized best practice, the researchers would consider this activity
      as service delivery and not research. The research element is the evaluation of potential
      benefits for residents and staff, and the evaluation of cost-effectiveness.

      Analyses and reporting will follow CONSORT guidance. A full statical analysis plan will be
      developed during the initial phases of the project and signed oﬀ prior to database lock.

      The UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC)-registered Exeter Clinical Trials Unit will be
      fully involved in the design, management and governance of the RCT aspects of the trial. The
      unit will have input into the methodology, provide central trial management/senior oversight,
      build and test the required data collection systems, undertake randomization, manage the data
      and ensure a surrounding quality assurance framework.

      Care homes will specifically be able to pause participation in the study if there is a
      COVID-19 outbreak in the care home.
    
  