
    
      Acute appendicitis is the most common cause of abdominal pain in emergency departments and
      appendectomy is the most common emergency abdominal surgery. The lifetime risk of acute
      appendicitis in males is 8.6% and 6.7% in females. In Finland according to Stakes data there
      were 6 377 appendectomies (3242 in males, 3135 in females, median age 35 years) performed in
      2010. The total number of days in hospital care was 16 111 days and the mean length of
      hospital stay was three days.

      Although acute appendicitis is the most common reason for surgical emergency department
      visit, its diagnosis still remains challenging. The clinical diagnosis has previously been
      based on patient history, physical examination and laboratory findings as well as the
      clinical surgical diagnosis. Several scoring systems have been created to aid in the
      diagnosis of acute appendicitis18-20, but the accuracy of clinical diagnosis without
      preoperative imaging is about 76 - 80 % for combined patient groups of males and females.

      As acute appendicitis has historically been thought to always progress to perforation
      requiring emergency appendectomy, high negative appendectomy rates even up to 40 % in some
      patient populations have been previously accepted as good surgical practice. For the last two
      decades, the use of dedicated imaging in acute abdomen in general and also in acute
      appendicitis has led to improved diagnostic accuracy.

      Based on large epidemiological studies, it is now known that complicated (perforated) and
      uncomplicated (non-perforated) appendicitis have followed different epidemiological trends.
      These unassociated epidemiologic trends suggest different pathophysiology for the two form of
      appendicitis. The differential diagnosis is essential as patients with an uncomplicated acute
      appendicitis may not require surgical intervention and might experience even spontaneous
      resolution without perforation. The majority (approximately 80 %) of acute appendicitis cases
      are of uncomplicated nature.

      Complicated acute appendicitis defined as a finding of a perforation, appendicolith, abscess
      or a suspicion of a tumor, requires emergency appendectomy with the exception of cases with
      abscess as they are often managed conservatively.

      Appendicolith is a calcified fecal concretion in the appendix resulting in internal luminal
      obstruction and it is the most common form of complicated acute appendicitis. In the first
      randomized study by Vons et al. comparing operative treatment and antibiotic therapy using CT
      as a diagnostic inclusion criterion, the presence of an appendicolith in preoperative CT scan
      was the only factor that significantly increased the risk of complicated appendicitis and it
      was also the only factor associated with the failure of antibiotic therapy for acute
      appendicitis. Indeed, if Vons et al had excluded the patients with an appendicolith from
      their analysis, no significant difference in the incidence of post-intervention peritonitis
      between the treatment groups would have been noticed in their study.

      CT imaging is the primary imaging modality and the golden standard in the diagnosis of acute
      appendicitis as it establishes the diagnosis with almost perfect diagnostic accuracy. The
      advantages of CT imaging are high accuracy, availability, ease of performance and
      interpretation, and that it is rarely affected by bowel gas, severe abdominal pain or extreme
      body habitus. The main disadvantage of CT is exposure to radiation.

      The increased use of preoperative CT imaging has been evaluated thoroughly by evaluating its
      impact on the negative appendectomy rate reducing the number of unnecessary appendectomies.
      In 2010, a mandatory imaging guideline for suspected acute appendicitis was implemented in
      the Netherlands. After implementation the negative appendectomy rate dropped significantly
      from 23 % to 6 % (p<0.001) reducing the surgical complication rate from 20% to 14 % and
      resulting in average cost-per-patient decrease by 594€.

      The favorable diagnostic performance of CT imaging has encouraged optimization of the
      protocol to minimize exposure to radiation through the development of low-dose CT protocols.
      Low-dose protocols balance with as low as reasonably achievable-principle while maintaining
      diagnostic accuracy. However, low-dose protocols with intravenous contrast are still not
      implemented in routine clinical practice. These protocols require more advanced optimization
      and validation because of the wider need for contrast enhanced assessment. Kim et al showed
      that contrast enhanced low-dose CT (median radiation dose 116mmGy in dose-length product) was
      not inferior to standard-dose contrast enhanced CT (median radiation dose 521 mmGy), with
      negative appendectomy rates of 3.5% and 3.2% respectively and no statistical significance in
      appendiceal perforation rates or patients requiring additional imaging.

      The investigators have performed a prospective observational study (OPTICAP trial,
      NCT02533869, Ethical committee of Turku University Hospital approval) in order to optimize a
      low-dose CT scan for both diagnosing acute appendicitis and to differentiate uncomplicated
      acute appendicitis from a complicated acute appendicitis. In this study, phantom imaging with
      15 different imaging protocols were performed aiming to minimize radiation with optimal
      diagnostic accuracy. The phantom protocols were assessed by blinded evaluation of two
      gastrointestinal radiologists and the two best performing protocols were chosen for the
      clinical phase. The clinical evaluation included performing both of these imaging protocols
      for patients with suspected uncomplicated acute appendicitis evaluated by a senior digestive
      surgeon. All of the enrolled patients underwent laparoscopic appendectomy to evaluate the
      sensitivity and specificity of the imaging protocols. The most optimal imaging protocols were
      selected for use in the APPAC II trial; one low-dose CT protocol for patients with BMI under
      30 and one optimised standard CT protocol for patients with BMI exceeding 30.

      For over a century appendectomy has been the standard treatment for all patients with acute
      appendicitis. However, the results of our APPAC trial have now shown that the majority (73%)
      of patients with uncomplicated acute appendicitis were successfully treated with antibiotics
      alone. We also showed that none of the patients treated initially with antibiotics and later
      undergoing appendectomy had major complications or increased morbidity defining antibiotic
      therapy as a safe first-line treatment. Patients with a complicated acute appendicitis
      require emergency appendectomy and early identification of these patients is of vital
      importance. Laparoscopic appendectomy has become the golden standard for appendectomy
      providing lower morbidity and faster recovery compared with open appendectomy. For patients
      with uncomplicated acute appendicitis, the time has come to evaluate abandoning routine
      appendectomy and evaluating the optimal use of antibiotic therapy.

      The aim of study is to optimize the antibiotic therapy for uncomplicated acute appendicitis
      by evaluating the success of treatment in both study groups and by comparing intravenous
      antibiotic therapy followed by per oral antibiotics with per oral antibiotic monotherapy. The
      study hypothesis is that broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics requiring additional hospital
      resources are not necessary for the treatment of uncomplicated acute appendicitis and that
      per oral monotherapy is non-inferior to the combination of intravenous and per oral
      antibiotic therapy. The secondary aim is to evaluate the results of the randomized APPAC
      trial in a prospective patient cohort by implementing antibiotic therapy as the first-line
      treatment for uncomplicated acute appendicitis in clinical practice.
    
  