
    
      Hypertension is one of the most common cardiovascular diseases, which is a major risk factor
      for stroke and cardiovascular events. Traditionally, cardiovascular risk stratification in
      hypertensive patients was based on the average blood pressure (BP) measured in the clinic.
      Accumulated data has shown that target-organ damage is related not only to 24-h mean
      intra-arterial BP, but also to BP variability (BPV) in subjects with essential hypertension.
      Growing evidence demonstrated that BPV has considerable prognostic value for all-cause
      mortality and cardiovascular outcomes, independent of average BP. At present, the normal
      range of BPV is not very clear. There are many studies about the effects of different kinds
      of drugs on blood pressure, but the clinical researches about the impacts of antihypertensive
      drugs on BPV are limited, and the conclusion is still controversial.

      In addition, recent studies found that the occurrence and development of hypertension,
      especially essential hypertension, are closely related with hyperuricemia. Accumulated data
      has shown that a significant and independent association between the uric acid level and the
      onset of hypertension in both men and women participants. Serum UA is an independently
      prognostic indicator for the development of hypertension. Some studies have observed the
      effects of different kinds of antihypertensive drugs on uric acid level in hypertensive
      patients. After adjustment, diuretics, β blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors
      and non-losartan angiotensin Ⅱ receptor antagonists are associated with an increased risk of
      gout. In contrast, calcium channel blockers and losartan are associated with a lower risk of
      incident gout among people with hypertension. However, the effects of alpha blockers on uric
      acid in plasma are still not very clear.

      Therefore, we performed this study to observe the different effects of alpha blocker and
      calcium channel blocker on blood pressure variability and uric acid level in hypertensive
      patients.
    
  