
    
      Together, breast cancer and type 2 diabetes represent a public health crisis. Approximately
      20% of the 3.1 million breast cancer survivors in the U.S. have type 2 diabetes, and this
      number is expected to grow. Breast cancer survivors who have type 2 diabetes are at high risk
      for cancer recurrence, serious health complications, and premature death. Breast cancer
      survivors with type 2 diabetes experience more severe, disabling symptoms and psychological
      distress relative to breast cancer survivors without diabetes. For breast cancer survivors
      with type 2 diabetes, maintaining glycemic control is critical for decreasing symptoms and
      preventing serious health problems. Important diabetes self-management strategies include
      physical activity, dietary modifications, medication, and blood glucose monitoring. Many
      breast cancer survivors with type 2 diabetes have difficulty maintaining these behaviors and
      achieving glycemic control. Physical symptoms and psychological distress are often barriers
      to engaging in diabetes self-management. The proposed study evaluates a novel diabetes coping
      skills training (DCST) intervention for improving breast cancer survivors' abilities to
      manage symptoms and adhere to recommended diabetes self-management. The telephone-based DCST
      protocol is based on our prior work and integrates three key theory-based strategies: coping
      skills training for managing symptoms, adherence skills training, and healthy lifestyle
      skills training. The proposed randomized clinical trial (N=230) will test the effects of the
      DCST intervention by comparing it to diabetes education alone. Physical symptoms,
      psychological distress, diabetes self-management behaviors, and self-efficacy will be
      assessed at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months. Physical activity will be assessed using
      wireless activity trackers and data will be obtained from home blood glucose monitoring
      devices. Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) will be assessed at baseline, 6, and 12 months. The
      proposed study addresses a critical gap in the care of breast cancer survivors by evaluating
      a novel behavioral intervention that aims to improve the management of symptoms, adherence,
      and glycemic control in breast cancer survivors with type 2 diabetes. The findings of this
      study could lead to significant improvements in clinical care and beneficial outcomes for
      breast cancer survivors.
    
  