
    
      Scientific background Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common complication occurring in 5 to
      50 % of elderly patients following an operation. Delirium is a serious complication leading
      to many medical as well as social and economical consequences. Several studies suggest that,
      both, the choice of anesthetic agents and the conduction of anesthesia might decrease the
      incidence of POD.

      Objectives Study goal and primary aim: the intravenous administration of anesthetic agents by
      a controller automatically-guided by an index of cerebral activity (i.e. the bispectral
      index) decreases the incidence of POD, compared with an inhalational anesthesia.

      The primary aim of the present study (i.e. incidence of POD) will be assessed by the Nursing
      Delirium Screening Scale (NDSS).

      Secondary aims:

      Secondary aim 1: Assessment of a potential difference on the incidence of PONV between the 2
      groups of patients (i.e. intravenous vs. inhaled) by comparison of the number of episodes of
      nausea and vomiting and the need to treat this complications, between both groups.

      Secondary aim 2: study if the difference of in the impairment of cognitive function might be
      correlated either with the type of drugs used to conduct anesthesia or with the control the
      index of cerebral activity (i.e. the BIS). The respective influences of the control of the
      index of cerebral activity (i.e. the BIS) and of the anesthetic drugs on the occurrence of
      postoperative cognitive dysfunctions (POCD) will be assessed by comparing cognitive function
      tests on matched groups on the percentage of time spent in different ranges of values of the
      cortical index Population of patients Patients of 60 years old or more, having given their
      written informed consent and who should undergo a surgical procedure of at least one hour.

      Inclusion criterion

      Patients will be included in the study if:

        -  They are 60 years old or older,

        -  They have given their written informed consent,

        -  They have to undergo a surgical procedure of one hour or longer. Non-inclusion criterion

      Following patients will non be eligible for the current study:

        -  Pregnant women,

        -  Patients presenting a contra-indication to the monitoring of cerebral activity (i.e.
           intracranial surgery, neuroleptic or anti epileptic medications, pace maker),

        -  Patients presenting any allergy to propofol and or remifentanil,

        -  Patients under guardianship. Experimental protocol Information and inclusion of patients
           during the preoperative anesthetic assessment consultation First assessment of the NDSS
           at patient arrival in the operating room Randomization prior to the induction on the
           anesthesia Second NDSS just before patient leaving of PACU Recording of all PONV event
           as well as any administration of anti emetic drug

      Number of subjects: 1000 Number of center: 4 Duration of the research: 36 months

      Statistical Analysis: Sequential group analysis. The preoperative and postoperative NDSS test
      will be analyzed with an ANOVA for repeated-measure and multiple-comparison.

      The main criterion will be analyzed with a Kaplan-Meier survival analysis on the global data
      and with a Cox regression that will take into account the qualitative factors represented by
      the type of anesthesia

      Description of the Nursing Delirium Screening Scale (NDSS) that is a validated scale to
      assess POD at the bedside.

      Five areas are assessed: disorientation, inappropriate behavior, inappropriate communication,
      illusions or hallucinations, and psychomotor retardation Description A screening tool
      designed for nurses to use at the end of their shift to identify patients with delirium,
      derived from the Confusion Rating Scale (CRS). Raters reference behaviors that they have
      witnessed in the patient or that the patient'snurse has witnessed during their shift to score
      the NDSS.

      The NDSS can be rated one or more times daily.

      Scoring information Each feature is scored on 0-2 based on severity, with 0=absent, 1=mild,
      and 2=severe.

      Positive NDSS is score ≥ 2, maximum total score is 10.
    
  