
    
      We have planned an randomized, adaptive, placebo-controlled, double-blind study to be carried
      out in 3 seamless stages. The first two stages are phase 2 studies with a third stage phase 3
      to be conducted conditional to success of the first phase 2 and second phase 2 stages
      including efficacy and safety.

      In particular, there is great interest in the possibility of combining the phase II and phase
      III stages of the development process and this is the focus here. Phase II trials can be
      thought of as part of the learning stage where dose selection and appropriate treatment
      groups are assessed together with initial indications of their effects. Phase III trials are
      usually more confirmatory in nature where the treatment effects of the selected treatments
      are assessed in a full-scale trial. Seamless phase II/III trials are concerned with combining
      these two aspects into a single trial. There are a clearly advantages of speed in that the
      dose selection and treatment effects are assessed within a single trial rather than
      establishing separate trials. In addition, all data available for the selected dose are used
      in the analysis rather than just those from the second stage with a consequent gain in power.
      The savings in the number of patients is achieved by applying a form of screening of
      competing treatments in the initial phase and abandoning those that are ineffective before
      the end of the study following pre-established premises of futility. Effect estimates,
      confidence intervals and p values need some statistical adjustments to allow for this,
      otherwise they will be biased towards a benefit of the treatment. This study design, starting
      with a phase II, could give us a treatment regimen composed of one or more repurposed
      antivirals drugs that could improve the clinical outcomes of those hospitalized with COVID-19
      reducing time to recovery and the need for respiratory support. It will be conducted in about
      60 Brazilian hospitals.

      Selection of drugs rationale

        -  Atazanavir: Atazanavir is a potent inhibitor of HIV-1 protease and is not associated
           with significant dyslipidemia, as observed with other protease inhibitors.15 It was
           approved by the FDA on January 29, 201516,17 as a combination of atazanavir and
           cobicistat. Atazanavir can also be combined with ritonavir18 In a protease-free cell
           assay, atazanavir blocked the major protease activity of SARS-Cov-2 at a concentration
           of 10 μM. In in vitro models of viral infection/replication performed on Vero cells, a
           human pulmonary epithelial cell line and primary human monocytes, atazanavir inhibited
           SARS-CoV-2 replication; in addition, the concentrations of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and
           tumor necrosis factor type alpha (TNF-α) induced by the virus were reduced.10 Currently,
           no clinical study is registered on the ClinicalTrials.com website to assess the effects
           of atazanavir in the context of COVID-19.

        -  Daclastavir: Daclatasvir is a direct-acting antiviral that inhibits HCV replication by
           binding to the N- terminal of the NS5A protein, affecting viral RNA replication. NS5A is
           a multifunctional protein in the HCV replicative cycle, involved in the enrollment of
           cell lipid bodies, RNA binding and replication, protein phosphorylation, cell signaling
           and antagonism of interferon pathways.19 In an in vitro study, daclatasvir consistently
           inhibited the production of SARS-CoV-2 infectious particles in Vero cells, in the HuH-7
           cell line and in Calu-3 cells, with potencies of 0.8, 0.6 and 1.1 μM, respectively.
           Daclatasvir reached early events during the replication cycle of SARS-CoV-2 and
           prevented the induction of IL-6 and TNF-α, inflammatory mediators associated with the
           cytokine storm typical of SARS-CoV-2 infection.20

        -  Sofosbuvir/daclastavir:

      Sofosbuvir (SOVALDI®) is a nucleotide analog directed against HCV NS5B polymerase, clinically
      approved with potent antiviral effects on the hepatitis C virus with several genotypes21. It
      is proposed that the drug could be a potential option in the treatment of COVID-19 especially
      at the beginning of the disease and before the invasion of the virus in the cells of the lung
      parenchyma, based on the similarity between the replication mechanisms of HCV and
      coronavirus22. In vitro, sofosbuvir showed EC50 values of 6.2 and 9.5 µM in HuH-7 (hepatoma)
      and Calu-3 (type II pneumocytes) cells respectively, although inactive in Vero cells (these
      cells are unable to make this conversion sofosbuvir in the pro-drug to active form)11.

      First stage - will have 6 arms with total treatment for 10 days:

      First stage Phase II - 6 arms

        1. Atazanavir (ATV)

        2. Daclatasvir (DCV)

        3. Sofusbuvir+Daclatasvir (SFV/DCV)

      6. Placebo (PbO) ATV 7. (PbO) DCV 8. (PbO) SFV/DCV

      Second stage Phase II - 4 arms:

        1. Best from first stage

        2. Best from first stage + Second best

        3. PbO Best from first stage;

        4. PbO Best from first stage + Pbo Second best

      Phase III - 2 arms:

        1. Best from phase II second stage

        2. (PbO) Best from phase 2 second stage

      Main questions: The aim of the Coalition IX REVOLUTIOn evaluation is to answer the following
      questions:

        -  Are antiviral candidates (atazavir, daclatasvir/sofosbuvir) able to reduce the viral
           load of SARS-CoV-2 compared to placebo in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 with ≤ 7
           days of symptoms?

        -  Which antiviral alone has the best effect in reducing the viral load of SARS-CoV-2 in
           patients hospitalized with COVID-19 with ≤ 7 days of symptoms? And which is the second
           most effective?

        -  Are combined antiviral candidates able to reduce the viral load of SARS-CoV-2 compared
           to antiviral alone and placebo in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 with ≤ 7 days of
           symptoms?

        -  Are isolated or combined antiviral candidates safe compared to placebo?

        -  Does the antiviral candidate alone or in combination improve clinical outcomes (days
           free of respiratory support in 15 days) compared with placebo in patients hospitalized
           with COVID-19 with ≤ 7 days of symptoms?

      Primary/secondary objectives Primary objectives Phase II/ 1st and 2nd stages: Assess the
      effect of treatment with antivirals alone or combined with each other compared to placebo in
      reducing the of viral load of SARS-CoV-2 in nasopharyngeal swab samples obtained at baseline
      (d0) and days 3, 6 and 10; Phase III: Evaluate the effectiveness of best antivirals from
      Phase II alone or combined compared to placebo in increasing days free of respiratory support
      defined as the number of days without oxygen, non-invasive ventilation / high-flow nasal
      cannula or mechanical ventilation in 15 days.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Ordinal 7-stage scale for clinical outcomes on the 15th day (1. not hospitalized with
           resumption of normal activities; 2. not hospitalized, but unable to resume normal
           activities; 3. hospitalized, without the need for supplemental oxygen; 4. hospitalized ,
           requiring supplemental oxygen; 5. hospitalized, requiring high-flow nasal oxygen
           therapy, non-invasive mechanical ventilation or both; 6. hospitalized, requiring blood
           oxygenation through the membrane system, invasive mechanical ventilation or both; 7.
           Death);

        2. Intubation in 28 days (time to event);

        3. Mortality in 28 days (time to event);

        4. Time to discharge, defined as the number of days from randomization to discharge, within
           28 days.

        5. Grade 2, 3 or 4 adverse events that was not present at patient's admission, defined by
           the Division of AIDS (DAIDS) Table for Grading the Severity of Adult and Pediatric
           Adverse Events (corrected version 2.1, July, 2017); 53

      Recruitment and enrollment: The randomization list will be generated electronically using
      appropriate software. Randomization will be performed in blocks and stratified by center. The
      allocation concealment will be maintained through a centralized, automated, internet-based
      randomization system, available 24 hours a day. Hospitalized patients with the inclusion
      criteria will be allocated in an allocation ratio 3: 3: 3: 1: 1: 1 (3 for each treatment
      group and 1 for placebo) in Phase II / 1. The parameter of interest for the efficacy decision
      will be the comparison of the decay rates (slope) of the viral load logarithm from RT-PCR to
      COVID-19 in 10 days between the treatment groups in comparison with the control (placebo). In
      the 2nd stage, we will allocate patients in the ratio 2: 2: 1: 1 (2 for each active arm and 1
      for each placebo) and the same statistic, now comparing combined treatment against the
      treatment selected in phase II / 1 and placebo, since it is already known that the treatment
      of phase II / 1 is effective for reducing viral load according to the pre specified criteria.
      As long as we have success on primary outcome of Phase II/2, Phase III will proceed in a 2: 1
      allocation ratio (2 active treatments for each placebo).

      Blinding:This is a double-blind study for participants of the same active drug and
      researchers. Both participant and investigator can know, after randomization, which
      medication they were allocated to. However, none will know whether the capsule to be
      administered is active or placebo, ensuring blinding within that specific group to which the
      participant was allocated.

      Sample size and analysis: 252 patients in total in phase II first stage (189 in active groups
      and 63 in placebo) and 189 patients in total in phase II second stage (126 in active groups
      and 63 in placebo). In case of success in Phase II, 564 additional participants will be
      recruited in phase 3 (376 in the active group and 188 in the placebo). Thus, at the end of
      phase III, we will have 314 patients evaluated in the Placebo group and between 439 and 502
      patients in the treatment group.
    
  