
    
      Non-interventional monocentric study on the evaluation of the reliability and validity of a
      diagnostic test based on a biological collection of M. tuberculosis MDR strains received at
      the NRC-MyRMA. The study will apply to all strains and samples of multidrug-resistant M.
      tuberculosis detected in France. These strains are all sent to NRC-MyRMA (National Reference
      Center for Mycobacteria and resistance to anti-tuberculosis drugs) for Drug Susceptibility
      testing (DST) to first and second line anti-tuberculosis drugs in accordance with the
      national guidelines.

      Currently, a genotypic and phenotypic diagnosis of antibiotic resistance is carried out upon
      receipt of a strain of M. tuberculosis MDR at CNR-MyRMA, respectively by PCR-sequence
      techniques and commercial kits and by phenotypic antibiogram by the method of reference
      called proportions. In the case of a sample, only the genotypic diagnosis is immediately
      feasible, the realization of the phenotypic diagnosis can only be carried out from a strain,
      so the investigators must wait for a positive culture to be obtained.

      In addition to this current strategy, two innovative strategies based on the sequencing of
      the complete genome of the strains (WGS and Deeplex-MycTB) will be implemented. These
      analyzes will not require an additional patient's samples.

      The sensitivities and specificities and the area under the ROC curve of the different tests,
      with respect to each resistance, will be calculated and their confidence interval will be
      estimated by bootstrap. The comparison of the sensitivities, specificities and areas under
      the curve between the different techniques will be carried out by a Gaussian test based on a
      bootstrap. The agreement between the different tests will be measured by calculating a Cohen
      kappa. A Kappa confidence interval will be estimated by bootstrap. The Kappa between each
      genotypic method and the phenotypic method will be compared by a Gaussian test based on a
      bootstrap.

      The comparison of the results reporting times will be done by a comparison test of the
      symmetry of the rows with respect to the median value (Mann Whithney Wilcoxon test.

      In general, the quantitative variables will be described by the classic position measurements
      (mean, median, 1st and 3rd quartile, minimum and maximum) and dispersion measures (standard
      deviation). Qualitative variables will be described in terms of absolute value and
      percentage.

      Degree of statistical significance:

      The significance level for the tests will be set for an alpha of 0.05.

      Software:

      All analyzes will be done at the URC on SAS software or R software in their latest version
      available at the time they are performed.
    
  