
    
      Lower socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with adverse outcomes in children with type 1
      diabetes. These children have poorer glycemic control, lower quality of life, and increased
      healthcare utilization. Previous efforts to improve outcomes in this patient population have
      focused on high-cost, high-intensity educational interventions. These efforts have been
      ineffective in improving clinical outcomes in patients with low SES. Adverse social
      determinants of health (SDOH) including food insecurity, parental unemployment and housing
      insecurity are extremely prevalent in under-resourced patients and their families.

      Community health workers (CHWs) are trained non-medical members of the community who are
      empowered to address adverse SDOH through home visits and connecting patients to community
      resources. CHWs can assist in navigating healthcare and social services systems, reducing
      family stress, and breaking down community barriers to positive health behavior.

      Investigators hypothesize that interventions focused on addressing adverse SDOH will reduce
      barriers to optimal diabetes outcomes in this patient population.

      At the diabetes center at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), a CHW will be
      assigned for one year to newly diagnosed patients with type 1 diabetes with government
      insurance. The support provided for this year will be tailored to the patient's needs, and
      may include problem solving surrounding issues related to work/education, accessing
      healthcare/medications, engagement with the healthcare team, transportation, housing or food
      insecurity. Interactions with patients will be through home visits, telephone encounters,
      text messaging or email. Patients will be followed for a total of two years to evaluate if
      improvements in outcomes are sustained after the discontinuation of CHW support.
    
  