
    
      Patients The study included 30 Egyptian patients with keloid scar recruited from the Out
      Patient Clinic, Dermatology Department, Cairo University.

      Methodology

      Patients:

      - Thirty patients with keloid scar(s) were included in the study

      - Every patient was subjected to the following:

        1. Complete history taking: History of disease onset, course and duration, family history
           as well as history of any systemic or dermatological disease interfering with the
           eligibility of participation in the study.

           Thirty patients were included in the study which is a clinical comparative study
           comparing the effectiveness of fractional CO2, long pulsed Nd YAG and their combination
           in collagen remodeling in keloid clinically in all the included patients and
           biochemically and immunohistochemically fifteen patient

        2. Full clinical examination:

             -  General examination to determine any systemic or dermatological disease that might
                preclude the patient from participation in the study such as collagen disease.

             -  Local examination to determine Fitzpatrick skin color of the patient and the site
                and extent of the scar to be treated.

           Methods:

           - Cases with multiple keloid scars three lesions 2 to 3 cm apart from each other were
           selected and labeled. The first one (lesion A) was treated using fractional CO2 laser
           10,600 nm, the second (lesion B) long pulsed Nd YAG laser 1064 nm, while the last
           (lesion C) combined fractional CO2 followed by Nd YAG lasers after half an hour were
           used

           - patients who had a large sized lesion, the lesion was divided into three equal parts 2
           to 3 cm apart from each other, they were labeled as areas A, B and C then subjected to
           the same treatment modalities as mentioned in case of multiple lesions.

             -  Patients received 4 treatment sessions 4 to 8 weeks apart. Laser modalities and
                parameters

             -  Topical anesthesia (lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5%) was applied to the working
                area 30 to 60 minutes before the sessions, washed off and properly dried before the
                procedure.

             -  Ablative fractional 10,600 nm carbon dioxide laser (DEKA smartxide DOT, Italy) and
                long pulsed Nd-YAG (DEKA synchro FT) were used in the treatment sessions with the
                following parameters Fractional CO2 Stacking: 5, Power: 20 Watt, Dwell time: 1000
                micro second, Spacing : 800 micro meter fluence: 40 j/cm2 Pulse duration: 0.3 milli
                second Spot size: 5 mm Passes: 3.

           Assessment Assessment was done before treatment every session and one months after the
           final laser treatment. Clinical assessment was done for all patients while
           histopathological and biochemical assessment were done only in 15 patients.

           A. Clinical evaluation Clinical assessment was fulfilled via calculating the scores of
           both the Vancouver Scar Scale; and the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale.
           Patients were assessed every session, any side effects were reported, e.g pain,
           swelling, infection, hyper pigmentation or hypo pigmentation.

           B. Histopathological and biochemical evaluation

           Fifteen patients were randomly selected and subjected to the pre and post treatment
           biopsies :

             -  Pretreatment biopsy:

           Three mm punch skin biopsy was taken from the keloid (any lesion A, B, or C) before
           starting treatment sessions ●Post treatment biopsies: Each lesion (A, B, C) was biopsied
           separately (3 mm punch biopsy), one month after last treatment session.

           Biopsies of controls ●parts of excess skin from 12 patients undergoing abdominoplasty
           were used as controls for levels of TGFβ1 and TGFβ3.

           Procedure

           - Biopsies were fixed in 10 % neutral buffered formalin, and then embedded in paraffin
           blocks. Sections were prepared for routine staining by H&E. Other sections were prepared
           for histochemical staining of collagen fibres using Masson's trichrome stain and elastic
           fibres using orcein stain

           - All sections were examined using a Zeiss, Primo star light microscope (Zeiss,
           Germany). The microscope has an integrated camera by which photomicrographs depicting
           the various histopathological and histochemical findings were obtained. All
           photomicrographs presented in the thesis are according to their original magnification.

           • Evaluation of elastic fibres in orcein stained sections:

           Orcein stained sections were graded according to the grading criteria proved by Ozog et
           al. in 2013 for the appearance of the dermal elastic tissue as follows:

      0 normal

        1. short fragmented elastic fibres

        2. intermediate between 1 and 3

        3. fibrillar elastic fibres, parallel to epidermis

        4. intermediate between 3 and 5

        5. absent or nearly absent.

      Image analyzer evaluation (morphometric study):

      The area percent of collagen and elastic fibres were quantitatively evaluated in Masson's
      trichrome and orcein stained sections respectively at magnification X100 in 5 non overlapping
      fields for all patients. Image analysis was done using Leica Qwin 500C image analyzer
      computer system (England) present in the Histology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo
      University .
    
  