
    
      Background Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a pandemic
      of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) with many patients developing severe hypoxia and some
      multiple organ failure. Many patients have died, and healthcare systems in several countries
      have been or will be overwhelmed because of a surge of patients needing hospitalisation and
      intensive care. There is no available proven treatment for COVID-19; the care is supportive,
      including respiratory, circulatory and renal support. For other patient groups with similar
      critical illness (acute respiratory disease syndrome and septic shock) multiple inflammatory
      mediators (cytokines) are linked to and probably responsible for such conditions. Thus,
      extracorporeal cytokine removal by plasma exchange (PLEX) has been tried in these conditions.
      Convalescent plasma on the other hand, may offer specific actions against SARS-CoV-2 and
      COVID-19. With this trial, the investigators will test the use of combined PLEX and infusion
      of convalescent plasma collected from COVID-19 recovered individuals at the end of the PLEX
      procedure in the most severely ill patients with COVID-19.

      Objectives The investigators will aim to assess the effects of combination of PLEX and
      convalescent plasma on the number of days alive and out of hospital in adult patients with
      COVID-19 and multiple organ failure.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria All adult patients who have documented COVID-19 and multiple
      organ failure will be screened (use of respiratory and renal support). The patients who have
      received convalescent plasma for COVID-19, who have known hypersensitivity to plasma, who are
      pregnant, who the clinical team has decided not to escalate therapy, and those in whom
      informed consent cannot be obtained will be excluded.

      Experimental intervention In addition to standard care, 2 plasma exchange procedures within
      24 hours by membrane or centrifuge method. Exchange volume of 60 ml of plasma per kg of body
      weight with Albumin 5% in Ringer/saline as a substitution Fluid 50% at the beginning /Fresh
      Frozen Plasma 50% towards the end of the session and in addition 2 bags of CCP (equalling 600
      ml CCP) with an administration rate of 100 to 250 ml/hr at the end of the 2nd procedure.

      Control group with no intervention Standard care without the use of PLEX or convalescent
      plasma. Outcomes The primary outcome is days alive and out of hospital at day 90. Secondary
      outcomes are serious adverse events (anaphylactic reaction to CCP, new episode of septic
      shock or invasive fungal infection); days alive without life support at day 90; and all-cause
      mortality at day 28 and day 90.

      Statistics Primary outcome will be compared using non-parametric statistics adjusting for the
      stratification variable (site). Differences will be quantified as differences in medians
      along with 95% confidence intervals. The mortality outcomes will be analysed using Fisher's
      exact test and binomial regression models with log links adjusted for the stratification
      variable (site) with results quantified as risk supplemented with risk differences and
      ratios, both with 95% confidence intervals.

      Trial size Sample size calculation is based on preliminary data on days alive and out of
      hospital at day 90 in COVID-19 patients with multiple organ failure receiving standard of
      care (mean: 18 days (SD±18.36)). A sample size of n=100 per group would enable verification
      of a delta of 7.31 days, corresponding to a relative risk reduction of 40% with a power of
      1-β = 0.80 for a two-sided t-test with α=0.05. To compensate for drop-out and sample
      variation a total of 110 patients are planned for inclusion in each treatment arm; i.e. 220
      in total.
    
  