
    
      The primary purpose is to test whether adding a period of lower level of exertional
      breathlessness at the end of an exercise test decreases the overall level of recalled
      breathlessness for the test.

      Secondly the investigators aim to evaluate factors that affect the level of recalled
      breathlessness, and whether decreased exertional breathlessness results in the participant's
      reporting lower predicted future exertional breathlessness and higher exercise capacity.

      Information about the study and the pre-test questionnaire will be sent home to patients
      referred for standard cycle exercise testing. The pre-test questionnaire is completed by the
      participant at home or before the exercise test. Eligibility is confirmed and written
      informed consent is obtained for all participants by the investigator before starting the
      exercise test. All patients included in the RCT (randomized clinical trial), randomizations,
      and patients included in the observational sub-study are registered in a log file including
      study ID, Swedish identification number and test date, stored securely at the Department of
      Clinical Physiology.

      Standard exercise test is performed according to clinical practice, current international
      guidelines and guidelines from the Swedish association for Clinical Physiology. Testing is
      done on bicycle ergometers with small incremental increases in workload every minute. The
      level of breathlessness is self-reported by the participant each 2 minutes on a modified Borg
      CR10 (mBorg) scale between 0 (none) and 10 (maximal). The level of perceived exertion is
      self-reported by the participant on the Borg RPE (rating of perceived exertion) scale between
      7 (none) and 20 (maximal), and standard parameters of exercise testing are measured according
      to clinical routine practice.

      At the end of the regular exercise test conducted according to clinical practice, with the
      participant still on the test cycle, a sealed opaque envelope is broken by the staff with a
      code that randomly allocates the participant in a 1:1 ratio to either an additional 2 minutes
      of low intensity exercise testing (intervention group), or to no additional testing (control
      group). During the intervention period. The workload used will be about 50% of the maximal
      workload but lowered if needed, and assessments are conducted including of breathlessness,
      perceived exertion, breathing frequency and blood pressure. A period of a few minutes of
      lower exertion ('cool down') at the end of the exercise test is clinical practice in many
      laboratories including in the USA, and is not expected to affect the safety or diagnostic
      properties of the exercise test. As an added precaution the investigators have obtained
      opinions from well-known experts in cardiac stress testing (Dr. Olle Pahlm and Dr. Paul
      Kligfield). In additions to this ST loops will also be used to further enhance the diagnostic
      properties of the test. ST loops are not currently used by default in the study laboratory.

      A post-test questionnaire is completed by the participant 30-90 min after the exercise test.

      Patients completing the exercise test who fulfill the inclusion criteria and give their
      written informed consent are included in an observational longitudinal follow-up study. The
      study data are cross-linked with medical records and governmental public registries regarding
      diagnoses, procedures and hospitalizations (National Patient Register) and mortality (Causes
      of Death Register) with up to 10 years follow-up.
    
  