
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the feasibility of using CBCT as an additional aid to guided-bronchoscopy with
      radial probe endobronchial ultrasound (RP-EBUS)/hybrid scope for the diagnosis of peripheral
      lung nodules.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe the proportion of patients with peripheral nodules undergoing bronchoscopy in
      whom the lesion is identified by RP-EBUS (RP-EBUS-navigation yield) and confirmed with CBCT.

      II. Describe the proportion of patients with peripheral nodules undergoing bronchoscopy in
      whom the lesion is identified by RP-EBUS and samples are diagnostic (diagnostic
      yield-RP-EBUS).

      III. Describe the proportion of patients with peripheral nodules undergoing bronchoscopy in
      whom the lesion is identified by RP-EBUS, samples were non-diagnostic, and CBCT prompted
      further tool re-location (i.e. change of needle angle, change of tool) leading to diagnosis.

      IV. Describe the proportion of patients with peripheral nodules undergoing bronchoscopy in
      whom the lesion is not identified by RP-EBUS, and CBCT-aided navigation allowed the operator
      to reach the lesion (CBCT-added navigation yield).

      V. Describe the proportion of patients with peripheral nodules undergoing bronchoscopy in
      whom the lesion is not identified by RP-EBUS and CBCT-aided navigation allowed the operator
      to reach the lesion and obtain a diagnosis (CBCT-added diagnostic yield).

      VI. Describe the relationship between RP-PROBE and target (contact/no contact;
      central/peripheral).

      VII. Describe the relationship between needle tip and target (contact/no contact;
      central/peripheral).

      VIII. Describe the influence of points 6 and 7 on diagnostic yield. IX. Describe fluoroscopy
      time. X. Describe estimated amount of radiation generated by CBCT use. XI. Describe
      bronchoscopy time (first scope in/last scope out). XII. Describe the proportion of patients
      in whom molecular analysis for lung cancer (i.e. EGFR, K-RAS, ALK) can be performed.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo CBCT during standard of care bronchoscopy.

      After completion of study, patients with lesions found not to be cancerous are followed up
      for 6 months to watch for changes (standard care).
    
  