
    
      Study Design: This will be a randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm study in which the
      subjects will undergo a tilt table test following 2 doses of atomoxetine 40mg PO (evening
      before and morning of study) or after 2 doses of matching placebo (on separate days). On the
      morning of the study, the fasting subject (except for medications) will be instrumented, on
      an empty bladder. ECG electrodes will be applied to monitor continuous heart rhythm. Blood
      pressure will be monitored continuously using a finger volume clamp method using one or more
      of several extant devices, and calibrated with intermittent brachial cuff measurements. One
      intravenous cannula will be placed in the contralateral arm (to the blood pressure cuff) for
      blood sampling.

      Tilt Table Protocol: Following the insertion of the venous cannulae, a period of at least 20
      minutes will be allowed to elapse before a 10-minute basal control (baseline) period.
      Baseline data will be digitally recorded in this time. In the last 5 minutes of this period,
      blood will be drawn for fractionated plasma catecholamines. The table will be rapidly raised
      to 80 degrees for up to 60 minutes. The investigators are deliberately avoiding tilt test
      methods with provocative medications to avoid the issue of multiple causal factors. At 10
      minutes and 30 minutes following onset of tilt (or at the onset of severe presyncope or
      hypotension [systolic blood pressure <70 mmHg]), venous fractionated catecholamines will be
      sampled. The study will be terminated if the subject develops hypotension with severe
      presyncopal symptoms associated with a systolic blood pressure ≤70 mmHg or at the completion
      of the protocol.

      A sample size of 56 syncope patients will have 85% power to detect a 60% relative risk
      reduction from a placebo outcome rate of 65%, using an unmatched 2-tailed test with
      alpha=0.05. To compensate for the report dropout rate the investigators will inflate the
      sample by 15% to 64 subjects. A formal, blinded mid-way safety and efficacy analysis will be
      performed with a p<0.05 stopping rule for efficacy. This also will provide 85% power to
      detect an 80% relative risk reduction.

      Randomization will be carried out using a computerized algorithm. Patients will be randomized
      in a double blind fashion to receive atomoxetine 40mg PO x2 or matching placebo with a 1:1
      randomization ratio. Medication containers will be centrally filled and labeled with the
      randomization code number.
    
  