
    
      The study will be started only after approval of Ethics Committee of National Taiwan
      University Hospital and consent sheet will be obtained from all included patients.

      Patients planned to have PD at national Taiwan University Hospital will be included in this
      study after obtaining their consent sheet. Patients with emergency surgery, history of upper
      abdominal operation, or other underlying symptoms causing vomiting would be excluded from the
      study. PD will be performed as described before, including feeding gastrostomy tube. The type
      of surgery (pylorus preserving or standard PD) and the type of management of the pancreatic
      stump (duct-to-mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy, serosal pancreaticojejunostomy, or
      pancreaticogastrostomy) will be left to the surgeons' discretion.

      Included patients will be randomized into postoperatively maintaining tube group and non-tube
      control group. Patients in the maintaining tube group will have a 14- or 16-French
      nasogastric tube inserted before the operation. For patients in both maintaining tube and
      non-tube groups, enteral feeding will be routinely went on within 24 h after the operation
      and consisted from 480 mL (20 mL/h continuously) of commercially available enteral nutrition
      solution, with a calorie-to-milliliter ratio of 1:1 and glucose-to-lipid ratio of 70:30. The
      rate of delivery will be progressively increased by 10 mL/day until the goal of full
      nutrition (25~30 kcal/kg) will be reached. Enteral nutrition will be reduced and subsequently
      stopped when the patient is able to eat a sufficient amount of food without vomiting. In some
      patients, feeding rates will be reduced or stopped as a result of significant abdominal
      symptoms after advancement to full enteral support via the jejunostomy tube in the first few
      postoperative days. At that time, many were beginning oral diets and therefore jejunostomy
      feeding was not increased or even withdrawn. Patients who could not resume oral intake will
      be encouraged daily to maintain or increase enteral feeding to the level of the nutrition
      goal.

      For patients in non-tube group, the tube was removed right after suction off gastric fluid
      after extubation weather in operative theater or surgical intensive care unit. After first
      flatus passage, the patient will be allowed to drink 300-500 mL of liquids, and afterwards a
      soft diet will be given for 2 days. If this well tolerated, increasing amounts of solid food
      will be given. The tube will be reinserted if the patient later vomits a volume of more than
      300 mL on more than one occasion. Reinserted tubes will be removed if the reflux is less than
      200 mL per 24 h, and oral feeding (initially with a liquid diet) will be tried again.

      For patients in maintaining tube group, the nasogastric tube will be maintained even the
      endotracheal tube is removed. After first flatus passage, the patient will be allowed to
      drink 300-500 mL of liquids, and afterwards a soft diet will be given for 2 days. The tube
      will be clumped if the drainage amount less than 200mL within 24 hours then be removed 1-2
      days later if there is no vomitus after tube clumping. If this well tolerated, increasing
      amounts of solid food will be given. The tube will be reinserted after removal if the patient
      later vomits a volume of more than 300 mL on more than one occasion. Reinserted tubes will be
      removed if the reflux is less than 200 mL per 24 h, and oral feeding (initially with a liquid
      diet) will be tried again.

      Members of the surgical staff, not involved in the trial, will record postoperative
      complications. The postoperative course of each patient will be closely monitored. The day of
      passage of flatus and oral food intake, the duration of nasogastric tube or nasojejunal
      decompression, and length of hospital stay will be recorded. Mortality, abdominal
      complications, pulmonary complications (pneumonia, atelectasis), postoperative fever, nausea,
      and vomiting, tube insertion or reinsertion, and discomfort from the tube (ear pain, nasal
      soreness, painful swallowing) will be noted. According to the recommendation by the
      International Study Group of Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS), gastroparesis will be defined as the
      need for an NGT for >3 days or the need to reinsert the NGT for persistent vomiting after
      surgery. The severity of gastroparesis will be classified by the ISGPS definition as grade A:
      NGT required for 4-7 days or reinsertion after postoperative day (POD) 3 or inability to
      tolerate solid oral intake by POD 7; grade B: NGT required for 8-14 days or inability to
      tolerate solid oral intake by POD 14; grade C: NGT required for >14 days or inability to
      tolerate solid food by POD 21. Again, according to the International Study Group definition,
      postoperative pancreatic fistula will be defined as output via an operatively placed drain
      (or a subsequently placed percutaneous drain) of any measurable volume of drain fluid on or
      after POD 3, with an amylase content greater than three times the upper normal serum value.
      Postoperative bleeding will also be graded using ISGPS definitions. All infectious
      complications will be proven by microbiological analysis and positive fluid.

      To compare the control and modified groups, all surgical complications will be further
      classified by severity using a novel grading system proposed by Dindo et al. In brief, grade
      I and II complications include only minor deteriorations from the normal postoperative course
      that can be treated with drugs, blood transfusion, physiotherapy, and nutritional supply.
      Grade III complications require interventional treatment. Grade IV complications are
      life-threatening and require intensive care unit management. Death is the only grade V
      complication. Grade I and II complications will be classified as minor and grades III, IV,
      and V will be classified as major.

      The primary objective for comparison will be the difference in postoperative course
      determined by continuous variables (time to first passage of flatus, first oral intake,
      duration of postoperative perfusions, and hospital stay after operation).
    
  