
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a prevalent illness that affects 12% of U.S adults.
      Diabetes mellitus is one of the strongest atherosclerotic risk factors for this disease.
      Among patients with diabetes mellitus, the prevalence of PAD is as high as 29%. An
      underutilized component of care for PAD is walking therapy. Walking has specifically been
      shown to improve functional status in patients with PAD and leg symptoms.

      Leg symptoms in PAD include intermittent claudication and atypical leg symptoms (leg
      discomfort other than intermittent claudication). Patients with symptomatic PAD have impaired
      lower extremity functioning, which clinically manifests as slower walking speed, reduced
      walking distance, and lower physical activity levels. These functional deficits often hinder
      the ability to live independently in the community (e.g., walking to the bus stop in time for
      the next bus, shopping independently for groceries). Reduced physical activity is associated
      with an increased risk for mobility loss and a higher risk for functional decline with
      subsequent inability to perform activities of daily living.

      Walking therapy should not be a burden and it should be something that the patient can
      routinely perform without the need for regular supervision, a treadmill, or to report to the
      hospital (i.e., self-managed walking therapy). As patients with diabetes mellitus have
      special needs for self-management behavior (e.g., diet, medication adherence) and, for those
      with PAD, a higher burden of atypical leg symptoms, the role of a self-managed walking
      program specific to this group of PAD patients cannot be overemphasized. Thus, this clinical
      trial has 2 novel aspects: 1) to evaluate the role of self-managed walking therapy for
      patients with symptomatic PAD and 2) to focus on patients with PAD and diabetes mellitus.
    
  