
    
      Purpose:

      To provide a weekly text messaging intervention to 85 high risk HIV+ participants attending
      the Oak Tree HIV Clinic in order to improve medication adherence, attendance at appointments
      and subsequently, CD4 counts and HIV viral load values over a 1 year period.

      Justification:

      In Canada, around 65,000 people are living with HIV/AIDS, approximately 14,300 of whom are
      women. AntiRetroviral Therapy (ART) has led to enormous improvements in the health and
      survival of individuals with HIV. Moreover, by decreasing the amount of virus circulating in
      the body (viral load), HAART offers the possibility of treatment as a preventative measure.
      However, high levels of engagement in care, timely initiation of ARVs, and adherence to
      medication are required to maximize the benefits of HAART in order to prevent resistance,
      progression to AIDS, transmission or mortality. Unfortunately, engagement in ongoing HIV care
      can be poor, with one study from the United States (US) showing only 52% retention in care
      over 1 year. Further, adherence among high-risk populations is low, with women being less
      adherent partly due to their role as care providers for children and partners, potential
      abuse in partner relationships, fear of stigma, homelessness, and concerns regarding side
      effects. Conversely, active drug use (especially cocaine), lack of social supports, and
      depression are just a few of the variables that affect both men and women alike. Current
      methods of engagement in care have failed to overcome these barriers to adherence, which
      makes finding an effective adherence intervention critically important. Mobile health
      (mHealth), the use of mobile phone technology to deliver health care, is an emerging area of
      disease management that can assist in patient adherence to prolonged chronic treatment
      regimens and monitoring of care. A randomized controlled trial (WelTelKenya1), conducted by
      Dr. Richard Lester et. al, tested the clinical effectiveness of text message support for HIV
      treatment adherence in Kenya. WelTelKenya1, of which 67% were women, showed that patients
      receiving text message support had significantly higher rates of treatment adherence and
      viral suppression than patients who received standard care alone. In Canada, cell phone
      penetration exceeds 70% and is expected to reach 100% within the next decade. The WelTel
      system offers a clinical management model that can be carried out using standard services
      offered by cellular network providers with minimal additional infrastructure and is both
      flexible and scalable.

      The investigators have completed one of the first studies of text messaging support for HIV
      care in Canada. The pilot study called WelTelBC1 involved 25 individuals from five patient
      groups 1) Non-suppressed (CD4 <200, VL >250); 2) Youth (ages 14-24); 3) Mature (Age ≥50); 4)
      English as a second language; and 5) Distance (those residing 3+ hours travel time from the
      clinic), who receive a weekly text message asking them "How are you?" Participants were then
      instructed to respond with "OK" or to let the investigators know if they had a problem.
      Participants who responded that they are "not okay" or did not respond were then followed up
      by a clinic nurse. The pilot study was designed to look at feasibility and acceptability of
      the weekly text messaging intervention in a Canadian HIV+ population, and resulted showed
      that the intervention was been perceived as beneficial among participants. In regards to
      acceptability, the pilot study has been extremely informative, and has enabled investigators
      to engage participants previously only seen sporadically; overcoming gaps that prevent
      optimal care and follow-up. In addition, we have seen from our pilot project, that to reach
      those in most need of a link to care we need to be prepared to provide cell phones and phone
      plan support to those without one (only 50% of those enrolled in our intervention owned a
      cell phone, and only 40% had unlimited text messaging - anecdotally these are the patients
      with whom engagement has most improved during the intervention). It is now critical to expand
      this program to all individuals at Oak Tree Clinic who could benefit and to study the
      efficacy of this intervention in engaging patients in care and improving adherence to HAART.

      Research Method:

      Participant Selection and Recruitment: A list of patients with a CD4 count ≤500 or previous
      prescription for antiretroviral therapy (other than for pregnancy) prior to the control year,
      as well as a detectable viral load (≥200) in the control year was assembled. The list was
      reviewed by the clinic physicians, nurse, pharmacist, dietician, counselor, outreach worker
      and social worker to determine which patients would benefit most from participating in the
      WelTel text messaging program (i.e. poor engagement in care, difficult to contact, poor or
      non-adherence to ARV therapy, advanced HIV infection/AIDS, vulnerable or socially isolated
      patients). A consensus based approach was used for patient selection. In addition, all 25 of
      the Oak Tree pilot study participants (WelTelBC1), were invited into the current study. Once
      nominated, when patients attended clinic for a clinical visit, they were introduced to the
      WelTel intervention concept. Those interested were approached by research staff for a full
      explanation. The intervention protocol was the same as that used for the WelTelBC1 pilot
      study at Oak Tree, developed through use of patient questionnaires as well as patient and
      health care worker focus groups/interviews at Oak Tree, and yet very similar to the
      intervention used in the initial WelTelKenya1 intervention. Following fully informed
      consenting with completion of consent forms, participants were provided with a cell phone
      with unlimited text messaging if they did not have one, or if they had their own cell phone,
      had their plan topped up to include unlimited text messaging service. Baseline clinical data
      including historical CD4 counts, and HIV viral loads were abstracted from patient charts.

      Additionally, study participants were asked to complete a Quality of Life Assessment (QOL)
      questionnaire (the SF-12 questionnaire) at study entry (0 months), mid-way through study (6
      months +/- 6 weeks) and at study exit (12 months +/- 6 weeks). The questionnaire consisted of
      12 questions; was self-administered or interviewer administered; and took between 10 -15
      minutes to complete.

      Intervention:

      The intervention protocol was the same as that used for the WelTelBC1 pilot study. This was
      modeled on the WelTelKenya1 intervention but adapted to the Oak Tree Clinic patient
      population through the use of patient questionnaires as well as patient and health care
      worker focus group and individual interviews. Each Monday, patients received a text message
      from a number not traceable to the clinic stating simply "How are you?" Patients were
      instructed to respond to the message if they are "OK" or to state that they have a problem.
      Messages were reviewed and triaged daily by our program research team member and in all cases
      of a negative or complex response other than OK, participants were contacted by the program
      nurse (patients were instructed that this is NOT an emergency service). Non-responders
      received a second text message on Wednesday at 12:00 pm (48 hours after the initial text sent
      out), and if there was no response, were contacted by the program nurse Wednesday afternoon
      or Thursday morning for follow-up.

      Data Collection:

      Participants wiwere asked their ethnicity at study enrolment. Participants were also asked to
      complete a 12 question QOL assessment questionnaire at study entry, mid-way through the study
      and at study end. Frequency of attendance in care was assessed from the outpatient clinic
      electronic booking system. Chart abstraction of clinical health status included: participant
      age (in years), housing status, current illicit drug use and postal code, CD4 counts and
      percentages, HIV viral loads, antiretroviral drug (ARV) regimen (including date of initiation
      or discontinuation), and degree of medication adherence (as determined from timing of ARV
      refills, and self-report), which was collected at baseline then at each clinical visit for
      the following one year. All available like data for one year prior (up to 2 years if in the
      Pilot Study) to enrollment in the WelTel program was alsocollected such that participants
      served as their own controls in the intervention (repeated measures study), and for the year
      following the intervention to assess the longevity of the intervention's impacts. Staff costs
      / savings were calculated by looking at Pharmacy, Nursing and Outreach worker time used both
      prior to and throughout the intervention. The planned duration of the intervention was one
      year, and of the study, 18 months. At that time data was analyzed and the program evaluated.
    
  