
    
      The overall study design was to compare the diagnosis obtained by .rts WSI from the Omnyx
      system (Omnyx scanner and Omnyx Software) and diagnosis obtained by .ndpi WSI of the
      Hamamatsu S360 or similar scanner with the Omnyx Software. Pathologists read cases in the
      Omnyx Dynamyx software with .rts images from an Omnyx scanner and complete a Preliminary
      Surgical Pathology Consultant Report that includes a preliminary diagnosis. After a two-week
      washout period, the pathologists read the same cases in the Omnyx Dynamyx software with .ndpi
      images from a Hamamatsu scanner. The diagnosis from the Omnyx scanners are provided in the
      Final Surgical Pathology Consultant Report. Pathologists then complete an Inspirata Whole
      Slide Imaging Case Worksheet to determine confirmation of diagnosis - that is,
      agreement/concordance between the WSI from the two scanners.

      The study is designed to prove that the diagnosis of a case will be the same when using the
      Omnyx .rts file type as the Hamamatsu .ndpi file type regardless of tissue or procedure type.

      All discrepancies between the two "systems" will be documented and reconciled. Discrepancies
      categorized as Major or Minor. The Principal Investigator Discordance Review Form will be
      utilized to document the Principal Investigator's review of those cases where discrepancies
      were attributed to technical/technological aspects of WSI, such as sub-optimal image quality.

      This is a deidentified, retrospective study to evaluate surgical pathology cases, excluding
      frozen sections and cytology. Formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissue from sixty (60) cases
      across a range of three (3) subspecialist categories will be used.

      Materials for each case include the original pathology report and the complete set of
      physical slides from each case at the time of diagnosis. Cases will be no more than two (2)
      years older than the Date of Protocol.

      The pathology reports will be deidentified and the key to match the pathology reports with
      the deidentified physical slides and deidentified Whole Slide Images (WSI) will be retained
      and managed by the Study Sponsor.

      Each slide will be scanned on the Omnyx VL120 scanner and Hamamatsu S360 scanner with 40x
      magnification settings and standard compression ratings for each system. Whole slide image
      data sets will be prepared by deidentified case number (for example, Case1- Case 60) and
      distributed to at least three (3) pathologists with any pertinent information about the case
      form the original pathology report EXCEPT the final diagnosis.

      Each of the approximately 60 cases will be read in both the Omnyx system with Omnyx .rts
      images and the Omnyx Dynamyx software with Hamamatsu .ndpi images with a two (2) week
      wash-out period between the .rts and .ndpi case reads. Each case will only be read once (by
      the same pathologist) in each of the two modalities. Therefore, if three (3) pathologists
      participate, each pathologist will be responsible for reading twenty (20) cases in both image
      formats.

      A pathologist will review all Omnyx .rts images first and record the preliminary diagnosis.
      The pathologist will then read the cases from the Hamamatsu .ndpi images in the Omnyx Dynamyx
      software and determine concordance between WSI produced by the Omnyx VL 120 scanner and
      viewed in the Omnyx Dynamyx software and images produced by the Hamamatsu S360 scanner and
      viewed in the Omnyx Dynamyx software. If the pathologist determines discordance, the PI will
      complete review of all discordant cases.

      Concordance will be reported by subspecialty and overall and will be reported between the
      original pathology report and the .rts images and the .rts images and the .ndpi images.
      Discordance must be significant as discerned by the adjudication pathologist. Minor
      discordance will be measured but only significant discordance will be reported as a primary
      endpoint of this study.
    
  