
    
      The study will start for each subject in the clinic setting during a standard pre-operative
      office visit. Consent for the study will be obtained after explaining all aspects of the
      study. The subjects will be randomly separated into two groups. Half of the subjects will
      have their procedure performed under standard tourniquet pressure, and the other half of the
      subjects will have their procedure performed with a distal photoplenthysmography probe that
      will calculate Limb Occlusion Pressure and inflate the tourniquet to the calculated Limb
      Occlusion Pressure. The subject will undergo their scheduled procedure in the operating room.
      The subject will also keep a daily pain and opioid consumption diary at home for two weeks
      after the surgery. The subject will complete patient outcome questionnaires before the
      surgery, two weeks after the operation, and 8 weeks after the operation to assess patient
      outcomes. The subject can complete the questionnaires at home, but if they do not, they will
      have the option to fill the out during their clinic visits. The patient's pre and post OP
      questionaries' will be the indicators for patient outcomes. All of the standardized
      questionnaires give calculated scores based off the patients' responses. As the subject
      improves their score will increase.The research team can compare change in score between the
      two groups and change with in groups to access patient outcomes.

      To maintain the double blind nature of the study, the tourniquet will be placed, inflated,
      and draped over before the surgeon enters the operating room. Someone else on the research
      team, one of the coordinators or one of the residents will record the patients' systolic
      blood pressure and cuff pressure of the tourniquet before the attending enters the OR. This
      way the surgeon is still blind to the cuff pressure technique used, LOP or STP, when they
      rate the quality of the bloodless field after the surgery using a VAS scale.

      All of these documents are attached on the summary page under additional documents on the
      Psycho-Physiological Testing page under number 1. List all the measures/instruments that will
      be used for this study. The VAS pain and opioid consumption diary is titled LOP pain diary
      cover page and LOP pain diary. The questionnaires that will be used are DASH, IKDC Subject
      Knee Evaluation Form, KOOS Junior, KOOS Lysholm, Marx, Michigan Hand Outcomes, Patient Rated
      Wrist Evaluation, Promis Bank v 1.2 Physical Function, PROMIS SF v 1.1 Global Health, and
      Tegner Activity Level Scale.
    
  