
    
      This is a non-randomised, single-centre Phase I/II study of the combination of the oncolytic
      virus, TVEC, administered by intra-tumoural (i.t.) injection in combination with isolated
      limb perfusion with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor in patients with advanced extremity
      tumours.

      The safety of T-VEC administered by i.t. injection followed by isolated limb perfusion will
      be assessed in an initial safety run in comprised of six subjects as described below.

      Cohort 1: The first subject will be recruited and will receive an initial dose of T-VEC 4-6
      weeks prior to isolated limb perfusion.

      A further preoperative dose of i.t. T-VEC will be given at 2-3 weeks prior to isolated limb
      perfusion.

      A third dose will be given on the day of isolated limb perfusion. Following isolated limb
      perfusion, no further doses of TVEC shall be given. No further patients will be recruited
      until this patient has passed 30 days from the end of the study treatment. If this patient
      experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the Trial Steering Committee (TSC) will meet to
      consider termination of the study.

      Cohort 2: Assuming no DLTs in Cohort 1, two further patients will be recruited and receive
      the study treatment as described above. Once these patients have passed 30 days from the end
      of the study treatment, the TSC will meet and perform a safety assessment.

      Cohort 3: Assuming TSC approval following Cohort 2, three further patients will be recruited
      and receive the study treatment as described above. Once these patients have passed 30 days
      from the end of the study treatment, the TSC will meet and perform a safety assessment.

      Cohort 4: Open recruitment up to a maximum of 15 patients in total, unless otherwise
      indicated by the TSC.

      If more than 1 DLT is observed at any point in the study, the Chief Investigator will notify
      the TSC and recruitment will be suspended until further notification from the TSC.
    
  