
    
      These dyad participants are given more information and a follow up phone call to schedule a
      home visit for initial screening(24<MMSE<27). During the home visit, the participants will be
      given the consent forms and explanation of this project regarding the purpose, length of data
      collection and the types of measures of this study. Investigator will use the electronic
      monitoring system (EMS) developed by Professor Heh's lab, Chung Yuan Christian University in
      the Phase I to monitor the medication adherence behavior and pilot test its agreement with
      the pill count and the FCG observation diary. Investigator will apply for the compensations
      for participants for who finish the initial adherence observation (4 weeks) (baseline data
      collection). Those who are enrolled for the 6 month intervention phase will receive
      additional compensation if funded.

      The research assistants are those who received training in the previous project (MOST
      102-2314-B-182-050-MY2) but investigator will recruit a new part-time research assistant, a
      nursing master student, to receive a one-month training course, including: the purpose of
      this study, the procedures for recruitment, test battery interview skills, the test battery
      scoring system, data collection using the EMS, data download from the EMS, and basic
      statistical techniques. Then the newly trained part-time assistant will go to the
      participating sites for observing at least three PWCIs, practicing the interview skills with
      dyads, and familiarize herself with the outpatient clinical operational system. The on-site
      participant physicians in the memory disorder clinics will receive a written letter to
      explain the purpose of this project and the eligible criteria for the dyads. These physicians
      will help investigators to identify eligible dyads, while trained research assistants will
      implement the intervention and education program. The part-time student assistant is
      responsible for data collection.

      The advantages of investigators team. The PI and most of the co-PIs come from the same
      research lab-Healthy Aging Research Center, Cognitive and Behavioral Indices Lab, Chang Gung
      University. This lab targets on populations such as normal older adults and those with
      dementia and disability. Investigator have developed own assessment tools and platform used
      to share the data such as the Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ). In
      the future, Investigator may share imaging technology. Therefore, investigators team has the
      advantages of integration of expertise. Interactions between experts will facilitate the
      progress of this project. Specifically, Dr. Hsu (a neurologist) will provide the clinical
      utility that ensures formal diagnosis and assessment for PWCIs. The external consultant (a
      psychologist), Professor Hua, will assist in administering psychometric tests, interpretation
      of data, and consultation on the content of intervention. Investigator have international
      collaboration partners such as Professor Jersey Liang from the University of Michigan, USA
      for longitudinal and experimental data analyses consultation and Dr. Heather Wilkinson from
      Edinburgh University, UK to focus on the dementia friendly community issues. Investigator
      hold monthly research meeting in the lab. Finally, the PI has research collaboration with
      Professor Heh, Chung Yuan Christian University, on the work of interactive mathematic
      training APP for MCI patients. Based on this foundation, Investigator will continue to
      develop the EMS in this project.

      Phase 1 (1st year) procedures. After the dyads sign on the consented forms, Investigator
      spend about 3 hours to collect demographic data, test battery and teach the dyads how to move
      of patient's medication into the EMS box which contains a sensor to record when the container
      is opened. Investigator tell the dyads that the box can help patients count their medication
      pills and it must be used in each medication-taking event. Investigator also teach FCGs how
      to fill out a medication diary with their observation of patients' medication taking
      behavior. For those who have their own medication organizers, Investigator ask them to move
      one of their medications into the system for consistent measure. The baseline observation of
      medication adherence will last 4 weeks to screen out those who do not have adherence problems
      which are defined as adherence is less than or equal to 90% of the inter-dose interval over
      this 4-week medication monitoring period. The rationale for this inclusion criterion is that
      other studies found that using the EMS introduces some novelty that can initially boost
      adherence. Since the EMS is new to the participants who may experience this novelty,
      Investigator will adopt this stringent criterion comparing with the general definition of
      medication adherence >= 80% the inter-dose interval. At the end of 4 weeks, the trained
      part-time student assistant will down load the medication adherence data and remove the
      system from the dyad's house. If the PWCIs have multiple medications, Investigator will
      select only one (prioritizing order: dementia treatment, antipsychotic medicine,
      antihypertensive medicine). All the participant dyads will take turns to use the EMS system.
      During the first 6 months of the first year, Investigator will develop the teaching material
      and a protocol for phase I pilot study.

      The intervention procedures in the pilot study consists of 5 stages: (1) initial home visit
      for baseline data collection; (2) measurement of baseline adherence over 4 weeks; (3) random
      assignment for eligible participants who sign on the informed consent forms to either
      intervention group or the educational comparison group; (4) four weekly in-home nurse visit
      to deliver the intervention or education control to the dyads; (5) adherence monitoring and
      outcome measures (over a 6 month period).

      When the dyad participants are referred by the physicians, they will go through the
      five-stage procedures to collect baseline data and 4-week adherence data (week 1 to week 4).
      Then the dyads will be randomly assigned into one of the two conditions. Different trained
      research assistants will conduct follow-up four-weekly in-home visits (week 5-8) to deliver
      the intervention or the educational comparison. During the follow-up (week5-8) home visit,
      research nurses assigned to the intervention group will review the recommended strategies and
      tailor these strategies based on individual differences and difficulties in implementing the
      strategies. Problem-solving will be used to help the dyads. This intervention dose is similar
      to other studies but we include FCGs to participate in this study and control for PWCIs'
      awareness levels and their medical decision making capacity.

      The fidelity of the intervention will be monitored by a PhD student, using a voice recorder
      on the intervention nurse' interactions with the dyads. Investigator will track the fidelity
      whether the intervention protocol is followed. Any difference from the intervention protocol
      will be examined by reviewing the voice records. Fidelity in the education control group will
      be monitored by the same procedures as well. To prevent loss of 5-month medication adherence
      after the end of the 1 month intervention phase, a research assistant will conduct home
      visits of the dyads every 2 months to download the medication adherence data from the EMS and
      serve as a memory cue to remind the PWCIs to take their medication. This is a strategy
      consist with investigator's PM theory as well as Insel et al. and may strengthen the
      multifaceted memory intervention. However, the research assistant(s) making visits will be
      careful not to discuss the intervention in both education and intervention conditions.

      Blindness. To avoid bias, the PI and the part-time student nurse who collect data as well as
      the participating physicians can be blind to the condition status of the dyads. Investigator
      will hire two research assistant(s): one to conduct the memory intervention and the other to
      conduct the education intervention without inference from each other. These procedures can
      ensure the double blindness in this project.

      Feasibility Indicators for the Phase I-pilot study. The feasibility indicators for the pilot
      study include the recruitment rate (60%), attrition rates (< 20%), and protocol completion
      rates (>80%) based on investigator's previous research experiences of recruiting PWCIs into a
      multiple stimulation intervention through leisure activities.
    
  