
    
      This study is designed to explore the potential efficacy of using internet-based incentive
      programs to promote smoking cessation. We also hope to document that we can recruit
      participants through a web site, as well as investigate what forms of incentives show the
      most promise. We seek to achieve three specific objectives: (1) assess our ability to recruit
      participants for several different types of intervention-based smoking programs; (2) document
      the feasibility of using the internet to accrue and disburse incentive payments; (3) obtain
      preliminary assessments of which incentive structures show the most promise for future study.

      Potential participants will be directed to the Way to Health research portal and will be
      assessed for eligibility. The web application will automatically verify eligibility based on
      the results of the survey. If a person is deemed eligible, he or she will be invited to
      consent to participate in a non-pharmacologic smoking cessation study lasting 3 months.
      Participants who consent will be randomized automatically to one of the 5 intervention arms
      (including the no-incentive arm) by the web application.

      Once the participant consents and submits the necessary financial information, he will gain
      access to the participant interface. At this point, they will receive detailed descriptions
      of their assigned incentive structures (or usual care provisions), will indicate their
      acceptance of their assigned structure and, for those in arms 3, 4, or 5, make their required
      deposits. Also, he will be prompted to take an initial survey on his baseline smoking habits.
      The participant will be able to log into this interface at anytime and see a graph of his
      self-reported smoking habits along with a graph of approximately how much money he has saved
      compared to his baseline smoking levels. Participants will indicate their preferred method of
      contact: email, text-messaging, or both. Every week the participant will receive an email or
      text-message reminder to log in and complete a weekly smoking report. Participants can also
      log in at any time and report on their smoking habits for a given day or days to improve
      accuracy. After three months all subjects will be e-mailed to prompt them to log into the web
      application to take a final smoking habits survey. Participants who report having remained
      smoke free for the last month of the study will submit saliva (or urine, for participants
      using any form of nicotine replacement therapy) samples to test for cotinine (or anabasine)
      to verify that they have quit. Once this has been verified, the participant will be sent
      whatever financial incentives he has earned and any deposit will be returned.

      The design of this study differs from a traditional RCT in two important ways. First, because
      the goal of this RCT is to focus on mechanisms of behavior change, we include a primary
      per-protocol analysis designed to determine incentive structures' efficacy by analyzing only
      participants who accept their assigned incentive structure at the time of randomization. In
      this analysis, the randomization arm will be entered into the analytic model as an
      instrumental variable to mitigate potential selection bias. As in a traditional RCT, we will
      also analyze each incentive structures' effectiveness using an intention-to-treat analysis
      that includes all randomized participants, regardless of whether they accept the randomly
      assigned arm. The second difference is that because acceptance rates of the different
      structures may differ (as we will test in Aim II), we will adapt the probabilities of being
      randomized to each arm on a weekly basis during the enrollment period to achieve the target
      numbers of participants in the per-protocol analysis.
    
  