
    
      Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a deforming and disabling infectious disease that causes
      elephantiasis and genital deformity (especially hydroceles). The infection affects some 120
      million people in 81 countries in tropical and subtropical regions with well over 1 billion
      people at risk of acquiring the disease [1]. LF is caused by Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia
      spp. (B. malayi and B.timori), nematode parasites that are transmitted by mosquitoes. This
      study is based on the assumption that currently used MDA regimens and schedules are not
      optimal for achieving elimination of LF. These regimens (either annual Albendazole (Alb) 400
      mg plus diethylcarbamazine 6 mg/kg or Alb 400 mg plus Ivermectin (Iver) 200 µg/kg for LF)
      were introduced more than 10 years ago.

      Onchocerciasis ("Oncho") is similar in some ways to LF in that it is a vector-borne nematode
      parasitic disease that causes severe disability. In contrast to LF, this disease causes
      blindness and severe skin disease rather than elephantiasis, and it is spread by black flies
      instead of mosquitoes. O. volvulus adult worms live in subcutaneous nodules while the adult
      worms of the LF parasites live in lymphatic vessels. O. volvulus adult worms are larger and
      less sensitive to available drug treatments than those of the species that cause LF and have
      a longer lifespan (approximately 14 years rather than the estimated 7 years for LF
      parasites). More effective drugs or dosing schedules for MDA against Oncho could shorten the
      number of years needed to interrupt Oncho transmission in areas that previously had high
      disease rates.

      Drugs used for LF MDA are also active against soil transmitted helminth infections (STH,
      e.g., Ascaris, Hookworm, and Trichuris). De-worming campaigns using anthelmintics usually
      target special groups of the population, such as schoolchildren, and have limited impact on
      transmission. Treatment of the total population and semiannual treatments may reduce
      re-infection considerably and will most likely lead to reduced infection densities and
      infection prevalence rates. Suppression of STH is an important ancillary benefit of MDA
      programs for filarial infections. Increasingly control programs for filariasis and STH are
      being integrated with programs for other parasitic diseases such as schistosomiasis. For this
      reason, participants will also be tested for schistosomiasis.

      Purpose: The study aims to compare the effectiveness once yearly (1X) versus twice yearly
      (2X) mass drug administration (MDA) for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis,
      onchocerciasis and for control of soil-transmitted helminth infections (intestinal parasites)
      in large populations. Mass drug administration will be provided by the Ivory Coast Ministry
      of Health. This project will assess the impact of the government's public health program.

      Procedures: Study procedures include collection of finger prick blood that will be tested for
      microfilariae by microscopy and for serology testing (antigenemia and antibody testing). Skin
      snips will be collected and examined by microscopy for the presence of Onchocerca
      microfilariae. Stool samples will be collected for detection of parasitic worm eggs by
      microscopy. All assays will be performed in Ivory Coast(filarial serology tests, microfilaria
      testing, stool examinations).

      Washington University researchers developed the protocol, will provide training and guidance
      to Ivorian researchers, and work with them to analyze the data. Ivorian researchers will
      consent the participants, obtain blood, skin and stool specimens, perform laboratory tests on
      the specimens, and enter data on participants and lab results.
    
  