
    
      Metabolic control of type 2 diabetes and prevention of its complications are related to
      management of blood glucose and other factors. Medication and lifestyle modifications are
      integral to most self-management plans; however, adherence remains a great challenge. Many
      patients have abnormal HbA1c, blood pressure and lipid values, and are at greater risk for
      complications. This study is to evaluate the effectiveness and costs of a tailored, telephone
      intervention to promote adherence in middle-aged and older adults with type-2 diabetes who
      are members of a union/employer-sponsored health benefit plan. The target population includes
      English- and Spanish-speaking individuals from the health plan database.

      This study has the following specific aims:

        1. A tailored telephone intervention will significantly improve medication adherence
           compared to a standard care intervention.

        2. A tailored telephone intervention will significantly improve metabolic control measured
           by HbA1c compared to a standard care intervention 2a) We will explore ways to link
           behavior change for medication adherence with lifestyle modification for diet and
           physical activity.

        3. To conduct cost evaluations for the telephone intervention vs. standard care. The study
           design is a randomized, controlled intervention trial with masking; the individual is
           the unit of sampling, assignment and analysis. After eligibility is assessed and consent
           is obtained by telephone, patients will be randomized to either the telephone
           intervention or standard are. Study outcomes will be medication adherence as measured
           from pharmacy records and metabolic control (HbA1c). A total of 556 patients with type 2
           diabetes wil be randomized, which will provide 80% power to detect a statistically
           significant difference in HbA1c of at least 0.3%, and over 95% power to detect a
           difference in filled prescriptions. Telephone surveys will provide data on self-care
           behaviors including diet and exercise, risk perceptions, and depressive symptoms. Cost
           data will be collected using standardized methods. Study results will inform
           implementation of practical, nurse-managed interventions to improve medication adherence
           and metabolic control in diverse, middle-aged and older, type 2 diabetes patients, while
           linking changes in medication adherence to lifestyle modification for diet and physical
           activity.
    
  