
    
      Our hypotheses are:

        1. There is an increase in upper airway volume and minimal cross-sectional area after
           maxillary expansion and mandible repositioning in class II malocclusion children using
           Hyrax and Twin-block.

        2. There is a larger increase in the airway dimensions and a larger decrease in the air
           resistance (in the pressure drop analysis) in the group started with the mandibular
           advancement device.

        3. There is a change in the shape of the upper airway after maxillary expansion and
           mandible repositioning in class II malocclusion children using Hyrax and Twin-block.

        4. There is a correlation between the increase in airway volume, the change in shape and an
           increase in airflow using in vitro simulated airway experiments.

        5. There is an increase in respiratory capability when evaluated with in-home portable PSG
           (after maxillary expansion and mandible repositioning).

        6. There is a positive correlation to the in-home portable Polysomnography (PSG) with the
           results acquired by volume, shape, airflow and pressure drop.

      Methods

      The inclusion criteria are children between the ages 8-14 years old (8-12 years old girls and
      9-14 years old boys), presenting skeletal class II division 1 malocclusion with maxillary
      constriction. The study design is a randomized crossover controlled trial. 90 patients will
      be randomly allocated into three groups:

      Group 1: 30 patients will immediately undergo to Hyrax/Twin-block treatment, the patients
      will have the maxillary expansion treatment (Part I) before the mandibular repositioning
      (Part II).

      Group 2: 30 patients will immediately undergo Twin-block/Hyrax treatment, the patients will
      have the mandibular repositioning treatment (Part I) done before the maxillary expansion
      (Part II).

      Group 3: 30 patients will wait 1,5 years to begin the treatment. Since all patients are in
      the pre-pubertal/pubertal phase, this 1,5-year delay treatment for group 3 will neither
      compromise future treatment decisions nor results.

      Aim 1: To determine the changes in the upper airway volume, minimal cross-sectional area, the
      lumen (geometry/shape), airflow, air velocity and pressure after maxillary expansion and
      mandibular advancement in children. Those changes will be compared between tested and control
      groups.

      The upper airway will be assessed through Cone Bean Computed Tomography (CBCT)s exams, to
      analyze the volume changes before and after the use of the Twin-block and Hyrax, using the
      Avizo software (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Berlin, Germany). The pressure drop will be
      assessed using the CBCTs to generate a Stereolithography (STL) file to print upper airway
      models to analyze airflow, air velocity and pressure characteristics before and after the
      orthodontic treatment in children. Those results will be correlated. Also, the correlation
      will be done between tested and control groups. Pressure drop related measurements and airway
      volume will be assessed at T0 - before treatment, T1- after part II in the treated groups and
      T0 and after 1.5 years in the control group.

      Aim 2: To determine changes in the in-home portable PSG results before and after maxillary
      expansion and mandibular repositioning and to correlate them to the results collected by the
      upper airway model's evaluations using pressure drop to determine airflow, velocity,
      pressure, and upper airway dimensions.

      Patients will undergo an in-home PSG test at the beginning of treatment (T0). Groups 1 and 2
      will have in-home PSG tested again after Part I and II. Group 3 will be tested at T0 and
      after one year. Through the CBCTs the volume and minimal cross-sectional area, and related
      measurements to pressure drop test will be assessed and correlated to the results from the
      in-home portable PSG. Likewise, the changes will be compared between tested and control
      groups.

      Aim 3: To describe dental and skeletal changes in the class II patients undertaken the
      Twin-block/Hyrax treatment.

      Linear measurements using craniofacial landmarks will be assessed through CBCT exams to
      determine the amount of skeletal and dental changes obtained. All patients will have those
      measurements assessed at T0. Groups 1 and 2 will also have linear measurements assessed after
      Part II. Group 3 will have linear measurements reassessed after 1.5 years from the first
      CBCT.

      General information The CBCTs will be analyzed using Avizo software (Thermo Fisher
      Scientific, Berlin, Germany) for volume and linear measurement. Printed upper airway for the
      Pressure drop test for airflow/pressure drop/air velocity simulations will be made at all
      time-points.

      All patients will have breathing capacity tested through in-home portable PSG, one week
      before the beginning of treatment, after parts I and II in groups 1 and 2 and at T0 and 1.5
      years after the first test for group 3.

      A subjective evaluation of the airway using the questionnaire Nasal Obstruction Symptom
      Evaluation (NOSE) Instrument, with 18 questions, will be given to patients. A Paediatric
      Sleep Questionnaire (PSQ) will also be used. An objective airway evaluation will be made
      using Peak Nasal Inspiratory Flow (PNIF) and Peak Oral Inspiratory Flow (POIF) tests, which
      are measured with the In-Check medical device at the same time-points as in-home PSG tests.
      Those tests and questionnaires will be used to correlate all the findings and clinical
      significance.
    
  