
    
      The proposed study will be the first to examine any form of alternative or complementary
      holistic therapy in older long-term HIV-infected persons with well-controlled plasma viremia.
      It will also be the first mind-body study of HIV-infected adults to be conducted using the
      most rigorous randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. From a translational medicine
      perspective, this study is innovative in that it examines a comprehensive set of biological
      markers specifically associated with chronic inflammation. No previous mind-body study has
      specifically targeted a set of biological markers that not only have been proven to be
      elevated in adults with HIV, but also been described as predictors of morbidity and overall
      mortality. This would be the first study to explore whether improvements in markers of
      psychosocial stress mediate the impact of the proposed interventions on chronic inflammation.

      This study is innovative in its effort to move HIV care beyond the current focus on virologic
      control, optimization of comorbid conditions, and encouragement of healthy lifestyle to
      include active interventions that can address the state of chronic inflammation and immune
      dysfunction underlying the early and accelerated aging process. Most bio-behavioral research
      in HIV to date has understandably focused on patients with poor adherence to HIV medication
      and treatment. This study is novel in its focus on highly adherent patients and the
      significant changes in profiles of biological markers associated with chronic inflammation
      documented in this cohort. The complementary medicine approach being studied has the
      potential to be integrated into the existing healthcare paradigm for HIV-positive persons.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To assess the effect of MBSR and HEP on biomarkers of chronic inflammation (IL-6, CRP,
      sCD14, d-dimer), in HIV-infected adults with well-controlled plasma viremia.

      Aim 2: To explore whether changes in markers of psychosocial well-being (anxiety, depression,
      fatigue, cognitive functioning) mediate the impact of these mind-body interventions on
      chronic inflammation.

      General Study Design: The proposed study is a prospective, randomized, clinical trial with
      attention control under the direction of the dual PIs, a behavioral scientist and a
      virologist. The study team is also made up of investigators from infectious diseases,
      mind-body medicine, geriatrics, and biostatistics. Subjects will be randomized to
      participation in an 8-week group MBSR course or to the Health Enhancement Program (HEP). The
      study population will consist of 120 individuals, 50 years old or older, long-term (5 years
      on ART or longer) HIV-infected adults with well-controlled plasma viremia and baseline IL-6
      level of 1.17 pg/mL or greater. Randomization will be stratified to achieve balanced
      distribution between the groups based on gender and study site. One cohort group will
      participate in the 8-week MBSR course followed by six, once-per-month booster sessions, and
      separate cohort group will participate in HEP, with additional monthly educational meetings
      for six months. Both groups will be evaluated using two sets of measures: biological markers
      associated with chronic inflammation (IL-6, CRP, sCD14, d-dimer) and measures of psychosocial
      stress (anxiety, depression, fatigue, and mindfulness). Subjects will be assessed at three
      time points: baseline, 8 weeks (immediately after completion of weekly interventions), and
      6-months post weekly courses (immediately after completion of booster sessions). The
      investigators will use mixed linear and structural equation model to test study hypotheses.
    
  