
    
      1. INTRODUCTION China has entered the high-pressure period of cardiovascular disease. The
           incidence of cardiovascular disease is still rising. It has become a great threaten for
           the health of Chinese resident and the social economy development. The comprehensiveness
           and complexity of the influencing factors of cardiovascular disease determine the
           long-term and arduous task of prevention and treatment. It is necessary to coordinate
           the resources of all parties and improve the mechanism of comprehensive prevention and
           treatment of cardiovascular disease with multi department cooperation. At present, due
           to the limited medical resources, high cost of hospitalization and the shortage of
           hospital beds, the average length of stay of patients is gradually shortened, resulting
           in an increasing number of patients with cardiovascular disease who are discharged
           immediately after acute treatment. Although the emergency problems of the disease have
           been solved during hospitalization, there is still a period of transition in the process
           of rehabilitation before returning to the family and society. Therefore, long-term and
           systematic management after discharge is the most important measure to improve the
           prognosis of patients with cardiovascular disease. Post-acute care (PAC) is the most
           important guarantee to provide continuous medical care for patients with cardiovascular
           diseases. Readiness for hospital discharge is the key link between emergency care and
           post-acute care, which helps to shorten the length of hospital stay, reduce the rate of
           readmission, improve the quality of life of patients with cardiovascular diseases and
           reduce medical costs. In recent years, China's post-acute care system has made a series
           of achievements, but it is still distributed in the form of dots, and there is no mature
           working mode. Therefore, it is urgent to build a characteristic post-acute care system
           for cardiovascular diseases based on China's national conditions. However, Understanding
           the details of patients' demands is the key and the first step in building the
           post-acute care system for cardiovascular diseases. This study will provide an effective
           tool for the investigation of the detailed demands for post-acute care in cardiovascular
           disease and provide a better understanding of the demands for the patients with
           cardiovascular disease.

        2. THE STUDY 2.1 Aims The aims of this study are 1) to determine the demand of post-acute
           care among patients with cardiovascular disease in China; 2) to identify the details of
           demands especially which have value for the post-acute care for patients with
           cardiovascular disease.

      2.2 Study Design This is a single-center, prospective cohort study conducted at a tertiary
      teaching hospital in Shanghai, China.

      2.3 Setting The study will be conducted in the cardiology department in Zhongshan hospital,
      Shanghai, China, which is the largest hospital in Shanghai with 2005 beds.

      Cardiology department focuses on interventional diagnosis and treatment of complex and
      difficult cardiovascular diseases with 527 beds and 503 nurses and physicians. Approximately
      more than 24000 patients per year are admitted, including angina pectoris, acute myocardial
      infarction, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, premature ventricular contractions,
      atrioventricular block, sick sinus syndrome, pulmonary hypertension, congenital heart
      disease, rheumatic heart disease, valvular disease, heart failure, cardiomyopathy,
      myocarditis, etc.

      2.4 Participants Inclusion Criteria Patients with cardiovascular disease aged above 18. The
      patients are aware of the disease condition. The patients can read and understand
      independently and participate in this study voluntarily.

      Exclusion Criteria The patient's condition is critical and life-threatening. People who are
      not conscious or are not cooperative by mental disorders. Patients refused to continue to
      participate in the study.

      2.5 Sample size Our study will aim to identify demands for the post-acute care of patients
      with cardiovascular disease. According to the rule of thumb, the sample size should be 5-10
      times the number of items of questionnaire. Considering the 20% loss rate, the sample size is
      required to be at least 900 cases, and 1000 cases are preliminarily planned to be included in
      our hospital.

      2.6 Data collection Demands for post-acute care Data of the demands for post-acute care will
      be collected face to face or telephone, including guidance of rehabilitation exercise,
      medication, diet, introduction of available social resources support, such as long-term care
      insurance, etc. Demographic characteristic The demographic variables and related information
      on the demands of post-acute care will also be collected, including gender, age, marital
      status, education level, work status, family per capita monthly income, type of medical
      insurance, distance between home and hospital, main diagnosis, duration of illness, pipeline
      indwelling, length of hospital stay, hospitalization treatment, medication, the destination
      after discharge, etc.

      Readiness for hospital discharge scale (RHDS) The original scale was developed by Weis et al.
      It has 4 dimensions: self-condition, disease knowledge, coping ability after discharge,
      social support available, and 23 items. The first question is not included in the total
      score. The rest items are scored by 0-10 points. The score of "0" represents "not knowing at
      all" and "completely unable", and "10" stands for "completely knowing" and "completely
      capable". Patients can choose the appropriate score according to their own situation. The
      higher the score, the better the readiness for discharge. This study adopts the Chinese
      version of Zhao et al. of West China Hospital of Sichuan University.

      2.7 Data management All the data will be entered and stored in the Research Electronic Data
      Capture (REDCap), which will be securely locked, and password protected. It is supported and
      maintained by the Evidence-based center of Fudan University. Data management and analysis,
      including data audit, import and tracking will be done by the biostatisticians in the center.
      Each patient will be given a study identification number; all paper files will be imported to
      the database once completed.

      2.8 Statistical analysis Chi square test was used for categorical data, t-test and ANOVA were
      used for measurement data. Through univariate, multivariate analysis, structural equation
      model and path analysis, the relationship between readiness for hospital discharge and
      demands of patients for post-acute care was analyzed.

      2.9 Ethical considerations This study was approved by the Hospital Ethics Board in August
      2020 (SK2020-014). The study will be conducted in accordance with the International Council
      for Harmonization and Good Clinical Practice principles. The study will adhere to the ethical
      principles stated in the Declaration of Helsinki.

      All patients will receive written and verbal information of the study before surgery. Written
      informed consent will be obtained before inclusion. Patient have the right to withdraw from
      the study at any time. Data collection will be stopped, and patients' record will be deleted
      from the database if a patient withdraws from the study.

      2.10 Validity, reliability and rigor In this study, we will use one instrument named RHDS.
      The validity and reliability will be tested with the baseline data. The cohort study will
      follow the STROBE statement.
    
  