
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, the following baseline tests and procedures will be
      performed on Day 1:

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood
           pressure, heart rate, and breathing rate).

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about any symptoms you may be having. The
           questionnaire should take about 5-10 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have an echocardiogram (ECHO) and an electrocardiogram (ECG) to check your
           heart function.

        -  You will have blood (about 3 tablespoons) drawn for routine tests. If you can become
           pregnant, part of this blood draw will be used for a pregnancy test. To take part in
           this study, you must not be pregnant.

        -  You will be given instructions on how to gradually wean yourself off of your heart
           failure medication.

        -  You will be given a machine that you will use to measure your blood pressure at home.

      You will be asked to monitor your blood pressure and heart rate at home daily and keep the
      results in a diary. You should bring your diary to each study visit.

      At Month 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will complete the questionnaire about any symptoms you may be having.

        -  You will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests.

      At Months 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, and 30:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will complete the questionnaire about any symptoms you may be having.

        -  You will have an ECHO.

        -  You will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests.

      At Months 3 and 5, you will have a telephone follow-up with a member of the research team.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may continue taking part in the study for up to 6 continuous months with follow-up visits
      at Months 12, 18, and 30. You will no longer be able to take part if the disease gets worse,
      if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 45 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  