
    
      Cerebrovascular accident (CVA) is the leading cause of disability in the United States. CVAs
      are a particular problem for the VA because of the large population of World War II and
      Korean War veterans who are now in the age range where CVAs are most frequent; in fiscal year
      1997 the national VA system had 22,000 admissions for an acute CVA. The consequent motor
      deficits that veterans sustain result in very large costs to the VA and the Federal
      Government. The reduction of CVA-related disability thus represents a high VA and national
      health care priority.

      Constraint-Induced (CI) therapy is one of the few techniques that has been proven with
      controlled, randomized studies to substantially reduce the incapacitating motor deficit of
      the more-affected upper extremity of patients with mild to moderately severe chronic strokes.
      The procedures of CI therapy are relatively simple and are deemed effective because they
      produce transfer of increased extremity use to the activities of daily living in the real
      world environment. The therapy involves promoting use of the more-affected upper extremity
      for 90% of waking hours by constraining the less-affected extremity for two or three
      consecutive weeks with a resting hand splint and sling or other device which prevents
      movement of the hand and wrist for activities of daily living. The patients receive a type of
      training termed "shaping" for 7 hours/day (with rest intervals) for all weekdays during this
      period (massed practice).

      We propose to develop and evaluate a workstation that significantly enhances the application
      of CI therapy by automating and instrumenting several of the tasks currently used in the
      shaping training. The motivation for development of such a device is as follows: 1) Patients
      could receive CI therapy at home without the need for constant supervision from a therapist.
      Many veterans do not have the resources to travel to their local VAMC for the two or three
      week period required for the treatment. A home-based device would expand the pool of veterans
      who could receive CI therapy. 2) For subjects who were able to receive CI therapy in the
      clinic, this device would facilitate an effective post-treatment home-practice program. 3)
      Currently, patients are treated on a one-on-one basis in the clinic. This device could allow
      one therapist to treat 3 or 4 patients at one time, thereby substantially reducing the cost
      of the therapy. 4) This workstation would provide clear and comprehensive quantification of
      the progress of the treatment. This could indicate on which tasks the patient was progressing
      most and least rapidly, and would therefore enable effective modifications of the treatment
      plan while treatment was in progress.

      The hypothesis is that the positive outcomes of CI therapy can be achieved, and possibly
      enhanced, if the shaping training component is performed in a workstation that guides,
      motivates and records exercise of the more-affected limb. In the first 18 months, the
      workstation will be designed and fabricated. To expedite the design, we will rely on simple
      modifications to "off the shelf" components. In the last 18 months, a controlled, randomized,
      clinical trial will compare the effectiveness of automated CI therapy programs with standard
      CI therapy. The standard CI therapy group would receive shaping training in a clinical
      setting, one-on-one with a therapist. The clinic-based automated CI therapy group would
      perform the shaping training in the workstation, in a clinical setting and with minimal
      supervision. The home-based automated CI therapy group would perform the shaping training at
      home in the workstation, and with no direct supervision. All other aspects of the three
      treatment programs will be identical. At the end of this 3-year project, a device will have
      been designed, built and evaluated that could significantly enhance the application of CI
      therapy for chronic stroke patients.
    
  