
    
      Background:

      Over 80% of patients with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer will relapse

      Serum biomarkers are needed for predictors of persistent disease and relapse

      CA-125 is a less than satisfactory clinical tool for detecting relapse

      A serum repository of samples from women with ovarian cancer is needed to develop and
      validate the multiple tests being created for ovarian cancer recurrence and screening.

      Objectives:

      To create a multi-institutional repository from which investigations of serum proteomic
      signature profiles of epithelial ovarian cancer and relapse will be developed and validated

      To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the proteomic signature profiles for relapse

      To compare the accuracy of proteomic evaluation and CA125 in classifying patient disease
      progression

      To identify the temporal relationship between a rise in CA125 value versus the development of
      proteomic signature profiles of relapse.

      To detect the impact of study participation on quality of life.

      To collect epidemiological data for patients in the target population

      Eligibility:

      Patients in first remission from treatment of FIGO stage III/IV primary peritoneal, fallopian
      tube, or epithelial ovarian carcinoma as defined by normal CA125, no evidence of disease on
      abdominopelvic CT scan, and normal post-hysterectomy physical exam.

      Entry within 12 weeks of last administration of chemotherapy.

      S/P surgical debulking and completion of primary therapy with platinum/taxane-containing
      chemotherapy of no more than a total of 8 cycles.

      Laboratory evidence of good end organ function.

      Design:

      Phase of Trial: Biomarker/Laboratory Analysis.

      Number of patients to be enrolled: 400

      Planned statistical analysis for primary endpoint: Training set to include 100 women, half of
      whom are in remission and half of whom have recurrent disease. Validation set will include
      200 women, half of whom are in remission and half of whom have recurrent disease.
    
  