
    
      In the single agent Phase I dose-escalation phase patients will be enrolled and assigned to a
      dose level cohort. The starting dose will be 750 mg/m2, which equals to 1/10 of the human
      equivalent dose of the LD10 of DTP348 in mice.

      A "3+3" dose-escalation design will be used. The study will investigate sequential cohorts
      consisting of 3-6 patients to be enrolled and treated at the applicable dose level. Planned
      dose levels for subsequent cohorts are 1000, 1250 mg/m2 and steps of 250 mg/m2 thereafter.
      There will be no intra-patient dose escalation. The treatment cycle in the dose-escalation
      part of the study will consist of 7 weeks (reflecting the typical duration of the course of
      radiotherapy). Patients will receive a continuous oral dose of DTP348 for 7 days per week.
      Food intake is not allowed one hour before and after the intake of the study drug. After the
      cycle of treatment, the patient will be followed until disease progression.

      Blood samples for pharmacokinetic properties (PK) will be obtained on day 1 during the first
      8 hours after oral administration and then daily on day 2, 3, 4 and 5, before the
      administration of the daily dosage. A patient will stay on treatment until disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or discontinuation for any other reason. The dose
      limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period for each dose level will be day 1 until the end of
      week 7. Patients who do not complete the DLT observation period for other reasons than a DLT
      will be replaced.

      Toxicity that can be expected from DTP348 is related to the nitro-imidazole compound and
      includes nausea, vomiting flushing, dizziness, skin rash, and neurotoxicity. Related to the
      sulfamide component in the study drug, the side-effects may include nausea and vomiting. In
      the experimental mice study, no toxicity was observed using a dose of 10 mg/kg i.v. 3 and up
      to 400 mg/kg per os, which corresponds to the Human Equivalent Dose (HED) of 1.2 g/m2 of
      nimorazole. Once the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of DTP348 has been established, 3
      additional patients will be included in that dose-level. These patients will receive crushed
      tablets and undergo blood sampling for PK to investigate whether the administration of
      crushed tablets affects uptake and plasma levels of the study drug. This group of patients is
      added because of the frequent occurrence of swallowing problems in the HNSCC patient
      population and the use of tube feeding with the need of crushing tablets.

      Once the MTD of DTP348 as single agent has been determined, the study will continue to the
      combination phase: In the DTP348 in combination with radiotherapy dose-escalation phase,
      again a 3+3 dose-escalation design will be used. The starting dose of DT348 will be the MTD
      minus two dose levels. DTP348 will be given continuously 7 days a week, starting 2 weeks
      before and during the whole course of radiation until and including the last day. The
      rationale to start the study drug 2 weeks before the start of radiotherapy is to have a
      similar design as in the phase II trial which will be performed following this study. The
      drug will be given orally 1-2 hours before the daily delivery of radiotherapy. Food intake is
      not allowed one hour before and after the intake of the study drug. The dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) observation period for each dose level will be from day 1 of combined therapy
      until 4 weeks after the end of therapy. Patients who do not complete the DLT observation
      period for other reasons than a DLT will be replaced.

      The radiation treatment in the DTP348 in combination with radiotherapy dose-escalation phase
      will be either conventional standard fractionated radiotherapy to a total dose of 70 Gy in 35
      fractions over 7 weeks with a concomitant boost technique, 5 fractions a week or accelerated
      radiotherapy delivering a total dose to 68-70 Gy in a shortened overall treatment time (5.5 -
      6 weeks). The 95% isodose of the prescribed dose should encompass at least 99% of the
      planning target and homogeneity will be according to ICRU guidelines. There is no restriction
      of the treatment techniques that may be used: multiple static conformal or intensity
      modulated beams, intensity modulated arc treatments, or robotic, non-isocentric treatments.
      Dummy run on virtual patients will need to be performed before inclusion. Subsequently,
      patients are allowed to be included in the trial.
    
  