
    
      The incidence of supraventricular rhythm disorders in children is 1/250 to 1/1000. Amiodarone
      is used until the age of 1 year to limit the risk of recurrence. Efficiency is around 60%
      with no predictive factors identified. According to the study by Dallefeld (2018),
      unexplained inter-individual variability in pharmacokinetic parameters is 200%. Its adverse
      effects are numerous and affect 10% of patients. The concentration-effect relationship is
      poorly known. Amiodarone can cause hypotension and bradycardia. Liver and thyroid function
      should be monitored as well. Amiodarone is metabolised by cytochromes, mainly CYP3A4. Drug
      interactions and cytochrome variation in the neonatal period may alter its elimination
      kinetics. Pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in adults with target concentrations of
      0.5 to 2.5 mg/l.

      The efficacy of oral amiodarone in children has been shown in studies in 1980; however, there
      is no consensus on optimal dosage. Despite its widespread use in children, few
      pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in a small number of patients at different doses.
      The population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of Amiodarone in children, as well as
      its general and scientific interest, will be studied in this study. The lack of efficacy and
      the occurrence of adverse events of Amiodarone in children may be related to the large
      inter-individual pharmacokinetic variability.

      Currently, more than 200 children treated with Amiodarone are being followed at
      Necker-Enfants malades Hospital.

      This prospective study will be conducted in three paediatric services of Necker-Enfants
      malades Hospital in Paris, France.

      Patient selection will take place in the 3 paediatric services. The senior physician proposes
      the study to holders of parental authority whose child receives or will receive the treatment
      during its follow-up or hospitalization.

      After verification of the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the consent of the parents or
      parental authority and the child, according to his age, will be obtained.

      After agreement, and/or signature of the parents and the non-oral opposition of the child in
      age to understand the information, the child is sampled according to the following scheme:

        -  The samples taken during the introduction of the treatment in hospital will be made to
           observe the pharmacokinetics at the first dose: 3 samples will be taken in the following
           time windows: [H0-H3]; [H5-H9] and just before the next dose administration (H24).

        -  During the maintenance treatment, a sample will be taken during a scheduled consultation
           or during a hospitalization.

        -  Blood PK samples will be drawn until 1 month after end of treatment.

      All patients' samples will be kept for to be analyzed at the Pharmacology department of the
      Cochin hospital.

      No intervention or no charge will be made for this study.

      This population pharmacokinetic study in children aims to analyze the
      concentration-effectiveness and concentration-tolerance relationship to optimize its use.
    
  