
    
      The investigators conducted a systematic review following SIGN guidelines with the British
      Society for Surgery of the Hand(BSSH) blue book committee looking at the relationship between
      measured radiological parameters and functional outcome. 42 studies were identified all of
      which were of low quality. The conclusion was; 'Currently there is insufficient evidence to
      demonstrate an association between any measured radiological parameters and patient rated
      outcome. Further high quality research is required to answer this question.' The review
      identified that the most commonly measured parameters were radial height, radial inclination,
      volar tilt and intra articular step and gap.

      The Delphi process involves seeking consensus from renowned experts to provide an answer to
      specific research questions. Through this Delphi study the investigators intend to
      investigate and achieve consensus regarding the threshold for intervention in displaced
      distal radius fractures. The aim is to quantify how much displacement can be accepted before
      intervention is required for different patient groups. This can then help guide surgeons with
      their management decisions and help reduce variation.

      A three round modified Delphi process will be used. Identified experts will be sent an
      invitation email with an attached electronic form which they will be asked to fill in and
      return to indicate if they wish to take part.

      Invitation emails will be sent on the same day to all experts and they will be given 14 days
      to return the acceptance form.

      The first round will start 14 days after the invitation email is sent. The first round
      electronic survey link will simultaneously be emailed to all participants who have agreed to
      take part. After seven days, a second e-mail (reminder) will be sent to the participants who
      do not respond to the first invitation. On the 15th day, responses for the first round will
      be collected. The investigators will analyse the collected responses and the level of
      agreement in the responses will be assessed.

      The second round will be conducted 14 days after the first round is finalised and analysed.
      Only the responders who take part in the first round will be invited. The participants will
      be given the information about the results of the first round ,the methodology used and a
      review of the literature. Reminder e-mails will be sent on the 7th day, concluding the second
      round at 15th day. The second round results will be evaluated using the same method as that
      for the first round. The format of the third round (if required due to persistent
      disagreement) will be similar to that of the second round. Consensus is defined as 70%
      agreement between participants
    
  