
    
      Primary Hypothesis:Hypothesis The novel CVRF including the selected indicators of artery wall
      injury and local or systemic inflammation, are related to the presence and development of
      atherosclerosis and macrovascular events in DM type 2.

      2.Intensive glucose lowering therapy will reduce the levels of several, if not all, of the
      novel CVRF.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Primary Outcomes:

        1. MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION: Myocardial infarctions (MI) will be determined based on the
           algorithm supplied at the end of this appendix. All suspected MI will be evaluated in
           detail by the Endpoints Committee. All supporting documentation, i.e., ECGs, hospital
           records, laboratory values, etc. needed to confirm or rule out the presence or absence
           of an MI will be obtained by personnel at the ECG Laboratory.

        2. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE: Diagnosis of new congestive heart failure (CHF) can be made in
           the presence of at least two minor manifestations or new onset of pulmonary congestion
           requiring treatment. Treatment with diuretic, digitalis glycoside, ACE inhibitor, or
           hospitalization for management of symptoms of CHF would be appropriate.

      Study Abstract:

      Objectives A predominant consequence of diabetes mellitus (DM) type 2 is accelerated
      development of atherosclerosis related conditions. Conventional cardiovascular risk factors
      only explain a portion of the excess risk for atherosclerosis in this population. In vitro,
      animal and epidemiologic studies have suggested that a variety of "novel" cardiovascular risk
      factors (CVRF), including triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TGRL), small dense low density
      lipoprotein (D-LDL) subfractions, oxidative stress, and advanced glycation endproduct (AGE)
      formation may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. These risk factors may also
      induce endothelial cell activation/injury or local or systemic inflammation that cause
      elevations in plasma levels of additional novel risk factors, such as soluble adhesion
      molecules, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), fibrinogen and C-reactive protein
      (CRP). Many of these risk factors are increased in DM type 2, presumably as a consequence of
      hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. However, no studies have evaluated the singular or
      synergistic relationship of these novel (CVRF) to measures of atherosclerosis as well as to
      the development of clinical macrovascular events in individuals with diabetes. If, as we
      suspect, these novel CVRF are related to development of atherosclerosis and macrovascular
      disease, it will be critical for the future design of prevention strategies to know whether
      intensive glucose lowering significantly reduces the levels of these novel CVRF. Furthermore,
      it would be important to explore whether the relationship of the above novel risk factors to
      atherosclerosis and development of clinical events is attenuated in those individuals
      receiving glucose lowering therapy. Alternatively, if glucose lowering has no effect (or a
      negative effect), on relevant novel CVRF, this could potentially explain the limited success
      of intensive glucose lowering to reduce macrovascular events in several prior trials.

      The investigator proposes to take advantage of the study population and framework of the
      recently approved VA Cooperative Study of "Glycemic Control and Complications in Diabetes
      Mellitus Type 2" to address these issues in an efficient and cost-effective manner.

      Hypothesis

        1. The above novel CVRF (outlined in Table 1), including the selected indicators of artery
           wall injury and local or systemic inflammation, are related to the presence and
           development of atherosclerosis and macrovascular events in DM type 2.

        2. Intensive glucose lowering therapy will reduce the levels of several, if not all, of the
           novel CVRF.

      Research Plan Specific objectives 1& 2: Cross-sectional observational objectives

        1. Determine the cross-sectional relationship between baseline levels of novel CVRF and the
           presence of atherosclerosis as assessed by electron beam computed tomography measurement
           (EBCT) of coronary artery calcium (CAC) and abdominal aortic calcium (AAC).

        2. Determine the cross-sectional relationship between baseline levels of novel CVRF and
           prevalence of clinical macrovascular disease.

      Specific objective 3: Prospective interventional objective Determine whether intensive
      glucose lowering reduces levels of novel CVRF.

      Future long-term specific objectives: Prospective observational objectives

        1. Determine the ability of baseline levels, "on trial" levels, and change in levels of
           novel CVRF to predict progression of atherosclerosis.

        2. Determine the ability of baseline levels, "on trial" levels, and change in levels of
           novel CVRF to predict clinical macrovascular events.

      Results 89 cardiovascular events occurred during a median follow-up duration of 5.2 years.
      Although intensive glucose lowering therapy did not significantly reduce cardiovascular
      events in the substudy cohort as a whole, there was evidence that the response was modified
      by baseline CAC as indicated by significant p-values for treatment by log (CAC+1) interaction
      terms in unadjusted and multivariable adjusted models (0.01 and 0.03, respectively).
      Multivariable adjusted hazard ratios (HR) for the effect of treatment indicated a progressive
      diminution of benefit with increasing CAC. Subgroup analyses were also conducted for
      clinically relevant CAC categories, those above and below a Coronary Calcium score (Agatston
      score) of 100. For the subgroup with CAC > 100, 11 of 62 individuals had events, while only 1
      of 52 individuals with CAC 100 suffered an event. The multivariable HR for intensive
      treatment for those with CAC > 100 was 0.74 (0.46-1.20, p=0.21), while for the subgroup with
      CAC 100, the corresponding HR was 0.08 (0.008- 0.77, p=0.03), with event rates of 39 and 4
      per 1000 person-years, respectively.

      Main Manuscript:Intensive Glucose Lowering Therapy Reduces Cardiovascular Disease Events in
      Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT) Participants with Lower Calcified Coronary
      Atherosclerosis
    
  