
    
      This is a cross-sectional study with a subgroup followed longitudinally over time. This study
      consists of four basic components:

        -  identification and recruitment of a population-based sample of 1,250 regularly cycling
           women of diverse ethnicities, ages 25-45;

        -  a baseline examination on days 2-4 of the menstrual cycle, including a blood draw,
           transvaginal ultrasound examination, body size measurements, and questionnaires, to
           establish cross-sectional relations between the AFC and the genetic and environmental
           exposures of interest (see Specific Aims);

        -  genetic analyses of X-chromosome and autosomal mutations, deletions, and polymorphisms,
           implicated in the control of ovarian function; and

        -  follow-up examination, 3 years after baseline, completed by approximately one-third of
           the cohort (n=450), to begin to describe longitudinal relations between AFC and the
           exposures of interest and to identify markers predictive of accelerated follicle loss.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Characterize antral follicle count (AFC) as a marker of ovarian age by comparing it to
           other available biomarkers, Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH), FSH/Lutenizing Hormone
           (LH), and inhibin B, and determine effect modification of these relationships by age.

        2. Examine the relationship between antral follicle counts and the frequencies of specific
           genetic polymorphisms in the Deleted in AZoospermia-Like (DAZL) and interacting protein
           genes.

        3. Determine the associations between race/ethnicity, body fat, and active and passive
           smoking and AFC, independently of age; if main effects are observed between genetic
           polymorphisms and AFC (Specific Aim 2), explore the effect modification of those
           relationships by race/ethnicity, body fat and active and passive smoking.

        4. Determine the change in AFC over a three-year period and its relation to genetic and
           environmental characteristics, based on the approximately 450 women who complete a
           3-year follow-up examination.

      The primary goal of this study is to demonstrate the relationship between antral follicle
      count and common genetic polymorphisms and the effect of modification of environmental
      factors. To achieve this goal, our multidisciplinary team proposes to recruit a random sample
      of 1,250 regularly cycling, ethnically diverse women, ages 25-45, who belong to the Northern
      California Kaiser Permanente Medical Care (KPMC) Program in San Francisco.

      This study will provide evidence to support ultrasound evaluation as a non-invasive marker of
      ovarian aging. This and the genetic testing may lead to an opportunity for prospective
      identification of patients at risk for early decline in ovarian function. The ability to
      accurately generate and share this type of information will allow women to become proactive
      in managing their fertility as well as to better understand their risks associated with
      reproductive aging. The recruitment of a large, population-based cohort will increase the
      generalizability of the data generated. The ethnic diversity of this population will allow
      multiple comparisons to identify true "risk factors" for early, and/or accelerated, ovarian
      aging and their correlation with ethnicity.
    
  