
    
      BACKGROUND

      Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome (SS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by chronic
      inflammation

      involving the exocrine glands. Salivary and lacrimal glands are predominantly affected
      leading to dry mouth and dry eyes but other exocrine organs are also frequently involved. It
      is one of the most common rheumatic autoimmune diseases, which effects between 1-4 million
      Americans, predominantly women with a female to male ratio of 9:1. Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s
      syndrome may occur alone (primary SS), or may coexist with other systemic connective tissue
      disorders (secondary SS). In many cases systemic manifestations, such as fatigue, arthritis,
      vasculitis, lung disease, peripheral or central neuropathy and autonomic nervous system
      dysfunction accompany glandular involvement. Patients with systemic manifestations are at
      higher risk of lymphoma, the incidence of which is increased in SS. The treatment of sicca
      symptoms is mainly symptomatic, whereas management of extraglandular manifestations is
      similar to other autoimmune diseases.

      The cause and pathogenesis of Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome is still largely unknown. In
      a genetically predisposed individual various environmental factors, such as viral infections,
      may lead to epithelial cell activation and a protracted inflammatory response with features
      of autoimmunity. Autoreactive lymphocytes and autoantibodies are considered important in this
      process although the pathogenic role of any particular autoantibody is still undefined.
      Although inflammation may contribute to the exocrinopathy of SS, the relationship between
      inflammation and exocrine dysfunction is poorly understood. Moreover, the model does not
      explain many of the extraglandular manifestations of SS patients, such as fatigue. Further
      studies are needed to better understand the pathogenesis of SS.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of this study is to enable the collection of longitudinal clinical and
      laboratory data and biologic specimens to identify pathogenetic mechanisms of SS by careful
      clinical phenotyping of SS patients and Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s-like conditions over time
      and collection of biologic samples for concurrent and future laboratory studies related to
      the pathogenesis of Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome. Another objective of the study is to
      identify biomarker candidates associated with the diagnosis, severity, prognosis, or organ
      involvement in SS.

      The protocol will enable the study of the genetic basis and the mechanistic aspects of
      immunologic and non-immunologic abnormalities of SS and their associations with various
      clinical phenotypes.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

      The study will enroll 300 subjects with Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome or
      Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s-like conditions. Subjects aged 16- years or older fulfilling
      European American Consensus Criteria for Primary or Secondary Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s
      syndrome are eligible for the study. Selected subjects with incomplete Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren
      s syndrome or who are excluded from the European American criteria may also be eligible.
      Screening will be done on the Characterization of Diseases with Salivary Gland Involvement
      protocol (15-D-0051) prospectively or on the previous screening protocol (84-D-0056).

      DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY

      This is a longitudinal observational study. All subjects will have at least three core
      evaluations (approximately biannually) during a 4-5 year period. Additional evaluations may
      be required if there is a significant change in the clinical condition of subjects likely
      related to SS or sicca syndrome or to provide additional research samples or clinical data
      for the pathogenesis studies. Clinical data will be collected through questionnaires,
      personal interviews, physical examination, laboratory testing and imaging studies. The core
      evaluation will include a complete medical history and physical examination and a complete
      oral and dry eye evaluation. Research studies include salivary scintigraphy for functional
      assessment of salivary gland function, testing of the autonomous nervous system and may
      include an ultrasound guided parotid core needle biopsy. Blood, saliva and biopsy samples
      will be stored and used for laboratory research studies aimed at the pathogenesis of
      Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome. Samples labeled with a code without any personal
      identifiers may be shared with researchers in and outside the NIH. DNA will be collected for
      genetic studies related to Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome and related conditions.
    
  