
    
      Research studies conducted over the last decade provide compelling evidence that Gulf War
      Illness (GWI) may have been caused by exposure to chemicals, such as an anti-nerve agent
      pyridostigmine bromide (PB) and different types of pesticides (GW agents). These studies also
      show that brain structures that are involved in processing and storing memory, as well as
      brain pathways involved in controlling pain and fatigue, are altered in GW veterans with this
      condition. Even now, nearly 25 years later, veterans with GWI continue to experience these
      complex symptoms and this illness remains difficult to diagnose since the current GWI
      diagnostic process are limited by having to use information on self-reporting of symptoms. As
      such, there remains a need for developing minimally invasive blood based disease markers
      (biomarker) of GWI. The goal of this current study is to identify novel biomarkers of GWI
      which can assist physicians in providing an objective diagnosis of GWI so that appropriate
      clinical evaluations and treatments can be provided to GW veterans with this condition.
      Another key goal of this project is to identify biomarkers of GW chemical exposure and
      symptom profiles so that care and treatment can be tailored individually for each veteran
      with GWI. Scientists working in the field of GWI research continue to provide strong evidence
      that this condition is connected with irregular responses by blood cells which generally
      combat irritations or other injuries to the body (inflammation). Scientists have also found
      that GWI could also be due to damage to mitochondria, known as the powerhouses responsible
      for generating energy through the breakdown of sugars and fats (lipids).

      Scientists at the Roskamp Institute have developed mouse models of GWI in order to identify
      biomarkers of brain damage and neurobehavioral problems that are a direct consequence of
      chemicals to which GW veterans were exposed during the 1991 GW. They have identified that
      there might be problems with breaking down fats in the brains of exposed mice even long after
      subacute exposure to GW agents. In particular, they show changes in lipids which belong to
      cellular compartments (peroxisomes) that perform tasks similar to those of the mitochondria
      with respect to the breakdown of fats. The inflammatory processes, mitochondria and
      peroxisomes display unique lipid classes that can be measured in blood using mass
      spectrometry technologies. These technologies allow us to detect and measure elemental
      composition of each lipid. We plan to use this technology to study lipids that are specific
      to inflammation and metabolic disturbances associated with GWI in order to determine if they
      can be used as biomarkers of GWI. In collaboration with the Boston GWI consortium, we are
      testing this hypothesis and our early pilot work in control and GWI veterans support
      potential use of these lipids as biomarkers of GWI. The proposal will expand these pilot
      studies and determine if lipids associated with these key disturbances in GWI can be useful
      tools for diagnosing GWI. The proposal will also try to use these lipids in order to identify
      subgroups of GW veterans with similar chemical exposures and symptom patterns. This work will
      also be facilitated by the use of blood samples from GWI animal models that will help with
      translational studies linking animal model work and human studies. This will help fill the
      gaps between the two so that future studies can be conducted that can use these biomarkers to
      determine if treatments and care designed for GWI are succeeding.

      Furthermore, identifying biomarkers of exposures and symptom profiles which will help with
      delivering personalized care and treatment to each veteran appropriately. The existing
      expertise and collaborations between the Roskamp Institute and the Boston GWI consortium will
      expedite successful translation of this endeavor so that appropriate biomarker tools are made
      available to the clinicians in order to assist them with diagnosing GWI and ensuring that
      appropriate medical plans are developed for the care and treatment of veterans with GWI.
    
  