
    
      Women of child-bearing age are in the generation most likely to use texting to communicate,
      and most own a cellular phone, and that cell phones have been demonstrated to be efficacious
      in increasing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) medication compliance and smoking cessation,
      and in improving diabetes management, the investigators consider this may be a promising
      strategy to increase breastfeeding. The investigators developed theoretically-based text
      message content along with breast feeding informational and video content designed for
      delivery via closed private groups on social media based on formative work and then conducted
      a pilot study to text the effects of interactive messaging sent over a 12 week period (i.e. 6
      weeks prior and after birth) that targeted barriers (e.g. insufficient milk, pain/sore
      nipples, breastfeeding in public, among others) on exclusivity and continuation of
      breastfeeding. The investigators innovative approach, called Mother's Milk Messaging (MMM)
      specifically targets low-income and minority mothers and has the potential to reach
      unprecedented numbers of mothers, to be standardized for later scalability, and to be
      cost-effective.

      While Text4Baby texting application uses a similar approach, the text messages are not
      interactive and they do not address specific issues with breastfeeding. The device's social
      media content facilitates private, peer and expert support for breastfeeding in real time on
      a channel preferred by first time mothers.

      Applying a theoretically-based framework, the investigators developed content stemming from
      Dr. Maya Bunik's previous published Breastfeeding Telephone Triage and Advice. Content was
      adapted for delivery via a mobile application (App) with attention to an Integrated Theory of
      mobile Health (mHealth) using best practices for app design for health promotion using social
      and mobile technology. The content was modified to facilitate engagement with content using
      technology, utilizing communication theories such as Gain and Loss Framing and Elaboration
      theory, and theories to support social networking and social support, along with behavioral
      health theories such as the Theory of Planned Behavior and Social Cognitive Theory.

      The MMM app has three main elements: text messages via push notification are stored and
      searchable on the app, access to a breastfeeding social support group on Facebook, and access
      to videos and written material to facilitate knowledge acquisition and skills building. The
      text messages are targeted at specific theoretical constructs such as outcome
      expectations/attitudes, barrier self-efficacy, reinforcing a message using peripheral
      (expert) opinion, eliciting a sense of social currency or providing a cue-to-action. The
      breastfeeding social support group on Facebook will be moderated to facilitate posting of
      shared experiences. Short videos, photographs, and written blurbs on related topics are
      posted on the Facebook page to reinforce the messaging and content of the texts. After a
      successful pilot study of MMM the investigators are ready to test the benefits of supporting
      new mothers with breastfeeding using the investigators bilingual mobile phone application
      (app) and online support program.
    
  