
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if bortezomib, daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (daratumumab), lenalidomide
      and dexamethasone (Btz-DRd) consolidation followed by daratumumab and lenalidomide (DR)
      maintenance after standard induction therapy with daratumumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone
      (DRd) results in superior overall survival compared to DRd consolidation followed by DR
      maintenance, in minimal residual disease (MRD) positive patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if Btz-DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance after standard induction
      therapy with DRd results in superior overall survival compared to DRd consolidation followed
      by DR maintenance in MRD negative patients.

      II. To determine if Btz-DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance after standard induction
      therapy with DRd results in superior progression-free survival compared to DRd consolidation
      followed by DR maintenance in both MRD positive and MRD negative patients.

      III. To describe and compare the incidence of toxicities during consolidation between Btz-DRd
      and DRd arms.

      IV. To assess the improvement in MRD negative rate with consolidation among patients who are
      MRD positive after induction.

      V. To assess the sustained MRD negative rate among patients who are MRD negative after
      induction.

      PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES (PRO) OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantify the extent to which the addition of bortezomib to DRd over consolidation
      treatment contributes to neuropathy and associated physical and functional impairments.
      (Primary PRO Objective) II. To evaluate the rate of resolution of neurotoxicity and
      associated physical and functional impairments following completion of consolidation therapy.
      (Secondary PRO Objective) III. To investigate the relationship between MRD status and patient
      reported health-related quality of life outcomes. (Exploratory PRO Objective) IV. To evaluate
      attributes of select patient reported treatment-emergent symptomatic adverse events (PRO-
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE]) longitudinally and compare responses
      with provider-reported adverse events. (Exploratory PRO Objective) V. To tabulate PRO
      compliance and completion rates. (Exploratory PRO Objective)

      IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association between post-induction fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) positron
      emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and patient outcomes (overall survival
      [OS] and progression-free survival [PFS]). (Primary Imaging Objective) II. To evaluate the
      association between baseline 18F-FDG PET/CT and patient outcomes (PFS and OS). (Secondary
      Imaging Objective) III. To compare overall survival with the addition of Bortezomib to
      consolidation DRd therapy among 18F-FDG PET/CT-positive and 18F-FDG PET/CT-negative
      subgroups. (Secondary Imaging Objective) IV. To evaluate the ability of baseline 18F-FDG
      PET/CT to predict post-induction depth of response as measured by MRD assessment. (Secondary
      Imaging Objective) V. To evaluate the ability of post-induction 18F-FDG PET/CT to predict MRD
      conversion post-consolidation. (Secondary Imaging Objective) VI. To utilize 18F-FDG PET/CT,
      standard risk factors and clinical data to identify distinct subgroups with differing patient
      outcomes (PFS and OS). (Exploratory Imaging Objective) VII. To compare the various
      qualitative 18F-FDG PET/CT criteria to determine which criteria yields superior risk
      stratification. (Exploratory Imaging Objective)

      OUTLINE:

      ARM A (INDUCTION): All patients receive standard induction therapy comprising the following:
      daratumumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-2, days 1 and 15 of
      cycles 3-6, and day 1 of cycles 7-9, lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21, and
      dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of standard induction therapy, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM B:

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15, daratumumab SC on day 1,
      lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21 and daratumumab SC on day 1.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C:

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive daratumumab SC on day 1, lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21,
      and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21, and daratumumab SC on day
      1. Cycles repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2
      years from study entry, every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry, then annually for up to
      15 years from study entry.
    
  