
    
      This is a phase I/II clinical trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      intensity modulated radiation therapy based total marrow irradiation (TMI) concurrent with
      fludarabine as a myeloablative conditioning regimen for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (Allo-HSCT), as well as to determine the efficacy of the regimen in patients
      with high-risk and relapsed or refractory leukemia and myelodysplasia. TMI, which allows for
      conformal dosing of target bone marrow tissue while giving lower doses to organs at risk, is
      considered by many to be a superior alternative to conventional total body irradiation (TBI)

      Primary Objectives:

      Phase I:

      Determine the MTD of TMI given concurrently with fludarabine (fixed at 150 mg/m2) as a
      conditioning regimen for Allo-HSCT for patients with high risk (relapsed/refractory) acute
      lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and
      chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).

      Phase II:

      Single-arm exploratory study to expand the cohort at the MTD level to estimate 1- year
      overall survival (OS), with the objective of increasing the OS from the historical rate of
      30% (null hypothesis ) to 50% (alternate hypothesis) with 80% power and a one-sided type I
      error of 0.05.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Describe the extramedullary toxicity and the incidence of complications, including
           mucositis, acute and chronic graft versus host disease (GvHD), sinusoidal obstruction
           syndrome (SOS), and pneumonitis.

        2. Describe the time to engraftment of neutrophils and platelets

        3. Describe the disease response rate at day 30 after transplantation

        4. Describe the overall survival and disease-free survival

        5. Describe the cumulative incidence of relapse and non-relapse mortality

        6. Determine the correlation between plasma/serum markers and radiation induced acute and
           long term toxicities.

        7. Describe the quality of life metrics of participating subjects

             -  Stopping criteria was met during the first dose level cohort in Phase l. The trial
                will not continue into Phase II as originally planned.
    
  