
    
      INTRODUCTION Fibroids are benign monoclonal tumors originated from genetically predisposed
      uterine smooth muscular cells in a proper hormonal environment. Fibroid growth is dependent
      on the ovarian steroids estrogen and progesterone. In vivo models have shown that
      progesterone and the presence of its receptor are the main key points for fibroid growth,
      being PR stimulation the primary action of estrogens.

      Multiple treatment options are currently available, including surgery (hysterectomy or
      myomectomy), uterine artery embolization, cryomyolysis, radiofrequency myolysis,
      high-intensity focused ultrasound, and pharmacological treatment. Proper counseling about all
      therapeutic approaches should be discussed with the patient, explaining pros and cons of
      every treatment and taking into consideration several clinical factors such as number,
      location and fibroid size, age and desire for future pregnancies. Final decision of the best
      treatment should be taken according to the patient's desire.

      Uterine fibroids still represent the most frequent indication for hysterectomy, which
      associates a low but significant risk of vascular, intestinal and urinary complications.
      Non-surgical treatments represent a good option for those young patients in order to avoid
      surgical scars on uterine surface and the risk of hysterectomy. Due to the Es and Prog
      dependent status, fibroid-related symptoms often cease once menopause status is achieved, so
      selected perimenopausal patients could also benefit from those therapies and avoid a surgery.

      Among the pharmacological treatment options, gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRHa)
      are effective in reducing bleeding and uterine volume, but with considerable side-effects due
      to the estrogen-suppression status. Ulipristal acetate (UPA) have been shown to be effective
      in bleeding control, induction of amenorrhea and fibroid reduction when compared to GnRHa,
      with fewer side effects as it maintains estradiol at mid-follicular phase levels.
      Pre-surgical UPA treatment allows recovery of Hb levels and reduction in fibroid size,
      allowing better minimally invasive surgery procedures. On selected patients, long-term
      intermittent treatment with UPA offers an alternative to surgery allowing patients to reach
      menopause status without surgery.

      In February 2018, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) announced temporary restrictive
      measures to UPA treatment as 8 cases of severe liver injury were potentially linked to UPA
      administration. After the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) evaluation
      concluded, the association between UPA and drug induced liver injury (DILI) was neither
      confirmed nor excluded. As a conclusion, the EMA stated that the benefits of UPA for the
      treatment of symptomatic uterine fibroids clearly outweigh the risks, but risk-minimization
      measures were needed in order to avoid the rare but serious possible liver injury.

      In this work, the investigators evaluated evaluate whether changes in transaminase levels or
      other DILI markers occur in patients receiving UPA in the study center.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS Retrospective observational study to assess the variations of liver
      blood test parameters during UPA treatment for symptomatic uterine fibroids. The study is
      approved by the ethics committee of the study site and will be conducted in accordance with
      the principles of the International Conference on Harmonization-Good Clinical Practice
      (ICH-GCP) guidelines Investigators will include all women who had completed a full 12-week
      treatment course of UPA for symptomatic uterine fibroids since September 2018. All patients
      will provide written informed consent. As stated by EMA recommendations, all patients will
      perform a blood test including liver parameters (AST, ALT, AF, GGT, bilirubin) before
      initiating the treatment, monthly during the 12-week treatment course, and an additional test
      2-4 weeks after ending treatment. All data will be collected in an anonymized database with
      restricted access to investigators
    
  