
    
      The concept of asthma as a condition in which acute and chronic inflammatory changes in
      airways play a fundamental role is well established. The role of leukotrienes as a crucial
      element of these inflammatory processes is supported by abundant laboratory and clinical
      evidence. There is a potential for herbal medicinal approaches to ameliorate
      leukotriene-mediated inflammation in asthma based on data from the literature and our
      laboratory. Studies suggest that dietary GLA, found in borage and evening primrose oils, is
      unique among the (n-6) polyunsaturated fatty acid family members (linolenic acid, GLA and
      arachidonic acid) in its potential to attenuate inflammatory processes. For instance, there
      are randomized, placebo-controlled trials (RCT) demonstrating efficacy of dietary GLA in
      treating patients with rheumatoid arthritis and active synovitis. Ginkgo biloba, a
      flavonoid-rich extract of leaves of the Ginkgo biloba tree, has been studied in one RCT with
      asthma patients and is recommended by complementary and alternative practitioners as
      treatment for allergic inflammation and asthma. Ginkgo biloba supplements have no known
      adverse effects.

      We will assess clinical efficacies and/or adverse effects of dietary borage oil and Ginkgo
      biloba in patients with asthma in a 17 month RCT. We also propose to delineate whether or not
      the clinical course of treatment correlates with suppression of leukotriene B4 (LTB4), LTC4
      and LTD4 generated by activated polymorphonuclear cells. Additionally, in the Ginkgo biloba
      arms of study, the in vitro/ex vivo inhibition of histamine release will be assayed, since
      one of its major constituents, quercetin, is known to be structurally related to cromolyn
      sodium and has been shown in vitro studies to exhibit similar activities. Furthermore,
      anti-inflammatory activities of Ginkgo biloba will be compared to those of some of its
      individual constituents in a series of in vitro experiments. It is hoped that findings from
      these studies will evolve relatively non-toxic therapeutic alternatives for attenuating
      bronchial hyperresponsiveness and inflammation in patients with asthma.
    
  