
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma
           treated with iodine I 131 metaiodobenzylguanidine (^131I-MIBG) and combination
           chemotherapy comprising carboplatin, etoposide, and melphalan followed by autologous
           bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic toxicity of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the tumor self-absorbed radiation dose (TSARD) in patients with measurable
           soft tissue lesions treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate the TSARD with tumor response in patients with measurable residual soft tissue
           disease treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk (poor-risk
      group [mixed or no response to induction therapy or progression during or after induction
      therapy] vs good-risk group [partial response after 4 courses of induction therapy]) and
      kidney function at study entry (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] ≥ 100 mL/min vs GFR 60-99
      mL/min)

        -  Stem cell harvest: Patients undergo a peripheral blood stem cell harvest or bone marrow
           harvest provided they have an adequate number of cells available. At least 2 weeks
           later, patients proceed to iodine I 131 metaiodobenzylguanidine (^131I-MIBG) and
           combination chemotherapy.

        -  131I-MIBG and combination chemotherapy: Patients receive ^131I-MIBG IV over 2 hours on
           day -21, carboplatin IV continuously on days -7 to -4, etoposide IV continuously on days
           -7 to -4, and melphalan IV over 1 hour on days -7 to -5.

        -  Stem cell infusion and filgrastim (G-CSF): Three days after completion of chemotherapy,
           patients undergo transplantation of either stem cells or bone marrow on day 0. Patients
           also receive G-CSF subcutaneously or IV over 1 hour once daily beginning on day 0 and
           continuing until blood counts return to normal.

        -  Radiotherapy: Once blood counts return to normal, patients undergo radiotherapy to
           primary and metastatic sites that have not received previous irradiation over 12 days
           beginning after day 42.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 2 years and then periodically
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 50 patients (40 low-risk patients and 8-10 high-risk
      patients) will be accrued for this study.
    
  