
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a disabling mental disorder with a lifetime prevalence of
      up to16% . Approximately 30% of MDD patients suffer treatment resistant depression (TRD),
      with at least 2 failed adequate trials of pharmacotherapy. Repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) has been shown to be a safe treatment for TRD, yet the standard clinical
      technique for using it as treatment depressive disorders is associated with limited efficacy
      to date. Among the potential causes of limited efficacy have been the scalp based targeting
      technique that is currently the most common targeting method rather than techniques that
      incorporate functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) neuronavigation, which have been
      shown to have greater efficacy. Image guided TMS can target specific functional brain
      networks with greater resolution that takes into account individual differences in brain
      anatomy.

      Another technique for improving treatment efficacy, shown to modulate cortical excitability,
      may be the application of intermittent theta-burst stimulation in regular intervals, which
      has been shown to be no different than a longer-in-time application of rTMS. Paired with the
      evidence that iTBS has produced significant antidepressant responses in severely depressed
      individuals, and that relapse in depressive states predicts diminished efficacy of treatment
      as well as increased quantity of TBS pulses to have a beneficial effect, these recent iTBS
      findings suggest that iTBS may offer a valid treatment alternative to options that have
      proven otherwise ineffective in treating TRD. Therefore, the investigators aim to administer
      iTBS to severely-depressed participant in a shorter amount of time, in order to improve their
      antidepressant outcome.

      Significance: This protocol builds on different notions:

        1. iTBS is not different in treatment outcome than rTMS while applying the same amount of
           pulses in shorter amount of time;

        2. The degree of treatment resistance is indicative of iTBS quantity needed to obtain an
           antidepressant treatment

        3. Repeated iTBS produces a significant effect in treating refractory depression

        4. Decreasing the interval between iTBS applications enhanced positive treatment outcomes.

      Therefore, the compression of iTBS pulses with shorter intervals between sessions is
      hypothesized to have an increased beneficial effect on individuals affected by
      treatment-resistant depression.
    
  