
    
      In patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving dialysis, the risk of
      cardiovascular death has been estimated to be 10-100 times higher than the general population
      without renal disease. This is due in part to high levels of inflammation and vascular
      calcification (large deposits of calcium in arteries) found in these patients. Chronic
      inflammation is particularly common in patients with ESRD. Parenteral iron therapy, which is
      common in patients on dialysis, may contribute to this inflammation and also a higher
      cardiovascular risk. Phosphate binders, particularly non-calcium based phosphate binders, may
      decrease cardiovascular risk by decreasing inflammation and vascular calcification. In a
      study of 10,044 hemodialysis patients, treatment with a phosphate binder was associated with
      improved survival. Ferric citrate a non-calcium based phosphate binder with approximately 210
      mg of ferric iron has recently been approved for patients on hemodialysis. It has been shown
      to improve serum phosphorus levels and decrease intravenous iron requirements for patients on
      hemodialysis. The effect of this phosphate binder on inflammation and lipid levels is unknown
      but investigators hypothesize that ferric citrate has the potential to improve inflammation
      and lipid levels in patients on hemodialysis by decreasing intravenous iron requirements and
      by improving lipid metabolism.

      Ferric citrate has the potential to decrease cardiovascular risk through multiple mechanisms:

        1. acting as a non-calcium based binder to decrease serum phosphorus levels and vascular
           calcification,

        2. decreasing intravenous iron requirements which in turn may decrease inflammation,

        3. binding endotoxin (a harmful substance produced by microorganisms) in the gut and

        4. improving lipid metabolism.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of ferric citrate on inflammatory markers
      and lipid levels.
    
  