
    
      Background: Good blood pressure (BP) control among patients with diabetes is essential in
      preventing diabetes complications and has been found to be not only cost-effective but
      cost-saving. Nonetheless, over 25% of VA patients with diabetes do not have adequate BP
      control. Among these poorly controlled patients, over 65% have problems with medication
      adherence or inadequate intensification of medications. We therefore propose a partnership
      with the VA Pharmacy Benefits Management (PBM) Office and VISN 11 to evaluate a tailored
      clinical pharmacist-based intervention to improve medication management, adherence and BP
      control.

      Objectives: The specific objectives of this implementation study are: 1) To evaluate the
      effects of the intervention on blood pressure (primary outcome) and glycemic and lipid
      control (secondary outcomes); 2) To assess the impact of the intervention on patients'
      adherence to blood pressure, anti-hyperglycemic, and lipid-lowering regimens, and intensity
      of these regimens; 3) To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the intervention compared to
      usual care; 4) To evaluate the level of attainment of intervention implementation, examine
      the process of intervention implementation, and determine the potential for sustainability.

      Methods: In this cluster randomized implementation trial, we will proactively identify, using
      clinical automated data, all diabetes patients within 3 VA sites who have poor blood pressure
      control and either poor refill adherence or insufficient medication intensification. (NIDDK
      R18 funds 2 non-VA sites.) Adherence and treatment intensification patterns will also be
      evaluated for glycemia and lipids if either of these risk factors is poorly controlled.
      Clinical pharmacists, trained in motivational interviewing techniques and guided by
      computerized adherence modules, will identify barriers to medication adherence and provide
      adherence counseling. They will also be authorized to change and titrate medications
      following site-specific algorithms. Patients in the non-intervention (control) teams will
      receive usual care. Blood pressure control and refill adherence will be assessed 6-months
      after the end of the intervention period. We will also conduct a formative evaluation during
      the course of the study and assess implementation attainment and potential for dissemination.

      Status: Data analysis complete. (Enrollment numbers are for VA and non-VA sites [control and
      intervention].)
    
  