
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine whether dialysis by high convection volume OL HDF
      reduces oxidative stress and inflammation levels, improving hemodynamic stability and
      metabolic complications compared to dialysis with High Flux (HF) membranes.

      Methods: After a rush in period of 3 month with HF membranes, 45 dialysis patients were
      treated with HF for 6 months and then converted to 6 months of OL HDF treatment. The
      hemodynamic stability was measured during treatment throughout all the study and Quality of
      life was assessed by a reliable and valid tool developed and adapted specifically for ESRD
      population according to Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form (KDQOL- SF).

      We propose to measure biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress in all blood samples
      collected at the end of each period for the following ( The number of blood samples to be
      analyzed: 45 patients 3 samples per patient total of 135 samples ).

        -  Total glycated proteins in relation to total proteins and to oncotic pressure of the
           samples. We have shown that the oncotic pressure can serve as a better measure of
           albumin concentrations than the albumin measured in routine clinical laboratories3.

        -  Albumin detection index4 and levels of albumin, as a measure of oxidation and
           inflammation (negative acute phase protein).

        -  Levels of Beta2m.

        -  Levels of Klotho: It was shown that reduced serum soluble Klotho is associated with
           all-cause mortality, even after adjusting for confounding variables, implying that the
           level of serum soluble Klotho plays a role as a predictive indicator of overall
           mortality in patients with ESRD.

        -  Levels of myeloperoxidase (MPO), a products of neutrophils degranulation due to
           activation by the dialysis treatment.

        -  Oxidation reduction potential (ORP), a global measure of all oxidant and antioxidant
           activity (A new instrument introduced in our research laboratory)

        -  Advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP) , a measure of total protein oxidation

      Implication: The study will examine whether OL-HDF dialysis with high convection volume is
      associated with a reduction of oxidative stress and inflammation markers and improvement in
      the quality of life of dialysis patients. The results of this study will encourage the use of
      this new treatment mode in order to reduce the high morbidity resulting from OS and
      inflammation among these patients.
    
  