
    
      The standard of care in breast cancer surgery includes identification and assessment of the
      sentinel lymph node (SLN). At the present time, SLN mapping utilizes a gamma ray-emitting
      radiotracer and/or a blue dye. Radiotracers provide sensitive detection of SLNs, but require
      involvement of a nuclear medicine physician, vary widely in transit time depending on the
      agent employed, can be difficult to localize with a handheld gamma probe, and expose both
      patient and caregivers to ionizing radiation. Blue dyes, such as isosulfan blue, cannot be
      seen easily through skin and fat, but can aid in definitive identification of the SLN when
      the handheld gamma probe gives ambiguous results. Finally, the learning curve associated with
      expertise in the SLN procedure is quite long using currently available techniques.

      In this 12-patient pilot study, we are testing a new intraoperative imaging system that we
      developed for image-guided surgery. The imaging system uses invisible, near-infrared (NIR)
      light to visualize lymphatic flow and to identify the SLN. The imaging system makes no
      contact with the patient and can display surgical anatomy simultaneously with NIR
      fluorescence.

      All patients will receive the standard of care for SLN mapping, namely technetium-99m sulfur
      colloid lymphoscintigraphy. In addition, patients will be injected with indocyanine green
      (ICG) diluted in human serum albumin (HSA). ICG is already FDA approved for other indications
      and is used in this study at 400-fold to 2000-fold lower than the typical clinical dose.
      Dilution into HSA improves the brightness of ICG by over 3-fold, making it an excellent
      tracer for lymphatic flow.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to determine whether the ergonomics of the imaging system
      interfere with typical clinical workflow during breast cancer surgery. A secondary goal is to
      optimize the imaging parameters (light levels, exposure time, etc.) associated with
      identification of the SLN.
    
  