
    
      The most commonly used regimen for relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)
      is the R-ICE regime (rituximab, ifosphamide, cisplatin and etoposide). It was previously
      reported to give an overall response rate (RR) of close to 70%, and a complete response rate
      of 53%. As most DLBCL patients are now treated in the frontline with R-CHOP regimen, the
      validity of RRs with R-ICE needs to be reevaluated. Results of the CORAL study, a prospective
      randomized phase III trial comparing R-DHAP vs R-ICE in relapsed DLBCL were recently
      presented. It was shown that there was no difference in RR between R-ICE and R-DHAP. However,
      the RR of patients who had received prior rituximab in the frontline setting was
      significantly lower at 51%, compared with rituximab-naïve patients at 83%. This suggests that
      relapses after rituximab exposure are more severe. In addition to the risk of more aggressive
      subtype of DLBCL (activated B-cell [ABC]) that may not be abrogated by rituximab, the
      presence of rituximab-resistant disease is also strongly implicated. As R-CHOP is currently
      the frontline standard of care, more has to be done to augment the current available salvage
      regimens. Incorporation of agents targeting the activated B-cell (ABC)subtype and
      rituximab-resistance is prudent in the salvage regimen. Bortezomib, a proteosome inhibitor
      impacts on many cellular processes relevant to the pathogenesis of DLBCL, including
      inhibition of nuclear factor-kappa B. Preclinical studies have also demonstrated that
      bortezomib displayed significant antitumor activity against various lymphomas, and in
      particular the ABC subtype of DLBCL. It is also capable of enhancing the biologic activity of
      rituximab through upregulation of CD20 in preclinical studies. Demonstration of synergism in
      these 2 agents, in part due to their dependence on overlapping pathways, suggests that they
      should be explored as a combination.

      On this basis, the investigators aim to conduct a pilot study of adding intravenous
      bortezomib to R-ICE as a salvage regime for adult patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL.
    
  