
    
      Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a chronic autoimmune cholestatic liver disease. The
      course of the disease is characterized by a slow destruction of bile ducts, and progressive
      cholestasis. Prognosis depends on the development of cirrhosis and its complications.
      Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) has been established as standard therapy for PBC and improves
      patients' long-term outcome. However, UDCA is not a uniformly effective drug, and the
      prognosis of PBC patients insufficiently responding to treatment is markedly worse. For
      patients with suboptimal treatment response to UDCA obeticholic acid (OCA) as newly approved
      medication (OCALIVA®) is available as second line treatment.

      Due to the low prevalence and the slowly progressive course of the disease it is very
      difficult to investigate the prognosis of subgroups of PBC patients or to evaluate the
      effectivness of therapeutic interventions on clinical outcomes. Therefore, several national
      or international registries (UK-PBC Consortium or the Global PBC Study Group) were founded to
      better characterize the clinical course of PBC patients.

      Since in Germany a registry for PBC does not exist, the German PBC Cohort is being
      implemented as observational study to collect data on treatment progress and success in
      clinical routine that reflects real world conditions in Germany as closely as possible. The
      effectiveness and safety/tolerability of PBC treatment options (UDCA as standard therapy and
      second-line treatment options like OCALIVA in case of inadequate UDCA treatment response)
      will be evaluated.

      In approximatly 40 sites in Germany routine data is collected. There are no specifications
      for the diagnosis, therapy and monitoring of the PBC patients. The documentation of the
      routine data is carried out alongside with guideline recommended treatment intervals of the
      patients.

      Furthermore, a critical criterion for the German PBC Cohort study is the involvement of a
      sufficient number of gastroenterology specialized practices and outpatient clinics that have
      consciously not been selected based on the strict specifications of a clinical trial and
      which provide routine treatment for PBC patients. In addition, patient access is designed to
      be open. Data will be collected on patient groups that represent a majority of the PBC
      patients in Germany, but who are not being investigated in clinical trials.
    
  