
    
      Background: Urinary tract infections (UTIs), the most common infection in pregnancy,are
      associated with several maternal and fetal complications, including maternal septic shock,
      preterm labor, intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine fetal death. Thus, the
      prevention of UTIs in pregnancy is a very important goal. Several studies have suggested that
      alterations in the vaginal flora were associated with recurrent UTIs, and probiotic
      administrations may have a role in preventing those infections. Nevertheless, this has never
      been tested in pregnant women.

      Working hypothesis and aims:Administration of oral probiotic formula to pregnant women,which
      suffered from at least one episode of UTI, will reduce the recurrence of future UTIs events.

      Methods: A prospective randomized double blind placebo-control study. Pregnant women which
      suffered from at least one event of UTI during pregnancy will be divided into 2 research
      arms:

      ARM A - women who suffered from one episode of UTI during pregnancy before recruitment: after
      antibiotic treatment achieving a sterile bacterial urine culture, these patients will be
      divided into a research group which will receive the probiotic formula Urex Plus containing
      L. rhamnosus GR-1 and L. reuteri RC-14, and a control group, which will receive a placebo,
      twice a day until delivery.

      ARM B - women who suffered from more than one episode of UTI or one episode of pyelonephritis
      during pregnancy before recruitment will receive a preventive antibiotic treatment until
      delivery. Similarly to ARM A, after achieving a sterile bacterial urine culture, those women,
      will be divided into a research group, which will receive the probiotic formula Urex Plus,
      and a control group, which will receive a placebo twice a day until delivery.

      Once a month and with symptoms, urine culture will be taken in all of the study arms. Vaginal
      swab test will also be taken to detect the presence of abnormal vaginal flora and
      semi-quantitative assessment of vaginal lactobacilli.

      Data regarding the rate of recurrent UTIs, time until infection, average number of
      infections, the rate of pyelonephritis infections and obstetrical and neonatal outcomes will
      be collected.
    
  