
    
      Background: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a life-threatening haematological malignancy.
      Initial treatment with induction chemotherapy requires 4-5 weeks of hospitalization, with a
      risk of physical deconditioning, declines in quality of life (QOL), and significant fatigue.
      Four pilot exercise studies have demonstrated improved fitness, strength, QOL, and fatigue in
      patients undergoing induction, but are limited by small sample sizes, recruitment of mostly
      younger adults, inconsistent endpoints, and design issues. Prior to conducting a large
      multi-centre randomized controlled trial (RCT), important pilot work first needs to be done
      to demonstrate feasibility of a randomized trial of an exercise program in AML patients
      undergoing induction chemotherapy; to ensure safety; and to provide effect estimates of the
      intervention on fitness and QOL/fatigue endpoints.

      Objectives: Primary objectives are: (1) to determine feasibility of recruitment and retention
      of adult AML patients to a randomized trial of supervised exercise and ability of patients to
      perform an exercise intervention in hospital; (2) to provide estimates of the effect of
      exercise on fitness parameters. Secondary objectives are: (1) to determine effects of
      exercise on QOL and fatigue; (2) to understand the impact of exercise on AML treatment
      tolerability; (3) to examine safety of the exercise intervention. Methods: Thirty-five
      patients age 18 or older with newly diagnosed or relapsed AML who are undergoing induction
      chemotherapy will be recruited at Princess Margaret Hospital. Participants will perform 30-45
      minutes of supervised aerobic and resistance exercises 4-5 days per week. Primary outcomes
      are recruitment rate, exercise adherence rate, and impact on fitness measures (peak aerobic
      capacity (VO2peak), grip strength, leg strength, 6-minute walk test). QOL will be measured
      with the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) core 30-item
      questionnaire (QLQ-C30). Fatigue will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy fatigue subscale (FACT-Fatigue). Treatment tolerability outcomes include length of
      stay, intensive care unit admission, and the development of sepsis. Outcomes over time will
      be assessed using mixed effects regression models.

      Significance: Exercise is a promising intervention for improving fitness, QOL and treatment
      tolerability in AML patients undergoing induction chemotherapy. This pilot RCT will establish
      feasibility and safety, as well as provide efficacy estimates that will be vital to the
      design and conduct of a definitive multi-centre RCT of exercise in this patient population.
    
  