
    
      The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased over the last decades
      due to improved understanding of the disease and new treatments. CF patients who live longer
      develop glucose intolerance and cystic fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD), in fact, routine
      annual screening by Oral Glucose Tolerance Tests (OGTT) shows that the prevalence of CFRD
      increases with age. CFRD is primarily an insulinopenic condition characterized by an impaired
      and delayed insulin secretion, as a consequence of fibrosis in the exocrine pancreatic tissue
      that compromises the ß-cell function.

      The occurrence of CFRD is significantly related to increased morbidity and mortality. Based
      on data from the CF Patients Registry in the USA, the mortality rate of patients with CFRD is
      six-fold higher than that of patients without CFRD.

      Our pilot study proved that during pulmonary exacerbation (PE), CF patients with Normal
      Glucose Tolerance (NGT) exhibited early latent diabetic glucose intolerance in Oral Glucose
      Tolerance Test(OGTT) which becomes completely normalized 3-4 weeks after resolution of PE.
      These patients who are considered to be normoglycemic may experience relatively long periods
      of hyperglycemia during recurrent events of pulmonary infections. Chronically increased
      glucose values during PE have an adverse impact on pulmonary function both during PE and in
      the long-term. Hyperglycemia may increase the duration and extent of recovery from PE.
      Furthermore it may impair the ability to overcome lung infections by directly stimulating the
      growth of respiratory pathogens. Finally, hyperglycemia per-se during stressful conditions
      may worsen the general outcome.

      Insulin therapy is considered routine treatment for patients with CFRD. In addition to
      normalizing glucose levels, insulin has a beneficial effect on general pulmonary function and
      nutritional status, possibly due to its anabolic effect. No routine or formal guidelines for
      treating PE hyperglycemia are currently available. Normal Glucose Tolerance (NGT)patients,
      who are hyperglycemic during PE only, are generally not intensively treated for this
      condition, except if the treating physician decides on interventional insulin treatment. Some
      patients may experience relatively long periods of hyperglycemia during recurrent events of
      pulmonary infections.
    
  