
    
      PATHOS is a multicentre, open-label, parallel-group Phase II/III randomised controlled trial
      (RCT). The phase II target of 242 patients was reached in December 2018 and there was a
      seamless transition into Phase III. The protocol was amended in September 2018 to incorporate
      the changes associated with the phase III transition. The amendment included changes to the
      outcome measures and sample size calculations.

      Approximately 1100 patients will be recruited to the phase III study. Patients eligible for
      the study must have biopsy proven oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) clinically
      staged T1T3 N0N2b. Their primary tumour, as judged by the local MDT, must be considered
      resectable via a transoral approach. Having secured informed consent, patients with centrally
      or locally determined HPV positive tumours will undergo baseline assessment of swallowing
      function (includes; MDADI score, videofluoroscopy, PSSH& N, 100 mL water swallow test) and
      complete QOL questions (EORTC QLQC30 and EORTC QLQH&N35) prior to surgery.

      Transoral Laser Microsurgery, Transoral Robotic Surgery & Endoscopically assisted Transoral
      Surgery are all accepted transoral techniques for the study. A lateral oropharyngectomy
      performed with monopolar cautery (The Huet Procedure) can also be used.

      Following surgery and histopathological assessment of the primary tumour and neck dissection
      surgical specimens, patients will be allocated into study groups based on the presence or
      absence of pathological risk factors for recurrence as follows:

      Group A: Patients with tumours which exhibit no adverse histological features. Patients in
      this group will not receive any adjuvant treatment as per standard of care.

      Group B: Patients with T3 tumours (or T1-T2 tumours with additional risk factors), TNM 7th
      edition pN2a (metastasis in single ipsilateral node 31-60 mm diameter) or pN2b (metastasis in
      multiple ipsilateral nodes <61 mm diameter) disease, tumours with evidence of perineural
      and/or vascular invasion, and/or a histologically normal tissue margin around the primary
      tumour of 1-5mm and, in the case of TLM, marginal biopsies free of tumour (section 7.1).
      Patients in this group will be randomised to PORT 60Gy in 30# over 6 weeks (Control Arm B1)
      or PORT 50Gy in 25# over 5 weeks (Test Arm B2).

      Group C: Patients with tumours of any T or any N stage, which exhibit the following high-risk
      pathological features will be included: A histologically normal tissue margin around the
      primary tumour of <1mm and, in the case of TLM, marginal biopsies free of tumour and /or
      extracapsular spread (ECS) of nodal disease. Patients in this group will be randomised to
      POCRT 60Gy in 30# over 6 weeks with concurrent Cisplatin (Control Arm C1) or PORT 60Gy in 30#
      over 6 weeks without chemotherapy (Test Arm C2).

      Patients in groups B and C will be stratified before randomisation by T stage, N stage,
      smoking history and treating centre.

      The same assessments as at baseline will be completed post-operatively prior to treatment and
      then at four weeks and 6, 12 and 24 months post-treatment. The exception is videofluoroscopy
      which will be repeated at post-surgery and 12 months only.

      Acute and late toxicity will be recorded weekly during treatment and again at 4 weeks and 6,
      12 and 24 months post-treatment.

      The time point of assessments should be recorded on the CRF. Complications relating to
      surgery will be recorded in the CRF. In particular, any complications which necessitate a
      delay to the start of adjuvant treatment.

      Data registry: The top copy of each completed CRF should be returned to the CTR for data
      entry within four weeks of the visit. The remaining copy is to be retained at the local site.
      In accordance with the principles of GCP, the PI is responsible for ensuring accuracy,
      completeness, legibility and timeliness of the data reported to the CTR in the CRFs. CRF
      pages and data received by the CTR from participating trial sites will be checked for
      missing, illegible or unusual values (range checks) and consistency over time.

      If missing or questionable data are identified, a data query will be raised on a data
      clarification form. The data clarification form will be sent to the relevant participating
      site. The site shall be requested to answer the data query or correct data on the data
      clarification form. The CRF pages should not be altered.

      All answered data queries and corrections should be signed off and dated by a delegated
      member of staff at the relevant participating site. The completed data clarification form
      should be returned to the CTR and a copy retained at the site along with the participants'
      CRFs.

      The CTR will send reminders for any overdue data. It is the site's responsibility to submit
      complete and accurate data in a timely manner.

      An electronic database has been developed for the study and will be implemented at all the
      international sites. Local UK sites will also transition to the electronic database for
      participants enrolled after implementation.

      Quality assurance: The clinical trial risk assessment has been used to determine the
      intensity and focus of central and on-site monitoring activity in the PATHOS trial.
      Monitoring levels will be employed and are fully documented in the trial monitoring plan.
      Investigators should agree to allow trial-related monitoring, including audits and regulatory
      inspections, by providing direct access to source data/documents as required. Patient consent
      for this will be obtained.

      Registration: To register or randomise a patient the relevant registration or randomisation
      case report form (CRF) should be completed and the CTR contacted. For International sites and
      UK sites that have transitioned to electronic database, the registration process can be done
      electronically without the need to contact CTR. Randomisation will take place centrally after
      confirmation of eligibility, by a telephone call to the CTR. Participants will be randomised
      using minimisation with a random element. This will ensure balanced treatment allocation by
      clinically important stratification factors. Randomisation will have an allocation ratio of
      1:1.

      Statistical analyses:

      Primary outcome measure

      MDADI/Overall survival co-primary endpoint

      Secondary outcome measures

        -  Swallowing panel including qualitative and quantitative swallowing assessments (100ml
           Water Swallow Test, Videofluoroscopy, Performance Status Scale-Head & Neck)

        -  QOL (using validated EORTC QLQ C30 and HN35 questionnaires, Appendix 6)

        -  Acute and late toxicity using CTACE version 4.03

        -  Disease-Free Survival*

        -  Locoregional control*

        -  Distant Metastases* *Determined by clinical follow-up as per standard guidelines (no
           trial-specific imaging required)

      The co-primary endpoint of the Phase III will be MDADI and overall survival (time to event).

      We will use linear regression to estimate the treatment arm effect on MDADI at 12 months and
      will include the randomisation stratification variables and baseline MDADI in the model. Both
      OS and MDADI endpoints will be used to define study success so no adjustment for multiplicity
      is planned. A detailed statistical analysis plan will be developed before the analyses are
      conducted.

      The data will be reviewed (approximately six-monthly) by an Independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (IDMC), consisting of at least two Clinicians (not entering patients into the
      trial) and an independent Statistician. The IDMC will be asked to recommend whether the
      accumulated data from the trial, together with results from other relevant trials, justifies
      continuing recruitment of further patients. A decision to discontinue recruitment, in all
      patients or selected subgroups, will be made only if the result is likely to convince a broad
      range of Clinicians including PIs in the trial and the general clinical community. If a
      decision is made to continue, the IDMC will advise on the frequency of future reviews of the
      data based on accrual and event rates.

      Sub-group statistical analyses:

      For swallowing endpoints, subgroup analysis by T stage and tumour subsite (tonsil, soft
      palate, tongue base) and surgery technique will be carried out, as the most likely relevant
      clinical co-variables affecting swallowing function.
    
  