
    
      The investigators' long-term research goal is to translate the Diabetes Prevention Program
      (DPP) in community-based settings for overweight/obese African American (AA) families at risk
      for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM). Intensive lifestyle approaches addressing physical
      activity, healthy eating patterns, and stress management are established methods for reducing
      obesity and risk of T2DM for adults (Knowler, 2002; Tuomilehto et al, 2001; Pan et al, 1997).
      But, minimal evidence exists that this knowledge has been translated in sustainable settings
      or in a manner that acknowledges the influences of daily life on motivation and family
      self-efficacy for changes in nutrition and physical activity. The study proposes to adapt
      these components for AA families through the use of "family coaches", one-on-one intervention
      sessions through supervised individualized physical activity, and tailoring intervention
      strategies for individual families. Utilizing a family systems approach, each component will
      be delivered using brief motivational strategies that will target self-efficacy and
      motivational readiness. This four month, two-arm randomized clinical trial, Parents and
      Children Together Preventing Diabetes (PACT PD) will test the central hypothesis that,
      relative to a control condition, a "family health coaching" intervention focused on nutrition
      and physical activity using brief motivational strategies will improve targeted dietary and
      physical activity behaviors in overweight/obese AA parents and their overweight/obese 8-10
      year old children, (N=50 families) all of whom are at risk for T2DM diabetes. This study will
      test the feasibility and acceptability of training YMCA fitness staff to utilize brief
      motivational interviewing and serve as "family health coaches". This study will evaluate the
      early efficacy of the newly translated, family-based diabetes prevention intervention in
      improving anthropometric measures of BMI (primary outcome) and waist circumference, physical
      activity and dietary intake, and family functioning (secondary outcomes) and intervention
      fidelity, feasibility and acceptability of participants. Further, the study will assess the
      acceptability and feasibility of booster interventions for motivation maintenance and
      potential for long-term retention and intervention success in the subsequent R18 application.
      This study will provide critical information regarding the early effectiveness of an
      innovative, family-based, behavioral intervention for the prevention of T2DM specifically
      translated for AA families. This study is funded by the National Institutes for Diabetes and
      Digestive and Kidney Disorders.
    
  