
    
      Aims The specific aims are to examine: 1) the feasibility and acceptability of EC
      distribution in PLWH; 2) the effect of EC use on smoking behaviors; and 3) the change in
      cardiopulmonary symptoms and biomarkers in smokers who transition from CC to EC use.

      Methodology The investigators will enroll 72 HIV-positive smokers, who are not ready or
      willing to quit smoking, into a 12-week randomized study. Participants will be assigned to
      one of two groups: 1) to receive 6-weeks of free electronic cigarettes (a standardized form
      developed by the NIH) and encouraged to use them whenever they would smoke a regular
      cigarette, or, 2) to continue to smoke their usual brand. At weekly visits for 6 weeks, the
      investigators will measure EC and (regular) combustible cigarette (CC) use, heart and lung
      symptoms (such as blood pressure, heart rate, shortness of breath, cough). At baseline (start
      of study) and the week 6 visit, the investigators will obtain blood and urine samples to look
      at measures of inflammation and coagulation that are related to heart and lung disease. The
      investigators will also measure tobacco toxicant exposure levels.

      At week 6, all participants will receive advice to stop smoking and a referral to the RI
      Department of Health Quitline (a state-funded smoking cessation resource/program), if
      desired.

      At week 12, any change in smoking habits, and any attempts to quit smoking will be examined.

      Participation Population The investigators will recruit participants (N=72 enrolled) from the
      Miriam Immunology Center (MIC) and the Providence community using study flyers and active
      recruitment via a recruitment research assistant (RA) at the Miriam Immunology Center. The
      Miriam-based RA will review in advance the medical records for the upcoming day's appointment
      to identify potential participants (HIV-positive smokers). Potential participants will be
      screened in person at the MIC or screened by phone if they instead choose to call the study
      phone number for screening. Participants in the clinic and those who respond to
      advertisements via phone will first be screened using the brief telephone interview form. The
      phone screen will allow the investigators to determine preliminary eligibility for this
      study. Upon initial eligibility, individuals will be invited to a baseline assessment
      interview at the Center for Alcohol & Addiction Studies research lab at 121 South Main Street
      to further determine study eligibility. The investigators estimate that approximately 140
      participants will be screened and consented to enroll a sample of 72 into this study. The
      telephone screen forms will be destroyed once eligibility is determined.
    
  