
    
      Participants and Procedure:

      Before the study, approval from the ethics committee of Katip Celebi University Faculty of
      Medicine was received. 463 patients were included in the prospective randomized double blind
      study. To accept to be involved in the study, being above 18 years old and being literate
      were the criteria necessary to be involved in the study. Exclusion criteria were listed as
      below: Not to accept to be involved in the study, being under 18 years old, being illiterate,
      having been diagnosed a psychiatric illness, having a physical/psychiatric trauma within the
      last one year, using sedative, antidepressant, antiepileptic substances or drugs, having
      cooperation, understanding or hearing problems, belonging to American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical situation (PS) III and above.

      STAI Analysis:

      By randomization using the closed envelope technique, the envelopes have been prepared
      beforehand the patient examination. Sealed envelopes contained a specific number and a
      patient group defined for this number. Thus, patients were divided into two as 'bathe group'
      and 'control group' by simple randomization method and they were given one of these closed
      envelopes respectively.

      The demographic data of the patients which included their names-surnames, gender, age,
      educational background, income level, their previous anesthesia experience (no experience,
      with general anesthesia experience, with regional anesthesia experience, with both general
      and regional anesthesia experience) have been questioned. Following this, STAI anxiety
      questionnaire that was validated to Turkish language by Oner et al., has been applied in
      order to learn the patients' anxiety levels before preoperative evaluation and the result has
      been recorded as entrance STAI. Since we aimed to decrease operation anxiety of the patients,
      we only used state anxiety scale at that moment. After then, patients have been taken to
      anesthesia examination room.

      BATHE technique:

      All the patients were evaluated before the anaesthesia. Later, by opening the envelope of the
      patient, his/her group has been learned. Feedback has been given with empathetic statements
      to those in BATHE group after key questions and they have been informed about the possible
      outcomes . Bathe questions have been modelled by Hepner et al. and have been modified in
      order to be used in perioperative period. It was validated to Turkish language by Akturan et
      al. For the patients in the control group, the interview ended by routine preoperative
      evaluation (without applying BATHE technique).

      Satisfaction Questionnaire At the end of the examination, the STAI anxiety questionnaire
      (Exit STAI) was repeated for patients to measure their anxiety levels. In addition,
      satisfaction questionnaire, which was prepared by Leiblum et al., was also applied. Patients
      have been asked to rate their satisfaction level by using five point Likert scale.

      At the end, the bathe method has also been applied to the patients in control group as well.
      The reason for this procedure was to prevent the discrimination of the control group.
      Obviously, this did not change the results of the study as the satisfaction questionnaire was
      applied before the BATHE technique procedure for the control group.
    
  