
    
      Tobacco use remains the foremost cause of preventable deaths in the U.S. and worldwide.
      Advancing new smoking cessation therapies, including those with novel pharmacological
      targets, is a critical public health priority. The serotonin (5-hydroxtytryptamine; 5-HT)
      system is broadly implicated in the regulation of reward- related behavior, including drug
      seeking, in part reflecting its modulatory role in dopamine (DA) function. Recent studies
      show that targeted manipulation of the serotonin 5-HT2C receptor alters drug-related
      behavior; in particular, 5-HT2C receptor agonists are shown to reduce nicotine intake and
      reinstatement. Of the selective 5-HT2C receptor agonists, lorcaserin has the best near-term
      potential for repurposing as a smoking cessation therapy, having been approved by the U.S.
      Food and Drug Administration for weight management.

      Preclinical findings implicate several potential behavioral mechanisms by which 5-HT2C
      receptor agonists might reduce drug intake, including drug-specific processes (e.g.,
      incentive salience of drug cues, self-administration, reinstatement) and drug-nonspecific
      behaviors (e.g., reductions in impulsivity). To date, potential mechanisms of 5-HT2C receptor
      agonists have not been characterized in human studies. Given emerging interest in lorcaserin
      as a novel smoking cessation therapy, further studies are needed to evaluate its efficacy
      profile, including studies to evaluate candidate treatment mechanisms. This human laboratory
      investigation will examine the effects of lorcaserin vs. placebo on relapse-related outcomes
      using a double-blind, within-subjects, crossover design. Impulsivity subdomains will also be
      examined as candidate mechanisms for medication effects. By evaluating an approved 5-HT2C
      agonist with emergent efficacy for smoking cessation, this project has near-term potential to
      inform clinical applications of 5-HT2C agonists for addiction.
    
  