
    
      Impact of combination of clopidogrel with aspirin on postoperative bleeding and platelets
      functions in coronary surgical patients treated prophylactically with tranexamic acid.

      Introduction Major cardiac events are known to be reduced in patients with acute coronary
      syndrome by an association of aspirin with clopidogrel (1)(2). In cardiac surgery as well,
      aspirin treatment has been shown to reduce major cardio-vascular events and mortality in
      postoperative period after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) without any increase of
      postoperative bleeding (3)(4). In a recent study performed in our department, Ouattara and
      al. have shown in cardiac surgery that the combination of aspirin with clopidogrel does not
      increase postoperative bleeding, transfusion or surgical reexploration after CABG when
      aprotinin is used during surgery, by comparison to aspirin alone (5). In conclusion, the
      authors suggested no disruption of aspirin and clopidogrel when patients are treated with
      this association before surgery. Unfortunately, since the trials of Mangano and al. (6) and
      of the BART investigators (7), aprotinin, a plasmin inhibitor derived from bovine lung
      tissues, has been withdrawn for safety reasons. Therefore, physicians are restrained to use
      instead tranexamic acid, a synthetic molecule that inhibits conversion of the inactive
      plasminogen to plasmin, to minimize bleeding and to reduce exposure to blood products.

      The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that with tranexamic acid also, bleeding in
      the aspirin + clopidogrel group is not 25% more important than in the aspirin alone group
      after CABG surgery, according to the previous study using aprotinin. In the present study,
      the functionality of the platelets tested before the surgical procedure will be compared to
      level of the first 24 hours bleeding.

      Methods Selection of patients This prospective observational study will be conducted at the
      Institute of Cardiology in the Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France. It is planned to
      start in december 2009 to november 2010. Care of patients will conform to standard procedures
      currently used in our institute, which will not be modified by the study. Platelet function
      will be measured in residual blood samples, after ethical committee approval (Comité de
      Protection des Personnes VI - Ile de France). A written informed consent is not resquested
      from patients. Nevertheless, written information will be delivered for each of them. During
      the planned 11 months of investigation, all patients undergoing isolated first-time coronary
      artery by-pass grafting will be enrolled. Patients admitted for emergency procedure,
      following failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and off-pump coronary
      surgery, will be excluded. Because antithrombotic therapy management may differ during the
      postoperative period, we will exclude patients in whom a mechanical support or intra-aortic
      balloon pump will be required for a difficult weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass. Finally,
      we will exclude all patients who will not have received any oral antiplatelet agents within 5
      days prior surgery, those who will have been preoperatively exposed to platelet glycoprotein
      IIb/IIIa inhibitors, and those with history of haematological disease. Patients treated with
      aspirin and clopidogrel and in whom clopidogrel will be stopped more than 5 days before
      surgery will also be excluded.

      Intraoperative management Patients will be monitored with arterial and central venous
      catheterizations. All patients will be considered at high risk for postoperative bleeding as
      they will receive at least one antiplatelet agent and therefore will be administered
      tranexamic acid (Exacyl®, Sanofi-Aventis, Paris, France) according to the following
      standardized protocol: infusion of 10 mg/kg for 20 minutes during anaesthesia induction,
      followed by a continuous infusion until the end of surgery, according to renal function of
      patients as described by Nuttall et al. (8) (See table below). The rest of intraoperative
      management will be the same as previously described by Ouattara and al. (5). Briefly, before
      aortic cannulation, an initial loading dose of heparin will be directly administered by the
      surgeon into the right atrium and then anticoagulation will be maintained by additional bolus
      during the extracorporeal circulation. Non-pulsatile cardiopulmonary bypass will be ensured
      at a flow of 2.4 L/min/m2. The temperature of systemic perfusion during cardiopulmonary
      bypass (hypothermia <32°C, mild hypothermia 32-36°C, and normothermia >36°C) will be left to
      the discretion of the attending surgeon. After discontinuation of the cardiopulmonary bypass,
      heparin will be neutralized by protamin sulfate (0.008-0.01 mg/IU of total heparin dose
      intraoperatively used). Intraoperative cell salvage will be systematically used (Electa,
      Dideco, Mirandola, Italy). The use of inotropes for difficult weaning from cardiopulmonary
      bypass will be left to the discretion of the attending anaesthesiologist. Discontinuation of
      the cardiopulmonary bypass will be done when central body temperature (estimated by vesical
      temperature) will be above 35°C.

      Creatinine Tranexamic acid dose < 140 µmol/L 2 mg/kg/h 140 - 290 µmol/L 1,5 mg/kg/h 291 - 580
      µmol/L 1 mg/kg/h > 580 µmol/L 0,5 mg/kg/h Table: dosing of tranexamic acid according to renal
      function, from Nuttall and al. (8)

      Postoperative antithrombotic therapy The early postoperative antithrombotic therapy will be
      based on intravenous bolus of 100 mg aspirin given 6 h after the arrival in intensive care
      unit, as previously described. The day after surgery, enoxaparin 40 mg will be given once
      daily subcutaneously. The perioperative blood transfusion will be done according to the
      French National recommendations (9). In patients preoperatively treated by combined
      antiplatelet therapy, clopidogrel will be re-introduced the day after the surgery.

      Antiplatelet therapy efficiency monitoring

      Pre-operative platelet function will include :

        1. Platelet aggregation tests Aggregation studies will be performed within 3 hours after
           blood collection by Pascale Gaussem (INSERM U765, HEGP), as published elsewhere (10).
           Aggregation tests are performed on platelet-rich plasma adjusted to 250x109/L platelets
           using the following agonists: arachidonic acid 1.5 and 2 mmol/l (Helena biosciences
           Europe) to explore aspirin effect, Horm collagen 1 µg/ml to explore global platelet
           function (Nycomed Pharma) and ADP 10 and 20 µmol/l (Biopool) to explore clopidogrel
           effect.

           A whole blood platelet impedance aggregation test will be performed using the
           Multiplate® (IL) device and various agonists.

        2. Flow cytometry assays VASP phosphorylation: clopidogrel effect VASP
           (vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein) is measured in whole blood with a commercial kit
           (Platelet VASP; Diagnostica Stago, Biocytex) on a FACScan flow cytometer (Becton
           Dickinson). The results are expressed as the platelet reactivity index (PRI, %).

      Secretory capacity of platelets Platelet secretion will be tested by their capacity to expose
      surface P-selectin (CD62P) after activation with the thrombin receptor peptide agonist (TRAP)
      as published elsewhere.

      Circulating platelet-leukocyte complexes Circulating activated platelets form complexes with
      leukocytes via CD62P-PSGL interaction. These complexes are quantified on a population of 5000
      leukocytes. Complexes are identified by flow cytometry as the cell population stained with
      both anti-CD41-PE (platelet marker) and anti-CD45-FITC (leukocyte marker) and are expressed
      as a percentage of total leukocytes.

      Endpoints The primary outcome will be the chest blood output during the first 24 hours. Size
      sample calculation : bleeding with aspirin alone is estimated around 400±200 mL after CABG
      (5). Excessive bleeding will be defined by an increment of at least 25% of this basal value
      collected through chest tubes during the first 24 postoperative hours. Secondary outcomes
      will be the rate of re-exploration for excessive bleeding, transfusion requirement, prolonged
      mechanical ventilation (>10 h), and intensive care unit length of stay (>72 h).

      Statistical analysis With an estimated distribution of 60% / 40% between aspirin alone and
      aspirin + clopidogrel groups and assuming an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.20 and a
      mean amount of postoperative bleeding after CABG in the aspirin-alone group of 400 +/- 200
      mL, we calculate that at least 136 patients at all (85 in aspirin alone and 51 in aspirin +
      clopidogrel) are required to demonstrate that the amount of bleeding in the
      aspirin+clopidogrel was not more than 25% increased compared to the bleeding in aspirin alone
      group (non inferiority study).

      Lastly, supposing a few patients lost to follow up and several technical problems after
      sample collection in platelets function analysis, the final number of patients to include is
      estimated to be 150 and thus the predicted duration of inclusion will be 44 weeks.

      Categorical variables will be compared using Fisher's exact test and continuous variables
      using the Mann-Witney U test. The postoperative hemoglobin levels and platelet counts will be
      compared using analysis of variance for repeated measurements completed using a Newman-Keuls
      test for post-test analysis.

      Since this study is not randomized, the patients receiving clopidogrel preoperatively may not
      have the same peri-operative risk of excessive bleeding than those who do not. Therefore, we
      will perform separate multivariable risk adjustment to analyze the perioperative risk
      associated with clopidogrel treatment. For each patient, a propensity score, indicating the
      likelihood of having clopidogrel, will be calculated. The propensity score-matched analysis
      will allows us to determine whether preoperative clopidogrel therapy is independently
      associated with an increased risk of excessive postoperative bleeding. All preoperative
      variables as well as second-order interaction terms will be entered into the model.
      Calibration and discrimination of the final logistic model will be assessed using the
      Hosmer-Lemeshow statistics and the receiver operating characteristic curve, respectively.
      Comparison of mean bleeding between several groups (according to propensity score quintiles)
      will be performed using analysis of variance.

      Data will be expressed as mean+SD, median, and 5th-95th percentiles or percentage of patients
      as specified. All P-values will be two tailed and a value less than 0.05 will be required to
      reject the null hypothesis.

      References

        1. Fox KAA, Mehta SR, Peters R, Zhao F, Lakkis N, Gersh BJ, Yusuf S. Benefits and risks of
           the combination of clopidogrel and aspirin in patients undergoing surgical
           revascularization for non-ST-elevation acute oronary syndrome. The clopidogrel in
           unstable angina to prevent recurrent ischaemic events (CURE) trial. Circulation. 2004,
           Vol. 110, pp. 1202-1208.

        2. The clopidogrel in unstable angina to prevent recurrent ischaemic events trials
           investigators. Effects of clopidogrel in addition to aspirin in patients with acute
           coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation. N Engl J Med. 2001, 345, pp. 494-502.

        3. Tuman KJ, McCarthy RJ, O'Connor CJ, McCarthy WE, Ivankovich AD. Aspirin does not
           increase allogenic blood transfusion in reoperative coronary artery surgery. Anesth
           Analg. 1996, Vol. 83, pp. 1178-1184.

        4. Dacey LJ, Munoz JJ, Johnson ER, Leavitt BJ, Maloney CT, Morton JR,Olmstead EM, Birkmeyer
           JD, O'Connor GT for the Northern New England Cardiovascular. Effect of preoperative
           aspirin use on mortality in coronary artery bypass grafting patients. Ann Thorac Surg.
           2000, Vol. 70, pp. 1986-1990.

        5. Ouattara A, Bouzguenda H, Le Manach Y, Léger Ph, Mercadier A, Leprince P, Bonnet N,
           Montalescot G, Riou B, Coriat P. Impact of aspirin with or without clopidogrel on
           postoperative bleeding and blood transfusion in coronary surgical patients treated
           prophylactically with a low-dose of aprotinin. Eur Heart J. 2007, Vol. 28, pp.
           1025-1032.

        6. Mangano DT, Tudor IC, Dietzel C, Group, Multicenter Study of Preoperative Ischemia
           Research et Fondation, Ischemia Research and Education. The risk associated with
           aprotinin in cardiac surgery. N Engl J Med. 2006, Vol. 354(4), pp. 353-65.

        7. Fergusson DA, Hébert PC, Mazer CD, Fremes S, MacAdams C, Murkin JM, Teoh K, Duke PC,
           Arellano R, Blajchman MA, Bussières JS, Côté D, Karski J, Martineau R, Robblee JA,
           Rodger M, Welles G, Clinch J, Pretorius R, for the BART investigator. A comparison of
           aprotinin and lysine analogues in high risk cardiac surgery. N Engl J Med. 2008, Vol.
           358, 22, pp. 2319-2331.

        8. Nuttal GAl, Gutierrez MC, Dewey JD. A Preliminary Study of a New Tranexamic Acid Dosing
           Schedule for Cardiac Surgery. Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia. 2008,
           Vol. 22, 2, pp. 230-235.

        9. Agence Française de Sécuité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé (AFSSAPS). Transfusion of
           erythrocytes substitutes: products, indications, alternatives. General methods and
           recommendations. Transfus Clin Biol. 2002, Vol. 9, pp. 333-356.

       10. Dupont A, Fontana P, Bachelot-Loza C, Reny JL, Bieche I, Desvard F, et al. An intronic
           polymorphism in the PAR-1 gene is associated with platelet receptor density and the
           response to SFLLRN. Blood 2003;101:1833-40.
    
  