
    
      The purpose of this multi-year project is to develop an evidence-based curriculum for
      teaching preschool children to eat in response to internal hunger and fullness signals. There
      are currently no validated methods for teaching children these basic skills, despite the fact
      that doing so is necessary to prevent the development of obesity. To accomplish this task,
      the investigators have assembled a multi-disciplinary team from nutrition, eating behavior,
      obesity prevention, science education, and information sciences and technology.

      First, the investigators will refine and build upon a pre-existing curriculum by
      incorporating 1) state-of-the art theories in early childhood science education, 2)
      innovative virtual technology to provide more realistic simulations of hunger and fullness,
      and 3) a parent training component to improve long-range sustainability.

      Second, the investigators will conduct an experimental study to determine the effectiveness
      of this curriculum on children's ability to regulate energy intake in the laboratory. Forty
      children (ages 4-5) will be tested over an 9-week period. Key outcomes will be children's
      adjustment in intake in response to a first course (energy compensation) and children's
      intake of tasty snacks when not hungry (eating in the absence of hunger). Additionally, the
      investigators will measure other variables likely to impact the success of the curriculum,
      for example: child gender/age, parent feeding practices, parent education, infant feeding
      practices, child/parent weight status, and others.

      The long term goal of this line of research will be to create an evidence based curriculum
      that can be integrated into early childhood education and health-based interventions. The
      translation potential of this research is broad because once validated, the curriculum can be
      disseminated more widely to early childhood education programs.
    
  