
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES

        -  To estimate the prevalence of diabetes mellitus and associated cardiometabolic and
           infectious risk factors in this population

        -  To provide aetiological insights into the variation in cardiometabolic and infectious
           risk factors in adults using both population genetic and epidemiological approaches

        -  To compare diagnostic tests for diabetes in this population

        -  To create a unique framework for building a large scale cross sectional study in an
           African population to examine a wide range of health indices-and lay the groundwork for
           additional long-term studies

        -  to inform health policy and public health programmes aimed at addressing the rise in
           non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in South Africa, which may also shape public health
           strategies in other African countries

      STUDY DESIGN

      The DDS involves a number of stages:

      Stage 1: Geographical sampling frame The eThekwini Municipality (city of Durban) is selected
      as the initial sampling frame and broken down into nine planning unit clusters (PUCs),
      representing nine townships (Umlazi, Inanda, KwaMashu, Ntuzuma, Mpumalanga Complex, Cato
      Manor, Clermont, Lamontville and Chesterville) totalling a population of approximately
      1,378,750 individuals. Streets are randomly selected in each PUC proportional to the PUC size
      and the proportion of formal and informal housing in each PUC. Households are selected by
      systematic cluster sampling of homes located on the randomly selected streets.

      Stage 2: Community awareness Once local ethics approval is obtained from the BioMedical
      Research Ethics Committee at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) and the support of the
      KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Department of Health is obtained, the local health authorities and
      community leaders from each of the nine PUCs, will be contacted for approval.

      Stage 3: Participant enrolment Once the selected PUC areas have been sensitised to the study
      (end of Stage 2), they are visited again by the DDS team. During this stage the DDS team
      visits households in the selected neighbourhoods and all family members who are of African
      descent, not pregnant and aged 18 years or older are invited to participate in the study.
      Consent is obtained from residents agreeing to participate. All residents are invited to
      attend a central venue (i.e. local community centre/school) the following week where the DDS
      team collects health and lifestyle questionnaire information, performs simple biophysical
      measures and collects blood and urine samples. While recruiting participants in the
      community, the DDS team uses geographical information system (GIS) mapping techniques to
      gather accurate geographical and boundary data on the selected PUC areas.

      Stage 4: Data and sample collection, testing and data analysis Data and sample collection are
      undertaken on specific mornings at a central venue. This is important as participants are
      required to fast overnight for an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Questionnaire and
      biophysical data from the study are collected, stored electronically, and analysed. Blood and
      urine samples are transported to the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban for storage.
      Laboratory tests are done at a private laboratory. Some samples are sent to specialist
      centres in the UK, Europe, the USA and other countries for genomic analyses.

      Stage 5: Feedback of results to study participants Starting eight weeks after sample
      collection, participant results will be available at the DDS feedback office. All OGTT and
      lipid results will be posted back to participants, unless they choose not to receive them. To
      receive all other results (e.g. HIV, hepatitis C virus [HCV], liver function tests)
      participants must make an appointment at the DDS feedback office to collect their results.
      This is optional, and participants who do not wish to collect their results can choose not to
      contact the DDS feedback office. If appropriate, participants collecting results that are
      abnormal or potentially harmful will be advised to visit their local clinic or hospital for
      further investigation and management as part of their standard clinical care.

      DATA AND SAMPLE COLLECTION A. Collection of samples

        1. Blood sample overview Only fasted participants are eligible for complete blood sample
           collection. Non-fasted participants are only eligible for the collection of the 10 ml
           plain serum and the four ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) blood samples. Aseptic
           venepuncture is performed by a registered research nurse via a closed evacuated blood
           collection system, using standardised procedures to minimise the risk of infection..

        2. Blood samples required Eleven blood tubes are collected from each fasted participant: a
           10 ml plain serum tube, two 10 ml EDTA whole blood tubes, two 2 ml EDTA whole blood
           tubes and, for the OGTT, three 2 ml sodium fluoride (NaF) tubes and three 2 ml plain
           serum blood tubes. Thus, a maximum of 46 ml venous blood (approximately three
           tablespoons of blood) is taken from each participant. For non-fasted participants, only
           a 10 ml plain serum sample and the four EDTA whole blood samples are collected. Since
           linked anonymous HIV testing is undertaken as part of this study, the study nurse is
           trained in HIV counselling and follows relevant national guidelines.

           For fasted participants, the 75 g OGTT will be performed as recommended by WHO.
           Categories of glucose tolerance will be according to the WHO 1998 Classification.

           The 10 ml plain serum tube is used to test blood for infectious diseases and
           cardiometabolic biomarkers. The first 10 ml EDTA whole blood tube is shipped to the UK
           for genetic analysis. The second 10 ml EDTA whole blood tube undergoes plasma extraction
           for HCV viral load testing and RNA extraction. The two 2 ml EDTA whole blood tubes are
           used for HbA1c testing and full blood count, respectively.

           Linked anonymous HIV testing As part of this study, consenting participants will be
           tested for HIV via linked anonymous testing. This will be done in accordance with
           national guidelines.

        3. Urine sample collection A spot (untimed) urine sample will be taken for measuring
           albumin-to-creatinine ratio and urinary sodium and potassium.

      B. Collection of questionnaire data Once appropriate consent is obtained and blood sample
      collection has begun, participants move to the questionnaire station. The questionnaire used
      in this study is an electronic questionnaire (EQ) and is an adaptation of the standardised
      and validated WHO STEPwise approach to Surveillance (STEPS) tool designed for the collection
      of chronic disease risk factors, including socio-demographic indices, lifestyle, infectious
      disease risk factors and cardiometabolic history.

      C. Collection of biophysical measurements

      Study participants move to the biophysical measurements station which are done using
      calibrated and validated equipment. The following measures are taken using standardised
      protocols:

        -  Height and weight (used to calculate body mass index)

        -  Waist circumference and hip circumference (used to calculate waist-hip ratio)

        -  Mid upper-arm circumference

        -  Blood pressure and heart rate

      BLOOD SAMPLE ANALYSES

      All blood samples are assayed for infectious and cardiometabolic biomarkers at a private
      laboratory in Durban. Confirmatory HIV tests will be done. Below is a list of laboratory
      methods used for serological and biochemical tests:

        -  Plasma glucose: Enzymatic method, based on hexokinase and glucose-6-phosphate
           dehydrogenase enzymes

        -  Serum creatinine: Based on the reaction of picric acid with creatinine in an alkaline
           medium

        -  Serum lipids:

             -  Cholesterol: Enzymatic method, using cholesterol esterase and cholesterol oxidase
                conversion, followed by a Trinder endpoint

             -  Triglycerides: Based on the Fossati three step enzymatic reaction with a Trinder
                endpoint. The single reagent procedure quantifies the total triglycerides including
                the mono- and di-glycerides and the free glycerol fractions

             -  HDL: Enzymatic reaction based on the procedures developed by Izawa, Okada and
                Matsui

             -  LDL: Calculated using the Friedewald formula or enzymatic method

             -  Lipoprotein (a): Turbidometric (Beckmann)

        -  HbA1c: High performance liquid chromatography. Instrument: BioRad Variant II

        -  HIV: 4th generation ELISA (Abbott Architect)

        -  Hepatitis B and C: ELISA

      DNA and RNA extraction will take place at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, the University of
      Cambridge, the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, or an authorised third party facility in the
      UK. The study coordinator is responsible for shipping samples to the UK for DNA and RNA
      extraction. Purified DNA and RNA is then sent to the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK, for
      genetic analysis.

      GENETIC ANALYSIS

        1. Overview Given the need for large scale automated pipelines and next-generation Illumina
           sequencing and genotyping technology, all genotyping and sequencing is done at the
           Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/). The Wellcome Trust
           Sanger Institute is an international genome centre with extensive experience and
           expertise in handling DNA and RNA samples from global genetic research initiatives,
           including blood and samples from several countries in SSA. A material transfer agreement
           has been devised for the shipment of biological samples to the UK.

        2. Extraction and quantification of DNA and RNA DNA and RNA are extracted at the University
           of KwaZulu-Natal, the University of Cambridge, the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute or by
           an authorised third party service provider in the UK, e.g. GenProbe, Manchester.
           Purified DNA or RNA is then sent to the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. All extracted
           nucleic acid is quantified by either gel electrophoresis or picogreen (for DNA samples)
           or ribogreen (for RNA samples) and quantified relative to standards of known
           concentration. All nucleic acid samples are stored at the Wellcome Trust Sanger
           Institute in secure -80 ˚C freezers.

      3 Genotyping and sequencing Current genome-wide human diversity arrays do not sufficiently
      capture the high levels of genetic diversity and population structure found in African
      populations, limiting their utility. Therefore, we will use next-generation sequencing,
      genotyping arrays and imputation to help determine the association between human genetic
      variation in the study population and quantitative risk factors and diseases and viral
      diversity. All genotyping and sequencing is done at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. In
      addition, because of the massive storage and curation requirements for the genomic data from
      next-generation sequencing method, all raw genomic data is stored at Wellcome Trust Sanger
      Institute, UK.

      4 Data transfer, storage and management All raw genomic data will be held at the Wellcome
      Trust Sanger Institute, UK and the European Genome-phenome Archive (EGA) at the European
      Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), UK.
    
  