effects of aortic regurgitation on left ventricular performance directdeterminations of aortic blood flow before and after valve replacement .the volume of regurgitant blood flow and its effects on theperformance of the left ventricle were assessed at operation in 14patients with varying degrees of aortic regurgitation . instantaneousforward and regurgitant flows in the ascending aorta were measured witha sine-wave electromagnetic flowmeter simultaneously with leftventricular and aortic pressures . in eight patients who had aorticregurgitation without associated stenosis, 63 to 75 percent of the totalforward stroke volume regurgitated during the succeeding diastole . thecalculated regurgitant orifice areas ranged from 0.13 to 0.44 cm /m .after replacement of the aortic valve with a starr-edwards prosthesis,the absence of regurgitant flow was proved in every patient, and therecords of aortic blood flow closely resembled those seen in patientswith normal aortic valves . net forward blood flow increased by anaverage of 60 percent, total left ventricular stroke volume fell 42percent, and the mean aortic pressure rose 29 percent . the pressurework of the left ventricle was elevated preoperatively in five of theeight patients (average 89 g-m stroke/m ) and fell significantly to anaverage of 34 g-m stroke m after valve replacement . kinetic ventricularwork was high in seven of the eight patients and comprised 10 percent oftotal work before replacement but only 4.8 percent afterward .similar observations were made in five patients with aortic stenosisand associated aortic regurgitation, ranging in severity from 24 to 72percent of total forward stroke volume . in four patients in whom thevalve was replaced, no residual regurgitation was present afterward, andnet forward flow rose an average of 49 percent . kinetic leftventricular work was extremely high in every patient and averaged 26percent of total work preoperatively and 13 percent after valvereplacement . in this group, pressure work was variable both before andafter operation .the studies described provide definitive information concerning theeffects of aortic valve disease on left ventricular performance in manand document the favorable changes in flow, pressure, and leftventricular work which immediately follow aortic valve replacement .