1688. surface phenomena in lungs in health and diseasein summary, the authors have attemptedto bring together the multiple observationswhich seem germane to the understandingof surface phenomena in lungs in healthand disease.  to this end, the contributionsof anatomists and pathologists on thefine structure of alveolar cells and theirlining are fundamental.  the concepts ofalveolar stability required the specialinsights of physiologists who were concernedwith the causes of bubble stability asthey related to the particular problems posedby a lung of several millions of bubblesarranged in parallel.  soon the contributionsof the chemists became significant asmethods of identification and assay of the al-veolar lining material were of interest.clinicians asked what relevance these studieshad to atelectasis as it occurs in disease,and soon the question of when the surfac-tant appeared in development occurred tothose concerned with premature infants.students of metabolism began to focus onthe lung as a site of phospholipid synthesis,and their tools seem most promising atthis time in unearthing possible errors inmetabolism which may express themselvesin disease.  surgeons who undertake per-fusion of the isolated lung ask therequirements of that organ with respect to thenutrients and environment of the alveolarcells, and anesthesiologists inquire intothe possibilities of mechanical injuryto the alveoli during artificial respiration.the problems posed to the reviewersof a subject which touches so many disciplinesare obvious.  doubtless some pertinentstudies have been omitted although uninten-tionally; others may have beenmisinterpreted through lack of qualifications as spe-cialists in all specialties.  theauthors hope they have provided evidence that theforces of surface tension cannotbe ignored in an organ with an air-liquid interfaceof some 70 m2.  they further hopethey have described some of the properties ofthe film at the alveolar-air interfacewhich operate to produce stability of the alveoli.they hold the belief that study of themetabolism of the alveolar lining layer willfurther their understanding of a numberof disease processes in which it may bealtered.  and lastly, they hope for muchcloser communication between workers inmany disciplines who can elucidate thisremarkable subject best through cooperativestudies.