1463. investigations of lens protein and microelectrophoresis ofhydrosoluble protein in senile cataractthe investigations on lens protein andon agar-microelectrophoresis of hydro-soluble protein in normal lenses and in those affected with senile cataract re-vealed the following facts  (1) in opaquelenses, a diminution of the total proteinand the soluble protein takes place, aswell as an increase in the amount of in-soluble protein.  the decrease in thequantity of soluble protein is higher than theincrease of insoluble protein which doesnot only point to a transformation of thesoluble protein into the insoluble variety,but also to the disappearance of a proteinfraction from the lens.  changes in thequantity of soluble protein are accompaniedby the decrease of protein in slow fractionsof the electropherogram and even bythe disappearance of these fractions andthe increase of the amount of protein infractions of medium velocity.  with thedevelopment of cataract and the maturephase of cataract, all these processesbecome more and more distinct.  in thisrespect, a strong parallelism exists betweenthe protein changes and the clinicalpicture of senile cataract.  (2) qualitativeand quantitative changes which occur inthe protein of normal lenses with advancingage show a character similar to thosein senile cataract, however, they are lesspronounced.  in this instance, the de-crease in the quantity of soluble protein islikewise closely associated with thediminution of the protein content in the slowfractions of the electropherogram.(3) the changes in the soluble protein contentof the lens and the alterations ofthe protein amounts in the slow fractions whichalways accompany the former,play the principal role in the aging processof the lens and in the development ofsenile cataract.  (4) the investigationsseem to indicate that the aging processes,of lenses as well as the development ofsenile cataract are of a similar character,but of different intensity.  (5) undoubtedly,the processes of transition from slowfractions of soluble protein into faster onesand the transformation of part of thesoluble protein into insoluble protein which islikely to be associated with theseprocesses as well as the partial disappearanceof total protein from the lens seemto play a very important part in the mechanismspertaining to the developmentof cataract.