
    
      The specific aims include:

      Primary aim:

      1. Examine the efficacy of exenatide weekly injection in improving negative symptoms as
      measured by the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) total score.

      Secondary aims:

      1. Examine the efficacy of exenatide in improving cognition as measured by the Measurement
      and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) Consensus Cognitive
      Battery (MCCB) composite score.

      Tertiary/Exploratory aims:

        1. Examine exenatide's effect on schizophrenia symptoms as measured by the Positive and
           Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total score.

        2. Examine the efficacy of exenatide in improving social function as measured by the
           Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Scale (IADL) and the Heinrichs Carpenter Quality
           of Life Scale (QLS).

        3. Examine exenatide's effect on neuro-protection as measured by the change in hippocampal
           volume.

        4. Examine exenatide's effects on inflammatory markers including serum levels of high
           sensitivity C-reactive Protein (CRP), Interleukin 6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor
           (TNF-α).

        5. Examine the potential moderator role of baseline serum levels of C-reactive Protein
           (CRP), Interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), and baseline hippocampal
           volume for exenatide's effects on negative and cognitive symptoms.

        6. Examine the potential mediator role of changes from baseline in serum levels of
           C-reactive Protein (CRP), Interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), and
           hippocampal volume for exenatide's effects on negative and cognitive symptoms.

        7. Examine the efficacy of exenatide in reducing body weight and improving glucose
           metabolism as measured by fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c.

        8. Examine the safety and tolerability of exenatide as measured by changes in the side
           effects questionnaire (SEQ, SEQabbrev), EKG and vital signs
    
  