
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common cause of infertility that affects 4% - 8% of
      reproductive-age females (Priya,M.R,2019).

      Diagnosis of PCOS is very important for proper management. In literature, Rotterdam criteria
      are widely used for diagnosis and focus on polycystic ovarian morphology on ultrasound,a
      history of ovulatory disorders (oligo-anovulation), and clinical/biochemical signs of
      hyperandrogenism requiring two of three features after exclusion of other endocrinopathies
      (Wang,R,2017).

      Although the syndrome is a complex reproductive-metabolic disorder, the
      hypothalamic-pituitary axis has been the target of first-line ovulation-induction therapy.
      Clomiphene citrate, a selective estrogen-receptor modulator that antagonizes the negative
      feedback of estrogen at the hypothalamus with a consequent increase in ovarian stimulation by
      endogenous gonadotropin, has been used for this indication for decades (Legro RS,2007).

      Clomiphene citrate (CC) is still holding its place for ovulation induction being simple,
      safe, cheap and effective (Garg, N,2019).

      However, clomiphene-resistance, i.e., failure to ovulate after receiving 150 mg/day for at
      least three cycles for five days per cycle affects 15% - 40% of patients with PCOS
      (Salaheldin,A.M,2016).

      Aromatase inhibitors, which block estrogen synthesis, directly affect hypothalamic-
      pituitary-ovarian function and theoretically might increase pregnancy rates (Casper RF,2006).

      Many tissues including the ovary (in premenopausal women), fat, muscle, breast and liver
      contain aromatase enzyme which controls the ï¬nal step in estrogen synthesis, It is
      responsible for aromatization of androstenedione and testosterone into estrone and estradiol,
      respectively. This process can be inhibited by administration of a third-generation aromatase
      inhibitor such as letrozole by >99% (Haynesa,B.P,2003).

      Letrozole has become the first line drug for induction of ovulation in PCOS patients (Teede,
      H.J,2018).
    
  