
    
      The Ostom-I device is a wireless, wearable biosensor that is approved by the U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA). The device is discrete, lightweight, and can be applied to an
      ostomy pouch in order to monitor the filling of the bag. It uses Bluetooth technology to send
      a signal to the participants smartphone and alerts the user when the ostomy bag is filling up
      so they can decide if and when to empty them.The second wearable biosensor is called
      "AbStats" and it provides an objective, real-time marker of intestinal motility, and is also
      FDA approved. It allows for continuous and automated analysis of intestinal vibrations.The
      study team will recruit consecutive inpatients undergoing colorectal surgery with ostomy
      placement. The surgeon will apply AbStats and Ostom-I upon completion of the operation.
      Device recordings will continue until discharge, or until the participant opts to remove the
      sensors as requested. Members of the research team who are blinded to sensor results will
      monitor and record clinical information including age, gender, race, and body mass index
      (BMI). The study team will record type of surgery performed, surgical approach, and any
      documented operative complications. The study team will prospectively monitor daily clinical
      assessments, including symptoms (nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain), flatus, bowel
      movements, diet, ambulation, medication use, and length of hospitalization. All patients will
      receive a standardized feeding protocol as part of usual care. For Cedars-Sinai, the standard
      protocol initiates clear liquids on postoperative day (POD) zero, and rapid progression to a
      regular diet by the morning of POD#1 in patients without early clinical evidence of
      post-operative ileus (POI). Patients intolerant of the feeding protocol, including nausea or
      vomiting precluding advancement, or those that develop significant abdominal distension, will
      discontinue the feeding protocol. The surgical teams that make the decisions regarding diet
      changes will be blinded to device data.
    
  