
    
      The patients will be included to this study who will undergo coronary angiography first time
      and admitted to hospital by appointment.

      Inserting IV canulla, taking and recording vital signs, and informing about angiography are
      routine procedures for patients who are admitted to hospital for coronary angiography. These
      procedures will also be applied to the patient groups involved in the study.

      Patients will be assigned to the groups in accordance with the randomization table. After
      explaining the purpose and method of the study to the patients, their consent will be
      obtained.In this experimental study all datas will be collected by Descriptive
      Characteristics Form, Vital Findings Follow-Up Form and The State-Continuity Anxiety
      Inventory.

      Vital Signs Follow-Up Form will be recorded according to patients' findings, such as heart
      rate per minute, blood pressure as mmHg and respiratory rate per minute both before and after
      angiography.

      The State-Continuity Anxiety Inventory will be applied before angiography to determine the
      anxiety level of the patients. After the angiography, the state anxiety inventory will be
      repeated.The information group; A visual information booklet which is prepared by the
      researcher will be used. In the booklet; Information about coronary arteries, angiography
      laboratory features, patient preparation procedure and post-procedure are explained with
      various visuals. The booklet which contains researchers telephone numbers will be given to
      patients, when they come to hospital to get an angiography appointment. The patients will be
      asked to read the booklet until the day of angiography. If patients need to ask some
      questions, they will be able to reach the researchers within specified hours.

      The Music group; A soothing type of music including five kinds sounds of nature which
      suitable for heart rate was selected and recorded on MP3. When they arrive hospital for
      angiography they will be explained how to use MP3 player and headset in the room. All music
      stored on the MP3 player will be played to the patient for five to ten seconds. They will be
      asked to choose their preferred music. The patient will listen the music which is chosen for
      30 minutes via headset. In order to prevent contamination, disposable ear cups will be used
      for each patient.
    
  