
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase II dose of ABT-888
      (veliparib) when given concurrently with standard carboplatin/paclitaxel and radiotherapy in
      patients with unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). (Phase I) II. To
      assess whether carboplatin/paclitaxel plus ABT-888 compared with carboplatin/paclitaxel plus
      placebo improves progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with unresectable stage III
      NSCLC. (Phase II) III. To compare overall survival (OS) in patients treated with
      carboplatin/paclitaxel and radiotherapy plus ABT-888 to those treated with carboplatin,
      paclitaxel and radiotherapy plus placebo. (Phase II) IV. To assess the response rate
      (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) and disease control rate in the
      subset of patients with measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) criteria. (Phase II) V. To assess the safety and toxicity profile of the regimen.
      (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect tumor tissue from pretreatment biopsies (archival samples) for biomarker
      studies, including poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP) activity by measuring the levels of
      poly-ADP-ribose, gamma-H2A histone family, member X (gamma-H2AX), and messenger ribonucleic
      acid (mRNA) expression levels of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair enzymes such as excision
      repair cross-complementing rodent repair deficiency, complementation group 1 (ERCC1)/x-ray
      repair complementing defective repair in Chinese hamster cells 1 (XRCC1).

      II. To collect blood samples for evaluation of gamma-H2AX (circulating tumor cells) and other
      relevant future studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a randomized phase
      II study.

      PHASE I:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients undergo 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) once
      daily (QD), 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Patients also receive veliparib orally (PO) twice
      daily (BID) on days 1-43 and carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV
      over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 36, and 43 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients without disease progression after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy undergo consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning within 4-6 weeks of chemotherapy and radiation therapy,
      patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-7 (course 1) and 22-28 (course 2) and carboplatin
      IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and on day 22 of course 2.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo 3D-CRT and receive veliparib, carboplatin, and paclitaxel as in Phase
      I induction and consolidation therapy.

      ARM II: Patients undergo 3D-CRT as in arm I. Patients also receive placebo PO BID on days
      1-43 and carboplatin and paclitaxel as in Phase I. Within 4-6 weeks after completion of
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy, patients receive placebo on days 1-7 and carboplatin and
      paclitaxel as in Phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for first 2
      years and then every 6 months until 5 years.
    
  