
    
      Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) affects nearly 25% of the world's population and
      can lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma . Exercise alone in patients with NAFLD
      has been shown to improve hepatic steatosis. Since 2017, adapted physical activity (APA) has
      been a medical prescription by the referring physician in France. APA is thus expected to be
      a new treatment modality that will become central to the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.

      The reference examination for the non-invasive quantification of liver steatosis was the
      Spectro Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) however this technique is expensive and until now
      reserved for research in highly specialized centers. More recently, the analysis of the MRI
      signal by a magnetic resonance imaging-derived proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF)
      sequence acquired during the performance of a classical MRI scan has been validated as a new,
      reliable technique that is easier to use routinely than Spectro MRI. However, different
      technical variants currently not standardized for the quantification of steatosis by PDFF MRI
      exist. MRI is not widely available and must be performed in a competent and expert center. In
      contrast, the quantification of steatosis by ultrasound using the classical "Controlled
      Attenuation Parameter" (CAP®) is available thanks to a FibroScan, which is widely distributed
      over France. Even if the quantification of steatosis is better by PDFF MRI than by the
      classical CAP®, the quantification of steatosis by the classical CAP® is well correlated with
      the hepatic histology.

      In addition, several studies have found a decrease in classical CAP® when applying non-drug
      or drug therapies to lose weight and/or improve insulin resistance in patients with NAFLD.
      Very recently, Echosens has developed a new technique -the continuous CAP- to improve the
      reliability of the classical CAP® in the evaluation of steatosis [Audiere et al. ILC 2020].
      Continuous CAP® is no longer based on 10 but on 200 measurements of hepatic steatosis. This
      new measurement technique reduces the variability of the measurement of liver steatosis
      quantification by 42%.

      The aim of this work is to evaluate the decrease in hepatic steatosis by continuous CAP® and
      parameters evaluating non-invasively inflammation and hepatic fibrosis in patients with NAFLD
      subjected to the application of personalized dietary measures without or with the performance
      of personalized and reproducible physical activity via the prescription of an adapted
      physical activity. The evaluation will be carried out initially, at the end of the APA
      program and 24 weeks after the end of the APA program in order to look for a persistent
      effect of the modification in lifestyle.
    
  