
    
      Hispanic/Latinos (HL) are the largest and fastest-growing minority population in the nation.
      HLs generally have lower survival rates for most cancers, even after accounting for
      differences in age and stage distribution, which may reflect less access to timely,
      high-quality treatment. They also experience disproportionately higher health disparities in
      quality of care and access to care. The experience of cancer survivorship is often
      characterized by significant challenges. Despite these challenges and significant disparities
      observed among HLs, there is very limited knowledge of survivorship-related issues and
      priorities among HLs, specifically the effectiveness of using promotores/patient navigators
      (PN) in linking HL cancer survivors with unmet psychosocial needs to appropriate psychosocial
      services. The existing community-based infrastructure of the Lance Armstrong Foundation (LAF)
      LIVESTRONG Cancer Navigation Services (LCNS) PN program provides an excellent opportunity to
      evaluate its efficacy in improving QOL among HLs. This proposed 5-year Redes En Acción
      research study involves a mixed-methods approach that occurs in two phases across two
      distinct and diverse HL communities. Phase I will use a community-based participatory
      research (CBPR) approach to engage community-based partners that provide services to breast,
      colorectal and prostate HL cancer survivors. In this phase, the investigators will gather
      community partners for action-oriented group meetings at each site to present components and
      targets of the combined PN and LCNS PN program (PNLCNS). Through this CBPR approach to
      generate valuable community feedback, the investigators will enhance the role of the PN,
      develop and extend existing cooperative relationships to facilitate participant recruitment,
      and prepare community-based partners to disseminate and implement the PNLCNS program upon the
      established efficacy of the proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) of Phase II. Phase II
      will test a RCT to evaluate the efficacy of a culturally tailored PNLCNS program on improving
      general and disease-specific quality of life (QOL) and treatment follow-up compliance among
      breast, colorectal and prostate HL cancer survivors. Phase II also will evaluate the extent
      to which intervention-associated improvements in these outcomes are mediated by targets of
      the PNLCNS program (e.g., communication with medical team, meeting unmet needs and improving
      health behaviors). The RCT involves a 2 X 4 randomized repeated measures design with
      experimental condition (combined patient navigation [PN] over 3 months with access to LCNS PN
      services[PNLCNS] vs. a PN only condition) as the between-groups factor, and time-point
      (baseline/pre-randomization [T1]; post-PNLCNS [about 3-months post-T1; T2], and about 6- [T3]
      and about 12-months [T4] follow-up post-T2) as the within-groups factor; total follow-up is
      15 months. The investigators will compare the effects of the PNLCNS and PN only conditions on
      QOL and treatment follow-up compliance in 300 (after attrition; n=100, Chicago and n=100, San
      Antonio) breast, colorectal and prostate HL cancer survivors with no evidence of metastatic
      disease. To understand the mechanisms by which the PNLCNS significantly impacts QOL and
      treatment compliance outcomes, the investigators also will examine changes in unmet cancer
      needs, communication with the medical team, health behaviors, psychological distress, worry,
      coping and general self-efficacy as potential mediators of the intervention effects. The
      investigators will also evaluate the extent to which other factors such as preparation for
      consultation (i.e., medical visit) and satisfaction with cancer care are associated with our
      QOL and treatment follow-up compliance outcomes. Study findings will fill a significant gap
      in our understanding of the extent to which PN programs and existing community-based
      resources targeting survivors can improve the QOL of a growing number of HL cancer survivors
      who experience an unequal burden of unmet needs after cancer treatment. The efficacy of the
      proposed RCT will provide a conceptually sound and clinically relevant approach to address
      the needs of HL cancer survivors by integrating evidence-based practice into existing
      community resources and infrastructure, thus facilitating the dissemination and translation
      of study findings through Phase I's CBPR process.
    
  