
    
      Introduction

      Intradialytic hypertension (IDH) is the paradoxical rise in blood pressure (BP) during or
      immediately after haemodialysis.

      Nephrologists have yet to arrive at a standard definition of IDH. Definitions vary widely
      from systolic blood pressure rises of ≥ 10mmHg, rise in mean arterial pressure (MAP) during
      dialysis > 15mmHg to hypertension that appears resistant to ultrafiltration during or
      immediately after dialysis.1 Depending on the definition used, the prevalence of IDH varies
      between 5-15%.

      This phenomenon may appear trivial to the inexperienced doctor. However, IDH increases the
      risk of hospitalization and death as reported in the Crit-Line Intradialytic Monitoring
      Benefit Study (CLIMB) and United States Renal Data System (USRDS) haemodialysis study.

      The pathogenesis of IDH is unclear. A number of factors have been implicated and probably
      work synergistically to promote the rise in BP. These include: subclinical volume overload,
      activation of the sympathetic and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems, endothelial
      dysfunction, sodium gain during dialysis, use of erythropoietin stimulating agents (ESAs) and
      removal of anti-hypertensive agents during dialysis.

      The management of IDH relies heavily on control of sodium and fluid dynamics. There are no
      randomized controlled studies to guide management.

      Objectives

      Primary: Determine the prevalence of IDH at four haemodialysis units in the Western Cape

      Secondary: To examine the association between IDH and the following potential risk factors:

      Intradialytic weight gain, the presence and/or degree of fluid overload as assessed by
      bioimpedance monitoring, quantity and timing of anti-hypertensive drugs, ESA dose and route
      of administration, time-averaged sodium concentration, dialysate calcium concentrations and
      haemodialysis modality.

      Methods

      Study Design

      A multicentre, cross-sectional study on chronic haemodialysis patients at four adult dialysis
      units in the Western Cape will be conducted.IDH will be defined as a rise of ≥10mmHg in
      systolic blood pressure between pre- and post-dialysis in at least 4 out of six dialysis
      sessions. Patients screened as eligible for inclusion in the study will be identified from
      haemodialysis charts by the primary investigator (PI). They will then be approached by the
      PI, who will try to obtain informed consent. Once informed consent has been obtained and no
      exclusion criteria are present, the patient will be enrolled. A study ID number will be
      allocated.

      Using a standard operating protocol (SOP), weight, BP, pulse rate, bioimpedance,
      ultrafiltration rates and volumes will be determined before, hourly during dialysis and 30
      minutes after completion of dialysis. Timing and use of antihypertensive drugs, ESA use,
      dialysis modality, intradialytic calcium and time averaged sodium levels will be determined.
      All data extracted will be captured onto a standardised data sheet.
    
  