
    
      Introduction

      HIV infection increases the susceptibility of Mycobacterium Tuberculosis (M.Tb.) infection,
      and hastens its progression due to changes in immune status of the patients. In fact,
      tuberculosis is now the most common opportunistic infection in patients, who die from AIDS.
      Immune response in tuberculosis and other infections induces cytokines that enhance
      replication of HIV, and derives the patient to full blown AIDS. the prevalence of HIV/Tb
      co-infections have been reported to 0.4% to 20.1% from different regions of northern part of
      india. India is one of the six countries, those are accounted for 60 percent new cases of
      tuberculosis, and the BRICS countries collectively account for approximately 50 perce

      nt cases of worldwide tuberculosis. The prevalence of multidrug resistant
      tuberculosis(MDR-TB.) is two-threefold higher in HIV co-infected patients; as HIV infected
      people rapidly acquire the active disease including resistant strain of M. Tb. and rapidly
      transmit the disease among population including PLHIV, who in turn, manifest the active drug
      resistant tuberculosis.

      Methods

        -  This is cohort study among patients of HIV, attending ART (Antiretroviral therapy)
           center khagaria, Bihar, India during June' 2015 to May' 2016.

        -  Patients enrolled at the centre were subjected to screening for Mycobacterium
           tuberculosis infection by doing ESR, mantoux test, chest x-ray, sputum examination for
           acid fast bacillus (AFB) and nucleic acid amplification test.

        -  HIV/Tb co infected patients were given cotrimoxazole.

        -  Patients' data-for example, age, sex, co infection with tuberculosis would be recorded.

        -  Sputum positivity, radiological features, and extra pulmonary manifestations would be
           recorded and statistical analysis would be done

        -  Statistical analysis, such as, mean, standard deviation(SD), student T test, p-values
           would be done. P-value significance would be measured at p < .05.
    
  