
    
      For many post-mastectomy cancer patients seeking breast reconstruction, microsurgical,
      autologous tissue transfer is a desirable alternative to more conventional, implant-based
      procedures. In general terms, this technique entails use of one's own tissue, transferred
      from a distant anatomic site, to recreate the absent breast. This tissue, usually a composite
      of skin and subcutaneous adipose tissue, is isolated along with its source artery and vein,
      and transferred to the chest wall where it is connected (anastomosed) to a local blood
      supply.

      Though there have been many donor tissues (flaps) described for this purpose, abdominal
      tissue supplied by small, perforating blood vessels originating from the deep inferior
      epigastric artery, has become the microsurgical gold standard. This so-called DIEP flap
      provides abundant tissue that can be easily sculpted to fill most breast defects with minimal
      donor site morbidity. Like all microvascular, free tissue transfers, however, the DIEP flap
      is not without its potential complications. One potential complication that is most
      distressing to patients occurs when a portion of the subcutaneous adipose tissue transferred
      exceeds the available blood supply. This devascularized fat eventually undergoes necrosis
      that may not only complicate the interpretation of future mammograms, but may result in
      palpable, painful, and occasionally visible, irregularities within the transferred tissue.
      Though many techniques/interventions/technologies have been described to minimize the
      incidence of fat necrosis, its occurrence remains frustratingly unpredictable and relatively
      common, with published rates ranging between 6 and 17 %.

      In theory, maximizing perfusion to composite tissue flaps should minimize the rate of fat
      necrosis. As such, many techniques have emerged in DIEP flap surgery intended to maximize
      perfusion. One common technique is the use of pre-operative, CT angiography (CTA) to identify
      the largest and most anatomically favorable perforating vessels to include in the composite
      tissue transferred. Though elegant in its simplicity, use of this technique has never been
      demonstrated to decrease the rate of fat necrosis in DIEP reconstructions. In recent years,
      however, another technology intended to intra-operatively evaluate tissue perfusion has
      emerged that may prove very beneficial in the realm of microvascular free tissue transfer-
      Indocyanine green angiography (IGA).

      IGA refers to the peripheral venous injection of lyophilized indocyanine green, a contrast
      agent that fluoresces when excited by a laser of specific wavelength A charge-coupled camera,
      held above the tissue of interest, can then detect the stimulated fluorescence and project an
      image of "real-time" tissue perfusion that is proportional to emission intensity. The
      application of IGA technology in reconstructive plastic surgery, a discipline that relies
      largely on immediate and accurate assessment of tissue perfusion, has recently generated much
      discussion.

      We believe that perforator selection in DIEP breast reconstructions, a process traditionally
      dictated at our institution by pre-operative CTA, may be heavily influenced by
      intra-operative IGA. We further hypothesize that use of intra-operative IGA in DIEP breast
      reconstructions may reduce the incidence of post-operative fat necrosis.

      The aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate the effect of intra-operative Indocyanine
      Green Angiography (IGA) on both flap design and rate of post-operative fat necrosis in
      patients undergoing autologous breast reconstruction utilizing the Deep Inferior Epigastric
      Artery Perforator (DIEP) flap.
    
  