
    
      Recently, van Walraven et al described the Hospital One-year Mortality Risk (HOMR) score for
      predicting 1-year mortality for patients admitted to hospital. HOMR is based on 12
      administrative data points routinely coded by hospitals at the time of discharge and
      available in the CIHI Discharge Abstract Database. The model has been externally validated
      with excellent discrimination and calibration. Among HOMR's 12 data fields, nine are
      routinely available in the Electronic Health Record (EHR) at the time of admission in
      Ontario. Using a method similar to that used to derive HOMR, the investigators developed a
      "modified" HOMR (mHOMR) model based on the nine data fields available at the time of
      admission. mHOMR had comparable accuracy to HOMR (C-statistic .89 vs .92, respectively).
      Additionally, an updated version of mHOMR has recently been developed and validated, called
      HOMR Now!, which has the same c-statistic as the original HOMR (.92) but is calculated using
      ten data fields and an interaction available in many hospital admissions data, similar to
      mHOMR. Using either mHOMR or HOMR Now!, hospitals are able to retrieve admissions data from
      the EMR and calculate each patient's mortality risk on admission. If any patient's mortality
      risk exceeds a predefined threshold, the application would send a message to their clinical
      team prompting them to assess and address unmet palliative needs.

      mHOMR has been implemented in four hospitals in Ontario to date and has been adapted to work
      with different EHRs. The mHOMR application identified a gender-balanced cohort of generally
      elderly patients (mean age of 83 years) who were admitted for several days (median length of
      stay of 5 days) and discharged alive (89%), meaning they were not in their final days of life
      and there would be an opportunity to screen for unmet needs and participate in care planning.
      A second pilot study found >90% of patients identified by the application had an unmet
      palliative need- either a severe symptom or a desire to discuss ACP with a physician or
      both-and that patients with higher mHOMR scores had more severe symptoms. The application
      preferentially identified patients with non-cancer illnesses-most were admitted with a
      frailty-related condition (56.8%), followed by end-stage organ failure (23.5%), and cancer
      (20%)-meaning that the tool did not show a bias towards cancer but instead identified
      patients who reflected the actual population of dying Canadians. These results are similar to
      findings from HOMR Now! validation work. Furthermore, investigators found <50% of those
      identified by mHOMR had a documented palliative care consultation or Goals of Care
      discussion, but after the integration of mHOMR notifications into existing workflow, the
      incidence of early Goals of Care discussions and palliative care consultation increased
      significantly. Additionally, qualitative results show the application is acceptable to
      patients and clinicians alike.

      Both the mHOMR and HOMR Now! applications are intended to be a reliable and accurate
      "trigger" to improve the effectiveness of any palliative intervention by focusing attention
      on a small group of patients with a high risk of death and unmet palliative needs. Both
      applications can also be versatile depending on the situation-it produces a numerical risk
      output rather than a binary yes/no like the Surprise Question, Gold Standards Framework or
      NECPAL tools, so the user can decide what threshold to use for identifying "high risk"
      patients. Thus, organizations concerned with the efficient use of limited resources could set
      a higher mortality threshold, while organizations using more scalable interventions could
      lower the mortality threshold.

      Given the initial success of the mHOMR and HOMR Now! applications in identifying unmet
      palliative care needs in an acceptable way among patients nearing the end-of-life, the next
      step is to implement and rigorously evaluate the immediate long-term effects of this highly
      scalable intervention in a large population to determine whether it improves screening and
      documentation processes and ultimately leads to better outcomes for patients, family members,
      and the healthcare system as a whole. To achieve this aim, investigators have partnered with
      twelve acute care hospitals from across Ontario to implement the mHOMR/HOMR-Now!
      intervention.

      Objective

      To determine whether implementation of an mHOMR or HOMR Now! application to identify patients
      at increased risk of death and trigger screening for unmet palliative needs improves (1)
      identification and documentation of those needs and (2) the end-of-life care provided to
      patients.

      Intervention-Implementation Procedures

      Every inpatient at each site will automatically be given the intervention (an mHOMR or HOMR
      Now! Score, depending on which application can be most easily integrated into each site's
      existing EMR system) upon admission to hospital and considered for secondary interventions
      (i.e. palliative care) based on their score.

      At a minimum, each individual identified by the chosen HOMR tool should receive two
      additional assessments to screen for severe symptoms and the patient's desire to engage in
      advanced care planning (ACP):

        1. Edmonton Symptom Assessment System Revised (ESAS-R): scores of >6 will be flagged as
           'severe'. Individual clinical teams can then choose to address the symptoms as
           appropriate for the patient, or consult a PC team.

        2. 4-item Advanced Care Planning Engagement Survey: Scores of 3-4 indicate a patient is
           ready to discuss ACP with a member of the clinical team. Clinical teams may choose to
           discuss ACP and goals of care (GoC) themselves, activate a local ACP/GoC intervention,
           or distribute ACP documentation (e.g. SpeakUp resources), as applicable.

      Implementation of the mHOMR/HOMR-Now! intervention in each site will follow 4 phases informed
      by the Quality Implementation Framework:

        1. Site-Specific Considerations

           To facilitate successful implementation of the mHOMR/HOMR-Now! application, three
           strategies will be used to tailor implementation to the site-specific context, including
           needs, resources, fit, capacity, and readiness. Firstly, members of the coordinating and
           implementation research team will visit each site to conduct a detailed readiness
           assessment to determine the best way to implement the application given the local
           context of each site. Secondly, semi-structured focus group interviews will be held at
           each site with the Implementation team (i.e. an executive champion, implementation lead,
           clinical lead, and information technology lead), as well as staff who will interact with
           the HOMR application output (i.e. either recipient of or actors on the notification).
           Lastly, select members of the implementation team will be interviewed individually to
           determine site-specific implementation barriers and facilitators.

           Considering the unique site context, investigators will then work with stakeholders to
           determine the additional interventions that each site will implement once a patient has
           been identified as being at elevated risk for mortality and unmet palliative needs by
           the application. Notably, determination of secondary interventions will consider the
           normal workflow and resources available at each site. Details of these interventions
           will be provided in each site's individual protocol.

        2. Establishment of Information Technology Infrastructure for Implementation at each Site

           Logistics of the mHOMR or HOMR-Now! application will be discussed with the IT lead at
           each site to determine the technical approach for implementation in the electronic
           health record (EHR), including which application would be most appropriate to implement
           given each site's existing EHR. Some EHR platforms are used by more than one site; thus,
           solutions derived for one EHR will be shared among other partners as appropriate.

           Once the specific technical implementation process has been defined for each site,
           electronic and print educational material will be developed to teach staff at each site
           about mHOMR/HOMR-Now!, how the application works, and steps to take when they receive a
           notification.

        3. Development, Deployment, and Ongoing Support for mHOMR/HOMR-Now! Implementation

           Integration of the application into each site's EHR will be managed by the site IT lead
           and tested to ensure the application is correctly calculating the mortality risk scores
           and notifying the appropriate members of the care team. Once this is complete, each site
           will host a "go-live" kick-off event to help generate awareness, enthusiasm, and uptake
           of the intervention.

           In the following six to nine months (depending on the site's funding source), the
           application will be 'live' at each site, actively identifying newly admitted patients
           and notifying care teams to conduct the ESAS-R and 4-item ACP Engagement Survey as
           appropriate. Any additional site-specific interventions will also be implemented.

           Process and outcomes evaluations will also occur during phase 3. In addition to phase 1
           interviews and focus groups, these evaluations will involve: (1) a second set of
           semi-structured interviews with members of the implementation team at each site to
           examine determinant factors associated with successful implementation of the mHOMR
           application; (2) a chart review to examine clinical and implementation outcomes, and;
           (3) analysis of linked health administrative data held at ICES to evaluate long-term
           clinical outcomes.

        4. Continuous Improvement of mHOMR/HOMR-Now! Implementation (Concurrent with Phases 1-3)

      Each site will be regularly updated of study progress through teleconferences and
      newsletters. These communications will also share learnings across sites to improve
      implementation through establishment of best practices and identification of strategies to
      overcome implementation barriers. Additionally, this process will inform implementation of
      the application in other hospitals in the future.

      All clinical secondary outcomes will be measured until end of study follow-up (up to one year
      after hospital discharge) or death. These aggregated results will be compared to the same
      measures in the 6-9-month period preceding intervention implementation using an interrupted
      time-series design. While each of these outcomes will be measured, aggregated, and linked to
      databases held at ICES, results from individual site data will be used to improve patient
      care by driving existing clinical best practices for palliative care, symptom management, and
      advanced care planning. In this sense, the clinical secondary outcome measures will also
      serve as indicators for continuous quality improvement at each hospital.
    
  