
    
      Epoetin alfa administered three times weekly (150 U/kg) or once weekly (40,000 U) results in
      a response rate (defined as >= 2 g/dL Hb increase or Hb >= 12 g/dL) of approximately 65% of
      anemic chemotherapy patients and produces a mean hemoglobin (Hg) rise of 1.8 g/dL. Higher
      weekly dosing of epoetin alfa may result in a higher response rate and a more timely mean
      hemoglobin rise while remaining safe. Additionally, limited data are available to show
      whether epoetin alfa maintenance therapy can be administered less frequently than weekly and
      still maintain hemoglobin levels. This is an open label, multicenter, non-randomized study to
      determine the safety and effectiveness of epoetin alfa given to cancer patients receiving
      chemotherapy every three weeks.

      Patients will receive injections of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) 60,000 Units (U) once weekly (QW)
      under the skin for up to 12 weeks (Initiation Phase) to achieve a hemoglobin (Hg) level of 12
      g/dL until next full chemotherapy cycle. At that time they will begin the Maintenance Phase
      and will receive up to 4 injections of Epoetin alfa 80,000 U every 3 weeks (Q3W) under the
      skin for up to an additional 12 weeks. Doses will be held and adjusted downward if hemoglobin
      level rises to >13 g/dL or if a very rapid hemoglobin response occurs (e.g., an increase of
      more than 1.3 g/dL in a 2-week period).

      Safety evaluations include clinical laboratory tests (hemoglobin and hematocrit), vital sign
      measurements (blood pressure), and adverse events. In addition, the antibodies that have
      developed against erythropoietin will be evaluated in patients who receive multiple doses of
      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa). Patients will receive injections of Epoetin alfa 60,000 Units (U)
      once weekly (QW) under the skin for up to 12 weeks (Initiation Phase) to achieve a hemoglobin
      (Hg) level of 12 g/dL until next full chemotherapy cycle. At that time they will begin the
      Maintenance Phase and will receive up to 4 injections of Epoetin alfa 80,000 U every 3 weeks
      (Q3W) under the skin for up to an additional 12 weeks.
    
  