
    
      This study is a prospective randomized controlled non-blinded pilot study.

      Recruitment and Randomization: fifty adult patients with hip fractures for surgical fixation
      presenting to Royal University Hospital (RUH), Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, will be recruited.
      The exclusion criteria are:

        -  American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score >3

        -  Other injuries that interfere with block positioning and assessment of pain

        -  Local anesthetic allergy

        -  Open fracture

        -  Moderate to severe pre-operative delirium (interfering with consent and assessment)

        -  Sepsis at site of injection

        -  Anticoagulation with warfarin or anti-Xa inhibitors

        -  Age less than 65 years

      Patients will be randomized into one of two research arms: Continuous Fascia Iliaca block
      (cFIB) vs standard treatment (opioids). It is important to note here is that patients
      receiving cFIBs will have standard treatment orders available in the event of block failure,
      and opioid consumption will be monitored.

      Methods:

      Patients with hip fractures presenting to RUH will be approached by a member of the study
      team for consent to participate in the study. After consent is obtained patients will be
      randomised to either arm of the study group. The cFIB group will receive an ultrasound guided
      cFIB and standard treatment orders as backup in the event of block failure. The standard
      treatment group will receive only standard treatment orders which include a combination of
      opioids, NSAIDS, acetaminophen, and other adjuncts for analgesia.

      The CFIB group will receive an initial bolus of 40 cc of 0.125% Ropivacaine followed by an
      infusion of 10 cc/hr of 0.2% ropivacaine until the time of surgery. Immediately
      pre-operatively, the anesthesiologist performing the case will bolus the catheter with 40 cc
      of 0.125% ropivacaine and discontinue the catheter.

      Data collection: Demographic and epidemiologic data will be collected for both groups at the
      time of recruitment. Patients will be followed from the time of enrollment until the time of
      discharge from hospital. A member of the study team will visit daily and assess the patients
      for delirium using the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM)-ICU tool, which is a validated
      delirium assessment tool. Pain scores will be obtained after block insertion and twice a day
      until surgical fixation takes place. Pain scores will be assessed in the supine, semi
      recumbent, and upright position, and with active movement. Opioid consumption will be
      recorded as morphine equivalents for the entire length of hospital stay. The incidence of
      side effects of opioids will be recorded including : Nausea, vomiting, pruritis,
      constipation, and urinary retention.

      The length of time from surgery until ready to discharge will be recorded.

      It is difficult to directly measure respiratory complications. As a surrogate for respiratory
      complications the following data will be collected:

        -  Oxygen requirements pre and post operatively

        -  Pre and post operative need for positive pressure ventilation (CPAP, BiPAP)

        -  Radiographic evidence of atelectasis or pneumonia

        -  Trends in oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximetry Data collection is projected
           to be completed by July 1st 2018

      Data analysis: Parametric data will be reported as a mean +/- standard deviation, along with
      confidence intervals. Means will be used to estimate effect size and these values will then
      be used in power calculations and sample size estimation for future studies. In addition, the
      unpaired t-test will be used to test for significant difference between groups. The incidence
      of adverse events will be recorded and presented with descriptive statistics. Data analysis
      is projected to be completed by October 2018

      Significance:

      Fascia Iliaca blocks have already been shown to improve pain in hip fracture patents. Our
      theory is that if we can effectively manage pain with cFIBs we can reduce the amount of
      opioids patients receive in the perioperative period. This could lead to reduced
      complications from opioids, improved patient positioning, improved patient mobility, and
      earlier time to discharge which would have a great impact on patient experience and cost of
      care.
    
  