
    
      The Therm-Stress protocol was designed to provide a better understanding of the effect of a
      short spa residential program of work-related stress prevention on the improvement of heart
      rate variability.

      In the present protocol, parameters are measured on six occasions (inclusion, 6 days before
      the start, at the start of the spa, at the end of the spa, at 6 months and at 12 months).

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Stata software (version 13; Stata-Corp, College
      Station, Tex., USA). All statistical tests will be two-sided and p<0.05 will be considered
      significant. After testing for normal distribution (Shapiro-Wilk test), data will be treated
      either by parametric or non-parametric analyses according to statistical assumptions.
      Inter-groups comparisons will systematically be performed 1) without adjustment and 2)
      adjusting on factors liable to be biased between groups.

      Analysis will be performed using anova or Kruskal-Wallis (KW) tests. When appropriate
      (p<0.05), a post-hoc test for multiple comparisons (Tukey-Kramer after anova and Dunn post
      KW) will be used. Linear regression (with logarithmic transformation if necessary)
      considering an adjustment on covariates fixed according to epidemiological relevance and
      observance to physical activity will complete the analysis.

      Comparisons of categorical variables will be performed using Chi-squared or Fischer test.
      Marascuillo's procedure will be performed for multiple comparisons. Relations between
      quantitative outcomes will be analyzed using correlation coefficients (Pearson or Spearman).
      Fisher's Z transformation and William's T2 statistic will be performed to compare
      correlations between variables and within a single group of subjects. Longitudinal data will
      be treated using mixt-model analyses in order to treat fixed effects group, time and group x
      time interaction taking into account between and within participant variability.
    
  