
    
      Hypoxia may occur during rapid sequence intubation (RSI) of emergency department patients
      (1-4). This condition may increase the risk of the patient suffering a cardiac arrest
      secondary to securing the airway. A part of RSI is pre-oxygenation, which is defined as
      placing the patient on 100% fraction of inspired O2 for 3 minutes prior to administering the
      induction agents (i.e. sedative and neuromuscular blocker) in order to increase the amount of
      oxygen present in the functional residual capacity of the patients lungs to prolong oxygen
      saturating during the apneic period of endotracheal intubation (5-9). In the last decade,
      physicians have developed a process known as diffuse apneic oxygenation (DAO) in order to
      mitigate the risk of oxygen desaturation during this apneic period. The process entails
      leaving the patient on high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen during the act of visualizing
      the vocal cords and placing the endotracheal tube. Over the years the practice has started to
      become more common in emergency departments, operating rooms and ICU's all over the world.
      Recently, a randomized controlled trial (called The FELLOW Trial) of this practice
      demonstrated no difference in desaturation rates between those patients that received DAO and
      those that did not (usual practice) in patients in the ICU (10). Some have commented that the
      findings of this study cannot be applied to emergency department patients, and so evidence is
      lacking in regards to this population.

      Purpose of the study:

      Although studies have started to investigate the efficacy of DAO in preventing desaturation
      during RSI, evidence is still lacking in the emergency department patient population. The
      primary question being asked is: does diffuse apneic oxygenation increase the average lowest
      arterial oxygen saturation during rapid sequence intubation when compared to usual care?
      Secondary question being asked is: does diffuse apneic oxygenation decrease the incidence of
      desaturation in general, as well as hypoxemia and severe hypoxemia? The third question being
      asked is: does diffuse apneic oxygenation increase the time to desaturation?
    
  