
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects 1 in 500 to 1,000 people in the West. Previously a
      disease predominantly of the West, there is now a marked increase in the incidence of
      ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) in Asia, with an estimated prevalence of 1
      in 3,000 and 1 in 10,000 respectively [1]. IBD is thought to result from an aberrant immune
      response to intestinal bacteria in genetically susceptible individuals [2]. Genetic variants
      have been shown to contribute to an increased IBD risk. Although genetic traits predispose to
      the development of IBD in Asia, the change in epidemiology that has occurred over only a few
      decades suggests that other, presumably environmental factors play the major role in the
      development of disease [10].

      IBD patients often rely on medical therapy to achieve remission. Due to the diverse features
      of severity, phenotypes, clinical courses and responses, personalizing IBD therapy is
      important to maximize management efficacy, minimize adverse events and decrease cost.
      Thiopurines is a key component of medications in the treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      (IBD). However, achieving an optimal efficacious thiopurine dosing can be difficult, as up to
      10% of patients have dose-dependent toxicities and up to 9% of patients are resistant to
      thiopurine therapy [16, 17]. Such clinical toxicity could be due to inherited genetic
      variation of certain enzyme, leading to an unusual metabolic pathway, which generates toxic
      metabolites. On the other hand, few studies have studied the longitudinal changes in the gut
      microbiome with drug treatment in IBD. Shaw et al. characterized 19 children with CD and 4
      with ulcerative colitis (UC), showing that dysbiosis at baseline correlated with the degree
      of inflammatory burden of luminal disease.Therefore, identification of comprehensive targets
      for drug monitoring will improve our understanding of the basis for inter-patient variability
      in drug toxicity and efficacy, and enable more individualized therapy.

      Metabolism has an essential role in biological systems; and metabolites represent the end
      products of this important process from a cell of a certain physiological status. Blood and
      urine are integrative fluids that incorporates the metabolic outputs at different of the
      body, and thus providing a metabolic footprint as an end product [4].

      Metagenomics which is a study of microbes as communities is also an important approach to
      study microbiota in human.The interplay between microbiota and genetics gives unique
      transcription profiles in the gut, and gene expression analyses provide insights into the
      transcriptional activity and functional molecular pathways underlying disease progression.
      Therefore, deep sequencing analysis of the colon suggests hypotheses about the
      pathophysiological processes in IBD patients. Further transcriptomics study and in
      combination with other meta'omics studies will provide the basis for in-depth understanding
      of IBD pathogenesis.

      Due to the bio-clinical complexity of diseases and microbiota, a long term, large-scale
      prospective biobank is necessary to carry out meaningful research. This biobank will provide
      a powerful platform for studying a range of complex factors associated with IBD that are of
      great relevance to public health. Such biobank may be extended to other diseases including GI
      diseases and autoimmune disorder, which may possibly provide insight to the role of
      microbiota in human health.

      In conclusion, a comprehensive understanding of the intestinal ecosystem, epigenetic,
      metabolic and transcription profiles, as well as their mechanisms in the disease pathogenesis
      in patients with IBD and other diseases may help us identify potential biomarkers. However,
      our current knowledge about them is still very limited, particularly in Asian patients, who
      have not been extensively researched. Further investigation in this field is needed. To serve
      these purposes, we aim to setup a large scale biobank with comprehensive clinical data.
    
  