
    
      Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is a mental health disorder characterized by maladaptive
      distress, anxiety, and avoidance in social situations. Approximately 11% of the United States
      population will develop SAD in their lifetime, making SAD one of the most prevalent anxiety
      disorders. SAD is associated with impairment in occupational, social, and familial domains,
      representing a substantial economic and public health burden. Social anxiety is exacerbated
      by social isolation , so the effect of social anxiety has likely worsened following the
      COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the impact of SAD, fewer individuals seek treatment for social
      anxiety when compared to other common forms of mental illness (e.g., depression) even though
      effective treatments for social anxiety exist. To increase treatment utilization, brief
      interventions that target social anxiety-relevant constructs must be developed, as these
      interventions may be seen as more palatable among socially anxious individuals than the
      traditional course of treatment for SAD (lasting between 8-12 weekly 1-hour sessions).
      Additionally, such interventions can be easily administered virtually, reducing risk of
      COVID-19 transmission.

      Causal risk factors, defined as risk factors where a manipulation of the risk factor produces
      changes in the outcome, represent ideal targets for intervention. To be causal, a risk factor
      must concurrently relate to and longitudinally predict changes in the outcome. In addition,
      this risk factor must be malleable; that is, that it can change over time. Developing
      interventions targeting causal risk factors is an important area of research, as such
      interventions can both help prevent the development of mental illness and treat mental
      illness once it has developed. However, limited interventions have been developed that
      specifically target causal risk factors for social anxiety.

      One causal risk factor that may represent an ideal target for interventions is anxiety
      sensitivity social concerns (ASSC), defined as the fear of publicly observable symptoms of
      anxiety (e.g., blushing, trembling, sweating). ASSC is one of three dimensions of anxiety
      sensitivity (AS), which is the overall fear of physiological symptoms of anxiety. The other
      two dimensions of AS are AS physical concerns (ASPC), defined as the fear of symptoms of
      anxious arousal (e.g., elevated heart rate, difficulty breathing), and AS cognitive concerns
      (ASCC), defined as the fear of cognitive dyscontrol (e.g., racing thoughts, feeling "spacy").
      The AS dimensions relate thematically to mental illness, with ASSC relating to social
      anxiety, ASPC relating to panic disorder, and ASCC relating to depression. There are brief
      interventions targeting overall AS and ASCC; however, no intervention targeting ASSC has been
      established. Given the link between ASSC and social anxiety, a brief intervention targeting
      ASSC will likely result in subsequent reductions in social anxiety.

      Objectives - Consistent with recommendations for the iterative process of intervention
      development the current study is designed to 1) gain shareholder feedback to refine an ASSC
      intervention prototype, termed the Social Concerns Appraisal Retraining (SCAR) and 2) examine
      acceptability and feasibility ratings for SCAR. The treatment effects of the SCAR
      intervention on social anxiety will also be examined. However, this will be an exploratory
      objective, as it is recommended to first develop acceptable and feasible interventions prior
      to conducting clinical trials to examine treatment effects. The final version of SCAR will
      consist of an hour-long intervention component, followed by a two-week-long ecological
      momentary intervention (EMI) component (detailed below). SCAR will be offered to clients of
      the Ohio University Psychology and Social Work Clinic. Grant funds will be used to cover
      clinic costs so that SCAR will be made available to 36 clients at the Ohio University
      Psychology and Social Work Clinic free of charge.

      Materials and Methods - The SCAR intervention was developed by adapting previous
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT)-based AS interventions. In line with previous AS
      interventions, SCAR will consist of providing psychoeducation (e.g., defining common terms
      like anxiety), myth busting popular misconceptions clients may have about publicly observable
      anxiety symptoms (e.g., "people can tell I'm anxious by looking at me"), and completing
      exposure exercises (e.g., practicing facing feared physical sensations such as sweating). The
      SCAR intervention will be made available to clients at the Ohio University Psychology and
      Social Work Clinic as a pilot clinical trial. Interested clients will be randomly assigned to
      receive SCAR or be placed on a waitlist (for control). For participants assigned to SCAR,
      directly following the hour-long intervention session, they will complete a 2-week long EMI
      component in which they report on their social anxiety symptoms four times per day. When
      participants endorse elevated social anxiety during this time, they will receive a targeted
      message reminding them of the topics covered in SCAR. Ratings of ASSC and social anxiety will
      be assessed prior to receiving SCAR, after the intervention session, at the end of the EMI
      component, and 1-month post intervention. These ratings will be compared to those obtained in
      the waitlist control group. Participants assigned to the waitlist control group will complete
      baseline measures and measures a month after their baseline appointment. After participants
      in the waitlist control group complete the 1-month measures, they will be offered SCAR free
      of charge.

      Significance - The proposed study is designed to develop the first brief intervention
      targeting ASSC. ASSC is a causal risk factor for SAD, a chronic mental health condition that
      has a substantial impact on public health. Once developed, SCAR will be used in conjunction
      with treatments for SAD and in prevention efforts among individuals at risk for developing
      SAD.
    
  