
    
      This project aims to improve the cardiovascular health of seniors living in subsidized
      housing by implementing the successful community-based Cardiovascular Health Awareness
      Program (CHAP). Residents in subsidized housing are considered to be a vulnerable population
      because of their low income and tend to be in poorer health; with a multitude of chronic
      illnesses, such as cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes.

      This project will build on the success of CHAP in other provinces. The program has been shown
      to reduce blood pressure and CVD-related hospitalization costs. CHAP is a patient-centred,
      interdisciplinary, multi-pronged, community-led CVD and stroke prevention and management
      program designed to prevent and reduce the impact of cardiovascular disease in older adults.
      The program addresses common cardiovascular disease risk factors, such as smoking, physical
      activity and poor diet by raising awareness of health and community resources available to
      encourage self-care and appropriate management of cardiovascular disease.

      Taking the form of a randomized controlled trial, the sample will be subsidized housing
      buildings (low income) for those aged 55 years and over. During CHAP monthly assessment
      sessions, participants will 1) complete a consent form, 2) complete a cardiovascular risk
      profile form, 3) undergo blood pressure measurement using an automated blood pressure
      measuring device, 4) receive targeted healthy lifestyle and preventive care materials, 5) be
      invited to participate in group health education sessions. Those patients identified at high
      risk will be assessed by a health professional and referred to a family physician for timely
      and appropriate follow-up.. The impact this program will have on health care utilization
      (emergency visits, cardiovascular hospitalization rates) will be measured using
      administrative databases.
    
  