
    
      INTRODUCTION Hypertension is common with a prevalence of approximately one third of the adult
      Swedish population and similar figures reported world wide. It is associated to cardiac
      structural- and functional changes as well as vascular dysfunction which all can be delayed
      or reversed by appropriate antihypertensive treatment. Although blood pressure (BP) control
      is improving, target BP is still reached by less than half of the treated patients.
      Hypertension is the single risk factor with the greatest attributable risk for incident heart
      failure (HF) and is considerably more common in HF with preserved left ventricular (LV)
      ejection fraction (HFpEF) than in HF with reduced EF (HFrEF). In patients with established
      HFpEF hypertension is very common, ranging between 50-70%. However, the exact mechanisms for
      the transition from hypertension to hypertensive heart disease and HFpEF are less well
      understood. In contrast, pathophysiology and progression of HFrEF is better elucidated and
      may successfully be reversed by 7-8 evidence-based treatments.

      The evolution of myocardial fibrosis may be one early important mechanism in the transition
      from hypertension to HHD, and subsequent heart failure. This can be studied through the
      recent development of cardiac imaging with advanced Doppler-echocardiography, cardiac
      magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging, and assessment of circulating biomarkers reflecting
      myocardial fibrosis turnover, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Indeed,
      echocardiographic left chamber longitudinal strain and extracellular volume measured by CMR
      have recently been demonstrated to be useful to discriminate between healthy controls,
      patients with hypertension and patients with HFpEF. Also circulating plasma biomarkers
      reflecting altered myocardial tissue turnover can differentiate patients with left
      ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) from patients with LVH and HFpEF. In addition, biomarkers may
      identify phenotypes of high collagen cross-linking which has been suggested to have impact on
      the response to medical treatment in HFpEF.

      An increased understanding of these mechanisms allows the development of specific treatments,
      guided by cardiac imaging and/or biomarker assessments, to delay or prevent the transition
      from hypertension to HF. This may have considerable clinical implications in reducing
      cardiovascular complications to hypertension. Thus, the aim of the present study is to
      characterize and study the timeline and the transition from uncomplicated hypertension to HHD
      and HFpEF in subjects with primary hypertension using advanced cardiac imaging techniques and
      bioinformatics, Table 1. Furthermore, we aim to compare changes of HFpEF variables and
      biomarkers in this study to patients with new onset symptomatic HFpEF in the Stockholm
      PREFERS Heart failure study, see below.

      Table 1.

      HYPOTHESES:

        1. Hypertension with normal left atrial/ventricular function deteriorates over time,
           starting with increasing filling pressure, left atrial enlargement followed by reduced
           global longitudinal strain with LVEF>50% and heart failure symptoms (HFpEF)

        2. Circulating biomarkers reflecting myocardial fibrosis, inflammation and endothelial
           dysfunction reflects the transition from hypertension to hypertensive heart disease and
           HFpEF

      As a proxy for HFpEF development our OVERALL AIM is to investigate:

      if change in diastolic cardiac function E/e' or left atrial volume index (LAVI) after one
      year is associated to blood pressure at baseline.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

        1. to study if change in diastolic cardiac function measured with E/e' or LAVI after one
           year is associated to change in blood pressure from baseline to one year.

        2. to assess if blood pressure control at baseline (according to guidelines and age
           adjusted) is associated to diastolic cardiac function measured with E/e' or LAVI after
           one year.

        3. to investigate if blood pressure control after one year (according to guidelines and age
           adjusted) is associated to diastolic cardiac function measured with E/e' or LAVI after
           one year.

        4. to study the temporal evolution (baseline, one year, six years) of the diastolic
           function measured with E/e' or LAVI.

        5. to investigate gender aspects on the temporal evolution (baseline, one year, six years)
           of the diastolic function measured with E/e' or LAVI.

        6. to study the temporal evolution (baseline, one year, six years) of the diastolic
           function measured with echocardiography and CMR.

        7. to assess if temporal changes (baseline, one year, six years) in circulating levels of
           biomarkers reflecting myocardial fibrosis, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction are
           associated with changes in blood pressure.

        8. to assess if temporal changes (baseline, one year, six years) in circulating levels of
           biomarkers reflecting myocardial fibrosis, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction are
           associated with changes in diastolic function.

      METHODS

      STUDY DESIGN The study PREFERS Hypertension, is the last part of the PREFERS (Preserved and
      Reduced Ejection Fraction Epidemiological Regional Study in Stockholm, Clin trial
      NCT03671122), a clinical trial first aiming at describing underlying pathophysiological
      mechanisms in new onset HF, either HFpEF or HFrEF with approximately 600 patients. PREFERS
      Hypertension study is a single-centre, prospective clinical cohort study performed in
      collaboration between the Department of Cardiology at Danderyd Hospital and the Primary
      Health Care Services in Stockholm, Sweden. The study will recruit patients with a diagnosis
      of primary hypertension with an ongoing antihypertensive drug treatment as well as healthy
      control subjects, for comparison as previously described. For inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, see below. All subjects will be assessed at the Cardiovascular Research Laboratory,
      which is part of the Clinical Research Centre at Danderyd University Hospital.

      Primary hypertension is defined as a diagnosis documented in primary care at some time point
      within the last 24 months and ongoing antihypertensive drug treatment (maximum up to 2-3
      drugs). The currently recommended definition of hypertension as a systolic office BP >140
      mmHg and/or diastolic BP >90 mmHg(19) is widely adapted in primary health care. Exclusion of
      secondary hypertension is at the discretion of the primary health care physician or may be
      excluded at the inclusion visit. Controlled hypertension is defined as <140/90 mm Hg.

      RECRUITMENT OF STUDY PARTICIPANTS AND TIMELINE Hypertension in Sweden is usually managed at
      primary health care centers. Through a collaboration between hospital and primary care, the
      patients will be recruited from health care centers in various socioeconomic areas in
      Stockholm (approximately 10 care centers, total catchment area of 100 000 inhabitants). To
      include 250 patients and with an expected response rate of 25-30%, each health care center
      will identify and randomly select and invite 100 patients, gender 1:1 using the software
      MedRave4 (Medrave Software AB, Stockholm, Sweden). Patients will be characterized at
      baseline, after 1 and 6 years per standardized protocol, and they will have their medication
      optimized at baseline and follow-ups, according to ESC/ESH 2018 guidelines. Parallel with
      patient recruitment, healthy control subjects, matched in age and gender will be recruited by
      advertisement in local newspapers. Inclusion will be performed following a telephone
      interview, confirming they are apparently healthy and have no daily medication. Control
      subjects will follow the same study protocol as the patients but planned to be examined at
      inclusion only. The study protocol has been approved by the regional Ethics committee and the
      Stockholm Health Care services, and all study participants will give their written informed
      consent.

      MEASUREMENTS All study data will be collected into electronic case report forms (eCRF) using
      the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap).

      BLOOD PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS AND PULSE WAVE VELOCITY Seated BP measurements will be made in
      accordance to current ESC/ESH 2018 guidelines. Three consecutive BP measurements are
      recorded, 1-2 min apart, using an oscillometry device (Omron M3 Comfort, OMROM Healthcare
      Co., Ltd. Kyoto, Japan). BP will also be measured 1 min and 3 min after standing from a
      seated position, to assess orthostatic hypotension. To screen for lower extremity artery
      disease an ankle-brachial index will be recorded, using continuous wave Doppler.

      Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) during 24 h will be assessed by a Spacelabs ABP
      monitoring 90217A device (Spacelabs Healthcare, Snoqualmie, WA, US), programmed to record BP
      at 20 min intervals to provide an average BP value for day-time, night-time and 24h. A diary
      of the patients´ activities and sleep-time will be recorded. A minimum of 70% useable BP
      recordings are required for a valid ABPM session. The diagnostic threshold for hypertension
      is according to ESC/EHS 2018 guidelines. The carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) is
      assessed by the SphygmoCor XCEL device (AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia), which allows for
      non-invasive assessment of the central arterial pressure waveform and measures of aortic
      stiffness.

      ELECTROCARDIOGRAM 12 lead ECG data will be stored digitally (EC store version 4.1; Cardiolex
      Medical AB, Stockholm, Sweden). In harmony with the PREFERS HF study, LVH will be assessed
      according to the Sokolov Lyon index. In addition, beside a conventional 12-lead ECG we will
      analyse a resting 12-lead ECG that combines advanced and conventional ECG parameters within
      computerized ECG-scores which have been demonstrated to increase the detection accuracy of
      concentric LVH and in screening for LV systolic dysfunction.

      ECHOCARDIOGRAPHIC AND CMR MEASUREMENTS We will follow current recommendations for
      echocardiography to record two-dimensional echocardiographic and Doppler variables, and
      perform Doppler tissue imaging similar to those measured in the PREFERS HF study. All
      measurements will be presented as mean values of three cardiac cycles. A Vivid E9 (GE,
      Waukesha, Wisconsin, USA) Ultrasound System will be used. To reduce interobserver variability
      only two sonographers will perform the investigations, which will be stored on a digital
      server, and will be analyzed offline.

      For CMR, a Siemens Aera system (Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) will be used to
      deliver standard measurements of chamber dimensions and function, and signs of tissue scars
      of ischemic and non-ischemic origin. Myocardial extracellular matrix and signs of fibrosis
      will be examined by T1 mapping. Fully automated quantitative perfusion mapping during rest
      and adenosine stress will give a quantitative measurement for perfusion in mL/min/g, which
      will be used to search for perfusion defects; both focal defects due to obstructive coronary
      artery disease and defects in the global myocardial perfusion reserve due to coronary
      microvascular disease.

      MEASUREMENTS QUESTIONNAIRES Quality of life measurements are to be assessed with validated
      instruments; the EuroQol-5 dimensions (EQ-5D), the Kansas City cardiomyopathy questionnaire
      (KCCQ-12) and the Minnesota living with heart failure questionnaire (MLHFQ). To screen for
      excessive daytime sleepiness, we will use the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) version 1.0.

      SCREENING FOR OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA Screening for sleep disorders and obstructive sleep
      apnea (OSA) is performed at inclusion by the Somnocheck micro CARDIO (Weinman, Hamburg,
      Germany), self-applied by the study participants at home before bedtime. The ambulatory
      overnight cardio-respiratory polygraphy recording will measure apnea/hypopnea-, desaturation-
      and arousal indices.

      PERIPHERAL VENOUS BLOOD- AND URINE SAMPLING Peripheral blood and urine will be collected
      after overnight fasting with no ingestion of caffeine or nicotine within at least 12h.
      Clinical routine analyses of plasma and urine will be performed directly, but for future
      analysis of biomarkers and DNA extraction, aliquots of whole blood, plasma and serum will be
      stored at -80 degrees C in the Stockholm Medical Biobank until further analysis. This ensures
      a standardized handling of biomaterial with high security and traceability also for long-term
      storage. In the PREFERS Hypertension study we plan to analyze the same panel of biomarkers as
      for the PREFERS HF study(17), which will enable a comparison between the two cohorts. Here,
      we focus on biomarkers indicative of various pathophysiological mechanisms relevant to HFpEF,
      including those reflecting myocardial fibrosis, inflammation and endothelial dysfunction.
      Fibrosis i.e: Collagen split products PICP, CITP-I, sST2, Galectin-3, MMPs and IGFBP2;
      Inflammation i.e: HsCRP, IL-6, E-selectin, TNF-alfa, YLK-40, GDF15; Endothelial dysfunction
      i.e: ICAM-1, VCAM-1, Allantoin, SDMA, ADMA, Calprotectin, Arginin, von Willebrand factor,
      EMPs.

      OUTCOME MEASURES Mortality data outside hospital and incident admission to hospital due to
      heart failure will be obtained by merging the Swedish cause of death register and the Swedish
      national inpatient register. The unique personal identification number of all Swedish
      citizens will ascertain complete follow-up.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT AND STATISTICAL POWER As a proxy for HFpEF development our overall aim is to
      investigate if change in diastolic cardiac function E/e' or left atrial volume index (LAVI)
      after one year is associated to blood pressure at baseline. Therefore, the primary endpoint
      in this study is, either mean change of E/e' of 2 or more, or mean change of LAVI of 4 mL/m2
      or more after one year. These assumptions are based on a cross-sectional analysis of a big
      cohort from Olmsted County, Minnesota, where clear-cut differences were shown for these
      echocardiographic variables in patients with hypertension, HFpEF and healthy controls. To
      reach 80% power at a 2-sided level of significance of 0.05 the present study is planned to
      recruit 250 patients and 60 healthy controls, including 20% drop outs.
    
  