
    
      Trial Purpose This cluster randomised trial will evaluate the impact of a pilot intervention
      of oral HIV self-testing (HIVST) as an option for HIV testing, in addition to the offer of
      home-based rapid HIV testing, by community health workers (CHWs ) on knowledge of HIV status
      among the general adult and adolescent population.

      Aim The overall aim of this trial is to investigate whether the inclusion of HIVST as an
      option for HIV testing, in addition to the offer of HIV testing with a finger-prick blood
      sample, increases the uptake of an offer of home-based HIV-testing overall relative to an
      offer of HIV testing with a finger-prick blood sample alone.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Investigate whether the inclusion of HIVST as an option for HIV testing in addition to
           the offer of HIV testing with a finger-prick blood sample through CHW increases the
           uptake of an offer of HIV-testing among specific sub-populations including men,
           adolescents and individuals who have not previously tested relative to an offer of HIV
           testing with a finger-prick blood sample alone.

        2. Investigate whether the inclusion of HIVST as an option for HIV testing in addition to
           the offer of HIV testing with a finger-prick blood sample through CHW increases the
           proportion of individuals' diagnosed HIV positive relative to an offer of HIV testing
           with a finger-prick blood sample alone.

        3. Measure linkage to HIV treatment and care, or prevention services when HIVST is included
           as an option for HIV testing in addition to the offer of HIV testing with a finger-prick
           blood sample through CHW and levels of couples-testing.

      Trial Design This cluster randomised trial will randomise community health worker zones (66
      in total) to either distribute oral HIVST kits in addition to the offer of finger-prick rapid
      HIV testing (33 zones) or to offer finger-prick rapid HIV testing alone (33 zones). The trial
      is nested within theHPTN071/PopART trial and the CHWs to be randomised all work in 4 of the
      intervention sites of this study.

      Trial location Four communities in the Copperbelt and Central province of Zambia have been
      chosen to participate in this trial.

      Trial Participants All adults and adolescents aged 16 years or older living in these
      communities are eligible for participation if they consent to participate in the household
      visit and are eligible for HIV testing (individuals aged 16 years or older who do not report
      knowing their HIV status). The CHW will use the electronic data capture devices to collect
      all information.

      Process Evaluation Measures and Data Collection Process evaluation data will be collected
      using standardised data collection forms developed for this trial, including forms to collect
      data on how many CHW attended training on the demonstration of HIVST and the number of HIVST
      kits procured. Data will also be collected on: 1). the number of households visited and
      offered the option of HIVST or door-to-door rapid finger-prick HIV testing, and follow-up
      visits to individuals receiving an HIVST kit(s). the number of community engagement
      activities performed to inform the community of the availability of HIVST kits. Data on
      number of households visited will be collected through the existing EDC devices with data on
      community activities collected from routine monitoring data. Expected outputs, namely the
      number of HIVST kits distributed for use by individuals present or absent at the time of the
      household visit, will also be collected through the existing EDC devices. Data on outcomes of
      interest will be collected through the existing EDC devices, with linkage data extracted
      using forms developed for HPTN071 and qualitative data collection, including the
      acceptability of HIVST and their distribution through CHW.

      Measured as part of the Process Evaluation

      The following measures will be estimated through qualitative and quantitative data collection
      as part of the process evaluation:

      Inputs:How many CHW were trained to deliver the intervention? How many HIVST kits were
      procured? How many meetings with CABs, community mobilisers and other stakeholds were held?
      And how many attendees were at these meetings? Activities: How many door-to-door visits were
      conducted? How many communication activities were held in the communities? Outputs: How many
      HIVST kits were distributed? Were communities aware of the HIVST intervention and where to
      obtain HIVST kits?Was HIVST acceptable? How was it perceived by community members?

      Ethical Considerations The trial will be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice
      guidelines, and all research staff will receive GCP training. The Ethics Committees to
      approve this study will be the Biomedical Ethics Committee of the University of Zambia and
      the ethics committee of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

      In all communities, HIV testing will follow the Zambian national HIV testing guidelines, with
      HIV testing services offered only to individuals aged 16 years or older and informed consent
      for HTS obtained as per the Ministry of Health guidelines. Individuals will be informed of
      the HTS process and have the right to decline HTS or provide written or verbal consent to HTS
      . For individuals absent at the time of the household visit, an index HIV testing client will
      be asked whether they agree to accept an HIVST on behalf of the absent household member and
      to provide a demonstration on how to perform the test to this same individual. This
      individual will be asked to sign an agreement statement, stating that they will only give the
      self-test kit to their spouse/partner. The absent individual can decline/opt-out of using the
      HIVST and this will be made clear to the individual accepting the HIVST.

      Individuals who participate in any in-depth qualitative studies will be asked to provide
      written informed research consent.

      Potential Harms Despite the increased availability of HIV testing services, including the
      door-to-door offer of home-based HIV testing, testing for HIV remains a sensitive issue
      subject to stigma and discrimination. HIV self-testing provides individuals more
      confidentiality and the opportunity to avoid the stigma of being seen to access HIV testing
      services at a clinic. Nonetheless, self-testing may pose harms distinct from facility- or
      community-based HIV testing strategies, including concerns of coercion to test.

      To date, studies of the distribution of HIV self-tests by volunteer-counsellors in Malawi
      have found a low incidence of harms. Some 3% of individuals reported feeling coerced into
      self-testing, however, among this group of individuals, 92% were highly satisfied with
      self-testing and 94% stated they would recommend self-testing to family/friends.

      Despite little evidence for social harms in other settings, offering a female an HIV
      self-test for her absent male partner may pose risks, including risk of gender based violence
      or coercion to self-test. The CHiPs are trained in providing couples HIV testing and
      counselling services and will only leave a self-test kit if it is clear that there is no
      history of violence in the relationship. Women will also be informed that the CHiP can return
      to counsel the couple on their HIV test result or to support conducting the oral HIV
      self-test. The CHiPs will also be trained to ensure that the person they leave the test kit
      with has demonstrated that they can read and understand the test instructions and are able to
      instruct others to properly conduct an HIV self-test. Further, the CHiPs will also ensure
      that the person they leave the test kit with understands the consequences of forced testing
      and acknowledges that they will not force anyone to test using the kit. To avoid inadvertent
      coercion by leaving an HIV self-test for an individual who refuses the offer of HIV-testing,
      a self-test will only be left for individuals who consent to have a self-test left for them.
    
  