
    
      Eligible patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma will be introduced to this study by their
      hospital consultant during their routine outpatient appointment. Before deciding if he/she
      would like to take part, the patient will be provided with a patient information sheet which
      describes the study in detail. Participation in the study is entirely voluntary and their
      care will not be affected if he/she chooses not to take part.

      The patient information sheet explains that this study involves completing regular
      questionnaires online, or by paper-and-pencil, about health-related quality of life,
      expectations of treatment, preferences for making treatment choices and thoughts at the end
      of chemotherapy.

      If a patient agrees to take part, he/she will be asked to sign an informed consent form
      indicating their willingness to participate. Each patient will be given unique login details
      to complete the consent form online using the PROFILES website. If he/she prefers to receive
      paper versions of the questionnaires and complete a paper version of the informed consent
      form.

      After informed consent has been given, each patient will be asked to complete the first
      questionnaire. This will take around 15-20 minutes to complete. Further questionnaires are
      completed every time the patient attends hospital for treatment with chemotherapy (each
      cycle). These questionnaires will take around 10-15 minutes to complete. Most patients have a
      maximum of six cycles of chemotherapy and therefore will complete six questionnaires during
      treatment. At the end of chemotherapy, patients will complete one further questionnaire.
      During follow-up patients will be asked to complete questionnaires online (or by paper) at
      home every 2-3 months. The maximum time a patient will participate in the study is 2 years.

      Only after a participant has given consent, the research team will collect information for
      their medical files such as the date of their cancer diagnosis and any previous treatments
      received. This information will be linked to the questionnaire data at the end of the study,
      in order to analyse whether it is associated with health-related quality of life.
    
  