
    
      The purpose of the study is to examine the effect of 12 weeks of L-citrulline/L-arginine in
      the form of watermelon supplementation on arterial function and autonomic neural control of
      the heart rate and blood pressure in older overweight/obese men and women with pre- and stage
      1- hypertension. The specific aims of the study are:

        1. To investigate the extent to which daily consumption of watermelon supplementation
           containing L-citrulline/L-arginine (4/2 g) will reduce BP and arterial stiffness. This
           aim will examine the working hypothesis that watermelon supplementation will reduce BP
           and improve arterial function. This aim will be tested by measuring brachial and central
           (aortic and carotid) BP at rest and during physiological stress (head-up tilt test and
           cold pressor test), and by evaluating arterial stiffness using pulse wave velocity of
           the aorta and legs as primary variables.

        2. To determine the effect of watermelon supplementation on endothelial function. There is
           evidence that watermelon improves endothelial function in rats. Hence, we postulate that
           watermelon in part exerts its vascular protective effects by modulating indices of
           endothelial function. This aim will be tested by measuring flow-mediated dilation using
           vascular ultrasound and circulating levels of vasodilators, vasoconstrictors, and
           markers of vascular inflammation (adiponectin, leptin, endothelin-1, angiotensin II,
           prostaglandin F2α, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, and 8-isoprostane).

        3. To determine whether watermelon supplementation will improve the autonomic control of BP
           and heart rate in individuals with high abdominal obesity and BP. There is evidence that
           food high in L-arginine improves baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) in individuals with
           pre-hypertension. This aim will examine the working hypothesis that watermelon will
           improve cardiovascular autonomic control of BP by measuring heart rate variability, BP
           variability and BRS at rest and during physiological stress as secondary variables.
    
  