
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Since the mid 1990s, the investigators have extensively characterized African Americans for
      phenotypes related to cardiovascular and renal function. Based on recently completed genome
      scans, they have identified several chromosomal regions likely to contain genes influencing
      hypertension-related phenotypes in hypertensive, African American sib pairs. For several
      phenotypes, overlapping QTLs have also been identified in related studies in a genetically
      isolated French Canadian population and/or in homologous chromosomal regions in the F2 cross
      of Dahl-salt sensitive x normotensive Brown Norway rats.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators will extensively phenotype 500 hypertensive and 500 normotensive African
      American subjects to conduct a genetic association study, using a single nucleotide
      polymorphism (SNP) genomic scan approach. To achieve a clear separation of blood pressures
      from hypertensive subjects, normotensive subjects will be selected from the lower third of
      the population-based blood pressure distribution. Hypertensive (BMI), and age. Inclusion of
      phenotypes is based on their relevance to the pathophysiology of hypertension and prior
      evidence of "heritability." Candidate genes for SNP analysis will be selected within
      chromosomal regions of two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that they have previously
      demonstrated to be linked to hypertension-related phenotypes--a QTL for body mass index on
      chromosome 1 and a QTL for microalbuminuria on chromosome 18. SNP analyses will be carried
      out in 15 percent of the genes within each of these QTLs, and genes will be selected on the
      basis of their relevance to hypertension, including documented sequence conservation for
      blood pressure related QTLs with rat or mouse. The final goal of the project is to determine
      if distinct clusters of blood pressure related phenotypes can be identified that will permit
      stratification of hypertensive individuals into distinct subgroups to facilitate the analysis
      of the genetic determinants of hypertension and/or provide mechanistic leads to genes
      contributing to these traits.
    
  