
    
      Background and hypothesis:

      Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia with a prevalence of approximately
      2% in the general population and even higher among elderlies. Atrial fibrillation is
      associated with an increased morbidity, mortality and risk of heart failure. Patients with
      atrial fibrillation are at risk of developing tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy.
      Furthermore, heart failure of any other cause and atrial fibrillation often co-exist and
      these patients are at high risk of adverse outcomes and hospitalization. Therefore, early
      identification of heart failure among patients with atrial fibrillation is important in order
      to initiate the optimal treatment strategy. However, as recent onset atrial fibrillation and
      heart failure may present with similar symptoms, excluding heart failure in atrial
      fibrillation patients is a clinical challenge. The gold standard for evaluating heart failure
      is echocardiography. However, the access to echocardiographic evaluation may be limited in
      some hospitals receiving patients with atrial fibrillation. In situations where acute heart
      failure cannot be ruled-out, clinicians may choose to prescribe digoxin instead of e.g. beta
      blockers that are preferred for heart rate control. Digoxin is associated with a
      substantially higher mortality in large cohorts and is not recommended as a first line
      treatment. Methods other than echocardiography to rule-out heart failure in patients with
      atrial fibrillation is therefore warranted.

      N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is an established biomarker in
      identifying and determining long-term prognosis of heart failure in the general population.
      However, levels of NT-proBNP are known to be higher in atrial fibrillation patients,
      regardless of underlying structural heart disease.Therefore, it is not possible to rule-out
      heart failure in patients presenting to the Emergency Department with new-onset atrial
      fibrillation using existing algorithms for NT-proBNP and heart failure. Accordingly, the aim
      of this study is to prospectively measure NT-proBNP in atrial fibrillation patients to
      identify a NT-proBNP threshold making heart failure unlikely.

      Perspectives: This study will evaluate if NT-proBNP may be feasible to rule-out heart failure
      in patients presenting with atrial fibrillation without the use of echocardiography. Early
      rule-out of heart failure will allow the use of more safe medication for rate control e.g.
      beta-blockers instead of digoxin.
    
  