
    
      Background: For the last decade many studies have reported that intraoperative surgical and
      anesthesia conditions might have an impact of postoperative pain.

      The most recent surgical literature agrees on the fact the IAP should remain under 15mmhg or
      even 12mmhg during the whole laparoscopic surgery, and many efforts to do so were developed
      in the most recent years. On the anesthesia side, deep neuromuscular block was associated
      with better postoperative recovery when looking at pain parameters such as pain scores and
      opioid requirements. Nevertheless, all these previous studies, even if recent, did not
      properly evaluate intraoperative pain and did not well control criteria used to guide the
      administration of intraoperative opioids, one of the main components of anesthesia. Also,
      lots of these studies did not properly evaluate or control the depth of hypnosis, another
      main component of anesthesia. Nowadays, new monitors with extremely better sensitivity and
      specificity are available for each of the anesthesia component. This might completely revisit
      the previous findings in the literature and offer much better-quality results.
      Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital in Montreal is a unique center that has invested in new
      monitors to evaluate each of these anesthesia component: BIS index for depth of hypnosis (BIS
      device, Covidien, Saint-Laurent, Canada), NOL index (PM-200TM device, Medasense LTD, Ramat
      Gan, Israel) for nociceptive evaluation (intra-operative pain assessment under general
      anesthesia), and TOF-scan (NMB monitor, Drager, Mississauga, Canada) for quantitative and 3D
      evaluation of the depth of muscle relaxation.

      This study will answer the question whether deep neuromuscular blockade has a clinically
      significant impact on intra and postoperative pain, opioid requirement and anesthesia related
      outcomes and side effects for the early phase of recovery (24hs) after colorectal
      laparoscopic surgery.

      This study will be conducted in a single center, and will be an open label, single blinded,
      randomized controlled study. Type of surgery: laparoscopic colorectal surgery with anesthesia
      time expected to last more than 120min in ASA 1-3 patients, fully consented for primary
      colorectal laparoscopic surgery.

      The primary objective of the study: To compare total intra-operative remifentanil consumption
      during anesthesia for laparoscopic colorectal surgery between two groups: Group "D" for Deep
      muscle relaxation and group "M" for Moderate muscle relaxation. Secondary objectives are
      listed below. For an expected decrease of 25% in the remifentanil intraoperative consumption
      per hour of surgery (in mcg) of surgery, with a type I error α = 0.05 (two-tailed), a 90%
      power, the total sample size needed is 82 (41 per group). To account for an approximative 20%
      rate of loss to follow-up or missing data due to technical problems, a total of 100 subjects
      will be recruited.

      Study Duration: 24 months. Study Center: Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, CIUSSS de l'Est de
      l'Ile de Montreal (CEMTL), University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

      Adverse Events: None expected. Subvention: An Independent Investigator Initiated Trial (IIIT)
      grant application has been accepted by the company Merck (see letter attached) for the
      sponsoring of this study.
    
  