
    
      In August 2012 the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHBLI) released for public
      comment their "Management of Sickle Cell Disease" evidence-based recommendations that were
      developed with consensus panel expertise. Because of a lack of empirical data, most of the
      recommendations specific to vaso-occlusive crises (VOC) were based on consensus panel
      expertise. Recommendations included the use of a patient-specific protocol (specific agents
      and doses for an individual patient). While many attempts have been made to implement
      patient-specific analgesic protocols for use in emergency departments (EDs), anecdotally,
      these have been difficult to implement and maintain over time; a practical approach to
      development, implementation, and dissemination has not been determined. As patient-specific
      protocols are not available in most EDs, the guidelines go on to recommend a SCD specific
      standard analgesic protocol. Both of these recommended protocols provide more aggressive VOC
      pain management than a typical generic ED pain protocol. However, there is an urgent need to
      rigorously test the NHLBI recommendations and compare the two approaches for managing VOC in
      the ED. A large randomized clinical trial (RCT) is essential to test these protocols.

      This pilot project will compare these two different, evidence-based, protocols which include
      opioid pain medicines routinely used as standard of care to treat VOC pain in the ED for
      individuals with SCD, and collect the data necessary to determine if a large RCT is feasible
      and required. This study is novel in that it will design an approach to develop and implement
      patient-specific and standard analgesic VOC protocols for use in the ED, will develop a
      bundle of information technology and education interventions to enhance protocol adoption for
      the pilot RCT, and also be the first RCT conducted in an ED setting to compare two different
      ED pain management protocols for SCD patients who experience a VOC.

      The study consists of 3 aims:

        1. Develop and implement patient specific VOC protocols for patients randomized to this
           arm,

        2. Conduct a pilot RCT to determine the necessary sample size needed for a large RCT to
           compare the difference in reduction in pain score from ED arrival to discharge,
           hospitalization, clinical and safety outcomes, between subjects assigned randomly to
           either a standard SCD analgesic protocol or to a patient-specific analgesic protocol,

        3. Measure feasibility of methods and acceptability of and fidelity to protocols by
           evaluating optimal recruitment and retention strategies, and assessing ED providers
           perceptions of facilitators and barriers to protocol use and protocol adherence.

      The soon to be published NHBLI guidelines for managing SCD will be used as the standard
      protocol with the modification of basing the initial dose of pain medicine on patient weight.
      The standard protocol will recommend re-assessment, and re-dosing with possible dose
      escalation, every 20-30 minutes. Repeat doses for patients randomized to the weight-based
      protocol, when necessary, will be maintained or provided at 1 dose level increase (no more
      than 25%) above the initial dose. For patients randomized to the patient -specific protocol,
      the SCD provider has experience with the individual patient and is best qualified to make
      dosing and frequency recommendations based upon doses required during past ED and hospital
      visits for treatment of VOC, and on daily opioid use if applicable. There is no set maximum
      dose for patients randomized to the patient-specific protocols.

      Both the patient-specific and standard protocols will be available in the ED via a patient's
      electronic medical record. Upon ED arrival, providers will retrieve the patient's study
      protocol (patient-specific, or standard) which will include the starting agents, and doses,
      the subsequent analgesic recommendations, and order medications according to the
      pre-determined protocol.

      The study will be conducted at the emergency departments of the University of Cincinnati
      Medical Center and the Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York. Patients will be enrolled in the study
      for up to 12-months, but may contribute no more that five different ED visits for VOC pain
      control during enrollment to allow for a larger number of different patients.

      Study outcomes will be compared between ED visits of patients randomized to a
      patient-specific vs. a standard SCD protocol. The primary outcome will be the difference in
      pain score from ED arrival to discharge, up to 6 hours, as measured using a visual analogue
      scale. The trajectories of average pain scores from immediately prior to administration of
      1st analgesic dose to discharge by 30 minute increments for each treatment group will also be
      calculated.
    
  