
    
      Abstract:

      There is a growing demand for mental health services on college campuses. At the same time
      there has been a dramatic surge in development of mobile apps for mental health. Given the
      widespread popularity and utilization of mobile apps in the college-age population, there is
      an opportunity to leverage these tools to improve services. The study aims to evaluate the
      effects of a mobile mental health app on reducing symptoms of depression and anxiety for
      students awaiting their first visit at Harvard Counseling and Mental Health Services (CAMHS),
      and Harvard graduate students who have been recommended to seek treatment at CAMHS. The
      feasibility and acceptability of a mobile app intervention with this population will also be
      assessed, as well as the ways through which the mobile app may contribute to improvement in
      depression and anxiety among students such as change in perceived social support for students
      using a mobile social support app.

      Specific Aims:

      Untreated or under-treated depression and anxiety in college-age students has tremendous
      costs for the individual, the larger community and society at large, with the worst, fatal
      outcome of suicide leading to devastating consequences for college communities. 64% of young
      adults who are no longer in college are not attending college because of a mental health
      related condition and the frequency that students in treatment report having "seriously
      considered suicide" has increased by almost 40% in the last five years. Despite these facts,
      still only 25% of students with a mental health concern seek treatment. Technological
      innovations such as mobile apps hold promise to improve access to care, de-stigmatize
      treatment and potentially alleviate demand on over-burdened service centers. However, there
      is limited evidence on the effectiveness and feasibility of use of these mobile platforms.
      Consequently, there is a pressing need to develop better research modalities for evaluating
      mobile apps and to elucidate the specific features that are effective at reducing symptoms
      and are acceptable in this population in order to improve care and inform novel treatment
      approaches.

      In this study, participants seeking mental health services at a university health center will
      receive a mobile social support app. The investigators hypothesize that receiving immediate
      access to a mobile, anonymous social support app while waiting for an appointment and during
      treatment will be feasible and acceptable to young adults seeking mental health services, and
      will yield promising results for improving outcomes of depression and anxiety in comparison
      to those in the control group. The pilot deign will address the following aims:

      Aim1: Evaluate the potential effectiveness of a mobile social support app at reducing
      symptoms of depression and anxiety for students seeking mental health services.

      Aim 2: Assess the feasibility and acceptability of providing students access to a mobile
      social support app to augment available mental health services within a university health
      center.

      Aim 3: Test the feasibility of conducting a fully remote, digital trial with college students
      seeking mental health services with randomization to a mobile social support app.

      Background and Significance:

      There is a mental health crisis on college campuses across the country. 64% of young adults
      who are no longer in college are not attending college because of a mental health related
      condition and the frequency that students in treatment report having "seriously considered
      suicide" has increased by almost 40% in the last five years. The demand for counseling
      services has also grown at least five times faster than average student enrollment. This has
      led to a significant shortage of mental health services for students.

      Considering the ubiquity of mobile phone usage, particularly in this population -over 86% of
      young adults aged 18-29 owns a smart phone-there is significant interest in the use of mobile
      phone apps as a powerful alternate care delivery platform. Additionally, the number of mobile
      mental health apps is exponentially growing with currently thousands of mental health apps
      available for download on the Apple or Google Marketplaces. Given their widespread use,
      mobile apps have the potential to reach people outside of the traditional care model and
      allow people to use these tools when they need them, and as often as they like without having
      to wait for a mental health professional.

      There are numerous potential advantages of mobile health applications, such as continuous
      availability and immediate support, anonymity, customizable content and self-guided treatment
      approaches. Additionally, these approaches hold promise for increasing access to care
      particularly for those in remote areas and traditionally hard-to-reach groups. These tools
      have also been seen as ways to increase service capacity and efficiency, reduce other
      barriers to face-to-face help seeking such as stigma and shame, and may be particularly well
      suited to young people who may be more accepting of technological approaches.

      However, despite the growing number of apps available and the consensus that these
      innovations hold promise for expanding mental health care delivery, the evidence base for
      their efficacy remains unclear and research is significantly lagging behind app development.
      A review of mHealth apps for the most prevalent conditions identified by the WHO identified
      more than 1536 apps for depression, but only 32 associated published articles. Many mobile
      platforms developed by commercial companies are widely utilized but have not been adequately
      evaluated to determine their effectiveness. In a scoping review of the literature on mobile
      apps for mental health in adolescents, only two RCTs were identified and both failed to
      demonstrate a significant effect on intended outcomes. A large meta-analysis conducted
      recently on smartphone interventions for depressive symptoms in adults found a moderate
      positive effect on depressive symptoms, however, the subgroup analyses found that the effects
      of smart- phone interventions were substantially larger when compared to inactive (g= 0.56)
      than active (g=0.22) control conditions.

      Further, there is a broad spectrum of features ranging from entirely self-guided tools, mixed
      approaches that combine self-guided tools with interactions with coaches or fully structured
      programs with an therapist or coach guiding treatment. There is a lack of evidence, however,
      about which features are most helpful and which approach is best suited for an individual or
      given population. The evidence on self-guided alone versus provider-supported internet based
      treatments does indicate that human support significant improves engagement. Initial study
      findings and high drop out rates also suggests that a major challenge with mobile apps is
      user attrition and decreased engagement over time. This is where human connection and social
      support features may play a critical role in maintaining interest and engagement. This pilot
      study aims to contribute to the understanding of the use of mobile mental health apps
      targeting a college-age population. By selecting a mainly social support app, it also aims to
      explore to what degree enhanced social support plays a role in improved outcomes.

      Research Design:

      This is a pilot study evaluating the acceptability and outcomes of a mobile social support
      app, 7 cups which is commercially available and widely utilized by the target population, to
      reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety for college students seeking mental health services
      and selected graduate students who have completed a mental health screening and are
      recommended to seek treatment at CAMHS..

      Methods

      Recruitment and Screening:

      When students make an initial consultation appointment online for counseling and mental
      health services (CAMHS), they will be able to click a link about the study which directs them
      to the study enrollment website. Interested participants will complete a survey to determine
      eligibility including information about basic demographics and mobile device ownership. Those
      meeting basic eligibility requirements will also complete screening using the Patient Health
      Questionnaire - 9 and the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale to determine final
      eligibility. If deemed to be eligible, participants will sign an electronic consent form.

      Harvard graduate students who have completed a mental wellness survey as part of another
      research study led by Dr. Barreira, would be invited to participate in this study after
      completing the survey. For these graduate students, after they complete the survey, if their
      score indicates mild symptoms of depression or anxiety or greater they would be offered to
      participate in the mobile app study. It is currently standard practice for graduate students
      completing the mental wellness surveys that recommendations to seek care at HUHS CAMHS are
      given If they score with symptoms of depression or anxiety. With the addition of this study,
      students would now also be invited to participate in the mobile app study as an additional
      tool to manage their mental and emotional health.

      Approximately 500 students present to CAMHS seeking services each month depending on the time
      of year. We have learned from the pilot study that we are likely to enroll approximately 30%
      of these students with approximately 30% drop out rate. Additionally, there are approximately
      300 Harvard graduate students who have completed a mental health screening and would be
      invited to participate in the study. Again assuming approximately 30-40% of those students
      enroll in the study and a 30% drop out rate. Thus we anticipate obtaining usable data from
      approximately 150 participants. This sample size would allow us to obtain 0.80 power to
      detect significant improvement (Cohen d = 0.4) assuming significance 0.05.

      Baseline Assessment and Group Assignment:

      Once enrolled, participants will be asked additional questions to provide baseline assessment
      such as brief additional demographic information which will include participants' class year,
      race/ethnicity, use of other mental health apps, and current engagement in mental health
      treatment. We will ask participants for an email address and phone number for study staff to
      be able to contact them during the study. In addition, participants will be asked about
      current use of substances or alcohol as this is known to affect treatment outcomes. This will
      be collected using the AUDIT-C, a 3-item alcohol screen, which is a modified version of the
      10-question AUDIT instrument. Participants will also be asked to complete a brief set of
      questions about perceived social support to obtain a baseline assessment using the
      Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to one of two apps: an app offering direct online social support (7cups) or an app
      that provides information about mental health resources on campus (Bliss). Following this,
      participants are guided through the process of downloading their assigned app on their
      smartphone, given instructions on how to reach HUHS urgent care if their symptoms worsen and
      how to contact the study staff with questions.
    
  