
    
      OSA subjects will be recruited from the UCLA Sleep Disorders Center via recruitment flyers.
      When prospective subjects contact the study coordinator, the study will be explained in
      greater detail, and inclusion and exclusion criteria reviewed. If the person agrees to
      participate, appointments for data collection will be made and copies of the informed consent
      will be mailed for their review for at least 3 days before the study. Then the Project
      Coordinator or one of the PI's will contact the prospective subject, answer any questions
      about the study, and obtain signed, informed consent. Baseline measures (PSQI, BDI-II,
      height, weight, vital signs [temperature, heart rate, blood pressure]) will be obtained. At 6
      weeks, baseline measures will be repeated and an overnight polysomnography study will be
      performed at the subject's home. All subjects will be given the WBV device at the end of the
      study. Delivery of the WBV device to each subject's home will be arranged and the WBV device
      and pedometer set up by the research team. Training in the use of the WBV device will be
      provided inperson and via written instructions. Phone and e-mail support for the WBV device
      or any study questions will be available for all study participants. Subjects will use the
      device at least 3 times/week, for 30 minutes per session, for 6 weeks. In addition to the
      pedometer, a wall calendar will be provided on which subjects will mark the days that they
      use the WBV device. Project Coordinator will visit subjects weekly, and as needed, to record
      pedometer readings, check wall calendar for WBV device use, and to answer any subjects'
      questions or concerns. Brain MRI scans will be performed at baseline and after 6 weeks. An
      MRI-compatible pulse oximeter, and an air-filled pressure transducer will be connected to the
      subject to monitor heart rate, O2 saturation, and thoracic wall movement, and then the
      subject will be positioned in the scanner for data collection.
    
  