
    
      This is an open-label study (patients will know the names of the study drugs they receive),
      randomized (patients will be assigned 1 of 2 treatment sequences by chance) that is designed
      to examine the pharmacokinetics (blood levels) of trabectedin when coadministered with
      ketoconazole in patients with advanced malignancies. Study drugs include trabectedin and
      ketoconazole. Trabectedin is a drug being developed to treat patients with cancer that will
      be administered intravenously (IV) through a catheter (tube) into a central vein over a
      period of 3 hours once every 21 days with and without ketoconazole. Ketoconazole is an
      antifungal agent taken as tablets orally (by mouth), that may interfere with the metabolism
      of trabectedin. In addition, dexamethasone or equivalent steroid, a drug used to prevent
      nausea and vomiting in chemotherapy patients that may have protective effects on the liver,
      will be administered to patients before the administration of trabectedin in each treatment
      cycle. This study will consist of 2 parts, Part A and B. In Part A, trabectedin+ketoconazole
      followed by trabectedin alone will be administered with ketoconazole to 4 patients to
      evaluate safety. If the safety and PK data collected in Part A is deemed acceptable,
      enrollment in Part B of the study will begin and patients will receive 1 of 2 treatment
      sequences of trabectedin and ketoconazole. Patients in Part A and Part B who complete the
      treatment phase of the study or who are discontinued due to ketoconazole toxicity, and who in
      the opinion of the investigator would derive an overall clinical benefit from further
      treatment with trabectedin will have the opportunity to continue treatment with trabectedin
      in the optional extension phase. The dose and schedule of trabectedin may be modified by the
      treating physician in the optional extension phase to be more appropriate for the type of
      malignancy being treated. Patients will receive 20 mg of IV dexamethasone or equivalent
      steroid prior to trabectedin administration in all cycles. Part A consists of ketoconazole
      200mg 2x daily+trabectedin 0.2mg/m2 i.v. followed 21 days later by trabectedin 1.3mg/m2 i.v.
      Part B consists of Sequence 1 (ketoconazole 200mg 2x daily+trabectedin 0.2mg/m2 i.v.followed
      21 days later by trabectedin 1.3mg/m2 i.v.) and Sequence 2 (trabectedin 1.3mg/m2 i.v followed
      21 days later by ketoconazole 200mg 2x daily+trabectedin 0.2mg/m2 i.v). Dexamethasone 20mg
      i.v. or equivalent, will be given 30 minutes before trabectedin in each cycle.
    
  