
    
      Kava (piper methysticum) is a complementary or alternative medication used for purported
      anxiolytic and sedative effects. Despite its widespread use there is no data regarding
      potential for drug interactions or its effects on the electroencephalogram. The purpose of
      this study is to determine the effect of administration of kava for 3 weeks on the activity
      of cytochrome p450, 1A2, 2D6, 3A4; NAT2, and XO. Additionally, the effect of kava on EEG
      measured beta amplitude will be evaluated. Fifteen healthy volunteers will undergo enzyme
      activity phenotyping by ingesting 2 mg/kg of caffeine and 30 mg of dextromethorphan followed
      by an overnight urine collection. Following completion of two separate baseline evaluations,
      separated by 1 week, subjects will then take 1 capsule containing 60 mg of kavalactones three
      times daily for 3 weeks. Following 3 weeks of therapy subjects will undergo repeat enzyme
      activity phenotyping as described previously. Enzyme activity following 3 weeks of kava will
      be compared to pre-treatment values to characterize the magnitude of inhibition and/or
      induction of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, NAT2, and XO activity. Additionally, subjects will have
      EEG testing performed to evaluate the effect of kava on beta amplitude. EEG's will be
      performed the day before the first baseline phenotyping procedure and then following three
      weeks of kava (the day before the final phenotyping procedure). Beta amplitude following
      three weeks of kava will be compared to pre-treatment values to evaluate the magnitude of
      pharmacodynamic effect. The results of this study will be used to facilitate the development
      of protocols to evaluate the magnitude of interactions between clinically relevant
      traditional medications and kava as well as studies to compare the pharmacologic effect of
      kava to the effects of benzodiazepines.
    
  