
    
      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both alpha and beta chains
           of a T cell receptor (TCR) that recognizes the human leukocyte antigen serotype within
           HLA-A "A" serotype group (HLA-A 01) restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen, which can be used
           to mediate genetic transfer of this TCR with high efficiency.

        -  In co-cultures with human leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A serotype group
           (HLA-A 01) and MAGE-A3 double positive tumors, the anti-MAGE-A3- A 01 restricted
           (anti-MAGE-A3-01) TCR transduced T cells secreted significant amounts of Interferon
           (IFN)- >= with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  Determine a safe dose of administration of autologous T cells transduced with an anti-
           MAGE-A3 HLA-A 01-restricted TCR (MAGE-A3-01) TCR and aldesleukin to patients following a
           nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting preparative regimen.

        -  Determine if this approach will result in objective tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic cancer expressing MAGE-A3.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-A 01 positive and 18 years of age or older must have

        -  Metastatic cancer whose tumors express the MAGE-A3 antigen

        -  Previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred following at least one
           first line treatment for metastatic disease

      Patients may not have:

      - Contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis will be transduced
           with the retroviral vector supernatant encoding the anti-MAGE-A3 HLA-A 01-restricted
           TCR.

        -  The study will begin with a phase I dose escalation. After the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) cell dose has been determined, patients will be enrolled into the phase II portion
           of the trial at the MTD established during the phase I portion of the study. In the
           phase II portion, patients will be entered into two cohorts: cohort 2a will include
           patients with metastatic melanoma; cohort 2b will include patients with renal cancer and
           other types of metastatic cancer.

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex
           vivo tumor reactive, TCR gene-transduced PBMC plus intravenous (IV) aldesleukin.

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor response every 1-6 months until off
           study criteria are met.

        -  For each of the two strata evaluated in the phase 2 portion, the study will be conducted
           using a phase II optimal design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled.
           For each of these two arms of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a
           clinical response, then no further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the
           first 21 evaluable patients enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will
           continue until a total of 41 evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.

        -  For both strata, the objective will be to determine if the treatment regimen is able to
           be associated with a clinical response rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a
           modes 20% partial response (PR) + complete response (CR) rate (p1=0.20).

        -  In order to complete the dose escalation phase and both phase II cohorts, a total of up
           to 20+82=102 patients may be required (20 + 2 strata with a maximum of 41 apiece). Up to
           6 patients enrolled at the MTD will count towards the accrual in the appropriate phase
           II strata if they are evaluable for response and if they would be fully eligible for
           enrollment in the phase II portion of the trial. Provided that about 4-5 patients per
           month will be able to be enrolled onto this trial, approximately 2 to 3 years may be
           needed to accrue the maximum number of required patients.
    
  