
    
      Specific Aims

        -  Evaluate the impact of PsychoEducation Paced Respiration and Relaxation (PEPRR)
           delivered remotely as Virtual-PEPRR or online as Pep-Pal on caregivers employed at the
           time of their patient's cancer diagnosis and preselected based on high self-reported
           distress.

        -  Evaluate patient psychological status and healthcare utilization in patients whose
           caregivers received Virtual-PEPRR or Pep-Pal versus TAU

        -  Evaluate whether caregivers employment outcomes are associated with patient symptom
           management as an exploratory question.

      OUTLINE: Caregivers are randomized to one of 3 groups (1:1:1) 1) Treatment as usual (TAU), 2)
      Virtual-PEPRR, or 3) Pep-Pal.

        -  Group I (treatment as usual [TAU]): Caregivers randomized to TAU will not participate in
           the stress management interventions. The TAU condition for this study takes into account
           published recommendations for an adequate representation of TAU. All participants
           regardless of randomization will be encouraged to use available psychological resources.

        -  Group II (Virtual PsychoEducation Paced Respiration and Relaxation [Virtual-PEPRR]):
           Caregivers participating in the Virtual-PEPRR intervention will consist of eight 60-75
           minute video or telephone sessions. Each Virtual-PEPRR session will be devoted to a
           specific topic with the goal of assisting the caregiver in developing and applying
           stress-management skills both in caregiving as well as in their work setting. Sessions
           include problem-solving, identifying cognitive distortions, application of relaxation
           techniques such as the emWave2, acquiring new coping skills, utilizing social support,
           and establishing appropriate goals, and finding support. All caregivers in Virtual-PEPRR
           will be provided a Caregiver Workbook that includes information about the session topics
           and homework assignments.

        -  Group III (Pep-Pal): Pep-Pal is a mobilized version of Virtual-PEPRR. Pep-Pal includes
           eight web-based video modules replicate essential components of each session of
           Virtual-PEPRR, but in shorter format (<20 minute. duration) with engaging relaxation
           exercises. The modules include learning skills in problem-solving, identifying cognitive
           distortions, using relaxation techniques, acquiring new coping skills, utilizing social
           support, establishing suitable goals, and finding support. Pep-Pal includes "Mini-Peps"
           which are video guided, 3-minute stress reduction exercises that the caregiver can
           access any time. Caregivers randomized to Pep-Pal will complete modules at times that
           are convenient and web-accessible by smartphone, tablet, laptop, or desktop computer.
           Caregivers can complete more than one module a week, repeat any session, and access the
           Mini-Peps as frequently as desired.

      Caregivers and patients undergo psychosocial assessments prior to randomization, and at 3
      months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year after baseline. At each phase, caregivers and patients
      will complete battery of questionnaires that includes the Center for Epidemiological
      Studies-Depression scale (CES-D), the perceived stress scale (PSS), and the State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Caregivers will be asked monthly to complete eight very short
      questions Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). Additionally the
      patient will complete the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory each time while the caregiver
      completes questionnaires will cover details about how being a caregiver has affected their
      lives, details about employment, insurance and accommodations, general physical and mental
      well-being, and the impact Covid-19 has had on their lives. The patient and the caregiver
      will additionally complete a demographic questionnaire that includes questions regarding age,
      diagnosis, income, and other standard questions regarding nutrition, health behaviors, and
      health services utilization. At study completion, an exit questionnaire will address each
      subject's evaluation of the study and the group in which they were assigned.

      Saliva and hair samples from caregivers will be collected every three months: baseline, 3
      months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year after baseline.
    
  