
    
      Background: With the increase in the use of assisted reproductive techniques thanks to the
      studies and developing technology in recent years, a significant increase has been observed
      in multiple pregnancy rates. Studies conducted in the world and in our country have stated
      that the twin birth rate is between 1.86-10.9%. With the increase in twin pregnancies
      evaluated in the risky pregnancy group, the responsibilities of healthcare professionals on
      issues such as regular follow-up in both antenatal and postnatal periods, ensuring successful
      breastfeeding, and care of babies have increased.

      Breast milk is the most appropriate and valuable food source for multiple babies like single
      babies. Although there is strong evidence about the benefits of breast milk, it has been
      emphasized in studies that the rate and duration of breastfeeding in twin babies are low and
      not at the desired level compared to single babies. Although there are many factors affecting
      these rates, the most important one is the mother's decision and intention to breastfeed her
      babies during pregnancy. During the mother's pregnancy; The feeling of uncertainty and
      inadequacy about birth, feeding and care of the baby causes loss of trust in the mother and
      results in unwanted experiences by affecting her motivation.This situation can be further
      complicated by the thought of being a twin mother. Therefore, the continuation of
      breastfeeding training that started before birth in the postnatal period in line with the
      needs of the mothers, and individualized breastfeeding support have an important role in the
      initiation and maintenance of successful breastfeeding.

      Today, it is recommended to use different materials and techniques in order to ensure
      continuity in the training given to healthy and sick individuals. One of them is QR code
      supported training. Quick Response (QR) codes, which act as a bridge between old and new
      educational materials, make the learning process more permanent with visual materials by
      providing instant access to different media applications such as audio, image and video,
      beyond reading texts and reading the resources at any time. For this reason, QR Codes
      increase the effectiveness of the training by giving booklets during the education of
      expectant mothers, as well as satisfying the participants who are interested in traditional
      learning methods, while at the same time increasing the effectiveness of the learned
      theoretical knowledge to be practiced by following it practically at the desired time and
      place. QR codes also for organizations in developing countries such as Turkey have limited
      resources available can be integrated easily because it requires high cost and user-provided
      printed materials instantly accessible. QR codes, which are integrated into the booklet used
      in neonatal care education, because they require theory and skills, facilitate access to
      videos and enable the acquisition and adoption of many care practices with the interaction of
      image, sound and movement supported by mobile applications. In addition, considering the
      rapid increase in the use of smart phones today, mobile applications have a significant
      effect in improving health in order to increase the quality of health services. The
      cost-effectiveness of mobile applications, enabling individuals to learn whenever they want
      and appropriate for themselves without limitation of time and space, allowing individuals to
      follow-up and training at any time and being accessible make these applications more
      attractive.

      In this extraordinary period in which we have experienced the COVID-19 pandemic, which has
      deeply affected the world recently, the need to review health education methods, especially
      for vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, has arisen due to the risk of hospital
      environments. This method we offer will be effective in ensuring safe health education and
      continuity. The QR Code application can also be used by integrating into different healthy /
      sick individual trainings, thus reducing the workload of healthcare professionals.

      In the light of this information; The study was planned to determine the effect of QR code
      supported online breastfeeding training given to pregnant women expecting twins on
      breastfeeding intention and feeding with breast milk in the first six months.

      Method: This research is a randomized controlled experimental study. The sample of the study
      will be visited between the dates of 01.02.2021-01.02.2022 to the pregnant outpatient clinics
      of the Sakarya Maternity and Children's Hospital Campus of the Ministry of Health Sakarya
      University Training and Research Hospital. It will create twin pregnancies between the week
      of gestation. Power analysis was performed using the G * Power (v3.1.7) program to determine
      the sample size. When it is not known how many units of difference between groups are
      important, the effect width value is taken as 0.70 as the method used. The effect width value
      is 0.20 very high, 0.50 medium level, and 0.80 gives the results under the maximum acceptance
      constraint. It means that the higher the power of the study, the more precise the measurement
      is in finding the difference. Power is expected to be 0.80 and above. However, some experts
      emphasize that this limit is between 0.70 and 0.90. The study was planned with a total of 102
      pregnant women, 34 babies for each group, when the probability of type 1 error (α) was 0.05
      (95% confidence level), 80% power level and the effect width value was 0.70. A total of 102
      pregnant women that make up the sample in the study will be randomly divided into three
      groups. Pregnant women to be assigned to the groups will be assigned through a computer-based
      random number generator program.

      The sample of the study will randomly allocated into three groups: online training for
      intervention group-1, online training with QR code support for intervention group-2 and the
      other group, which was the control group, routine health monitoring of the hospital and will
      be followed in line with their information. Since the education about twin babies
      breastfeeding will be given by the researchers, single-blind randomization will be provided.
      The statistician also will be made blind for the data analysis purpose. In data collection
      tools, "Descriptive Information Form" containing sociodemographic characteristics of the
      family, "Breastfeeding Intention Scale in Pregnant Women Expecting Twin Babies" to measure
      the breastfeeding intention of pregnant women who are expecting twin babies, and the babies
      created by researchers to monitor breastfeeding status in the postnatal period. will be
      collected using the "Breastfeeding Follow-up Chart", which includes birth histories, hospital
      stays and breastfeeding processes.

      The first stage of the study includes the training and filling out the "Introductory
      Information Form" and the Breastfeeding Intention Scale for Pregnant Women Expecting Twin
      Babies "before the training. The training to be given to the experimental groups
      (intervention 1: Online training group, intervention - 2: Online training group with QR code
      support) will be carried out online and remotely. Training on successful breastfeeding in
      twin babies will be carried out in two sessions at a time. Powerpoint presentation,
      simultaneous breastfeeding animations for twin babies, breastfeeding guide will be used as
      educational materials. In addition, QR codes will be integrated into the guide in order to
      provide the opportunity to watch the video simultaneously while reading the guide in
      situations that require knowledge and skills related to breastfeeding and to allowed them to
      watch repeatedly as long as they feel the need. QR Codes for Videos on Breastfeeding Training
      in Twin Pregnants will only be used in the intervention - 2: QR supported Online training
      group. The training will take approximately 1.5 hours on average. After the training, the
      questions of the pregnant women will be answered. Before the pregnant women leave the
      training, breastfeeding guide will be sent to the intervention 1 group, and the training
      guide with QR code to the intervention 2 group will be sent to the e-mails of the pregnant
      women. The pregnant women in the Intervention 2 group will be periodically sent reminder
      notifications to watch the videos before and after the birth via the QR Codes in the guide.
      No intervention will be made to the control group. The second phase of the study includes the
      postnatal breastfeeding follow-up of pregnant women. At this stage, the pregnant women will
      be called every month starting from the 1st month to the 6th month in the first week after
      giving birth, and the nutritional status of the babies in the first 6 months will be followed
      by using the "Breastfeeding Follow-up Chart" form. In the evaluation of data, statistical
      analysis will be performed using the SPSS package program. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test
      will be used for normality. In order to determine whether there is a difference in the
      dependent variables compared to independent variables, the independent group t-test will be
      used if the distribution is normal in independent variables with two options, and Mann
      Whitney-U test will be used if distribution is not normal. The results will be evaluated at a
      confidence level of 95% and at a level of significance of p <0.05.
    
  