
    
      The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, which causes the highly contagious
      coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), has resulted in a global pandemic.

      The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 infection is broad, encompassing asymptomatic infection,
      mild upper respiratory tract illness, and severe viral pneumonia with respiratory failure and
      death. The risk of thrombotic complications is increased, even as compared to other viral
      respiratory illnesses, such as influenza. A pro-inflammatory cytokine response as well as
      induction of procoagulant factors associated with COVID-19 has been proposed to contribute to
      thrombosis as well as plaque rupture through local inflammation. Patients with COVID-19 are
      at increased risk for arterial and vein thromboembolism, with high rates observed despite
      thromboprophylaxis. Autopsy reports have noted micro and macro vascular thrombosis across
      multiple organ beds consistent with an early hypercoagulable state.

      Notably, in COVID-19, data in the U.K. and U.S. document that infection and outcomes of
      infection are worse in African and Hispanic descent persons than in other groups. The reasons
      for this are uncertain.

      Viral Infection and Thrombosis A large body of literature links inflammation and coagulation;
      altered hemostasis is a known complication of respiratory viral infections. Procoagulant
      markers are severely elevated in viral infections. Specifically, proinflammatory cytokines in
      viral infections upregulate expression of tissue factor, markers of thrombin generation,
      platelet activation, and down-regulate natural anticoagulant proteins C and S.

      Studies have demonstrated significant risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary
      embolism (PE), and myocardial infarction (MI) associated with viral respiratory infections.
      In a series of patients with fatal influenza H1N1, 75% had pulmonary thrombi on autopsy (a
      rate considerably higher than reported on autopsy studies among the general intensive care
      unit population). Incidence ratio for acute myocardial infarction in the context of Influenza
      A is over 10. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-1 (SARS CoV-1) and influenza have
      been associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), endothelial damage, DVT,
      PE, and large artery ischemic stroke. Patients with Influenza H1N1 and acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) had a 23.3-fold higher risk for pulmonary embolism, and a 17.9-fold
      increased risk for deep vein thrombosis. Compared to those treated with systemic
      anticoagulation, those without treatment were 33 times more likely to suffer a VTE.

      Thrombosis, both microvascular and macrovascular, is a prominent feature in multiple organs
      at autopsy in fatal cases of COVID-19. Thrombosis may thus contribute to respiratory failure,
      renal failure, and hepatic injury in COVID-19. The number of megakaryocytes in tissues is
      higher than in other forms of ARDS, and thrombi are platelet-rich based on specific staining.
      Thrombotic stroke has been reported in young COVID-19 patients with no cardiovascular risk
      factors. Both arterial and venous thrombotic events have been seen in increasing numbers of
      hospitalized patients infected with COVID-19. The incidence of thrombosis has ranged from 10
      to 30% in hospitalized patients; however, this varies by type of thrombosis captured
      (arterial or vein) and severity of illness (ICU level care, requiring mechanical ventilation,
      etc.).
    
  