
    
      In rural communities served by Colorado Heart Healthy Solutions (CHHS), referral to a
      comprehensive remotely-delivered (virtual) continuous remote care to induce nutritional
      ketosis combined with remote medication management will improve glycemic control in patients
      with type 2 diabetes as compared with standard care. The study intervention is the referral.
      Subjects are not mandated to receive Virta treatment and are welcome to continue in the study
      whether or not the referral is accepted. 2 rural communities served by CHHS have been chosen
      as recruitment sites. Study patients will be randomized at the site level.

      Objectives

      Primary: To assess glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes living in a rural
      community referred to a comprehensive remotely-delivered continuous remote care to induce
      nutritional ketosis combined with remote medication management (termed "continuous remote
      care") as compared with those living in a rural community offered standard care.

      Secondary:

        1. To assess the effects of referral to continuous remote care as compared with standard
           care on body weight and on body mass index

        2. To assess the effects of referral to continuous remote care as compared with standard
           care on number and doses of anti-hyperglycemic medications

        3. To determine the durability of a continuous remote care intervention when paired with
           ongoing community health worker support

           Exploratory:

        4. To assess the effects of referral to continuous remote care as compared with standard
           care on LDL-cholesterol, fasting glucose, and fasting triglyceride/HDL-cholesterol ratio

        5. To assess patient-reported outcomes of continuous remote care as compared with standard
           care

        6. To determine enrollment rate (offered vs accepted) in patients with type 2 diabetes
           living in rural communities referred to continuous remote care.

        7. To determine active engagement (number, timing, and types of 2-way contacts) and
           retention in patients with type 2 diabetes living in rural communities referred to
           continuous remote care.
    
  