
    
      The study will be carried out during the first 6 hours after the end of cardiac surgery when
      patients are mechanically ventilated and sedated with propofol and remifentanil to achieve a
      Ramsey sedation score of 3-4. The following four steps will be carried out:

      A) A baseline hemodynamic and ultrasound assessment with the head of the bed positioned at 30
      °.

      B) The measurement of abdominal pressure with the head of the bed placed in a horizontal
      position for 3 minutes.

      C) A rapid fluid load test with the head of the bed raised again to be 30°. The test will be
      performed by infusing 250-300 mL/m2 Body Surface Area of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 6% 130/0.4
      (VoluvenR) in 30 minutes and will be considered positive if the cardiac index increases by at
      least 15% above the baseline value.

      D) A second hemodynamic and ultrasound assessment with the head of the bed positioned at 30
      °.

      Hemodynamic evaluation The hemodynamic assessment will be run out by evaluating heart rate,
      systemic arterial and pulmonary pressures, central venous pressure, and pulmonary wedge
      pressure. Cardiac output will be measured by the thermodilution technique; the mean of three
      measures will be taken; then cardiac index will be calculated by dividing the cardiac output
      by the body surface area.

      Ultrasound measurements

      IVC maximum and minimum diameters (which will be defined as anteroposterior and lateral) will
      be measured at the end of inspiration and of expiration at four levels:

        1. 1 cm after the confluence of the iliac veins

        2. At the confluence of the renal veins

        3. Immediately below the confluence of the hepatic veins

        4. Immediately above the confluence of the hepatic veins (also in long axis)

      At level 3 maximum and average blood velocity will be measured by Doppler provided that the
      angle of insonation is 60° or less.

      At each level, we will compute the ratio R between the anteroposterior and lateral diameters
      (eccentricity) and the sectional area, calculated with the formula for the ellipse.

      Statistical analysis The data obtained will be presented as mean (standard deviation).
      Statistical analysis will be performed with ANOVA for repeated measures and post-hoc
      comparisons with Student Newman Keuls test. ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curves
      will be calculated to test the predictivity of a positive fluid load test by the
      aforementioned parameters; the analysis will be performed at the level at which each
      parameter shows the largest variations after the load test.

      The a priori power analysis was performed on the primary endpoint, i.e. on changes of R in
      relation to IVC levels and fluid volume test with the program Gpower (17). The analysis was
      carried out on ANOVA with a 4 x 2 design by assuming an α error of 0.05, a power of 1-β of
      0.95, and an f of 0.40, which corresponded to a large-size effect. The index f is a
      standardized measure of the effect size and is equal to the minimum difference considered
      clinically relevant divided by the standard deviation in the population. Since, the standard
      deviation of R was 0.1 in a previous study on healthy volunteers, an f value of 0.4
      corresponded to a minimal difference of 0.04 between R values. On this basis, we obtained 112
      determinations over all groups of the design, which corresponded to a sample of 14 patients
      (112/8=14); such value was increased by 10%, and the final sample of 16 patients was
      obtained.
    
  