
    
      Research indicates that AAC (Augmentative and Alternative Communication) has the potential to
      change the lives of many people with complex communication needs, but is often under-utilised
      and/or abandoned. Therefore, the research aims to investigate the meaning, value, and purpose
      of AAC for different stakeholder groups, as well as to what extent these are shared or
      unique? This information will support Speech and Language Therapists to understand the
      meaning, value, and purpose of AAC for key stakeholders, and therefore adapt intervention to
      meet these needs. It can also support families considering AAC in decision making.
      Participants can also benefit through reflecting on what AAC means to them. It is also an
      important part of evidence based practice to listen to the voice of the client and family.

      A qualitative descriptive study is proposed, utilising thematic analysis. The study will be
      implemented using a survey which will be presented in different formats
      (paper/online/face-to-face) depending on the stakeholder. It will investigate the perceptions
      of people who use AAC, family members, teaching staff and health professionals who work with
      AAC users. Family members, adult AAC users, teachers and health professionals will receive a
      link to an online survey, distributed by professional groups and charities. Parents of
      children attending local special schools will be given paper copies of the survey. Face to
      face interviews with up to 5 children who use AAC will also be carried out at local special
      schools, following consent from the parents. Interviews will be conducted by a trained Speech
      and Language Therapist using symbols to support communication via a Talking Mats style
      approach,and children will be accompanied by an adult. It is estimated that interviews will
      last between 20 and 30 minutes.

      Participants filling in the paper or online survey are encouraged to write as much or as
      little as they like; it is estimated that it will take around 10 minutes to complete,
      although others may spend longer.
    
  