
    
      The EPIC Observational Study is a longitudinal, prospective, observational study that was
      originally conducted at 59 sites. The current five-year extension study is being conducted at
      54 sites.

      The EPIC Observational Study will serve as a freestanding epidemiologic study of the risk
      factors for and clinical impact of initial Pa acquisition and anti-pseudomonal therapy.
      Defining the risk factors for Pa acquisition can potentially allow for preventive measures
      and identification of high-risk populations requiring closer monitoring. Despite rigorous
      data collection, previous studies have been limited by small sample sizes and by conduct at
      one or two centers. This study will include a much larger sample size from many more centers
      than previous studies. It will thus provide for more generalizable results and more precise
      risk estimates for previously identified risk factors for Pa acquisition, and it will allow
      for exploration of novel risk factors not included in earlier studies. Better understanding
      of the clinical outcomes associated with Pa acquisition and the outcomes associated with
      different types of anti-pseudomonal therapies will inform the development of rational early
      intervention treatment regimens. Better knowledge about temporal relationships between
      respiratory signs and symptoms, Pa serology, and CF airway microbiology may lead to improved
      strategies for early detection of Pa and could have important implications for the timing of
      interventions aimed at preventing or treating early Pa acquisition. Finally, this study will
      serve as an important source of Pa and S. aureus isolates, serum samples, and DNA samples
      that will be used and banked for studies designed to enhance the understanding of the
      pathogenesis of CF, e.g., microarray investigations of early Pa isolates, investigations to
      identify proteomic biomarkers of airway inflammation, and investigations to identify genetic
      factors related to CF disease progression, including early lung disease, and clinical
      outcomes.
    
  