
    
      Non-institutionalized outpatients under preventive care were voluntarily enrolled into the
      study. Participants were aged of 80 years or over, have never manifested myocardial
      infarction, stroke or peripheral arterial disease. Enrolled participants underwent a detailed
      clinical examination, including assessment of anthropometric measures, quality of life by the
      WHOQOL-BREF, psychological test by Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) and cognitive function by
      the mini-mental state examination (MMSE). After 12h of overnight fasting, the study
      participants underwent to blood sampling collection for biochemical analysis and freezing of
      plasma, serum and DNA. Immediately after blood collection, participants underwent to
      cardiovascular ultrasound evaluations and computed tomography (CT) scans during the week
      following the initial assessment. After baseline measurements, all participants were referred
      to the study as outpatient clinic for prospective medical follow-up evaluations.

      Anthropometric measures: body weight, height, waist circumference and skinfold thickness
      (triceps, biceps, suprailiac and subscapular) were measured. Body mass index (BMI) was
      calculated. Skinfold thickness was the mean of triplicate measurements at the right side,
      using a skinfold caliper (WCS Plus®, Cardiomed, Curitiba, Brazil).

      Biochemical analysis: After collection, EDTA blood was centrifuged at 5 ◦ C, 4500 rpm for
      15min to separate plasma and carrying out the following measurements: glucose (Glucose
      GOD-PAP, Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, USA), total cholesterol (CHOD-PAP, Roche Diagnostics,
      Mannheim, USA), triglycerides (GPO-PAP, Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, USA), HDL-C (HDL
      cholesterol without pretreatment, Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, USA), C-reactive protein
      (highly sensitive, CardioPhase, Dade Behring, Marburg, USA), urea and creatinine (GLDH,
      Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan), fibrinogen (Sysmex CA 1500, Siemens, Munich, Germany), interleukin
      (IL) 10 and tumor necrosis factor type alpha (TNF-alpha) (eBioscience, San Diego, CA, USA).
      Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin (Immulite 2000, Siemens, Los Angeles, CA, USA), bone
      fraction of alkaline phosphatase (Hitachi Autoanalyzer, Tokyo Japan), calcium (Hitachi
      Autoanalyzer, Tokyo, Japan), apoA and apoB (Behring Nephelometer BNII, Dade Behring, Marburg,
      Germany) were also measured.

      Carotid ultrasound: The evaluation of intima-media thickness (IMT) and presence of carotid
      plaques were assessed using high-resolution B-mode ultrasound (Philips, model IE 33, 3-9 MHz
      linear transducer, Philips Medical Systems, Andover, MA, USA) according to the protocols of
      the American Association of Echocardiography. Bilateral measurements were made at the
      posterior wall of the bulb of the common carotid artery and at the internal carotid artery
      through a program of automatic edge detection (QLAB version 6.0 software). Carotid plaque was
      defined as the presence of focal thickening of at least 50% higher than surrounding areas or
      as focal region with IMT > 1.5 mm and distinct adjacent edges.

      Cardiac computed tomography: Computed tomography was performed in a 64-slice scanner
      (Aquillion 64, Toshiba, Ottawara, Japan). Axial slices of 3 mm thickness with 3 mm table-feed
      were acquired at 70% of R-R interval with prospective ECG triggering. Coronary artery
      calcification was defined as a minimum of 3 contiguous pixels with a peak Hounsfield unit
      density > 130. Coronary artery calcifications were scored by a certified radiologist. The
      Agatston score was used to express the value of CAC.
    
  