
    
      This RCT (randomized clinical trial) compared MCN36 to placebo in patients randomized to
      receive one or the other for 8 weeks. Close medical supervision was provided with weekly
      appointments. At the end of the 8 weeks, all participants were offered the opportunity of
      entering an 8-week open-label extension.

      The efficacy objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of MCN36 compared with
      placebo in otherwise medication-free adults with bipolar disorder I and II, in improving
      overall symptomatology at the end of 8 weeks of therapy as assessed under randomized and
      fully blinded conditions

        -  as measured by the clinician using the Overall Bipolarity Index (OBI) (primary outcome
           measure).

        -  as measured by the clinician using the Clinical Global Impressions for Bipolar Disorder
           (CGI-BP) for Severity.

        -  as measured by self-report recorded on the Outcome Questionnaire (OQ).

        -  in terms of rate of response, with response defined as a reduction of 50% or more in
           either the depression or the mood elevation component of the OBI.

        -  in terms of functional states and health-related quality of life as measured by The
           Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36).

      The safety-related objective was to assess the safety of MCN36 compared with placebo in terms
      of

        -  laboratory analyses

        -  treatment-emergent adverse events, which will be solicited at each appointment using the
           Adverse Event Log.

      Participants had two appointments for screening and confirming suitability for the trial.
      Between those two appointments, they provided a blood sample, and met with a research nurse.
      They also kept a 7-day food record of their food intake prior to the second appointment. If
      suitability was confirmed at the second visit, they entered the randomized phase.
    
  