
    
      Prediction of Anastomotic Leak/Stricture after Esophagectomy with Gastric Pull-up by Venous
      Blood Gas.

      Esophageal resection becomes a routine surgical procedure in many medical centers. Usually
      reconstruction after esophagectomy is achieved by gastric pull-up with cervical or
      intrathoracic anastomosis. The only blood supply for this gastric tube is by right
      gastroepiploic arcade. Bad or borderline perfusion of gastric tube is the main reason for
      future anastomotic leaks or strictures.

      There are a lot of methods for intraoperative assessment of gastric tube perfusion. This
      methods include basic (as color, temperature of tube) and advanced assessment as optical
      fiber spectroscopy, visible light spectroscopy, the combination of a laser Doppler flowmeter
      and spectrophotometer, a laser Doppler imager, partial tissue oxygen pressure with a
      Clark-type polar graphic oxygen electrode, continuous measurement of mucosal PCO2 using
      recirculation gas analysis with a TONOCAP device together with mean arterial pressure
      measurement, and cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance by pulse contour analysis
      laser-assisted fluorescent-dye angiography (1-5).

      All this methods are comparative complicated and do not promise good assessment results.

      The investigators suggest to measure components of venous blood gases (O2, pH, CO2, lactate)
      from the area of future anastomosis before construction of gastric tube and just before
      creation of anastomosis ( after 15-30 minutes), compare the results of this analysis with
      systemic venous blood.

      The investigators suppose that elevation of acid features of blood (pH decreasing, lactate
      increasing etc.) as expression of tissue ischemia after gastric tube creation maybe the
      significant predictive sign for future anastomotic leaks or strictures.

      After operation the investigators plan to find relationship between the blood gas changes and
      rate of anastomotic leak and stricture.

      Objectives The aims of this study is to compare the changes in venous blood gas in gastric
      tube together with systemic venous blood before construction of gastric tube and just before
      creation of anastomosis . After operation the investigators plan to find relationship between
      the blood gas changes and rate of anastomotic leak and stricture.

      Study Design This is prospective study. Anticipated cohort of 50 patients The investigators
      are planning to take 1-2 cc of venous blood from proximal part of stomach before gastric tube
      creation and in the same time the investigators will take same amount of venous blood from
      peripheral vein. This blood will be analyzed in the "ABL800 FLEX blood gas analyzer"
      (Radiometer Copenhagen) as a routine blood analyses that making by anesthesiologist during
      the operation. This blood sampling the investigators will make again after 15-30 minutes from
      the same area in proximal stomach (after creation of gastric tube) and peripheral vein just
      before anastomosis creation. Important that because of technical needs (regardless our study)
      this stomach area from where the investigators are going to get blood for analyses will be
      removed immediately after anastomosis creation. So there is no danger for future injury or
      tissue changes for the patient due to needle stubbing for blood analyses.

      Every patient will undergo routine follow up in the surgical department for minimum 7-10
      hospitalization days with describing signs of anastomotic leak. Patients will continue
      routine follow up in our outpatient clinic (as every patient after such kind of surgery) two
      weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months after discharge from surgical department with evaluation of
      anastomotic stricture signs.

      Participants. Inclusion criteria Patients who scheduled to undergo elective esophagectomy
      with gastric pull-up reconstruction in Beilinson hospital and are willing and able to give
      inform consent.

      Data collection and statistical analysis. Data will be collected about patients demographic
      data, comorbidities, kind of pathology, neoadjuvant treatment (for cancer patients), time of
      surgery, patient hemodynamic state during surgery. The investigators will collect blood
      results especially measure of O2, pH, CO2, lactate. After surgery the investigators will
      describe and collect clinical and radiological signs of anastomotic leak and stricture.

      Statistical analysis. Logistic regression and ROC (receiver operating characteristic) will be
      used to assess relationship between the blood gas changes and rate of anastomotic leak and
      stricture.
    
  