
    
      The use of provisional abutments is mandatory during the restorative phase of any implant
      based oral rehabilitation. The introduction of poly-ether-ether-ketone (PEEK) for the
      manufacturing of provisional abutments as an alternative to conventional titanium abutments
      has opened the restorative spectra, offering the clinician and the patient better aesthetics
      and adhesive outcomes than its predecessor. However, there is to date no clarity on the
      impact of PEEK on the bacterial growth and the specificity of the microbiota on the abutment
      surface. Therefore, the present study aims to determine the relative abundances of the
      different bacterial phyla and families in the microbiota present on the surface of PEEK and
      titanium implant-supported provisional abutments, as well as the effect of both materials on
      the presence of antibiotics resistance genes.

      Study Hypotheses:

        -  H1: The characteristics of the bacterial microbiota present at the connection area of
           implant-supported provisional abutments are dependent upon the abutment material.

        -  H2: An increased presence of antibiotic resistance genes is found in the bacterial
           microbiota on titanium provisional abutments when compared to that found on PEEK
           abutments.

      The study uses a metagenomic approach based on the characterization of the bacterial
      communities, as well as on the sequencing of the 16S gene, and on the other hand, on the
      sequencing of the high-throughput (HTS) of the whole genome, for variations of the antibiotic
      resistance genes.

      Sample retrieval will be conducted prior to implant placement, at the adjacent teeth gingival
      sulcus (t0), and two months after provisional abutment (and crown) connection (t1), from the
      retrieved abutments. Patient allocation in the "PEEK" or "Titanium" groups will be
      randomized. Intra- and interpatient comparisons will be conducted. Statistical analyses
      include two-way ANOVA and Tukey's post-hoc test, at p<0.05.
    
  