
    
      Introduction: Oral health and oral-health-associated quality-of-life (OHrQL) of residents in
      German nursing homes are poor. The investigators will develop an evidence-based catalogue of
      interventions applicable and sustainable ("Oral Health Tool Box"). Based on this,
      care-accompanying reinstruction and remotivation of nursing staff by dental assistants (DA)
      will be provided. The investigators hypothesize such complex intervention to significantly
      improve OHrQL, and daily oral hygiene/care behaviour and its cost-effectiveness.

      Methods and analysis: Based on the findings of a rapid systematic review, possible
      intervention components will be systematized and assessed for their effectiveness. Mixed
      methods will be used to identify barriers and enablers of oral hygiene and care in German
      long-term residential care (LRC), and these will be linked with the intervention components
      using the Theoretical Domains Framework and the Behavior Change Wheel, the result being an
      "Oral Health Tool Box". A two-arm clustered, randomized-controlled-trial (ratio of 1:1 via
      block randomization) will be performed in nursing homes in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany,
      including residents with moderate to severe care dependency. Each nursing home represents a
      cluster. Based on a feasibility study, considering clustering and possible attrition, the
      investigators aim at recruiting 618 residents of 18 cluster. In the intervention group,
      dentists will identify the specific problems of each resident, and assign one or more
      intervention components from the box. During follow-up, nursing staff will be reinstructed
      and remotivated by dental assistants in how to deliver the intervention components in
      individual intervals. In the control group residents will receive care as usual. The primary
      outcome, OHrQL, will be measured using the German version of the General Oral Health
      Assessment Index (GOHAI). Secondary outcomes include pain condition, general health-related
      quality-of-life, caries increment, oral/prothetic hygiene and gingival status, incidence of
      dental emergencies and hospitalizations, and cost-utility/effectiveness. The endpoints will
      be measured at baseline and after 12 months. For the primary outcome, a mixed-linear model
      will be used within an intention-to-treat analysis. A process evaluation using mixed methods
      will be conducted alongside the trial.
    
  