
    
      This is a single-center, randomized, single-blind surgical trial of women with
      post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse desiring surgical treatment. The purpose of this
      study is to compare outcomes of vaginal intraperitoneal uterosacral ligament suspensions and
      vaginal extraperitoneal uterosacral ligament suspensions for the treatment of
      post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse. The primary objective will be to compare operative
      time between the two approaches. Secondary objectives of the trial will be to compare
      hospital stay, cost, surgical success, and other perioperative outcomes between the two
      approaches through 12 months using assessments at six weeks, six months, and twelve months.

      The study will include subjects with stage 1-4 pelvic organ prolapse and descent of the
      vaginal apex at least ½ way into vaginal canal (defined as POPQ Point C ≥ -TVL/2) that desire
      vaginal surgical management for post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse. Subjects enrolled
      into the trial will be randomized to either vaginal intraperitoneal or extraperitoneal
      uterosacral ligament suspension with a 1:1 allocation using a computer-generated
      randomization schedule. Patients will be blinded to their allocation. Patients in both groups
      will receive the same standard of care for vaginal procedures as it currently exists in out
      practice. This involves the standard anesthetics and opioid medications intraoperatively.
      Randomization will be revealed to the surgeons in the operating room once the patient is
      under general anesthesia.

      Intraoperative data to be collected will include, operative time (minutes from surgical
      incision time to surgery end time), estimated blood loss (ml), intraoperative complications,
      and concurrent surgical procedures.

      Preoperative and postoperative clinical measures to be collected will include POPQ
      examination points and scores from three validated questionnaires (Pelvic Floor Disability
      Index (PFDI-20) questionnaire, Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaires (PFIQ-7) and the Pelvic and
      Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire (PISQ-12)). Postoperative clinical measures will be
      collected at six week, six month, and twelve month post-operative visits.

      Surgical success or failure will be evaluated as a dichotomous composite outcome(objective
      measures (POPQ examination points) and subjective measures(validated questionnaires) at six
      week, six month, and twelve month post-operative visits.
    
  