
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous collection of
      different conditions, sharing socio-communicative deficits, repetitive behaviors, restricted
      interests, and dysfunctional sensory processing. Currently there are no pharmaceutical
      compounds effective on core ASD symptoms. Enhanced oxidative stress and mitochondrial
      dysfunction represent one of the most replicated abnormalities detected both systemically and
      in the Central Nervous System (CNS) of autistic individuals. Abnormalities in redox
      parameters are significantly correlated with the severity of autistic behaviors. Although
      oxidative stress usually represents the consequence and not the primary cause of ASD, reduced
      ATP production and oxidative damage can seemingly contribute an additional burden to the
      dysfunction directly produced by ASD-causing genetic or epigenetic defects. Importantly,
      redox abnormalities have been detected also in young autistic children and are not correlated
      with age. Therefore, enhanced oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction represent an
      ASD-related "state-dependent" characteristic present in a consistent number of autistic
      individuals regardless of their age and of their specific underlying pathogenetic
      underpinnings. Sustaining mitochondrial function while controlling redox imbalance thus
      represents a viable "indirect" therapeutic approach, potentially able to ameliorate
      behavioral and neuropsychological deficits in many autistic individuals.

      Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, ubiquinone or ubiquinol) is a lipid soluble compound present in the
      majority of living cells. By increasing energy production and antioxidant capacity, CoQ10 is
      predicted to limit the damage generated by the neuroinflammation and excitotoxicity well
      documented in ASD brains, ultimately leading to excessive neuritic pruning and/or cell
      apoptosis. Administration of Q10 ubiquinol to autistic children, as frequently prescribed to
      children with mitochondrial disorders, yielded promising results with an extremely low
      incidence and minor impact of side effects in two open trials and in three RCTs involving
      numerous other active compounds. In the present RCT, each patient will receive Q10 ubiquinol
      (50-100 mg b.i.d.) + Vit. E (60 mg/die) and polyvitamin B for 4 months and only Vit. E and B
      for another 4 months (total duration 8 months) in a double-blind, cross-over design. The
      focused co-administration of Q10 ubiquinol with only two known antioxidants, vitamin E and a
      multivitamin B complex, is designed to synergistically boost the increase in energy
      production and cell protection viewed as deriving primarily from Q10 ubiquinol
      administration. This study was also designed to overcome two limitations present in previous
      RCTs evaluating the effects of Q10 Ubiquinone (precursor of Q10 ubiquinol) in ASD children
      and adults: (a) The administration of a very limited number of active compounds, as compared
      to cocktails containing many active substances, allows to focus here on the efficacy of Q10
      ubiquinol; (b) the administration of Q10 ubiquinol, rather than its precursor Q10 ubiquinone,
      avoids the potential risk of reduced response due to pharmacokinetic interference with the
      biotransformation of the precursor into the active compound.

      This trial addresses the efficacy of Q10 ubiquinol, paired with Vit. E and B, not only in
      "idiopathic" ASD, but also in "syndromic" ASD, using Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMS) as a
      paradigm. PMS, also known as chromosome 22q13.3 deletion syndrome, represents one of the most
      studied syndromic forms of ASD. It is characterized by autism in as many as 70-80% of
      deletion carriers, in addition to early onset severe muscle hypotonia, developmental delay,
      facial dysmorphisms, absence of spoken language or severe language development disorder.
      Deletions or mutations of the SHANK3 gene, encoding a synaptic scaffold protein critical to
      glutamatergic synapse function, are primarily responsible for the syndrome, although larger
      22q13.3 deletions encompass additional disease genes.

      This study shall include up to 140 patients with idiopathic ASD and 60 patients with PMS. The
      study design of this RCT was balanced, so that half of the patients with ASD or PMS will
      receive Q10 ubiquinol during the first 4 months, and the remaining half will receive Q10
      ubiquinol during the second 4 months. The purpose of this balancing is to observe not only
      whether Q10 ubiquinol produces and improvement in primary and secondary measures, but also if
      this improvement is sustained over time despite Q10 discontinuation or requires continued Q10
      administration. In addition to clinical and psychometric parameters, oxidative stress will be
      measured at baseline and after 4 and 8 months, by drawing 8-10 ml of blood, isolating
      leukocytes by Ficoll gradient and assessing (a) protein carbonylation levels by oxyblot; (b)
      the activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes normalized by citrate synthase
      activity; (c) the expression levels of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes measured by
      Western-Blotting.
    
  