
    
      The sample of this study will be formed by 117 lower limbs of women with PFP who have ankle
      dorsoflexion restriction, divided into three groups. Each group will contain 39 lower limbs
      and receive an ankle mobilization technique with a specific sense of mobilization. The group
      nominated GAP will receive an mobilization technique with slip sense from anterior to
      posterior. The group nominated GPA will receive an mobilization technique with slip sense
      from posterior to anterior. The group nominated GPA-AP will receive an mobilization technique
      with slip sense both from posterior to anterior and from anterior to posterior.

      Each group will receive a single intervention, which will consist of four sets of five
      repetitions of the ankle mobilization technique (according to the specific slip direction of
      each group), with rest time between series of one minute. In the group GPA-AP, to
      standardized the sequence of mobilization, the first two sets will be performed with slip
      sense from anterior to posterior, and the last two sets will be performede with slip sense
      from posterior to anterior. There will be randomisation allocation of individuals in the
      groups and because of the nature of the interventions only the evaluator may be blind.

      The Kolmogorov - Smirnov test is used to verify the data distribution normality. The
      characterization of the participants is performed by means of descriptive statistical
      analysis. Parametric or non-parametric tests will be used according to the data distribution
      normality for comparison between groups at baseline. The evaluator blinding will be tested
      using the chi -square test by comparing the randomization code with the evaluator opinion.
      The difference between the groups and their respective confidence intervals will be
      calculated by linear mixed models using interaction term of "time versus group".
    
  