
    
      The overall evidence that CP has a role in the causal pathway of DM is yet limited and
      inconsistent. Although intervention research has suggested that treating CP may improve
      glycemic control and insulin resistance in Type-2 DM patients; yet there is limited data
      concerning the effects of adjunct antibiotic therapy (AAT) in addition to scaling root
      planning (SRP) in treating CP for long lasting results. Therefore, it is suggested that
      further research with bigger samples must be undertaken for a successful periodontal therapy
      that may help improve glycemic control at desired levels and long durations.

      This study is designed to evaluate the effects of periodontal therapy [SRP, metronidazole
      (MET) and oral hygiene instructions (OHI)] through a three-arm trial comprising of
      SRP+MET+OHI group, SRP+OHI group and OHI+ Delayed Therapy (DT) group, on HbA1c, FBG, FPI
      levels and Insulin Resistance calculated through Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA-IR) to
      fill the research gap.

      A parallel group, single blind three-arm design randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be
      conducted over a period of approximately 2 years.

      More than 1000 patients will be screened for CP with T2DM to recruit 150 participants for the
      study. They will be randomly allocated in each group (with 50 in each group). Post-therapy
      follow-up will be for 1, 3 and 6 months to evaluate short term and long term changes in
      status of CP, FBG, FPI and HbA1c respectively.

      Structured screening form will be used to collect baseline information. HbA1c, FBG levels and
      IL will be recorded at standardized lab, whereas, CP will be evaluated using standardized
      periodontal indices by calibrated examiners.

      Stata version 11.0 will be used for all kind of data management. Descriptive analysis will be
      performed using frequency percentages of the categorical variables whereas, mean (standard
      deviation) will be calculated for all continuous study variables. Inferential statistics will
      include Chi-square test to assess proportional differences of the categorical variables
      between the three interventional groups. Whereas, one-way Analysis of Variance test (ANOVA)
      will be used to evaluate the mean differences of the continuous variables in three different
      groups. McNemar's Chi-square and Repeated Measure Analysis of Variance (RMANOVA) will be used
      to assess differences in categorical and continuous variables respectively over time for each
      intervention group; and particularly to assess second secondary study objective. For insulin
      resistance HOMA-IR will be calculated to assess an association between CP and insulin
      resistance.
    
  