
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is characterized by the loss of
      higher brain function such as memory, problem-solving abilities, and language.
      Photobiomodulation (PBM) describes a kind of light therapy that uses red or near-infrared
      light to stimulate, heal, regenerate, and protect tissue that has either been injured, is
      degenerating, or else is at risk of dying. The pathological hallmarks of AD include senile
      plaques rich in β-amyloid (Aβ) peptide and neurofibrillary tangles composed of
      hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau). In animal models of AD, PBM reduces the size and number of
      brain Aβ plaques, p-tau, and neurofibrillary tangles. PBM also mitigates behavioral deficits
      in transgenic AD mouse models and humans with dementia. The goal of this sham-controlled
      pilot trial is to investigate the effects of PBM on the cognitive function, behavioral
      symptoms, and fluid (i.e., cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood) biomarkers of AD pathology
      including amyloid burden, tangle pathology, axonal injury, microglia activation/inflammation,
      and neurotrophic factors in 16 patients with biomarkers-supported probable Alzheimer's
      dementia, according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and
      Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria.

      One aim of the study is to examine the effect PMB on cognitive function and behavioral
      symptoms in patients with probable AD. A second aim is to examine the effects of 16 weeks of
      PBM on fluid biomarkers of inflammation (i.e., monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 and 3
      [MCP-1 and MCP-3] and macrophage inflammatory protein 1β [MIP-1β]), neurodegeneration (i.e.,
      ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase isozyme L1 [UCH-L1] and neurofilament light chain
      [NfL]) and neurotrophic factors (i.e., vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF] and
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]). The final aim of the study is to explore the
      relationship between cognitive and behavioral changes after 16 weeks of PBM with changes in
      biomarkers of inflammation, neurotrophic factors, and neurodegeneration.

      Sixteen patients with biomarkers-supported probable Alzheimer's dementia will be enrolled and
      randomly assigned to an active or sham PBM group. All patients will be asked to use the
      Vielight Neuro Gamma (real or sham) device for 20 minutes/day, every other day, for 16 weeks.
      Randomization with blind assignment will be determined by a computer-generated random
      allocation. Upon completion of the post-treatment assessments, the Sham-treated patients will
      be offered an opportunity to use an active Vielight Neuro Gamma device for 16 weeks. We will
      assess cognition and behavioral symptoms in Sham patients who opt to undergo active PBM 16
      weeks after they start the active PBM treatments.

      Biomarker measures will be assessed in all study participants at baseline and after 16 weeks
      of PBM. Biomarkers will be obtained through a blood draw and lumbar puncture. A lumbar
      puncture (also called a spinal tap) is a procedure to collect cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF),
      which surrounds the brain and spinal cord. During a lumbar puncture, a needle is carefully
      inserted into the spinal canal low in the back (lumbar area).

      Cognitive and behavioral function will be assessed in all study participants at baseline and
      after 16 weeks of PBM. Study partners (e.g., caregivers) will be asked to answer questions
      about the study participant's memory and daily functioning at baseline and after 16 weeks of
      PBM. Study partners will also be trained and ask to help the study partners administer PBM
      treatments with the Vielight Neuro Gamma device at home for 16 weeks.
    
  