
    
      The proposed study aims to address a major research gap in caregiving interventions in the
      context of intergeneration perspective-taking reappraisals. Adult child caregivers are part
      of a sandwich generation, involved in actualizing their own goals and coping with social
      expectations to care for their elderly parents. Dementia caregiving presents a particular
      challenge in life transition wherein the adult child is parenting his or her parents. With
      global aging, people living with dementia are rising exponentially. This presents a challenge
      for sustainable care in Hong Kong and also in countries where public services are developing
      and the demand for family and intergeneration caregiving is high due to collectivistic
      concerns. It is hypothesized that reappraising intergeneration relationships through
      perspective-taking will enhance the well-being of adult-child caregivers. Incorporating both
      psychological and social perspectives, the study makes a unique contribution to address
      research gaps by evaluating an integrated model of intervention for dementia caregivers. The
      conceptual model involves the following components: 1) relational insights; 2)
      self-reflection to integrate the challenges and benefits in caregiving; 3) interpersonal
      empathy.

      Most caregiving psycho-education programs involve skill training including scheduling
      pleasant events, communicating with the care recipient and other family members. To test the
      incremental value of perspective-taking reappraisals, the study involves a two-arm randomized
      controlled trial of 12 weeks of intervention with two conditions: 1) Perspective Taking
      Reappraisal and 2) Basic Skill Building. Telephone-administered sessions are integrated with
      home visits to maximize sustainability and accessibility of the intervention. One hundred
      fifty-four participants will be recruited and randomized. Primary outcomes are reduced
      depressive symptoms and enhanced psychological well-being for the caregivers. Secondary
      outcomes include enhanced social support for caregivers and reduced behavioral problems in
      the care-recipients. Measures are obtained at baseline Weeks 1 (baseline), 6 and 12 with a
      follow-up at Week 24. Findings have implications for enhancing sustainable care for older
      adults in the wider society.
    
  