
    
      Among the top three priorities presented to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders
      and Stroke (NINDS) Council 22 as final recommendations of critical needs for advancing
      Parkinson Disease (PD) research in 2014 is to develop effective treatments for dopa-resistant
      features of PD. These features include symptoms such as gait and balance problems, and
      freezing of gait leading to falls. In order for these goals to be realized, dysfunctional
      motor patterns in patients with gait and balance problems need to be accurately defined and
      assessed using body-fixed sensors and other newer computation technology to enhance
      sensitivity and specificity of measurement to facilitate long-term follow-up. The proposed
      research will meet the challenge of determining appropriate intervention (L-DOPS) for
      dopa-resistant features of PD in improving gait and posture using innovative quantitative
      analyses derived from body-worn sensors. Injuries associated with fall incidences continue to
      pose a significant burden to persons with Parkinson's disease (PD) both in terms of human
      suffering and economic losses. Annual fall incidence rates range from 50-70% of patients with
      PD. Recurrent falls especially, are a major cause of disability in PD. The resulting loss of
      independence and treatment costs add substantially to the healthcare expenditures in PD which
      was estimated to be $27 billion annually2. This number may rise substantially in the coming
      decades as the entire US population ages. Any intervention that is cost effective at reducing
      fall risk could have important benefits for patients and families, and for the entire
      healthcare system. In this study, we will determine whether treatment with L-
      Dihydroxyphenylserine (L-DOPS, Northera) in addition to dopaminergic drugs will improve
      postural stability and activity of daily living, and reduce fall risk and/or severity of
      falls in PD patients.Falls, early in PD (within 5 years of diagnosis) probably arise from
      slowed locomotion. Slowed locomotion is corrected by dopaminergic drugs, hence falls early in
      PD are decreased by such drugs. Later in PD (5 or years after diagnosis) falls, recurrent
      falls, occur despite such drugs. There is evidence that falls late in PD occur because of
      impaired postural stability which does not respond to dopaminergic drugs or may be made worse
      by such drugs. A single fall, although serious, may be only partly related or even unrelated
      to PD. "Serious fall" is defined as: all four limbs hit the ground, the skull hits the
      ground, or there is soft tissue or bone injury. However, some people with PD fall repeatedly.
      In such patients the role of impaired postural stability was stressed. Although the
      mechanisms underlying impaired postural stability are not well-known in patients with PD,
      attention is focused on the noradrenergic system. L-DOPS, a drug that enhances norepinephrine
      levels in the peripheral and central nervous systems, has been shown to moderate orthostatic
      hypotension, and often improve some PD symptoms. There is evidence that mechanisms related to
      norepinephrine centers in the basal forebrain and the locus ceruleus play a role in
      maintaining postural stability in activities of daily living. They may play a role in
      preventing or ameliorating falls and freezing of gait. FOG is a major problem in patients
      with PD who fall. There is evidence that L-DOPS, by improving FOG, decreases risk of falls.
      Additionally, evidence indicates that L-DOPS decreases falls independent of improving FOG.
      Apathy, a major and disabling non-motor symptom of PD, may be related to decreased central
      norepinephrine levels. Apathy may be associated with slowed movements and slowed movements
      may contribute to falls. There is evidence that L-DOPS, by increasing central norepinephrine,
      may improve apathy and this may result in a decreased risk of falls.
    
  