
    
      The study consists of 4 parts: screening, treatment, post-treatment, and safety follow-up.
      Prior to Day 1, participants were discontinued from all disease-modifying anti-rheumatic
      drugs (DMARDs) except MTX and etanercept or adalimumab. All participants who met eligibility
      criteria and were enrolled in the trial were randomized to receive 500 mg rituximab or
      placebo on Day 1 and Day 15. A subset of 18 participants was enrolled initially and followed
      through Week 12 for safety. The remaining 42 participants were to be enrolled after the last
      participant in the subset completed Week 12 and the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      conducted a safety review and approved enrollment of these additional participants.
      Participants were dosed on Day 1 and Day 15 and followed for 56 weeks, while remaining on
      their current dose of MTX and etanercept or adalimumab throughout the study. The primary
      endpoint was assessed at Week 24.

      All participants in double-blind treatment, including those who received placebo or
      rituximab, who met the open label inclusion/exclusion criteria anytime from Week 24 through
      Week 40, were eligible to enter the open label retreatment phase. These participants received
      open label rituximab on Day 1 and Day 15 of the retreatment phase, and were followed monthly
      until Week 24 then every 2 months until Week 56, while remaining on their current dose of MTX
      and etanercept or adalimumab throughout the study. Participants received 1 course of open
      label treatment only.

      All participants were required to return for safety follow-up (SFU) assessments at Weeks 4,
      12, 24, 36, and 48 after withdrawal or completion of the study. Participants whose peripheral
      CD20+ B cells remained depleted at the end of the SFU periods for the primary and OL portions
      of the study entered extended safety follow-up (ESFU). Assessments for ESFU were performed at
      12-week intervals until peripheral B-cell levels returned to within normal range or baseline
      level (whichever was lower).
    
  