
    
      With over 5 million Americans having heart failure (HF) today and an incidence approaching 10
      per 1000 population among persons over the age of 65, HF is a major source or morbidity and
      mortality and a significant public health concern facing developed nations. In the US,
      decompensated heart failure is the most common reason for hospital admission among persons
      older than 65. Yet despite significant advances in the treatment of chronic heart failure,
      currently there are very few evidence-based strategies to treat acutely decompensated heart
      failure. The incidence of heart failure will likely continue to rise with the increasing
      prevalence of HF risk factors (advanced age, hypertension, obesity, diabetes, and other
      metabolic diseases). Accordingly, substantial efforts are underway to identify and treat
      populations at risk and to understand the molecular drivers of this heterogeneous disease.

      The investigators understanding of the pathophysiology of heart failure has evolved from a
      'cardiocentric' view focused on mechanical dysfunction to a more global view. Heart failure
      is now understood as a complex blend of structural, functional, and neurohormonal
      abnormalities manifested both locally and systemically. More recently, several groups have
      demonstrated abnormalities in the inflammatory cascade associated with both the initiation
      and the progression of heart failure. The innate immune system appears to modulate the
      inflammatory component of HF through several mechanisms including the production of
      inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α,TNFα; interleukin-6, IL6), reactive oxygen
      species, activation of the complement system, as well as through functional modification of
      endothelial cells and myeloid cell trafficking.

      Monocytes and macrophages are two of the key myeloid mediators of acute and chronic
      inflammatory responses. Myeloid dysregulation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of
      diverse diseases including diabetes, tumor metastasis, pulmonary fibrosis, myocardial
      infarction, and atherosclerosis. Accumulating evidence suggests that myeloid subsets have
      distinct functional properties reflecting their polarization patterns and their interaction
      with the local microenvironment. As a framework to study their role in models of clinical
      diseases, myeloid populations have been broadly categorized as "inflammatory" and
      "anti-inflammatory" based on specific surface markers, cytokine potential, and other
      functional properties.

      Although the role of myeloid populations in inflammatory disease is now appreciated, the
      molecular mechanisms linking these cells to clinical heart failure syndromes remain largely
      unknown. The investigators hypothesize that distinct myeloid subsets drive different phases
      of acute and chronic heart failure syndromes, and that identification of these subsets and
      their functional properties will provide further insight into the pathophysiology of clinical
      heart failure.

      In order to initially characterize the roles that monocytes play across the spectrum of heart
      failure, the investigators will obtain whole-blood samples from acutely decompensated
      patients on the date of hospitalization, the date of transfer from the intensive care unit
      (ICU) to the general-care telemetry floor (if relevant), the date of hospital discharge, and
      at their first outpatient follow-up visit. Subjects will be recruited from the University of
      Michigan inpatient heart failure service, which admits approximately 75 patients for
      decompensated heart failure each month. Once the samples are obtained, the investigators will
      perform flow cytometry to characterize monocyte subsets and their flux in response to
      treatment. The investigators will also look at the production of reactive oxygen species by
      monocytes and will examine how cytokines and chemokines skew monocyte population subsets and
      their gene expression profiles. The investigators will also investigate the energetic state
      and flux (aerobic vs. anaerobic metabolic status) of the monocytes.
    
  