
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate theoretically derived psychosocial interventions (peer discussion support vs
           education and stress management vs usual-care control) targeted to enhance adjustment
           and functional status and lower morbidity among women diagnosed with and treated for
           recurrent or stage I, II, or IV breast cancer.

        -  Evaluate the psychological, behavioral, and biological pathways and their effects in
           patients treated with these interventions.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of these intervention in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the nature and extent of coping strategies in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the differences in patients treated with these intervention vs those patients
           electing not to be treated with these interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage
      (early vs late). Patients with early-stage disease are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention
      arms. Patients with late-stage disease are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms (II or
      III).

        -  Arm I (education and stress management): Patients undergo a 1-hour group (6-10 patients
           per group) education session once a week for 8 weeks focusing on exchange of factual
           information between a facilitator and patients. The session includes a 45-minute
           lecture, discussing risks, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer; side effects from
           treatment; nutrition during treatment; and follow-up care, followed by a question/answer
           period and instruction in progressive relaxation techniques. Patients then receive 3
           monthly phone calls from a project staff member to answer questions about cancer,
           treatment, and follow-up care and to discuss the relaxation exercises.

        -  Arm II (peer discussion): Patients undergo a 1-hour group (6-10 patients per group) peer
           support session once a week for 8 weeks focusing on the provision of emotional support
           among patients and the maintenance of purpose in life. The session emphasizes on the
           sharing of experiences, the development of a common bond, and the promotion of altruism
           to similar others. Patients then are given an opportunity to attend 3 monthly additional
           meetings to share critical experiences and problems they have experienced in the past
           month.

        -  Arm III (control): Patients receive usual care and are not asked to attend any meetings.

      All patients undergo a 2-hour baseline interview, a 1.5-hour post intervention interview, and
      a 1.5-hour final interview 8 months after randomization.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 350 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  