
    
      This is a longitudinal study to examine access to care, perceived quality of life, member
      satisfaction and patient-reported outcomes among HIV+ adult Medicaid recipients. Special
      Needs Plans represent a new approach to managed care tailored to patients with complicated
      medical and psychosocial problems,requiring a high level of service. These plans combine HIV
      primary and specialty care, mental health services, substance use treatment, care for
      dependent children and social services into a single comprehensive program that also includes
      comprehensive case management and other provisions to retain patients in care. Special Needs
      Plans represent an alternative to both, Medicaid Fee for Service (FFS) and to mainstream
      Medicaid managed care.Seven different Special Needs Plans will be implemented, serving in New
      York City and the surrounding suburbs. A separate non-profit corporation administers each
      SpecialNeeds Plan. Each plan encompasses a network of hospitals, providers, and
      communitybased organizations. Although all plans offer many of the same basic services, they
      differ in terms of organization and coordination of care, approaches to case
      management,specific program enhancements (e.g., patient education, wellness programs, or
      complementary medicine) and special provisions to meet the needs of subgroups of patients
      (e.g., women, substance users, young gay men, Latinos). The HIV Special Needs Plans represent
      an innovation in health service delivery and financing that is being evaluated as a national
      model for Medicaid service delivery by the federal government, including HRSA and HCFA. This
      protocol represents a component of that evaluation,from the patients' perspective.This study
      is being conducted in collaboration with the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH)
      AIDS Institute. As a component of their Quality Management and Improvement Programs, Special
      Need Plans have agreed to assist with recruitment of participants to this evaluation. We will
      recruit 120 patients sampled from each of the six plans and follow these patients for
      initially a year with a possibility of continuing to interview them for up to two years. We
      will also recruit a sample of 360 current Medicaid fee for service patients to serve as
      comparison group. This sampling strategy will allow us to examine experiences in care and
      outcomes for different subgroups of patients within the plans, distinguish the affects of
      service differences among the plans and compare different plan enrollees to similar patients
      who remain in the Medicaid FFS program. Our longitudinal design will also permit us to
      examine prospective influences on comparison group patients' decisions to switch their
      coverage from Medicaid FFS to Special Needs Plans.
    
  