
    
      Background and rationale

      Acute aortic syndromes (AASs) are deadly and difficult to diagnose cardiovascular
      emergencies. AASs include acute aortic dissection, intramural aortic hematoma, penetrating
      aortic ulcer and spontaneous aortic rupture. A conclusive diagnosis of AASs requires an
      advanced imaging exam, such as computed tomographic angiography (CTA), transoesophageal
      echocardiography (TEE) or magnetic resonance imaging. These exams are time-consuming, costly
      and frequently require transfer of patients to specialized clinical centres. CTA, the most
      frequently used advanced imaging exam for suspected AASs in the Emergency Department (ED),
      exposes patients to significant ionizing radiations and to contrast medium, carrying inherent
      risks of anaphylaxis and contrast nephropathy. Selection of patients necessitating an
      advanced aortic imaging exam is therefore worrisome. There is a need for standardized
      diagnostic management of AAS workup, and in particular for a validated diagnostic algorithm
      incorporating evidence-based decision rules allowing:

        1. rapid identification of patients necessitating urgent CTA;

        2. safe rule-out of patients not requiring CTA. Based on available guidelines and further
           evidence, standardized decision rules for rule-in and rule-out of AASs should be
           effectively based on: (1) standardized pre-test probability assessment, (2) bedside
           imaging of the aorta with focus cardiac ultrasound (FOCUS) and (3) biomarker testing
           (D-dimer assay).

      Aim of the study The aim of the present study will be to evaluate the performance of an
      integrated algorithm for standardized diagnostic workup (rule-in, rule-out) of suspected
      AASs.

      Setting This observational multicentric diagnostic accuracy study will be performed in the
      setting of several international EDs. Participating EDs will satisfy the following criteria
      for 24 hours / 7 days, in their routine clinical practice: (1) experienced use of bedside
      FoCUS, (2) local access to urgent D-dimer (DD) assay, (3) local access to urgent CTA. Both
      hub and spoke centers will be allowed to participate in the study, if local census is >30.000
      visits/years.

      Study design

      This will be an observational, prospective, multicentre, international, non-profit,
      investigator-driven, diagnostic accuracy study. The study protocol does not imply any
      modification in the routine diagnostic and therapeutic approach to patients with suspected
      AASs. The only difference from standard care will be:

        1. registration of selected demographic and clinical data of study patients, obtained
           during the index ED visit;

        2. follow-up (by telephone or clinical visit) of patients after 1 month from the index ED
           visit, for collection of selected clinical data.

      Study population The study will be performed on consecutive adult outpatients evaluated for
      specified symptoms in the ED, in whom AASs are considered in differential diagnosis by the
      attending physician(s). Eligibility will be defined during or after medical evaluation in the
      ED and always before establishment of a final diagnosis. In each centre, patient recruitment
      will start after obtaining approval from the local Ethic Committee.

      Study methods and organization Patients will be evaluated in the ED by an authorized
      physician practicing Emergency Medicine and will be managed in accordance with international
      guidelines. The recommended standard of care for diagnosis and treatment of patients with
      suspected AAS will be as indicated by the European Society of Cardiology 2014 guidelines.
      However, attending physicians will be allowed to derogate from guideline indications based on
      the clinical scenario, irrespective of patient's participation to the present study. After
      medical evaluation a clinical suspicion of AAS will prompt to possible enrolment in the
      study. The attending physician or an authorized study research investigator/collaborator will
      then acquire patient (or next of kin, if deemed necessary) consent to participate to the
      study and will fill a standardized clinical form reporting the relevant clinical data.

      Aortic dissection detection risk score The aortic detection dissection- risk score (ADD-RS)
      will be calculated based on the number of categories where at least one risk marker is
      present. Patients will be classified at low probability of AAS, if ADD-RS ≤1 (at least 1 risk
      marker present, in no more than 1 risk category), or at high probability of AAS if ADD-RS >1
      (at least 1 risk marker present, in more than 1 risk category).

      D-dimer DD levels will be analysed in the hospital laboratory on venous samples with an
      automated test. Diagnostic tests will be site-specific. DD is defined negative if lower than
      500 ng/ml (Fibrinogen Equivalent Unit, FEU). This cut off has been validated for the
      diagnosis of AAS in previous studies.

      Focused cardiac ultrasound The attending physician, a cardiologist or an authorized study
      research investigator expert in bedside emergency ultrasonography will perform a FoCUS on
      study patients during ED evaluation, before advanced aortic imaging tests or surgery.
      Evaluation of the heart and aorta will be performed with the patient in the supine or left
      lateral decubitus positions, using the following views: (1) left parasternal (long-axis) and
      (2) suprasternal notch view. Additional views including apical, subcostal, right parasternal,
      abdominal and neck for carotid arteries will be decided by the attending physician.

      The following will be considered as direct sonographic signs of AASs:

        1. presence of an intimal flap separating two aortic lumens;

        2. presence of an intramural aortic thickening (circular or crescentic thickening of the
           aortic wall >5 mm);

        3. presence of a crater-like outpouching with jagged edges in the aortic wall.

      The following signs will also be researched, as potential indirect sonographic signs of AASs:

        1. thoracic aorta dilatation (diameter ≥4 cm);

        2. pericardial effusion or tamponade

        3. aortic valve regurgitation at colour Doppler (at least moderate), based on subjective
           evaluation.

      Advanced Aortic imaging The advanced aortic imaging exam used to confirm or refuse a
      diagnosis of AASs will be CTA, TEE or magnetic resonance angiography, performed by physicians
      not involved in the present study, according to local procedures. Patient enrolment in the
      study will not change standard patient management and will not affect medical decision to
      perform aortic imaging. Instruments used for imaging will be site-specific. These exams will
      be performed and interpreted by specialized radiologists, cardiologists or surgeons not
      involved in the present study.

      Follow-up data AASs are difficult to diagnose disease entities. Given the severity of AASs in
      untreated patients, investigators assume that individuals with an undiagnosed AAS would
      experience major clinical events leading to conclusive diagnosis within 30 days from the ED
      visit. Therefore, all study patients will enter a 30-day clinical follow-up to allow accurate
      case adjudication.

      Final diagnosis The final diagnosis will be established in each centre dichotomically
      (presence or absence of an AAS) by two senior investigators, who will review all available
      clinical data (including aortic imaging studies, medical, surgical, autopsy records if
      applicable). Reviewers will be blinded to: ADD-RS risk score stratification, FoCUS findings
      and D-dimer levels. The reviewers will judge on presence or absence of an AAS, and defined
      the AAS type: acute aortic dissection, aortic intramural hematoma, penetrating aortic ulcer
      or spontaneous aortic rupture, and Stanford classification.

      Analysis and statistical methods Dichotomous data will be expressed as proportions and
      continuous data as mean and standard deviation (SD). Pearson's chi square test will be used
      for the comparison of dichotomous data, and the unpaired Student's t-test will be used to
      compare normally distributed data. The diagnostic performance of D-dimer will be assessed by
      computing sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values and negative and
      positive likelihood ratios with their 95% confident interval (95% CI) in all patients. The
      failure rate (or false negative proportion) will be calculated as the number of patients with
      a final diagnosis of AAS divided by the number of patients satisfying rule-out criteria. The
      rule-out efficiency will be calculated as the number of patients satisfying the rule-out
      criteria divided by the number of all included patients. The rule-in efficiency will be
      calculated as the number of patients satisfying the rule-in criteria (i.e. proceeding to
      advanced aortic imaging) divided by the number of all included patients. P-values will be
      two-sided, and a P-value lower than 0.05 will be considered as statistically significant.
      Analysis will be performed with the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
      statistical package (version 17.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois).

      Trend measures: The general characteristics of the population (clinical and demographic data)
      will be expressed as median and interquartile range (continuous variables) and as proportions
      and confidence interval (95% CI; categorical variables). The confidence interval will be
      calculated with the Wilson method or with a generalized linear model (for likelihood ratios).
      The main endpoints of the study will consist of standard measures of diagnostic accuracy,
      i.e. sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value, positive and negative
      likelihood ratio. They will also be calculated as key diagnostic variables: failure rate
      (false negative AASs / n cases that meet the rule-out criteria) and efficacy (n cases that
      meet the rule-out criteria / n cases enrolled). Of each variable, the central value and the
      appropriate confidence interval will be defined. For statistical tests, the values of P <0.05
      will be considered significant.

      Sample size: The study will be sized to test the null hypothesis that the failure rate of the
      integrated rule-out diagnostic strategy (ADD-RS ≤1 / DD-) exceeds 2%. Investigators assume,
      based on literature data, that the punctual failure rate is 0.5%. With a type I error (alpha)
      of 0.05 and a type II error (beta) of 0.2, approximately 496 patients with ADD-RS≤1 / DD-
      will have to be enrolled, to reject the null hypothesis. Assuming that patients with ADD-RS≤1
      / DD- are 30% of all subjects enrolled with the clinical suspicion of AAS, approximately 1653
      patients should be analysed. Assuming a 10% rate of patients lost at follow-up, at least 1837
      patients should be enrolled
    
  