
    
      Currently, patients receive a letter by postal mail from their physician's office with a
      statement about their ICD status. The St. Jude Medical ICD data is managed by the Merlin.net™
      remote monitoring system and maintained in the database with periodic transfer to the
      healthcare providers EHR system.

      This is the first large study that will evaluate the impact of transferring information from
      the ICD manufacturer's remote monitoring system directly into a patient's ePHR for the
      purpose of making select information readily available to patients in the form of a report,
      called the ICD Patient Notification Summary.

      The ICD Patient Notification Summary will be transmitted to the healthcare providers' EHR
      system (Epic) from Merlin.net™ as part of the data flow pathway to the patients' ePHR
      (MyChart). This will ensure that the Arrhythmia Diagnostic Center (ADC) clinic and other
      healthcare providers will be able to view the same information that the patients will
      receive.

      Baseline:

      Patients from the intervention group and control groups will answer a baseline survey. The
      baseline survey will assess socio-demographic characteristics, patient engagement, and
      patient satisfaction with the current standard of care as well as patient perceptions about
      receiving remote monitoring ICD data in their ePHR. The survey will be administered either
      paper-based or online, using a secure online survey program, Survey Monkey. Patient
      engagement will be assessed using the short form Patient Activation Measure (PAM) survey
      copyrighted by Insignia Health.

      The Patient Activation Measure (PAM) is a validated survey tool developed by Judith Hibbard,
      PhD, MPH of the University of Oregon, which assesses the degree a patient acts as an active
      agent in their own health care. PAM is associated with improved health outcomes6.

      Follow-up:

      Patients will respond to two follow up surveys in approximately 3 months and 6 months from
      the baseline survey. The follow up surveys will assess patient engagement, patient
      satisfaction and perceptions with the ICD Patient Notification Summary or current standard of
      care as well as technology acceptance, depending on the group randomization. Technology
      acceptance will be assessed using the Technology Acceptance Model as a framework and will
      explore patient attitudes regarding ease of use, usefulness and intentions to use the ePHR
      and ICD Patient Notification Summary.

      The Technology Acceptance Model is a commonly used model, originally developed by Fred Davis
      and Richard Bagozzi, which predicts technology acceptance based on the user's perceived
      usefulness and perceived ease of use of the technology for a specific purpose 7,8.

      Data Collection:

      Chart review will be performed to collect past and current data regarding patient's
      socio-demographic characteristics, comorbidities, laboratory and interventions, and
      healthcare utilization. These data points will help provide background and descriptive
      information to supplement the other components of the study. ICD-related data and events as
      well as measurement and classification of clinic calls will be assessed starting six months
      prior to the study period and continuing throughout the study period. The amount and type of
      healthcare utilization in relation to cardiac care will be collected. Data related to the use
      of MyChart will also be collected.
    
  