
    
      The demand part of the project is based on intervention sessions consisting in five two-hour
      workshops with about ten participants. The workshops were based on the people's actual
      purchases and notably on their till receipts. During the five sessions, the receipts were
      used as intervention tools: participants and research staff discussed the receipts brought in
      by them all, and exchanged ideas and experiences around food purchasing behaviors.

        -  First workshop: Opticourses intervention presentation, discussion about grocery shopping
           strategies, explanation of protocol for receipt collection and annotation, two quiz on
           nutritional knowledge, food shopping exercise on a catalog;

        -  Second workshop: discussion about the receipt collection and help to participants
           encountering difficulties, food groups teaching;

        -  Third workshop: till receipts delivery by each participant, food with a high nutritional
           quality for their price teaching;

        -  Fourth workshop: individual return on the nutritional quality of food purchase on the
           basis of till receipts analysis, individual objectives to improve the nutritional
           quality of food purchase at no additional cost, discussion about discount food
           representations, two quiz on nutritional knowledge, food shopping exercise on a catalog;

        -  Fifth workshop: assessment of the Opticourses intervention with the participants,
           discussion about their behavioral modification regarding grocery shopping.

      The supply part of the project aims at influencing the supply by means of social marketing.
      The research team intervenes in two "discount" shops (DIA retailer) in the northern districts
      in order to influence the food supply. In collaboration with the agency Link Up, a specialist
      in social marketing, a campaign to promote foods with a good NQP ratio has been launched
      (from January until June 2014). This public health campaign has the aim of making good NQP
      foods visible, available and attractive. For 6 months, all the foods with a good NQP ratio in
      the shop (identified by the research team) are put at the front of the shelves. Consumers can
      spot them thanks to a logo, "EAT TOP", accompanied by the claim "Nutritious and inexpensive;
      that's TOP". Good NQP foods are presented with the support of flyers and recipes, simple and
      accessible to everyone. Also, placing at the head of the gondola and in-store exhibitions are
      planned around star foods of the month. During the first two months, fish and canned foods
      will be given the most prominence. Consumers will find in the flyers made available:
      nutritional information, tips and tricks for cooking them, simple cheap recipes (less than 1€
      per person) combining these good NQP foods (sardine rillettes, tuna pâté, etc.) and a TOP
      selection of good NQP foods available in the store.
    
  