
    
      This is a randomized, open-label, pragmatic study designed to assess the effectiveness of
      coronary calcium screening. Patients who provide consent, and are eligible, will be
      randomized 1:1 to receive statin recommendation based on coronary calcium screening results
      or standard risk assessment results using the American Heart Association/American College of
      Cardiology (AHA/ACC)-recommended pooled cohort equation.

      Management of all participants will be done through their primary care physicians/clinicians
      and their qualified delegates who will receive education and training from the Principal
      Investigator and/or his delegate about the two treatment strategies. The current National
      guidelines group will be managed following the AHA/ACC guidelines for statin initiation and
      follow-up. The coronary artery calcium (CAC) group will undergo coronary artery calcium
      screening and will receive a statin recommendation based on the proposed CAC cardiovascular
      (CV) risk algorithm. All subjects will be asked to complete the Intermountain Statin
      Adherence Questionnaire (ISAQ) at 3 months after recommendation (+ 60 days) and then annually
      thereafter (within +/- 60 days of the anniversary date of recommendation). All subjects will
      remain under the usual care of their primary care physicians and will be followed by the
      study team via their electronic health records (EHR) for approximately an average of 4 years
      following the subjects' anniversary date of recommendation, but until the target primary
      endpoint event rate is met. All enrolled subjects will be followed for outcomes and this will
      be completely done by electronic medical records query. Other than the time point to obtain
      agreement for study participation and to perform the CAC screening and/or lipid panel, there
      will be no other study-specific clinic visits required. Further, there will be no other
      treatments or procedures required for this study. After about the first 600 patients are
      enrolled, an interim meeting will occur to evaluate entry criteria and size to determine if
      any modifications to the protocol should occur.
    
  