
    
      During the intensive decongestive treatment phase, which usually takes place in specialized
      lymphedema treatment departments, the staff are properly trained and have the required
      experience, but the appliance of these short-length compression bandages requires a lot of
      time. During the maintenance phase, the appliance of short stretch bandages gives way during
      the day to the wearing of a compression sleeve which can be put on fairly easily. But during
      the night, in the absence of a nurse or a spouse with the technical skills required to put
      them in place, few patients can benefit from the wearing of short stretching bandages. During
      the maintenance phase, many patients quickly give up these nocturnal bandages, thus losing
      the gain obtained during the reduction phase. This situation is all the more regrettable
      that, as shown in the studies, this nocturnal wearing contributes to a very significant
      reduction in the rate of reappearance of lymphedema and avoids the recurrent need of
      intensive reduction sessions in hospitals, which are costly for health insurance. and
      uncomfortable for the patients.

      To improve this situation, medi has developed a device called circaid®, consisting of
      non-elastic bands adjustable and repositionable with "Velcro" systems, which can be used both
      for the intensive reduction phase but also during the maintenance phase by the patients
      themselves because of its ease of placement.

      It is composed of several inelastic strips or removable straps, parallel and overlapping
      slightly to leave no crease and no space between them. Velcro tabs or fasteners help ensure
      proper initial positioning and readjustment as the arm volume is reduced. This gives a given
      pressure by tightening or loosening each band while limiting friction and discomfort. In the
      intensive reduction phase, its ease of use reduces the time devoted by nurses to the use of
      short stretching tapes which, in addition to the need for good technique, requires a
      significant amount of time. In the maintenance phase, this original and comfortable
      compression device allows the patient to become autonomous after minimal learning. The
      simplicity of the introduction of the system on the limb and the calibration of the delivered
      pressure allows to develop the self management of the treatment, because it is possible to
      reposition the bands as and when the decrease of the edema, which makes it possible to
      optimize the effectiveness of the treatment. The ability to instantly readjust the
      circaid®Juxtafit system allows to constantly apply the right level of pressure delivered, to
      reduce the volume of the limb. This is not possible with a traditional multilayer bandage if
      the different layers are not completely remove. A visual calibrator ensures the right level
      of pressure delivered at all times.

      In addition to efficiency, patients' quality of life is improved by being able to remove and
      return it on their own, making it easier to wash or dress. Similarly, less rigid while being
      just as compressive, it allows a better comfort in the daily gestures and in particular to
      have a normal range of arm flexion movements more compatible with driving than the wearing of
      tapes.

      The product is currently marketed in many countries and is reimbursed in the following
      countries: United States, Quebec, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Austria in the indication
      of the treatment of lymphedema.

      In view of its admission to reimbursement in France, a meeting was held with HAS experts in
      the context of the so-called early meeting procedure in order to define the study that should
      be done. A detailed synopsis which is the one of the present protocol has been validated by
      the methodological experts of the HAS as being able to bring the arguments of effectiveness
      required by being as close as possible to the usual practice and by covering at the same time
      the phase of intensive reduction and the maintenance phase. It aims to compare the current
      protocol of care considered optimal for the reduction of lymphedema and the maintenance of
      this reduction with the protocol of care which would integrate the device circaid® in
      substitution to the laying of bands with short extension as it is now in other countries.
    
  