
    
      Functional Gastrointestinal Diseases (FGID) are a family disorders that are characterized by
      gastrointestinal symptoms in the absence of readily identifiable organic pathology. Examples
      of FGID include irritable bowel syndrome, rumination syndrome, and function constipation.
      These disorders are classically thought to stem from dysfunction of the enteric nervous
      system. However, there is a growing recognition that multiple factors play a role in the
      genesis of FGIDs. This idea is encapsulated by the "biopsychosocial" model of disease, and is
      supported by a body of literature which has identified higher rates of FGID in patients with
      anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, agoraphobia, and other psychosocial
      dysfunction.

      Recurrent Abdominal Pain and Irritable Bowel Syndrome are major causes of pediatric
      morbidity. Over a third of children and adolescents report recurrent abdominal pain, and the
      overall prevalence of non-organic abdominal pain has been noted to be over 75% 1 2. A large
      subset of these children report symptoms that are consistent with irritable bowel syndrome.
      Management of these children is complex and includes medical, dietary, and behavioral
      interventions. Medical therapy often revolves around the use of antispasmodics, probiotics,
      and antidepressants. The data supporting their use, however has been mixed.

      Over the last twenty years behavioral therapies such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
      and hypnotherapy (HT) have come to light as major treatment modalities for functional
      gastrointestinal disease. In a large multicenter randomized controlled trial Levy et al
      compared 3-session CBT to a control intervention and noted significant improvements and pain
      and function in children 3. Similar results have been published in multiple smaller trials
      4-8. Likewise, Vlieger et al compared hypnotherapy to standard medical therapy in 53 children
      with irritable bowel syndrome. They found that, while both interventions resulted in improved
      pain scores, the hypnotherapy group demonstrated lasting clinical improvement at 1 year
      followup 9. Five year follow-up data has recently been published and revealed that
      significantly more of the hypnotherapy group remained in remission without any further
      intervention 10. A growing body of literature is available validating the use of hypnotherapy
      in irritable bowel syndrome in adults, and pain syndromes more generally 11-14.

      These therapies can be viewed as complementary to one another. CBT involves a very deliberate
      conscious understanding of ones disease process and triggers and focuses on successful pain
      mitigation measures. HT recruits the imagination with utilization of therapeutic imagery to
      down regulate inappropriate pain responses. Our center has developed a collaborative
      approach, utilizing both CBT and HT for the treatment of refractory IBS. To our knowledge no
      work has been done assessing the efficacy of such a collaborative approach using both CBT and
      HT in children with functional gastrointestinal disease. We therefore propose the following
      randomized case-control crossover trial to assess the efficacy our combined program.
    
  