
    
      Study Description and Overview Thirty participants (males and females) ages 20 to 65
      inclusive, who, at Screening, meet ICD-10 criteria for major depressive disorder (MDD), have
      a current depressive episode of at least 30-day duration, have a Screening Montgomery-Asberg
      Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score >= 22 and meet all other inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be randomized with a 1-to-1 allocation under double-blind conditions to receive
      a single 25 mg oral dose of psilocybin or a single 100 mg oral dose of niacin. Niacin will
      serve as an active placebo control that provides an acute physiological response (flushing)
      that is intended to aid in blinding of intervention allocation. All randomized participants
      will be included in the Full Analysis Set (FAS) population used in analyzing primary and
      secondary study endpoints. Only participants who meet depressive symptom severity criteria at
      web screening (MADRS self-rating (MADRS-S) score > =19) and who do not show an unacceptably
      large degree of symptom improvement between the web screening and in-person screening
      (indexed by change in MADRS-S (improvement) 30% (MADRS representing web screening will be
      approximated to MADRS-S + 3) will be eligible for randomization. This is to minimize the risk
      for spontaneous remission before dosing. Participants deemed eligible following successful
      completion of all screening assessments including a structural Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) examination will be determined as eligible. Eligible participants at Baseline will
      submit cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), submit blood samples, be examined with positron emission
      tomography (PET) and the radioligand [11C]UCB-J and receive one preparation session (see
      further below) to be eligible for randomization on Dosing (Day 0) to receive either
      psilocybin or niacin active-placebo. They will complete follow-up visits, including outcome
      measures assessments, on study Day 1, 8, 15, 42 and 365 (within corresponding visit windows).
      At day 15 the sampling of CSF, blood and [11C]UCB-J PET will be repeated. PSIPET Protocol 5
      200821 Page 15 After day 42, all participants will be given follow-up visits at Norra
      Stockholms Psykiatri for up to one year after dosing, to study dedicated physicians or nurses
      at a frequency determined by the health care professional. If needed to reach/stay in
      remission, the participants will be provided antidepressant treatment in accordance with the
      regional guidelines for antidepressant treatment
      (https://psykiatristod.se/regionala-vardprogram/ depression). At least monthly the
      participants will be asked to provide on-line symptom rating data (via 1177.se). At the
      365-day visit, symptoms will be evaluated using MADRS, Clinical Global Impression Improvement
      (CGI-I) and Severity (CGI-S) scales. After completing the study (one year or withdrawal),
      participants will be subject to standard care, including referral in accordance with regional
      guidelines. The study outcome measures will be used to assess depressive symptoms, clinical
      global functioning, functional disability, anxiety symptoms and health-related quality of
      life. Safety outcome measures will be collected at all assessment time points from the time
      of consent through the end of study. To enhance participant safety, the current study
      proposes to test psilocybin within a "set and setting" (SaS) protocol similar to the protocol
      that has been used in all modern studies of psilocybin in both diseased and normal healthy
      populations. The SaS protocol for this study includes: 1) a preparation with session
      Facilitators (licensed psychologists) prior to dosing; 2) administration of study medications
      in an aesthetically neutral room under the supervision of two Facilitators who are present
      throughout the session (with the exception of short, temporary allowances for facilitator
      breaks; e.g. bathroom breaks); and 3) three post-dose integration sessions during which
      participants are encouraged to discuss their intervention experience with the Facilitators.
      To evaluate the Facilitators' adherence to the study manual, and the role of Facilitators'
      and participants' in-session behaviors for treatment outcome, all five sessions in the trial
      with Facilitators present will be recorded. The SaS will be identical for those randomized to
      psilocybin or niacin active placebo. Study Duration The planned maximum study duration for
      each participant will be approximately one year, with variation primarily dependent on the
      length of the screening period, the number of days between baseline and dosing, and the visit
      windows provided for each post-dose assessment. For each participant, the study will be
      divided into two phases: Phase A or treatment phase (day 0 to and including day 42), and
      phase B or follow-up phase (day 43 -365). The primary objective of this study is to evaluate
      the efficacy of a single 25 mg oral dose of psilocybin for major depressive disorder (MDD)
      compared to an active placebo (niacin) in otherwise medically-healthy participants between
      the ages of 20 and 65, assessed as the difference between groups in changes in depressive
      symptoms. Primary Outcome Measure Change in blinded rater MADRS total score from Baseline to
      Day 8.
    
  