
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bevacizumab in combination with sorafenib
           tosylate in patients with locally advanced or metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma.
           (Phase I closed to accrual as of 11/03/2010)

        -  Determine time to progression in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I closed to accrual as of
           11/03/2010)

        -  Assess tolerability of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I closed to accrual as of
           11/03/2010)

        -  Determine overall survival of these patients. (Phase II)

        -  Determine tumor response (at 6 months) in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Determine progression-free survival of these patients. (Phase II)

        -  Determine response rate in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Assess the occurrence of adverse events in these patients. (Phase II)

      Tertiary

        -  Determine the relationship between tumor biomarkers and circulating biomarkers of
           vascular response and clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study followed by a randomized phase II study.

        -  Phase I (closed to accrual as of 11/03/2010): Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate
           twice daily on days 1-28 and bevacizumab IV on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28
           days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients are stratified according to gender (female vs male), ECOG performance
           status (0 vs 1), and Child-Pugh class (A vs B7). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate on days 1-28 twice daily and
                bevacizumab IV on days 1 and 15.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-28. In both
                arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for analysis of circulating endothelial cells and
      circulating endothelial progenitor cells and angiogenic proteins in plasma by ELISA.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 3 years.
    
  