
    
      Epigenetic alterations play a pivotal role in cancer development and progression.
      Pharmacologic reversion of such alterations is feasible, second generation "epigenetic drugs"
      are in development and have demonstrated to possess significant immunomodulatory properties.
      This knowledge, together with the availability of new and highly effective immuno-therapeutic
      agents including immune check-point(s) blocking monoclonal antibodies, allows the
      investigators to plan for highly innovative proof-of-principle combination studies that will
      likely open the path to more effective anti-cancer therapies. Targeting immune check-point(s)
      with immunomodulatory monoclonal-antibodies is a novel and rapidly evolving strategy to treat
      cancer, that is rapidly spreading to different tumor histologies. The prototype approach of
      this therapeutic modality relies on the inhibition of negative signals delivered by CTLA-4
      expressed on T lymphocytes. CTLA-4 blockade has profoundly changed the therapeutic landscape
      of melanoma, significantly improving the survival of patients; however, objective clinical
      responses are limited, and only a minority of patients achieves long-term disease control.
      Therefore, several combination approaches are being explored to improve the efficacy of
      CTLA-4 blockade. The anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibodies, nivolumab and pembrolizumab, have
      significantly increased the survival of melanoma and NSCLC patients. Despite this
      unprecedented efficacy, a significant proportion of melanoma and NSCLC patients fails to
      respond (primary resistance) or develops secondary resistance to anti-PD-1 treatment over
      time. Therefore, identifying new mechanism(s) underlying treatment failure(s), and designing
      novel combination/sequencing therapeutic approaches to overcome primary/secondary resistance
      is mandatory to improve the overall efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy. The investigators have
      first demonstrated that epigenetic immune-modeling of cancer cells represents a key hallmark
      of cancer, as it impairs functional host's immune recognition of malignant cells; on the
      other hand, the investigators have shown the potential of epigenetic drugs, including DNA
      hypomethylating agents (DHA), to sensitize tumor cells to emerging immunotherapies. Based on
      these pre-clinical in vitro and in vivo findings, the investigators have most recently
      promoted the clinical translation of the immunomodulatory potential of epigenetic drugs
      through highly-innovative, hypothesis-driven, clinical trials. Along this line, the ongoing,
      exploratory, Investigator Initiated Trial (IIT) phase Ib NIBIT-M4 study, has evaluated safety
      and immunobiologic activities of the epigenetic priming with the next generation DHA
      guadecitabine followed by CTLA-4 blockade in MM patients (NCT02608437). The results of
      NIBIT-M4 study support the notion that DHA represent ideal "partner drugs" to improve the
      therapeutic efficacy of immune-checkpoint blockade, including the foreseeable role in
      reverting resistance to treatment. The NIBIT-ML1 study will assess the therapeutic efficacy
      of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab and guadecitabine or nivolumab combined with
      ipilimumab, in metastatic melanoma and NSCLC patient with primary resistance to
      anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. Exploratory translational objectives will extensively investigate,
      on neoplastic cells, tumor microenveroinment and peripheral blood, immune-biologic correlates
      to treatment.
    
  