
    
      The pain group at TTUSOM has pioneered a treatment for low back pain with or without
      radiculopathy called epidural neurolysis (or other names, e.g.: lysis of epidural adhesions,
      the Racz procedure). This technique is now used worldwide. The treatment is based on
      substantial evidence that pathological processes within the epidural space innate and sustain
      pain. The goal of epidural neurolysis is to deposit therapeutic agents directly into the area
      of pathology (i.e., targeted drug delivery). The procedure involves documentation via
      epidurograms that radio opaque material injected into the epidural space prior to treatment
      does not enter the suspected area of pathology. This area is determined by signs and symptoms
      revealed by the patient history and physical examination.

      After a filling defect that corresponds to the suspected area of pathology is documented by
      epidurography, a specially designed catheter is directed into the defect. Mechanical forces
      applied by the catheter and hydraulic forces applied by injection of isotonic saline through
      the catheter as well as injection of hyaluronidase, are used to enter and remove barriers to
      targeted delivery of drug. Next drugs, usually corticosteroid, local anesthetic and
      hypertonic saline, are injected to treat what is presumed to be inflammation and edema.

      More recently, epiduroscopy has been introduced as an aid to epidural neurolysis.
      Epiduroscopy allows visual inspection of epidural tissue. Epiduroscopy is performed by
      inserting a flexible endoscope through the sacral hiatus. Using epiduroscopy, we and others
      have observed change in the epidural space that we believe are related to the etiology of the
      pain. We see changes consistent with various stages of inflammation either acute or chronic.
      We see increases in vascularity, displacement of fat by fibrous tissue as well as changes in
      the texture and color of peridural fat.

      We have developed a method for retrieving cells from suspected areas of pathology and of
      culturing the cells via the working channel of the epiduroscope using a cytology brush. The
      collected cells are characterized to establish a diagnosis and to aid treatment.

      To confirm areas which appear to be abnormal when viewed via epiduroscopy are involved in the
      painful condition for which the patient is seeking treatment, we test the area with
      hydrostatic pressure (saline injection) or by touching with the epiduroscope tip (mechanical
      stimulation). These stimuli do not normally elicit pain. However, when the stimulus does
      elicit pain in the region of the painful region of the patient's body, the abnormal appearing
      tissue in the epidural space is considered to be involved in painful process affecting the
      patient. This is similar to "pain mapping" done by others when electrical stimulation is used
      to search for the area of pathology. Adapting this approach, applying electrical stimulation
      via a stimulating probe (FDA approved) inserted through the working channel of the
      epiduroscope will allow more precise localization of pathological tissue than does the
      methods we currently use.

      We will collect cells during epiduroscopy and characterize them in vitro. A new dimension of
      this project is to deliver electrical stimulation to more accurately locate the source of
      pain from where cells should be sampled.
    
  