
    
      Neck pain is defined by the Global Burden of health 2010 Study as "pain in the neck with or
      without pain referred into one or both upper limbs that lasts for at least one day" and is
      one of the leading causes of musculoskeletal pain and disability in the world. Neck pain can
      be classified into radicular neck pain and axial neck pain. Radicular pain radiates along the
      nerves and is caused by irritated nerves, whereas axial pain, also called as mechanical pain,
      is confined to one spot or region.

      Despite the prevalence, accompanying disabilities, low quality of life and economic burdens
      of mechanical neck pain, there is a gap in high quality evidence to effectively guide the
      conservative treatment of this patient population. Physical therapy management of patients
      with neck pain mostly include the use of treatment approaches consisting of both manual
      therapies including cervical spine manipulation and/or mobilization and exercise programs
      training for treatment of symptoms of mechanical neck pain. Active release technique (ART) is
      a soft tissue technique that focuses on removal of adhesions that build up in muscle due to
      overuse. ART can be used as both, as a diagnostic and treatment technique. Post isometric
      relaxation technique (PIR) is a muscle energy technique that is mostly used to relax and
      lengthen stiff and shortened muscles. PIR uses the muscles own energy in form of isometric
      contractions to relax the muscle via autogenic inhibition.

      A Bacon et al (2011) conducted a study on effects of ART on tension headaches and reported
      that ART improved the symptoms associated with tension headaches and showed good results. A
      study by S Joshi et al (2018) compared the effectiveness of ART and conventional physical
      therapy for management of upper cross syndrome and concluded that Active release technique
      with conventional therapy is more effective than conventional therapy alone in the management
      of upper cross syndrome. Similarly, S Tak et al (2013) investigated on the effects of ART on
      gluteus medius for chronic pain in lower back pain and concluded that ART was effective in
      reducing the pain symptoms in lower back.

      Limited literature is available on evaluation and treatment of neck pain by Active release
      technique in contrast to Post isometric release technique. This study fulfills this gap and
      will provide clinicians with an alternative treatment approach for mechanical neck pain.
    
  