
    
      Fractures of the proximal femur and hip are relatively common injuries in adults.

      According to the Evans and the AO Classification systems, the fracture can be described as
      stable after reduction or not according to the direction of the fracture lines and the
      comminution of the medial cortex or the lateral wall of the proximal femur.

      Biomechanically, nails allow for stable anatomical fixation of more comminuted fractures
      without shortening the abductor moment arm or changing the proximal femoral anatomy. These
      devices provide fracture stability by virtue of allowing the lateral aspect of the head and
      neck to come to rest against the nail in the medullary canal.

      For fractures with comminuted medial cortex or involvement of the lateral cortex (AO 2.2 - AO
      3.3) it is advisable to fixate with a more stable fixation device such as intramedullary
      proximal femur nail Several intramedullary devices are currently in use for the treatment of
      the intertrochanteric fractures. In our institution, for the unstable fracture we use either
      one of the intramedullary devices manufactured by Synthes (Proximal femoral nail -
      anti-rotation = PFNA) or by Smith&Nephew (Trochanteric Antegrade Nail = InterTan).

      Each of these nails allow compression over the Nail\Blade with the intramedullary stability.

      There are 3 main complications in the treatment of intramedullary devices : (1) varus
      collapse of the head/neck, (2) uncontrolled shortening of the neck, and (3)femoral shaft
      fractures at the tip of the nail The InterTan, unlike other devices, allows for immediate
      intraoperative compression of the principal fracture fragments through linear compression
      combined with rotational stability secondary to its unique geometry and mechanism of action.

      The mechanical stability of the fracture after the fixation is reflected by the weight
      bearing the patient can hold . In order to find weather there is a mechanical difference
      between the two devices we would like to perform a test measuring the weight bearing after
      fixation of intertrochanteric fractures comparing the pain and impression of mechanical
      stability in the two devices.

      The method to test the amount of weight bearing would be using the "SmartStep gait system" TM
      (Andante Medical Devices Ltd), an innovative biofeedback and monitoring system that records
      and analyzes key gait parameters and provides instantaneous and accurate audio and visual
      feedback.
    
  