
    
      1. Introduction:

           Mechanical Sacroiliac joint dysfunction (SIJD) is the most common source of low back
           pain and affects 70-85% adults. It is also associated with groin & buttock pain and
           sometime also leg pain. Non discogenic pain can also be occur due to dysfunction around
           Sacroiliac Joint. Sacroiliac joint dysfunction also called as pelvic girdle pain (PGP),
           which arises from several intra-articular structures, anterior sacroiliac ligament,
           posterior sacroiliac ligament, articular cartilages. Sacroiliac joint pain is one of the
           common sources of mechanical low back pain. This may lead to bio-mechanical alteration
           in structure around pelvis.Where as Muscle Energy Technique(MET) involves physiological
           response of the antagonists of a muscle which has been isometrically contracted. Mainly
           MET is a soft tissue manipulation which include force generated by the patient may be
           maximum muscle contraction are twitch of the muscle. Where as functional stability as
           well as mobility can be achieved by Kinesiotape application.

           1.1: Problem statement:

           Mainly sacroiliac joint dysfunction associated with altered arthokinematics due to
           muscle weakness. Kinesiotaping and MET will be helpful if they are used with
           conventional physiotherapy. Thus there is need to find out the efficacy of MET and
           Kinesiotaping in addition to conventional physiotherapy in patients with mechanical
           SIJD.

           1.2:Purpose of the study:

           The purpose of the study is to find out the efficacy of MET and Kinesiotaping in
           addition to conventional physiotherapy in patients with mechanical sacroiliac joint
           dysfunction.

           1.3: Objectives of the study:

           1.3.1:To determine the effect of MET and Kinesiotaping in addition to conventional
           physiotherapy in patients with Mechanical Sacroiliac joint Dysfunction. 1.3.2:To compare
           the effect of MET &Kinesiotaping in patients with Mechanical Sacroiliac joint
           dysfunction.

        2. Procedure:

      The study will be a Two group pre test post test Randomized clinical trial. The study
      protocol has been approved from the Institutional Ethics Committee of Maharishi Markandeshwar
      Deemed to be University.

      MET Application: MET will be used with conventional treatment in Experimental Group 1. MET
      will be applied for posterior and anterior in-nominate and for weakened muscles like
      piriformis.

      Here patient will be asked to apply 20% force against therapist force and hold that
      contraction for 10 seconds with 3-5 repetitions.The treatment will be given for 3 times a
      week and continued for 4 weeks.

      Kinesiotaping will be given with conventional physiotherapy in Experimental Group 2. In this
      group KT will be applied to piriformis muscle and Sacroiliac joint (SIJ).

      For piriformis application patient will be in side lying position where the effected leg will
      be placed uppermost with hip in flexion, adduction, and internal rotation and Y strips will
      be used & treatment will be given for 4 weeks with 3 alternative days in a week.

      Conventional Physiotherapy will be given in both the groups. Before going for intervention
      Hydrocollator pack will be given in both the groups for at least 15 minutes.
    
  