
    
      The Canadian Immunization Research Network(CIRN) is a collaborative research network which
      brings together over 100 investigators in over 40 institutions to evaluate all factors
      relevant to the introduction of a pandemic influenza vaccine in Canada. The Serious Outcomes
      Surveillance (SOS) Network within CIRN was established in 2009 to plan for evaluation of
      influenza vaccine safety and effectiveness. Vaccine effectiveness studies are critical in
      assessing vaccine effectiveness under real world conditions and in assessing vaccine
      effectiveness in the prevention of severe outcomes. Establishing the methodology and
      infrastructure for real-time field assessment of vaccine effectiveness is crucial to inform
      policy recommendations for the optimal use of resources, including vaccines.

      This study will include all consenting adult patients hospitalized at one of the SOS Network
      hospitals during influenza season who test positive for influenza (cases). In addition two
      influenza negative controls will be matched to each case to measure differences in vaccine
      effectiveness. Specific study aims are:

        1. To determine the effectiveness of trivalent influenza vaccination (TIV in general, and
           GSK TIV in particular) in preventing influenza-associated hospitalization in adults ≥ 65
           years,

        2. To determine the effectiveness of influenza vaccination in preventing
           influenza-associated death in adults ≥ 65 years

        3. To determine the effectiveness of influenza vaccination in preventing
           influenza-associated hospitalization and death in adults < 65 years

        4. To characterize the burden of disease, clinical outcomes, and resource utilization
           associated with influenza A and influenza B lineages

        5. To examine clinical and immunologic factors impacting on severity of disease and
           influenza vaccine effectiveness in adults
    
  