
    
      Objectives. The protocol is focused on the immune and inflammatory reactions in Alzheimer's
      disease (AD) and the possibility that blocking the inflammatory response may alter the course
      of the illness. The specific plan is to evaluate the biologic and clinical effects of two
      doses of cyclophosphamide (CY) immunotherapy in AD patients compared to the clinically
      available cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (COX-2), rofecoxib. The study will test the hypotheses
      that CY: 1) Is safe and tolerable in AD patients in meaningful clinical doses, 2) Can modify
      central nervous system inflammation and immune responses in AD, 3) Inhibits neurodegeneration
      in AD brains as indicated by peripheral biomarkers of AD pathology, and 4) Is different
      quantitatively or qualitatively in its effect on immune markers than placebo or other
      clinically-available anti-inflammatory drugs such as the COX-2 inhibitor, rofecoxib.

      Rationale. Inflammation and immunologic responses appear to contribute significantly to
      neurodegeneration in (AD). In a pathological process termed gliosis, the brain's resident
      immune cells (microglia and astroglia) undergo chronic activation and possible proliferation,
      promoting neuronal injury and death by several means. Activated microglia and astroglia
      produce compounds that are directly cytotoxic to neurons, and they express molecules that
      greatly amplify immune and inflammatory processes in the brain. Excessive glial activation
      and proliferation are thought to be pivotal events hastening the demise of synapses and
      neurons in AD. Conversely, the growing understanding of immune and inflammatory pathology in
      AD has provided new opportunities for designing disease-altering treatments for AD.
      Preliminary clinical trials of anti-inflammatory drugs in AD patients, epidemiologic studies
      of anti-inflammatory drug use, and experimental models linking neurodegeneration with
      neuroimmune/neuroinflammatory processes suggest strongly that medications such as
      nonsteroidal-anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and immunomodulatory agents may have an
      important role in altering the course of AD. CY is a potent anti-inflammatory and
      immunomodulatory drug that acts primarily by inhibiting proliferation of immune cells.
      Moreover, as immune cell proliferation appears to be an important aspect of AD
      pathophysiology and disease progression, an exploratory, dose-finding trial of a
      cytotoxic/cytostatic drug such as CY is appropriate, especially since CY is already widely
      used for the treatment of other immune-mediated illnesses. Furthermore, a preliminary
      European trial of CY in AD patients has already demonstrated an improvement in cognitive
      function that correlated highly with the degree of immunomodulation achieved.

      Design. Study subjects will include 60 male and female patients with mild-moderate AD. In a
      randomized, placebo-controlled trial, two doses of CY or rofecoxib will be compared over a
      6-month period. While the primary outcome measures will be safety and immunologic data,
      cognitive and other behavioral measures will also be collected. The biological outcome
      measures will include measures of brain volume (assessed by magnetic resonance imaging) and
      cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers of neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, and neuroimmune
      activation. In addition, peripheral lymphocyte subsets and peripheral markers of inflammation
      will be assessed. This design is meant to provide dose-finding data to help design a more
      definitive efficacy trial with CY if the safety/tolerability parameters are acceptable in
      this pilot study.
    
  