
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D) of daily
      oral MLN0128 (TORC1/2 inhibitor INK128) when administered with bevacizumab in patients with
      advanced solid tumors including recurrent glioblastoma (GBM).

      II. To evaluate the overall safety and tolerability of the combination of MLN0128 and
      bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of the combination of MLN0128 and
      bevacizumab, as determined by response rate (RR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall
      survival (OS).

      II. To assess tolerability throughout study therapy with MLN0128 and bevacizumab, including
      beyond the MTD interval with the following measures of cumulative treatment-related
      toxicities: frequency of toxicities leading to missed doses or delays; percentage of cycles
      given or not within 7 days of their scheduled times; percentage of actual planned dosage
      administration; percentage of patients that discontinue study drugs due to treatment related
      toxicity.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) penetration of MLN0128 in combination with bevacizumab
      in patients with recurrent GBM by evaluating the plasma and CSF concentrations of MLN0128 in
      the absence and presence of bevacizumab.

      II. To perform archival tumor analysis for markers of dysregulated cell signaling that may
      predict response to mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor therapy such as
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (expression by immunohistochemistry [IHC] and
      amplification by fluorescent in situ hybridization [FISH]), phosphatase and tensin homolog
      (PTEN) (expression by IHC and deletion by FISH), phosphorylated (p)-protein kinase B (AKT),
      p-ribosomal protein S6 kinase (S6K), p-eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding
      protein 1 (4EBP), p-mTOR and p-mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (Erk) in patients with
      recurrent GBM.

      III. To analyze select phosphorylated proteins (ERK, AKT, mTOR, 4EBP1, glycogen synthase
      kinase 3-beta [GSK3beta], ribosomal protein S6 kinase, 70kDa, polypeptide 2 [p70S6K], rS6)
      from tumor biopsies obtained at baseline and after treatment with MLN0128 from endometrial
      and ovarian cancer patients enrolled in stage 2.

      IV. To analyze circulating plasma levels of angiogenic growth factors before, during and
      after treatment with MLN0128 and bevacizumab V. To perform genetic mutation analysis and
      proteomic analysis of tissue from biopsies of endometrial and ovarian cancer patients
      including analysis of Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS), v-raf murine sarcoma
      viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF), phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic
      subunit alpha (PIK3CA), v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1) and PTEN.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of MLN0128.

      Patients receive TORC1/2 inhibitor MLN0128 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and bevacizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then annually
      thereafter.
    
  