
    
      General Context Chronic Kidney Patients (CKD) live a sedentary life. Sedentarity and
      Sarcopenia worsen during the evolution of CKD with numerous cardiovascular diseases,
      infectious and other comorbidities. Inactivity may activate and amplify the inflammatory
      process, hypercoagulability, malnutrition, invoking a vicious circle of further inactivity
      and deconditioning.

      These populations have a very low physical activity profile due to important tiredness,
      perturbed general condition and bad adaptation in effort. The patients with cardiovascular
      problems have additional limitations due to breathlessness associated with congestive cardiac
      failure and intermittent claudication due to peripheral arteriopathy. At the dialysis stages
      the tiredness is accentuated after the hemodialysis sessions. The days off dialysis are
      rarely used for practicing a physical activity.

      The deconditioning along with the reduction of the physical activity are leading to a
      de-socializing progressing in the course of the chronic renal failure. In that way the
      patient feels more and more isolated with a serious eventual impact on the nutrition status
      and his quality of life.

      Regular physical activity in this population of patients is exerting beneficial effects on
      insulin resistance, inflammation, dialysis efficiency, nutrition and arterial pressure. It
      may also reduce the intradialytic hypotensive episodes and improve quality of life, without
      side effects.

      The objective of this study is to investigate an improvement of the physical functioning
      associated with a reprogramming of the autonomous nervous system, a reduction of the
      pro-inflammatory factors with a reduction of the insulin resistance (reduction of the
      metabolic syndrome), along with improvements on the immune system functioning for
      hemodialysis patients participating on a one year intradialytic physical activity program.

      Principal objective :

      The principal aim of the present study is to show the efficacy of intradialytic physical
      activity on functional capacity with the sit-to-stand test in 60 seconds (STS60) and the time
      to perform 5 complete sit-to-stand movements (STS5) along with a 6 minutes' walk test (6MWT).

      Secondary objectives :

      The secondary objectives are the amelioration of parameters associated with cardiovascular,
      sympathetic or autonomous nervous system, immune, nutritional, metabolic and inflammatory
      outcomes among with quality of life.

      This is a multicenter, controlled randomized trial

      Study description:

      Inclusion of patients willing to participate in the study, and consequently their
      randomization in 2 groups.

      The intervention group will benefit from a supervised physical activity during the dialysis
      session and the other group will carry on with his usual physical activities and have the
      same tests before and after the trial without undergoing a supervised intradialytic physical
      activity program

      Primary judgment criteria :

      The principal criteria will be the effect of an aerobic training program with a warming up
      phase, followed by 30 minutes of intradialytic cycling on 55% of the VO2max, 3 times a week.

      The primary judgement criteria will be the improvement of the Sit-to-stand test in 60 seconds
      (STS60) and the time to complete 5 sit-to stand movements (STS5) as well as the 6 minutes'
      walk test (6MWT) from T0 (before the training program) to T12 (12 months after the start of
      the training period)

      Secondary criteria:

        -  Quality of life parameters evaluated from the questionaries SF36 (The Short Form (36)
           Health Survey), Borg scale, EVA.

        -  Physical activity levels: IPAQ (international physical activity questionary).

        -  Body composition (Fat mass, lean mass, bone mineral density, estimation of the muscular
           mass) with DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry).

        -  Cardiovascular parameters : Cardiac echography, doppler of the carotid arteries and the
           lower extremity arteries, 24h cardiac rhythm exploration

        -  Immune parameters: leucocyte subpopulation functioning

        -  Nutritional and metabolic parameters: weight, BMI, albumin, pre-albumin, pre- and
           post-dialytic serum urea and creatinine levels, nPCR (normalised Protein catabolic
           Rate).

        -  Inflammatory parameters :(Interleucin) IL1 bêta, IL6, IL8, IL-10, TNF alpha (Tumor
           necrosis factor alpha), CRP (C reactive protein)

        -  Dialysis parameters : Kt/v, anemia control : Hemoglobin (Hb), MCV (mean corpuscular
           volume), ferritin, erythropoetin dosage (EPO).

        -  Number, etiology and duration of hospitalisations

        -  Survival in 1 year

      Number of participants : 100, ie 50 per group

      Layout of the study :

      Inclusion of the patient, evaluations at the start of the study protocol, at 6 months and at
      the end -12 months (M0, M6, M12).

      Benefits and risks of this study :

      Improvement of functional aerobic capacity, inflammatory status and quality of life.
      Improvements on the state of pain, autonomy, augmentation of the lean mass with conservation
      of the muscular mass for the lower extremities and reduction of the total fat mass are
      expected as well as improvement of the nutritional status, dialysis parameters, anemia
      control.

      The risks are of cardiovascular origin: a possible decompensation of coronary artery disease,
      peripheral artery disease, taking into consideration that all patients benefit from echo
      doppler arterial control before the start of the study.

      Regular Perdialytic Activity during Dialysis is practiced in AURA Auvergne (Association pour
      l'Utilisation du Rein Artificiel Santé) since 2 years; there has been no secondary vascular
      problem associated with the supervised physical activity. Nevertheless, rare tendon problems
      or articular and muscular pains could be possible on the course of the study
    
  