
    
      There is a dearth of information on the mechanisms, and potential moderators, of physical
      activity (PA) intervention effectiveness. Understanding the mechanisms of PA change will aid
      in successful intervention development while understanding moderators will allow a matching
      of intervention components to individual needs of particular populations. To definitively
      understand mechanisms and moderators of behavior change it is necessary to develop
      theory-based interventions that include specific strategies that target proposed mechanisms
      of change while monitoring the proposed mediating and moderating variables prior to and
      following intervention. This proposal highlights the use of the Ecological Model of Physical
      Activity (EMPA) as a theoretical guide to strategy development. The EMPA highlights the
      necessity to address individual (biological & psychosocial) and environmental variables
      (e.g., PA resource accessibility) when developing and implementing interventions. Health care
      patients who have been referred for a treadmill cardiovascular stress test-but do not present
      abnormal ECG or chest pain during testing-will be will be stratified by diagnosis of low
      heart rate recovery, a potential biological moderator of intervention effectiveness. To
      detect the potential independent and combined effects of individual motivation and
      environmental accessibility we will conduct a randomized 2X2 factorial trial to test proposed
      mediators of effectiveness. Participants (n=500) will be randomized to an individual (I),
      environmental (E) , combination (I+E), or matched contact nutrition control. All intervention
      conditions will include a CD-ROM session, 3 tailored mail, and 3 tailored automated telephone
      follow-ups over a 6-month period. We will assess the reach, effectiveness, clinician
      adoption, and staff implementation of these interventions, individually, in combination, and
      when compared to controls among an understudied and high need population-individuals who are
      at an elevated risk, but have not yet suffered a serious cardiac event (approximately
      3,000,000 individuals/year in the US). The results of this project will identify the causal,
      and potentially additive, relationships of environmental and individual mediators of PA
      change and allow the examination of potential biological moderators of effectiveness. Because
      intervention typically effects decrease over time and studies do not address setting-related
      issues necessary to ensure sustainability of delivery at the organizational level we will
      determine the maintenance of intervention effects on causal mechanisms and PA, 6 & 12 months
      following intervention. The interventions will be developed for delivery within the regular
      scope of treadmill stress testing by typical medical staff and cost of delivery will be
      assessed for each intervention condition. This project uniquely utilizes methods that will
      facilitate institutionalization of the intervention components following the successful
      completion of the trial and potential adoption of the intervention in other health care
      settings.
    
  