
    
      Objective

      The primary objective of the current protocol is to gain a greater understanding of the
      neurobiological mechanisms underlying acute nicotine withdrawal and contributing to the
      maintenance of, or return to smoking behavior among nicotine-dependent individuals, in the
      service of developing future smoking cessation treatments. The Nicotine Withdrawal Syndrome
      is a major cause of failed quit attempts in smokers, and targeting this time period for
      intervention may help improve smoking cessation outcomes.

      Study Population

      We will recruit treatment seeking and non-treatment seeking smokers, as well as matched
      non-smoker control participants.

      Design

      There are 3 arms included in this protocol, each of which aims to understand the neurobiology
      of the Nicotine Withdrawal Syndrome during the initial quit period, with the broader goal of
      increasing quit success rate in the future.

      Main Study: To understand (1) the acute neurobiological effects of nicotine withdrawal on
      treatment-seeking and non-treatment seeking smokers, (2) the long term neurobiological
      outcomes of varenicline treatment and smoking cessation counseling at 1, 6, and 12 months. We
      will recruit 85 treatment seeking and 35 non-treatment seeking smokers for a within (nicotine
      deprivation), between (treatment-seeking status) subjects randomized, double blind, placebo
      controlled study.

      Motivational Interviewing Arm: (1) To increase motivation and preparation for smoking
      cessation treatment among individuals who express an interest in quitting smoking but are not
      currently ready to enter treatment, in the service of increasing quit success rate and (2) to
      understand the neurobiological basis of motivation to quit smoking, and the interaction
      between motivation to quit and mechanisms that underlie acute nicotine withdrawal. We will
      recruit 300 current smokers interested in quitting smoking, but not yet ready to set a quit
      date.

      Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Arm: To understand the acute effect of tDCS on
      3 large-scale brain networks dysregulated in nicotine addiction and withdrawal, the Default
      Mode Network, the Executive Control Network, and the Salience Network. We will enroll 60
      non-treatment seeking smokers, with the expectation of 35 completers; and enroll 55
      non-smoking controls, with the expectation of 45 completers, for a double blind, sham
      controlled, randomized crossover study. Smokers will be studied in nicotine abstinence and
      nicotine sated conditions, as in the Main Study design.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome measures:

        1. Change in BOLD signal and FC related to task parameters, between drug (or tDCS)
           condition.

        2. Behavioral performance on each of the tasks assessing inhibitory control processes,
           reward responsiveness, amygdala, striatal, BNST reactivity, impulsive decision making,
           cue reactivity and working memory (e.g., reaction time, error rate, hit rate, reward
           bias).

        3. Self-reported craving, withdrawal symptoms and mood/affect

        4. Smoking abstinence as determined by self-reported tobacco use, urine cotinine, and
           breath CO.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        1. MRS for glutamate concentration.

        2. Plasma ACTH and cortisol.

        3. Resting state CBF from ASL.

        4. ERP and EEG measures.

        5. Ratings and scores on self-report characterization measures.

        6. Structural MRI and DTI data.

        7. Resting state FC at 1, 6 and 12 months post-treatment.
    
  