
    
      Craniofacial anomalies and cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P) are a model for the
      impact of birth defects on fetal and neonatal health directly and maternal health indirectly.
      Craniofacial anomalies comprise a significant component of morbid human birth defects. This
      study is composed of two Subprojects, A and B. Subproject A involves provision of intensive
      pediatric care over the first 28 days of life for a prospective group of about 694 cleft
      cases, which will be compared to a retrospective group of about 464 cleft cases. Nonsyndromic
      cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P) cases (about 264 cases) of Subproject A will
      be randomized into two groups: intervened (about 132 cases) and non-intervened (about 132
      cases). Sub-project B involves provision of systematic pediatric care over a 2-year period
      for the intervened group. This group will be compared to the non-intervened group in order to
      study the effect of the intervention on the neurodevelopment and physical health of the child
      as well as the emotional and social health of the family. The standard care group also will
      be compared to a group of about 264 healthy controls, matched by sex and place and date of
      birth in order to study the impact of the cleft on the physical health and neurodevelopment
      of the child as well as the emotional and social health of the family. The importance of the
      study relates to the substantial burden caused by clefts and the necessity of developing and
      testing approaches that may lessen this burden. The outcomes of this project will be to
      further strengthen collaborative relationships in the area of craniofacial anomalies between
      South America and the United States; to better understand the effects of birth defects, and
      craniofacial anomalies in particular, on maternal family units; and, to decrease the burden
      of these defects directly. The sample size was based on an expected overall 28 days mortality
      rate among cleft infants that is around 0.25, calculated at a 0.05 significance level.
    
  