
    
      Background Atrial fibrillation is an irregularly irregular heartbeat and occurs in around
      1.5% of the population. It is associated with negative clinical outcomes such as cardiac
      failure and mortality. It is strongly implicated in the evolution of stroke, which carries
      significant burden and cost to patients and the National Health Service (NHS). Atrial
      fibrillation can be triggered by major physiological stresses such as surgery. The literature
      suggests that symptomatic atrial fibrillation occurs in 10% of patients within 90 days of
      surgery. This means that a proportion of patients may have undetected atrial fibrillation,
      and require treatment to reduce their risk of complications. As the investigators move
      towards stratified and personalised medicine, it is important to identify the characteristics
      of the patients at risk of developing atrial fibrillation after surgery in order to mitigate
      the effects of the condition. This research group has proposed a basic model to stratify
      patients into high risk groups for post-operative atrial fibrillation, although this requires
      testing and refinement in a prospective study.

      Aims To estimate the rate of atrial fibrillation following colorectal cancer surgery and to
      characterise patients at highest risk of atrial fibrillation following surgery for colorectal
      cancer.

      Method A prospective study of patients over the age of 65 undergoing colorectal cancer
      resection will be conducted across 15 colorectal units in the United Kingdom. It will recruit
      720 patients over an 18 month period. The study has been designed with regard to public and
      patient involvement. Patients over the age of 65 undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer
      with curative intent and no prior diagnosis of atrial fibrillation will be eligible for
      inclusion. Participants will be screened prior to entry with an electrocardiogram (ECG).
      Following consent, routine demographic data, EQ-5D-5L (five dimension), and blood sample for
      Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) will be collected. A 24-hour cardiac rhythm recording will be
      undertaken prior to surgery to confirm the absences of atrial fibrillation. ECG will be
      repeated on the day of discharge and 24 hour rhythm recordings repeated at 30 and 90 days
      post surgery. EQ-5D-5L x will be recorded at 90 days along with any use of health services
      for cardiac symptoms. Participants diagnosed with atrial fibrillation during the study will
      be directed to local inpatient or primary care services as appropriate. Demographic
      characteristics, ECG parameters and BNP will be combined with a previously derived model and
      tested for ability to predict atrial fibrillation.
    
  