
    
      Family members are often shocked and devastated by the death of their loved one, especially
      when it is sudden and unexpected. On the scene, families often don't really believe it
      happened because they didn't have time to absorb the fact of their loss. They hear the words
      and explanation given by the prehospital emergency medical services (EMS) team, but do not
      comprehend the full impact. Emotions seem frozen. They feel disoriented, restless, stunned
      and unable to think.

      Most often, after cardiac arrest resuscitation attempt, the prehospital EMS team leaves the
      scene, letting the family without any further medical bond and support. Families are left
      alone facing this tragedy. After a while, families need medical counseling trying to
      understand what happens and why but they don't know who to consult. Instead, they remain
      without medical explanation or guidance with the fear regarding their own future, in
      particular, regarding the risk of dying from sudden death. This fear may be based on the
      knowledge of the eventuality of familial diseases increasing the risk of sudden death, or
      simply on a mechanism of identification with the deceased.

      One important factor credited by experts is to encourage first-degree family members to seek
      sudden death counselling. However, the literature concerning this problem lacks of reliable
      data.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate the psychological consequences of a sudden
      death counselling on family member after a relative's sudden death compared to the usual
      family management.

      This study will compare the percentage of depression in a group of family members after a
      relative's sudden death for whom a sudden death counselling has been proposed by the
      prehospital medical team versus a group for whom the medical team has not modified its usual
      strategy.
    
  