
    
      Rational:

      Major Depressive Episode (MDE) affects nearly 15% of the general population. To date, its
      pathophysiology remains unclear and treatment effects are often inconsistent. Therefore, it
      is challenging to make a valid prognosis for depression and identification of biomarkers is
      an important way of improving patient's treatment. Messenger RNAs (mRNAs) could be potential
      biological markers. Several studies have shown quantitative variations in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC) during MDE. These variations are state dependent and/or correlated
      with clinical measures.

      In a preliminary study, the investigators identified 12 genes whose expression was either
      altered between patient and control samples and/or between first patient samples and samples
      from the same patients obtained 8 weeks later. However, this study did not assess evolution
      of these alterations beyond an 8 weeks window and only 2 time points were considered.

      Objective:

      the investigators aim to compare gene expression difference for 21 candidate genes, of which
      12 were already investigated, in 2 groups of subjects. MDE and control samples will be
      analyzed across a large time window to draw a better picture of the complex progression
      during MDE.

      Population and method:

      This study is longitudinal and comparative. 20 subjects per group will be included and
      followed during a 6 months interval which includes 4 visits (at the inclusion, 2 and 8 weeks
      later and finally 6 month later). Clinical observations and psychometric scales will be used
      for evaluations. Blood collections and PBMCs extraction will be operated after each
      evaluation and followed by RNA extraction, reverse transcription and gene expression
      quantification by real-time PCR.

      Expected results:

      mRNA will be either over or under-expressed in patients during MDE in correlation with the
      clinical state. There will be no variation across time in control subjects. Comparison
      between MDE and control will show differences during MDE but not after clinical remission.
    
  