
    
      This is a phase II, randomized, open-label multi-center study comparing treatment of
      paclitaxel plus ramucirumab with paclitaxel monotherapy in patients with advanced
      squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) of the esophagus.

      Adult patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced squamous-cell
      carcinoma of the esophagus and refractory or intolerant to combination therapy with
      Fluoropyrimidine and Platinum-based drugs will be enrolled in the study.

      A total number of 186 patients will be enrolled (Randomization 1:1). 93 patients will be
      treated with paclitaxel + ramucirumab (Arm A) and 93 with paclitaxel (Arm B).

      Randomization will be stratified by time of progression during or after end of first-line
      therapy (≤3 months vs. >3 months).

      The primary objective is to compare overall survival (OS) after 6 months in patients with
      squamous-cell carcinoma of the esophagus, refractory or intolerant to combination therapy
      with Fluoropyrimidine and Platinum-based drugs receiving paclitaxel with ramucirumab versus
      paclitaxel alone in the intent-to-treat population (ITT). OS is defined as the time from
      randomization to death from any cause.

      Patients in Arm A (investigational arm) receive Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 on day 1, 8, 15 plus
      Ramucirumab 8 mg/kg i.v. infusion on day 1 and 15 every 4 weeks. Patients in Arm B (control
      arm) receive Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 on day 1, 8, 15 every 4 weeks. Study treatment will be
      continued until progression or intolerable toxicity, but for a maximum of 1 year.

      Tumor assessment will be performed according to clinical routine at screening / baseline and
      every 8 weeks.

      After discontinuation of study medication, patients will be followed for up to 1 year. Tumor
      assessments per CT or MRI will be performed every 2 months for 6 months or until
      documentation of disease progression. Follow-up for survival will be done and documented
      every 2 months for the 1 year follow-up period after end of treatment.

      During treatment, clinical visits (blood cell counts, detection of toxicity) will be
      performed prior to every treatment dose. Safety of paclitaxel +/- ramucirumab will be
      monitored continuously by careful monitoring of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse
      events (SAEs) reported. Prior to the start of each cycle and at the 30-day safety follow-up
      visit Quality of life (QoL) will be assessed using the European Organization for Research and
      treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30).
    
  