
    
      Pain treatments are frequently hit or miss, trial & error, or because of the fear of
      litigations, not offered at all, particularly in cerebral palsy. Pain is an under-suspected
      and under-diagnosed cause of ECCP. It was hypothesized that pain/discomfort was responsible
      for ECCP, and a vicious cycle of pain-spasm-pain aggravated the pain/discomfort. So, the
      response of ECCP to treatment guided by clinical findings & investigations was studied.

      There was an initial placebo run-in period. This study was a prospective, single-center,
      interventional, with initial placebo-control, double-blind for initial 110 days, open-label
      for the next 290 days, fixed sequence, two treatment, two-period, crossover clinical trial.
      The placebo run-in period (15 days) was followed by the placebo period (15 days). After a
      washout period (10 days), drug treatment (360 days) was started depending on the clinical
      findings and investigations. The drugs used either singly or in various combinations were
      GABA-B agonists, muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, benzodiazepines, inhibitors
      of the vesicular monoamine transporter, antiepileptics, and tricyclic antidepressants. The
      outcome measure was a change in total, and unexplained mean cry durations in hours per day.
      Total and unexplained mean cry durations in hours per day were calculated from 10-day
      measurements of cry durations. The cry duration was measured for one 10-day period while on
      placebo [days P6-P15], and four 10-day periods while on treatment [T61-70, T241-250,
      T311-320, and T351-360]. From the 251st day of therapy, the dose was reduced by 5% every week
      until ECCP started to increase. This reduction of the dose was made to confirm the efficacy
      of drugs and to check if the dosage requirement has reduced after 250 days of treatment. This
      dose was maintained until the next measurement between T311 and T320. Then the dosages were
      adjusted as necessary. The caregivers were allowed to volunteer any additional observations
      of interest. Drug adverse effects were recorded.

      Summary statistics were tabulated and plotted. Paired t-tests and Wilcoxon tests were done to
      study the statistical significance.
    
  