
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate
      cancer (mCRPC) who have SATISFACTORY features after to 8 weeks of maximal androgen receptor
      (AR)-inhibitory therapy and receive treatment with abiraterone acetate, prednisone and
      apalutamide plus or minus ipilimumab.

      II. To estimate the OS of men with mCRPC who have UNSATISFACTORY features after to up to 8
      weeks of maximal androgen receptor (AR)-inhibitory therapy and receive treatment with
      abiraterone acetate, prednisone, apalutamide, cabazitaxel and carboplatin.

      III. To determine the TOXICITY PROFILE of the following combinations in men with mCRPC:

      IIIa. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone, apalutamide. IIIb. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone,
      apalutamide and ipilimumab. IIIc. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone, apalutamide, cabazitaxel
      and carboplatin.

      IV. To determine whether the BASELINE "AR RESPONSE SIGNATURE" correlates with SATISFACTORY or
      UNSATISFACTORY features after up to 8-weeks of treatment with abiraterone, prednisone and
      apalutamide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To "pick the winner" in terms of time to treatment failure (TTF) between the following two
      combinations, in men with mCRPC and satisfactory features after 8 weeks of maximal
      AR-inhibitory therapy:

      Ia. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone, apalutamide. Ib. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone,
      apalutamide and ipilimumab. II. To determine the TTF in men with mCRPC and unsatisfactory
      features after up to 8 weeks of maximal AR-inhibitory therapy ted with abiraterone acetate,
      prednisone, apalutamide, cabazitaxel and carboplatin.

      III. To determine whether the "baseline AR response signature" predicts for benefit by
      prognostic grouping (satisfactory/unsatisfactory) and treatment arm.

      IV. To investigate therapy-specific marker signatures (immune based, bone based and
      anaplastic) and their link to outcome.

      V. To collect and archive bone marrow biopsy, bone marrow aspirate, serum, plasma, and tissue
      samples in study patients for later hypothesis generating associations.

      OUTLINE: After an 8-week lead-in phase, patients with satisfactory decline in serum markers
      are randomized to 1 of 2 arms (Arm 2A or 2B), and patients with unsatisfactory decline in
      serum markers are assigned to Arm 3.

      LEAD-IN PHASE: Patients receive abiraterone acetate orally (PO) daily, prednisone PO twice
      daily (BID), and apalutamide PO daily for 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unexpected toxicity.

      ARM 2A: Patients receive abiraterone acetate PO daily, prednisone PO BID, and apalutamide PO
      daily in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      ARM 2B: Patients receive abiraterone acetate PO daily, prednisone PO BID, and apalutamide PO
      daily. Patients also receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 of
      courses 4-7. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected
      toxicity.

      ARM 3: Patients receive abiraterone acetate PO daily, prednisone PO BID, and apalutamide PO
      daily. Patients also receive cabazitaxel IV over 60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 60
      minutes on day 1 of courses 4-13. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 14 and 30 days, and then
      every 6 months thereafter.
    
  