
    
      The prevalence of urolithiasis is greater than 8% and increasing in the United States. For
      those who require surgery, ureteroscopic treatment is common, representing >120,000
      procedures yearly in the United States. This does not include ureteroscopy for other,
      including diagnosis of structural anomaly and diagnosis and management of ureteral and renal
      pelvic tumors. Frequently, a ureteral stent is placed intraoperatively. There is
      post-operative pain in around 80% of patients, and 12% of those undergoing ureteroscopy will
      have an emergency department visit in the first 30 post-operative days, typically for stent
      related symptoms or post procedural pain. Aside from the short-term repercussions of
      ureteroscopy with stent placement there are long-term issues related to pain and the
      treatment thereof. Recent evidence suggests that approximately 6% of opioid naïve patients
      who undergo ureteroscopy will become new persistent opioid users.

      A single perioperative dose of pregabalin has been shown in many surgical contexts to have
      analgesic, anxiolytic, and opioid sparing effects. A common regimen employed in the
      literature is a single preoperative dose of 300mg PO pregabalin 1hr before induction of
      anesthesia. Pregabalin is a well-tolerated gabapentinoid medication with temporary
      cognition/coordination changes being the most common side effects. There is currently no
      standard of care for the use of perioperative gabapentinoid medication in ureteroscopy. A
      pilot was performed looking at such use that demonstrated the safety of this use and the
      feasibility of studying this at our institution.

      In this work, the efficacy and safety of perioperative pregabalin in ureteroscopy with stent
      placement will be evaluated by executing a prospective, double blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial for the use of perioperative pregabalin in the management of
      post-ureteroscopy symptoms, with the hypothesis that this treatment is safe and efficacious.
      Emphasis will be placed on patient-centered outcomes, especially those related to opioid
      sparing effects, mainly within the first 30 days after the surgery and extending out to one
      year.

      The study will be powered with an 80% probability to detect a 10% difference in the primary
      outcomes. It will also assume a loss to follow up rate of 50%. This will require
      approximately 200 total subjects with a planned 1:1 placebo to active treatment enrollment
      ratio. The necessary enrollment can be accomplished in 11 months, allowing for 30 days of
      follow up within the funding period.

      The final goal of this project will be at least one paper in a top urology journal. This will
      contribute to the literature by helping to inform urologists and anesthesiologists on the
      efficacy and safety of perioperative pregabalin for ureteroscopy with stent placement and
      will provide data regarding opioid sparing management after ureteroscopy. Opioid related
      issues abound nationwide and are evident in Missouri. This study has the potential to
      influence opioid use both in this state and nationwide as it relates to this frequently
      performed procedure.
    
  