
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients with locally advanced squamous cell
           carcinoma of the head and neck treated with erlotinib hydrochloride in combination with
           docetaxel and radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine objective response rate, locoregional control rate, duration of response,
           patterns of failure, and overall survival in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the dose and effect of this treatment on biologic correlates in tumor tissue
           and/or surrounding mucosa.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily for up to 2 years in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 3, patients receive docetaxel
      IV over 1 hour once a week and radiotherapy (may be intensity-modulated) once daily for 8
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      At 6-8 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients with N2 or greater cervical
      lymph node involvement at baseline or with residual disease may undergo surgery. Patients
      with persistent disease during study therapy undergo salvage surgery 6-12 weeks after
      completion of chemoradiotherapy.

      Patients undergo blood sample, tissue biopsy, mucosal scraping, and saliva collection at
      baseline and periodically during study. Samples are analyzed for markers of angiogenic
      activity (VEGF, sVEGFR-2, sKIT, ICAM, and PDGF), pharmacokinetic studies, gene expression
      profile, and human papilloma virus DNA by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA),
      immunohistochemistry, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and PCR.

      After completion of study therapy, patients will be evaluated every 4-8 weeks for 1 year,
      every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      once a year thereafter.
    
  