
    
      Endometriosis is typically associated with severe pelvic pain and pain is often combined with
      dysfunctional symptoms of the urinary bladder and the bowel. Endometriosis impairs the
      health-related quality of life and pain is the main reason for the decreased quality of life.
      When the primary endometriosis treatments, i.e. hormonal therapy and surgery, fail to
      alleviate pain or symptoms recur after successful treatment, the options are often limited.
      Recurrent or long-lasting endometriosis pain commonly involves neuropathic pain component
      with periferal or central sensitisation to pain. This kind of pain is likely more resistant
      to traditional endometriosis treatments and thus neuromodulation offers a logical treatment
      option.

      There are some case series and at least one randomized trial describing the effect of Sacral
      Neuromodulation in chronic pelvic pain associated with interstitial cystitis and painful
      bladder syndrome. These reports indicate that Sacral Neuromodulation may be effective in
      treating chronic pelvic pain but the level of evidence is low. There is one report on
      long-term pelvic pain with Visual Analogue Scale score dropping from 8.1 to 2.1 and the
      effect lasting for five years. There are also few case reports on different difficult sacral
      area pain conditions treated successfully with Sacral Nerve Modulation. The common consensus
      seems to be that further studies are needed on the effects of Sacral Neuromodulation on
      chronic pelvic pain.

      This study aims to evaluate if sacral neuromodulation alleviates pelvic pain symptoms and
      related dysfunctional symptoms in surgically treated endometriosis patients and improves
      their health-related quality of life. The treating gynecologist does the screening for
      suitable patients and a signed informed consent is needed from the patients prior to entering
      the study. A test pulse generator is placed uni- or bilaterally under local or general
      anesthesia and used during a 2-3-week test period. A permanent pulse generator is placed if
      marked improvement of symptoms is detected, the patient is satisfied with the treatment and
      willing to continue. Women not responding to sacral neuromodulation will not receive a
      permanent generator. They are asked to continue in the 3 year follow-up and they serve as the
      control group if applicable.
    
  