
    
      The primary endpoint of this study is the determination of the feasibility and efficiency of
      integrating routine PRO assessments into the clinical care of patients treated for HF. To
      reach this, three groups will be involved in the study.

      Provider Focus Group (n = 40):

      Following obtaining their agreement to participate, the Providers will be given a date, time,
      and venue for his/her participation in the focus group and will meet for one hour. An agenda
      and script for the conduct of the focus group session will be developed by a trained
      moderator. The focus groups will be conducted by a member of the research team. Data from the
      focus group sessions will be analyzed and used to evaluate clinicians' interpretation of
      patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and acceptability of PRO data in routine clinical care. A
      formal provider training program will be designed and implemented by a subject matter expert.
      The focus group session will be repeated at 12 months, with the 12 month administration
      having an increased emphasis on barriers, facilitators, and value of PROs in clinical care.

      Patient Interview Group (n = 100):

      Following obtaining agreement to be interviewed, a trained professional interviewer will
      conduct a one-time, one-hour, semi-structured telephone interview of each subject to better
      understand patient experiences with HF, the treatment process and quality of life
      determinants. Two semistructured interviews will be conducted with the first 30 patients who
      have had left ventricular assist device (LVAD) therapy (of the 100 patients who agreed to be
      interviewed), before and 12 months after device implantation. The goal of these interviews
      will be to describe patient experiences with LVAD therapy, examine factors influencing
      quality of life, and determine whether currently available PRO tools are likely to capture
      the intended experiences in HF as they relate to LVAD therapy.

      PROs/Clinical Data Integration Group (n = 3500):

      The patients' electronic medical records will be reviewed and protocol-required information
      will be obtained. PRO capture will be expanded in a large population of patients across the
      continuum of HF patients. A plan has been developed that will integrate PRO scores into their
      medical records. Information will be obtained from 2 instruments (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy
      Questionnaire (KCCQ12) and NIH Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS)) that are routinely administered as part standard of care. PRO and clinical data
      will be obtained from electronic medical records of patients seen in the heart failure clinic
      during the study period. Patient information will be stored in a secure research database.
      The data will be used to build prognostic models of 1-year survival with favorable quality of
      life in patients with various forms of heart failure.

      No follow-up visits will be required for the PROs/Clinical Data Integration Group. All
      protocol-required information will be obtained from the subjects' electronic medical records
      over a period of 3.5 years after enrollment into the study.

      Biologic Determinants of Patient Health Status in HF (n = 1000):

      Subjects in the Integration Group that meet the inclusion criteria for this subject subset
      will be contacted in person by the Principal Investigator or his/her delegate. Subjects will
      be asked if they are willing to provide their blood samples.

      Blood samples will be obtained approximately every six months for the duration of the study
      (i.e., about 4 years). Approximately 40 ml (or 2.71 tablespoons) of venous blood will be
      obtained on each scheduled blood draw.
    
  