
    
      The yearly incidence of soft-tissue sarcomas (STS) in the USA is roughly 11,280 cases, and
      metastatic STS have a median overall survival of about 12 months. Sarcomas of the soft tissue
      are a heterogeneous group of malignant tumors of mesenchymal origin that originate in
      connective tissue. Local control with wide surgical resection with or without adjuvant
      radiation has a success rate of close to 90%. However, approximately 40% to 50% of patients
      with a large (>5 cm), deep, high-grade soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) eventually develop distant
      metastases, primarily in the lung. Therefore, overall survival (OS) of metastatic STS
      remained still poor, less than 1 year. Therefore, current clinical trials with various
      targeted agents are ongoing add on the doxorubicin monotherapy.

      Durvalumab (MEDI4736) is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits binding of PD-L1. For this
      orphan tumor, STS, PD-L1 may be a promising strategy and favorable toxicity may warrant
      further combination. For this orphan tumor, STS, PD-L1 targeting may be a promising strategy
      and favorable toxicity may warrant further combination. Regarding anti-PD-L1 treatment in
      STS, in phase I trial with human monoclonal antibody to PD-L1, MPDL3280A, one heavily treated
      synovial sarcoma patients demonstrated partial responses. In recent phase II study of
      pembrolizumab, PD-1 inhibitor in advanced STS among the 40 STS cases (17.5%) had responses (1
      complete response and 6 partial response). Based on the study, pembrolizumab monotherapy was
      approved for previously treated STS in Korea.

      Therefore, various clinical trials are ongoing immune checkpoint inhibitor with PDGFR
      inhibitors [axitinib for renal cell carcinoma (RCC), pazopanib for RCC and STS, Sorafenib for
      RCC, and liver cancer, sunitinib for RCC, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, and pancreatic
      cancer].
    
  