
    
      In this project, the investigators want to develop organotypic culture of primary-derived
      biopsies, and combine them with organ-on-a-chip technology, to better characterize the HPV
      infection and cancer progression, as well as to screen innovative treatments for cervical and
      vaginal cancers.

      Our study will cover cervical dysplasia and cervical cancers HPV induced. The investigators
      will perform cervical and or vaginal biopsies from patients with oncogenic HPV lesions. A
      protocol validated to collect biopsies from precancerous cervico-vaginal lesions or cervical
      cancer patients in CHRO (Orleans, France). The biopsies will be performed during a
      consultation in the Hospital center of Orleans, or in the theatre room during a conisation or
      an hysterectomy. The PRIMMO platform is the research platform of Regional hospital center of
      Orleans (CHRO) dedicated to the promotion of translational research. It will be involved in
      the collection, analysis and biobank storage setup of the project. Fresh samples will be
      collected and bring directly to the lab for organoid cell culture development. Detection of
      HPV in each biopsy will be carried out by the PRIMMO platform.

      The organoid development from patient biopsies will take place into the lab of the Biophysic
      Molecular center in Orleans.

      The organoids will be selected according to three criteria: their ability to grow until a
      first passage, their doubling time and their ability to be frozen and resuscitated. Such
      organoids maintain pathogen-host interaction and better model physiopathology of vaginal
      cervical dysplasia CIN2-3 or cervical cancer and thus allow for the detection of biomarkers
      for pre-cancerous lesions. In addition, organoids reduce the use of animal models and can be
      used for drug screening, In a second step, the investigators propose to use mRNA to produce
      in situ the nanobodies targeting E6 and E7, to inhibit viral replication and tumor growth

      Socio-epidemiological data will be collected for each patient, in the form of a table.

      The study could be stopped in case of serious undesirable events. Safety evaluation As this
      is a category 2 study, no particular vigilance linked to the research protocol will be
      useful.

      However, the monitoring and reporting of unexpected events resulting from participation in
      the study will be declared to the "materiovigilance site" of the CHR of Orleans Given the
      minimal risks associated with the study, an independent monitoring committee was not
      considered necessary.
    
  