
    
      Throughout pregnancy, the fetus is encouraged to develop by maintaining proper flexed posture
      in the uterus and freely moving its arms and legs against the flexible boundaries of the
      womb. However, when born too early, preterm infants lose the natural boundaries of the womb
      that support this flexor positioning and movement support. In addition preterm infants
      undergo stress because of essential treatments in neonatal intensive care units and exposure
      to the extrauterine environment. To support the development of preterm infants, cotton wraps
      are often used to maintain appropriate body positioning. Swaddling helps maintain continuous
      and adequate body positioning which aids and provides a stable sleep environment and
      encourages muscle tone. However, traditional swaddling is challenging in preterm infants and
      preterm infants frequently become unswaddled. It is fraught with difficulties related to the
      neonatal care and monitoring preterm infants receive due to the prematurity. In addition,
      this stiff material does not provide the same sensory experience as the flexible boundaries
      of the womb. In response to this challenge, The Investigators developed a new medical grade
      swaddling system for optimal and more appropriate positioning and natural movement. Here, The
      Investigators outline a trial focused on sleep state, state regulation and long-term
      neurodevelopment. The central hypothesis is that this novel swaddling method will promote
      sleep and an optimal sleep-wake cycle, while also improving the neurodevelopment of preterm
      infants. It is proposed that adequate positioning and secondary feedback of natural movement
      of arms and legs stimulates and fosters normal brain development. The Investigators will
      clinically evaluate sleep at the level of amplitude-integrated electroencephalograph (aEEG)
      activity and perform the Prechtl's Assessment of General Movements (GMA) to assess
      spontaneous writhing and fidgety movements, which predicts the future neurodevelopment of
      preterm babies. The Investigators will also perform the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
      Network Neurobehavioural Scale (NNNS) as a standardized assessment of neurological integrity
      and organization. The goal is to provide early intervention to improve development in preterm
      infants.
    
  