
    
      Design and population The design is a pair-matched community intervention trial. Village
      clusters with high levels of malnutrition were selected from rural areas in ten sub-Saharan
      African countries to reflect a diverse range of agro-ecological zones, farming systems,
      disease profiles, and infrastructure challenges. MVP sites represent 80 villages in 14
      clusters across 10 countries, covering nearly 500,000 people. For each intervention cluster,
      a matched comparison cluster has been selected at random to participate in the evaluation.

      Outcomes The primary outcome is the under-5 mortality rate. Secondary outcomes are levels of
      coverage with essential maternal-child health interventions and related MDG indicators for
      poverty, nutrition, education, and environmental health.

      Sample size calculation The assessment follows 6000 households across intervention and
      matched comparison villages at baseline, and after 3 and 5 years of intervention exposure.
      With 10 paired clusters, the study is powered to detect a 40% difference in the U5MR between
      the two groups.

      Analysis plan The analysis will use a two-staged pair-matched cluster level analysis, and
      will be complemented with multilevel modeling. Reporting will adhere to Transparent Reporting
      of Evaluations with Non-randomized Designs (TREND) guidelines.

      Implementation science A portfolio of qualitative implementation science (process evaluation)
      will complement the quantitative assessment, and involves interviews with implementers,
      partners, and project beneficiaries. This analysis will address questions about: the
      feasibility of the interventions; the timing and sequence of their introduction; key
      contextual barriers and facilitators to implementation; and potential synergies achieved from
      the integrated multisector approach.

      Economic costing study One project hypothesis is that an annual per capita investment of $110
      is required to achieve the MDGs. The aim of the economic costing study is to document the
      absolute and relative contribution of project partners (MVP, government, donors, and the
      community) to all priced and non-priced cluster-level activities, as well as the
      sector-specific breakdown of these inputs.
    
  