
    
      Depression is associated with an increased risk of cardiac morbidity and mortality in
      coronary heart disease (CHD). Although safe and modestly effective treatments for major
      depression exist, only about 30% of patients ever achieve full remission. CHD patients with
      depression symptoms that do not respond to treatment are at high risk for cardiac morbidity
      and mortality compared to those whose depression symptoms respond to treatment. Anhedonia and
      fatigue are among the most common symptoms to remain following treatment in both depressed
      CHD patients and in medically well psychiatric patients. In a recent study, the investigators
      found that several risk markers of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality including a high
      normal level of the thyroid hormone free thyroxine (FT4), low nocturnal heart rate
      variability, blunted circadian heart rate, and poor sleep quality predict depression
      treatment response and post-treatment symptoms of fatigue and anhedonia. It is unclear why
      these risk markers are associated with residual anhedonia and fatigue. Elevated cortisol
      levels, chronic sympathetic nervous system activation, reduced vagal modulation of HR, high
      levels of perceived stress, low level of physical activity, disordered sleep, and occult
      subclinical thyroid diseases are among the most plausible explanations. Any or all of these
      factors may explain the relationship between the risk markers and residual fatigue and
      anhedonia, and all are potentially modifiable and thus possible targets for future clinical
      trials. The purpose of the proposed research is to identify modifiable correlates of these
      risk markers and of fatigue and anhedonia in depressed patients with CHD. Study participants
      will be recruited from cardiology practices at Washington University School of Medicine.
      Potentially eligible patients will be scheduled for a structured clinical interview. Those
      who score ≥ 14 on the BDI-II and meet the DSM-5 criteria for major depression and no
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled. Participants will be evaluated by phone, or in person at
      the Behavioral Medicine Center at Washington University School of Medicine. The evaluation
      will be performed in the morning. An appointment will be made for a blood draw on a morning
      after a 12-hour fast to obtain a thyroid panel, lipid profile, plasma cortisol, C-reactive
      protein, and other biomarkers. Participants will be fitted with an ambulatory ECG monitor and
      a wrist actigraph that will be sent to them, and they will complete a battery of self-report
      inventories. The ECG monitor and actigraph will be worn for 48 hours on two consecutive
      weekdays to measure the ECG markers, activity levels, and sleep parameters. Participants will
      be compensated for their time upon return of the samples and equipment. This study will
      identify potential targets for adjunctive interventions to augment traditional depression
      treatments and thereby help to lay the groundwork for a randomized clinical trial to
      determine whether treating depression in patients with CHD can improve both depression and
      event-free survival.
    
  