
    
      The long-term objective of this research project is to develop chemotherapy-based approach to
      the treatment of brain metastases. The specific purpose of this study is to obtain data on
      safety and efficacy of combination chemotherapy with temozolomide and topotecan in patients
      with central nervous system (CNS) metastases of solid tumors. Patients with brain metastases
      of solid tumors have a poor prognosis, despite improvements in survival achieved with modern
      neurosurgical and radiation techniques. Chemotherapy does not play any significant role in
      this disease, but may have application in salvage of patients who have failed radiation
      therapy. In patients who are not surgical candidates, do not require immediate XRT to relieve
      symptoms and have controlled systemic disease, effective chemotherapy as an alternative to
      XRT might decrease the risk of radiation induced neurotoxicity.

      Recent advances in treatment of systemic disease with the use of modern chemotherapy and
      pathobiologic agents have significantly improved overall survival of cancer patients, putting
      them at risk for CNS metastases and radiation induced neurotoxicity. Both, temozolomide and
      topotecan have good blood-brain barrier penetration and have shown activity in CNS
      malignancies. Preclinical studies suggest synergy of this drug combination. This is a
      single-arm, open-label phase II drug study. All patients will receive the chemotherapy
      combination. Up to 35 patients will be accrued over 2-3 years and followed for up to 5 years.
      Patients will receive up to 8 cycles of chemotherapy. The primary endpoint is the rate of
      radiologic response of brain metastases and secondary endpoints are median overall survival,
      progression-free survival, time to progression of brain metastases and toxicity. The study is
      expected to provide data to be used in generating further research hypotheses.
    
  