
    
      Background:

      Lung Cancer is the leading cause of death among both men and women. Of the approximately
      172,000 patients that are diagnosed every year with non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the
      US, 55% present with advanced stage disease. The current treatment for advanced NSCLC is
      first line chemotherapy with a platinum-based doublet. Second line treatment for recurrent or
      progressive disease includes treatment with chemotherapy or treatment with an oral EGFR
      (epidermal growth factor receptor) tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Several mechanisms of
      resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been discovered. Presence of KRAS
      mutations is one of them. AZD6244 (ARRY-142886) is an investigational drug that is orally
      available and targets the critical kinase (MEK) in the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase
      signal transduction pathway which is activated in NSCLC and is downstream of EGFR.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the progression free survival (PFS) using the combination of AZD6244 and
           erlotinib in patients with wild type KRAS advanced NSCLC

        -  Determine the clinical response rate (PR (partial response) + CR (complete response))
           either monotherapy AZD6244 or the combination AZD6244 plus erlotinib in patients with
           mutated KRAS advanced NSCLC

        -  Evaluate disease control rate (PR+CR+SD (stable disease)) and overall survival in both
           patient groups.

        -  Determine a safety profile for use of AZD6244 in combination with erlotinib in patients
           with advanced NSCLC.

        -  Measure serological markers to evaluate if these markers are correlated with tumor
           response.

        -  Measure changes in a tumors MIB-1 (Ki-67) rate and pERK levels in response to treatment
           with AZD6244.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with pathologically confirmed NSCLC not amenable to potentially curative
           therapy and having progressed after being treated with at least one prior platinum
           containing chemotherapy regimen, or having refused cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        -  Progressive disease should be documented prior to enrollment on the study.

        -  Patient should not have more than 2 prior chemotherapy regimens.

        -  Measurable disease by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria.

        -  Adequate renal, cardiac, hepatic and hematopoietic functions

        -  No major surgery, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy within 28 days of enrollment.

      Design:

        -  Patients will be stratified on the basis on their KRAS mutational status. Wild-Type KRAS
           patients will be randomized to receive either single agent erlotinib 150 mg/day or the
           combination of erlotinib 100 mg/day plus AZD6244 at 150 mg/day. KRAS mutant patients
           will be randomized to receive AZD6244 monotherapy at a dose of 75 mg twice per day, or
           the combination AZD6244 at 150 mg/day plus erlotinib 100 mg/day.

        -  Treatment will continue until disease progression.

        -  Toxicity will be assessed every cycle by the CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for
           Adverse Events) Version 4.0.

        -  Tumor assessments by RECIST 1.1 criteria will be performed every 2 cycles (one cycle is
           28 days).

        -  Correlative studies including initial tumor mutational analysis and tissue
           immunohistochemistry (IHC) studies will be done on existing tumor blocks, or re-biopsied
           tissue prior to enrollment.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for the potential to undergo repeat tumor biopsy after 1
           cycle of therapy. Tumors will be assessed for MIB-1 (Ki-67) and pERK levels by IHC.

        -  The study will accrue up to 40 patients with wild-type KRAS NSCLC and up to 60 patients
           with mutated KRAS NSCLC.
    
  