
    
      This Phase 3 clinical trial is an essential step in the evaluation of an investigational
      medication to see if it may be useful in treating prostate cancer. The purpose of the SPARTAN
      study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of the investigational medication to placebo
      in delaying prostate cancer from spreading to other parts of the body. A placebo is a pill
      that looks like the investigational medication but does not contain any active medication, a
      dummy pill.

      Phase 3 studies are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the drug
      has been obtained in previous Phase 2 studies. These studies are intended to gather the
      additional information about effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall
      benefit-risk relationship of the drug.

      Study participants will take the oral investigational medication daily. One cycle of study
      treatment lasts 4 weeks or 28 days. The number of cycles will depend on how you and your
      cancer respond to the study medication.

      In order for the researchers to evaluate and compare the study results, there are two
      different study groups. Study participants will be randomly (like flipping a coin) assigned
      to one of these groups:

        -  One group will receive their current treatment along with the investigational medication

        -  One group will receive their current medications along with a placebo

      The investigational medication will be given to 2 out of every 3 study participants. Neither
      you nor the study staff will know which group you are in. However, in case of a medical
      emergency, your study doctor can quickly find out which treatment group you are in.

      All participants will continue to receive their current treatment along with either the
      investigational medication or a placebo. The selections will be random, and you may remain on
      investigational treatment until your disease worsens, or until significant side effects occur
      or you can no longer tolerate treatment.
    
  