
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effects of synchronous vs sequential adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy
           on local recurrence, disease-free and overall survival, and treatment delay in women
           with early-stage breast cancer.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens, in terms of dose intensity and toxicity, in this
           patient population.

        -  Compare the quality of life and cosmetic outcome in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      clinical oncologist, axillary clearance (yes vs no), radiotherapy boost intent (boost vs no
      boost), and chemotherapy intent (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil [5-FU] vs
      anthracycline-containing regimen). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      Patients receive any chemotherapy regimen that includes cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
      5-FU. Some regimens may also include epirubicin, doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, and/or mitomycin.
      Chemotherapy repeats every 3 weeks for 4-8 courses.

        -  Arm I (synchronous chemoradiotherapy): Patients receiving synchronous therapy receive
           any of the above chemotherapy regimens plus daily radiotherapy between courses 2 and 3
           OR courses 5 and 6 of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy is administered for 3-5 weeks.

        -  Arm II (sequential chemoradiotherapy): Patients receiving sequential therapy receive any
           of the above chemotherapy regimens followed by daily radiotherapy beginning after
           completion of all chemotherapy (after course 6 or 8). Radiotherapy is administered for
           3-5 weeks.

      Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed before chemotherapy, 2-3 weeks after the completion of all
      treatment, and then at 1, 2, and 5 years.

      Patients are followed annually for 10 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,250 patients (1,125 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  