
    
      Background:

      About 25% of epileptic patients are drug-resistant (DRE) and some of them are eligible for
      resective surgery of the epileptogenic zone (EZ). The precise EZ localization is crucial for
      a good surgical outcome. Intracranial EEG (icEEG) recordings remain the gold-standard to
      localise the EZ. New neuroimaging techniques, like simultaneous recording of functional MRI
      and EEG (EEG-fMRI), with advanced methodological approaches as effective connectivity
      analysis (i.e. Dynamic Causal Modelling-DCM) might improve the EZ localization. This
      innovative tool will have the advantage to be non-invasive and safe with significant decrease
      of injuries, hospitalization, with a resulting favourable cost/benefit ratio.

      Objectives:

      (1) to provide a validation of effective connectivity applied to fMRI data in epilepsy. (2)To
      develop a non-invasive protocol for the investigation of the epileptic network in patients
      with surgically remediable epilepsies; (3) To shed light on the patho-physiological
      mechanisms of drug resistance in DRE.

      Methods:

      Two Research Units (RU1, RU2) will identify and characterize a cohort of DRE patients
      eligible for resective surgery. RU1 will perform patients' recruitment, presurgical
      evaluation and EEG/fMRI coregistration and data analysis. RU2 will perform patients'
      recruitment, presurgical evaluation and surgical resection of epileptic foci. IcEEG
      recordings will be performed at the Claudio Munari Epilepsy Center, Ospedale Niguarda, Milano
      . RU1&RU2 will evaluate the fMRI data results and compare with icEEG findings or expert's
      surgical decision. The principle measures of outcome are: (a) percentage of concordance of
      fMRI results with icEEG findings or electro-clinical features in term epileptic network
      identification; (b) percentage of concordance between DCM findings and EZ/IZ localization;
      (c) percentage of concordance of DCM findings with icEEG or electro-clinical features
      regarding the causal hierarchy within the epileptic network.
    
  