
    
      Trial Subjects (patients) who are deemed eligible for the trial will initially be entered
      into the safety run-in stage of the trial. Up to 12 patients will be registered into the
      safety run-in stage, in cohorts of 3 patients at a time.

      3 patients will be registered initially and will be administered a single infusion of
      pembrolizumab (200mg, day 1) in combination with CXD101 (20mg twice daily days 1 to 5). This
      is dose level 0.

      If 0 to 1 dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed, 3 more patients will be entered into the
      trial and treated at dose level 0. If 0 to 1 DLT is observed across all 6 patients, the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be declared and the expansion stage of the trial will be
      opened.

      If more than 1 DLT is observed at dose level 0, 3 patients will be recruited and treated at
      dose level -1. The CXD101 dose will be reduced by 25% (20mg in the morning and 10mg in the
      evening, days 1 to 5), while the pembrolizumab dose will remain the same (200mg, day 1).

      If 0 or 1 DLT is observed, 3 more patients will be recruited and treated at dose level -1. If
      0 or 1 DLT is observed across all 6 patients the maximum tolerated dose will be declared and
      the expansion stage of the trial will be opened.

      If more than 1 DLT is observed at dose level -1 the combination will be deemed excessively
      toxic and no further patients enrolled.

      Once the MTD is declared, the cohort will be expanded and a further 33 patients will be
      treated at this dose level.

      Patients will continue to receive pembrolizumab and CXD101 at 3 weekly intervals for a
      maximum of 2 years or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops. Patients
      on pembrolizumab will be seen every 3 weeks during trial treatment. Patients who progress
      will be seen annually for disease status. Patients completing treating or who stop treatment
      early for reasons other than disease progression will be followed every 3 months for up to
      one year after the end of treatment, and annually thereafter until end of trial is declared
      (when the last patient has completed 1 year follow up).
    
  