
    
      Objective: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in people
      over age 65 in the United States, is a heterogeneous clinical entity in which retinal
      degeneration occurs predominantly in the macula in the context of aging and leads to
      impairment of central visual acuity (VA). AMD occurs in two general forms, one of which
      involves choroidal neovascularization (CNV) with subsequent formation of a disciform scar.
      This is often referred to as the neovascular or 'wet' form. A second form, the subject of
      this study, is termed 'dry' /atrophic macular degeneration or otherwise 'geographic atrophy'
      (GA) and involves a slow progressive atrophy of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and
      photoreceptors in the macula, also resulting in central vision loss. GA is estimated to
      affect up to 1 million persons in the U.S. and there is no current treatment that can prevent
      its onset or retard its progression. While the etiology of GA is not completely understood,
      inflammatory processes involving the activation of resident immune cells of the retina called
      microglia is likely to contribute. Minocycline inhibits the activation of microglia which
      produce inflammatory factors implicated in GA development. The objective of this study is to
      investigate the safety and possible efficacy of oral minocycline in patients with GA.

      Study Population: Forty-five participants with unilateral or bilateral GA associated with AMD
      will be enrolled. However, up to an additional 15 participants may be enrolled to replace
      participants who may withdraw from the study prior to reaching the Month 33 visit.

      Design: This is a multi-center, prospective, single-arm, Phase II study to evaluate
      minocycline as a potential treatment to decrease the rate of worsening of GA associated with
      AMD. Participants will undergo a nine month run-in phase prior to receiving investigational
      product (IP). During this run-in phase, participants will have a total of four pre-treatment
      visits. Following the run-in phase, beginning at Month 9, participants will receive an oral
      dose of 100 mg of minocycline twice daily for 36 months. There will be a common termination
      date, which will take place when the last recruited participant has received 36 months of
      treatment. Participants who were recruited in the earlier part of the study will continue
      treatment and be followed every six months until the common termination date.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the rate of change in area of GA based on grading by
      an external Reading Center of fundus autofluorescence (FAF) images in the assigned study eye.
      The primary outcome will compare the rates of GA area expansion as determined on FAF images
      before and following the initiation of IP until 24 months of treatment. Secondary outcomes
      will compare differences in rates of change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA),
      low-luminance VA, area of GA based on FAF (using a different statistical approach compared to
      primary outcome) and fundus photography, and macular sensitivity as measured using
      microperimetry between the run-in and treatment phases. Safety outcomes will include the
      number and severity of adverse events (AEs). Ocular safety outcomes will be indicated by
      changes in VA, ocular surface changes, intraocular inflammation and any other ocular changes
      not consistent with the natural progression of GA.
    
  