
    
      Even though hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection can now be cured, globally, fewer than 20% of
      the 71 million living with HCV are aware of their status; diagnosis remains a major
      challenge. While serology screening tests that detect the presence of antibodies against HCV,
      can be performed in decentralized settings, these tests cannot distinguish between resolved
      (about 25% of seropositive cases) and active infection. Therefore, positive serology test
      results require further confirmation by laboratory-based methods that detects the viral
      particle. The two-step testing process results in high drop-off in confirmatory testing among
      HCV seropositive individuals, especially in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) where
      laboratory infrastructure is lacking. Providing access to confirmatory testing in
      decentralized settings has a high potential to increase the coverage of HCV testing services
      in LMIC.

      Molbio Diagnostics Ltd. (India) has developed the Truelab™ Real Time quantitative PCR system
      that is widely used in India for diagnostics of tuberculosis (TB). The system consists of two
      portable machines and two microfluidic cartridges and can be used in point-of-care settings.
      The manufacturer has recently developed a new assay that detects HCV RNA, the Truenat™ HCV
      RNA assay. It is a simple two-step assay for RNA extraction and amplification with a total
      turnaround time of 60 min, using whole blood, plasma and serum as sample types. Most
      importantly, the assay can be performed from a drop of capillary blood eliminating the need
      for venous access and blood draw and increasing its usability in the settings where
      phlebotomy service are not available. To date, validation of the assay was performed using
      archived plasma specimens and contrived whole blood specimens. FIND aims to conduct a
      multicentre evaluation to assess the assay's sensitivity, specificity and quantitative
      accuracy in freshly collected whole blood, plasma and serum specimens from target
      populations. The evaluation aims to gather performance data in line with the requirements set
      forth in the Common Technical Specifications 2009/886/EC (CTS) of the CE In Vitro Diagnostics
      Medical Devices Directive 98/79/CE (CE-IVDD), as well as the World Health Organization (WHO)
      Technical Specification Series 10 (draft) (TSS-10) for In vitro diagnostic (IVDs) medical
      devices used for the qualitative and quantitative detection of HCV RNA. The data will be
      published as a peer-reviewed report and made available to the test manufacturer to support
      regulatory submissions.
    
  