
    
      The study aims to enroll (203) participants, with a confirmed diagnoses of ADHD, at
      approximately 15 sites and will be divided between 2 cohorts; 130 participants will be
      enrolled in Cohort 1, and 73 participants will be enrolled in Cohort 2.

      Cohort 1 will have been stable (adherence to a prescribed medication schedule) on a stimulant
      medication, but are inadequately managed by the stimulant (in the opinion of the
      investigator). The stimulant is managed by their own physician for at least 30 days before
      baseline. This is the Stimulant cohort.

      Cohort 2 will have been stable without any stimulant medication for at least 30 days before
      the baseline. This is the Non-Stimulant cohort.

      For both cohorts, at least 7 and up to 30 days before baseline, participants' caretakers will
      begin using AKL-X01 (Fengo) to track their participants' symptoms and behaviors.

      During Treatment Phase 1 (Days 1 through 28) participants in Cohort 1 (Stimulant) will
      continue to receive their current stimulant plus the addition of AKL-T01. Participants in
      Cohort 2 (Non-Stimulant) will just receive AKL-T01. For both cohorts, during this time the
      caretakers will monitor their child's symptoms daily with AKL-X01.

      During the 1-Month Break (Days 29 through 56) between AKL-T01 treatment phases, participants
      in Cohort 1 will continue to receive their current stimulant. In both cohorts, AKL-T01 will
      be suspended during this time. For both cohorts, during this time caretakers will continue to
      monitor their child's symptoms daily with AKL-X01.

      During Treatment Phase 2 (Days 57 through 84), participants in Cohort 1 (stimulant) will
      continue to receive their current stimulant plus the addition of AKL-T01. Participants in
      Cohort 2 will just receive AKL-T01. For both cohorts, during this time the caretakers will
      monitor their child's symptoms daily with AKL-X01.
    
  