
    
      Posterior multi-level lumbar spinal instrumentation surgery is one of the most common
      surgeries performed for the treatment of leg and back pain. Pain management is especially
      important for these patients since chronic pain often occurs after surgery. Severe pain may
      occur at postoperative period in patients following spinal instrumentation operation.
      Postoperative effective pain treatment provides early mobilization and shorter hospital stay,
      thus complications due to hospitalization such as infection and thromboembolism may be
      reduced.

      Opioids are one of the most preferred drugs among the analgesic agents. Parenteral opioids
      are generally performed for patients after surgery. However opioids have undesirable adverse
      events such as nausea, vomiting, itching, sedation and respiratory depression (opioid-related
      adverse events).

      Various methods may be performed to reduce the use of systemic opioids and for effective pain
      treatment. US-guided interfascial plane blocks have been used increasily due to the
      advantages of ultrasound in anesthesia practice. TLIP block is one of these nerve blocks
      performed under US guidance and defined by Hand et al. in 2015. In this technique, local
      anesthetic solution is injected between the multifidus and logissimus muscles nearly at the
      level of the 3rd lumbar vertebra and targets the dorsal rami of the thoracolumbar nerves.
      However, the visualisation of this technique may be difficult under ultrasound (US) guidance.
      Therefore, Ahiskalioglu et al. defined modified-lateral technique of TLIP (mTLIP) block as a
      new approach. Ahiskalioglu et al. have reported that this approach has some advantages.
      Firstly, sonographic visualisation is more easily than the classical technique. Secondly,
      insertion of the needle from medial to lateral direction reduces the risk of possible
      neuraxial injection. It has been reported that this technique provides effective analgesia
      after lumbar spinal surgery.

      The ultrasound (US) guided erector spina plane block (ESPB) is a novel interfacial plan block
      defined by Forero et al. at 2016 The ESPB contains a local anesthetic injection into the deep
      fascia of erector spinae. This area is away from the pleural and neurological structures and
      thus minimizes the risk of complications due to injury. Visualization of sonoanatomy with US
      is easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can be easily seen under the erector
      spinae muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes with cephalad-caudad way.
      Cadaveric studies have shown that the injection spreads to the ventral and dorsal roots of
      the spinal nerves. ESPB provides thoracic analgesia at T5 level, abdominal analgesia at T7-9
      level, and lumbar analgesia at T10-12, L3 level. In the literature, it has been reported that
      ESPB provides effective analgesia after lumbar spine surgery.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate US-guided mTLIP block and ESPB compared to no
      intervention control group for postoperative analgesia management after multi-level (two or
      three level) lumbar spinal instrumentation surgery. The primary aim is to compare
      perioperative and postoperative opioid consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate
      postoperative pain scores (VAS), motor blockade, the mobilization time, adverse effects
      related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  