
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in males and the second
      in females, with over 1.2 million new cancer cases and 608,700 deaths estimated to have
      occurred in 2008. Approximately 35% of CRC patients present a Stage IV metastatic disease at
      the time of diagnosis, and 20%-50% of Stage II or III disease will progress to Stage IV at
      some point during the course of disease. Stage IV CRC carries a dismal prognosis: the 5-year
      survival rate is <10%, and median survival time of patients given optimal supportive care
      without chemotherapy is approximately 5 months. Hypothesis/rationale In advanced CRC, the
      occurrence of chemo- refractory disease poses a major therapeutic challenge for presence of
      an adequate performance status to potentially receive further treatments, but absence of
      effective drugs which may be offered to patients with an evidence-based algorithm. Patients
      who progress after all approved treatments may be generally considered suitable for new
      investigational drugs or strategies. Thus, in the era of personalized medicine, tumor
      molecular profiling may lead to the identification of therapeutic targets or predictive
      biomarkers for pharmacological intervention. The DNA repair gene O6-methylguanine-DNA
      methyltransferase (MGMT) is responsible of the elimination of alkyl groups from the
      O6-position of guanine. If inactive, it may be involved in early steps of colorectal
      tumorigenesis through an increase of the mutational rate particularly, G-to-A point mutations
      of KRAS gene. Epigenetic silencing of MGMT during colorectal tumorigenesis is associated with
      hypermethylation of the CpG island in its promoter. This transcriptional gene silencing is
      responsible for diminished DNA-repair of O6-alkylguanine adducts, with the consequence of
      enhancing chemosensitivity to alkylating agents in particular dacarbazine and its oral
      prodrug temozolomide. In a previous phase II study, the investigators showed that
      temozolomide induced an objective response rate by RECIST criteria in 12% of heavily
      pretreated patients with advanced CRC and MGMT promoter 6 methylation. Treatment was well
      tolerated, and the only grade 4 toxicity was one thrombocytopenia episode (3%). The trial met
      its primary end point of acceptable response rate, with a disease control rate of 31%, a
      median PFS (progression free survival) and OS (overall survival) of 1.8 and 8.4 months,
      respectively. Other studies in carcinoids cell lines demonstrated synergistic cell kill if
      5-FU (5-fluorouracil) and TMZ (temozolomide) were delivered in a schedule-dependent manner.
      From these translational studies, it has been formulated the CAPTEM regimen using TMZ for 5
      days at 150-200 mg/m2/day total daily dose on days 10-14 (given in BID oral dosing), with
      capecitabine 750 mg/m2 PO (per OS) BID on days 1-14 of a 28-day cycle. The use of TMZ in BID
      (BIS in DIE) dosing instead of daily dosing was done because the first dose binds 6-MGMT
      levels, thus allowing the second dose to methylate guanines with decreased repair from MGMT.
      Given the potential synergy of CAPTEM combination in CRC, the investigators planned a
      randomized study of second-line CAPTEM vs. FOLFIRI after failure of prior first-line
      oxaliplatin - based treatment. Study design Open-label, randomized, multicenter, Phase II
      trial designed to estimate the efficacy of CAPTEM versus FOLFIRI as second line treatment in
      MGMT methylated, RAS mutated advanced CRC patients who have progressed on or after first-line
      oxaliplatin containing chemotherapy for metastatic disease. MGMT will be assessed centrally
      at Pathology Department of Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori prior to
      enrollment. A minimum of ten 3-micron unstained sections on charged slides of tumor will be
      required and methylation status will be provided within a maximum of seven days to the Study
      Centers. Presence of RAS mutation will be assessed at each local participating center.
      Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of two treatment arms:

        -  Arm A (experimental arm): CAPTEM

        -  Arm B (control arm): FOLFIRI Study treatment will be given in cycles repeated every 28
           days for Arm A and every 14 days for Arm B. Patients in Arm A will receive capecitabine
           at the oral dose of 1500 mg/mq/die bid from day 1 to day 14 every 28 days plus
           temozolomide 150 mg/mq/die bid starting on day 10 to 14 every 28 days. Patients in Arm B
           will receive FOLFIRI chemotherapy starting Day

           1 q2w (every cycle) starting on Day 1 of Cycle 1. FOLFIRI consists of irinotecan
           (starting dose of 180 mg/m2) on day one only; 5-FU 7 (starting bolus and 22-hour
           infusional doses of 400 mg/m2 and 600 mg/m2, respectively), and leucovorin (racemic,
           starting dose of 200 mg/m2 or L-form, starting dose of 100 mg/m2) for two consecutive
           days. Treatment will continue for up to 6 cycles in Arm A and up to 12 cycles in Arm B
           or up to disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or informed consent withdrawal.
           Randomization will be stratified across the treatment arms by the following predefined
           stratification variables: disease progression within 9 months from the start of
           first-line oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy (< vs. ≥9 months); prior bevacizumab in
           combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy (yes vs. no). Efficacy assessments will
           be performed every 2 cycles in Arm A and every 4 cycles in Arm B until progression. The
           study is expected to enrol approximately 82 patients who meet the eligibility criteria.
           Number of study centres 10 centers in Italy Primary objective and corresponding end
           point

        -  To evaluate the efficacy, as measured by progression-free survival, of FOLFIRI
           (administered every 2 weeks) versus CAPTEM (administered four-weekly) Secondary
           objectives and corresponding end points

        -  To evaluate the activity of the two regimens, as measured by response rate; secondary
           efficacy endpoints also include duration of response and overall survival of FOLFIRI
           (administered every 2 weeks) versus CAPTEM (administered four-weekly)

        -  To evaluate the safety of FOLFIRI versus CAPTEM

        -  To assess the quality of life as measured by Quality of life questionnaires (EORTC QLQ -
           CR29; QLQ-C30) Statistical methodology According to the published results of the GERCOR
           study, the median progression-free survival during second-line treatment with crossover
           from FOLFOX to FOLFIRI was 2.3 months (calculated from the start of second-line
           treatment with FOLFIRI). A one-sided log rank test with an overall sample size of 82
           subjects (41 in the control group and 41 in the study group) achieves 90% power at a 5%
           significance level to detect an increase in median progression free survival from 2
           months of the control group to 4 months. The study lasts for 30 months of which subject
           accrual (entry) occurs in 24 months
    
  