
    
      The primary aim of the project is to pilot test the delivery of an online Mindfulness Based
      Stress Reduction (MBSR) programme to informal caregivers of people with chronic illnesses in
      one region in Ireland so as to determine the feasibility of delivering the intervention to
      caregivers in Ireland.

      A two-group randomised pilot-feasibility trial comparing the online MBSR programme
      (intervention) with no programme (control). The MBSR programme is delivered online over 8
      weeks. Weekly email and telephone contact will be maintained with participants in the
      intervention group for the duration of the delivery of the intervention. Participants are
      encouraged to practice mindfulness exercises and homework between sessions. The online
      programme was developed by a trained mindfulness teacher and a mindfulness teacher will
      conduct the weekly email and telephone call to participants in the intervention group. The
      study sample are caregivers in the Dublin region who are members of Family Carers' Ireland. A
      total of 80 caregivers will be recruited to the study, 40 per group, based on 1:1
      randomisation using a computer-randomised number generator.

      Baseline (pre-intervention) and post intervention participant outcome data (stress,
      mindfulness and QoL) will be collected using self-reported validated scales administered to
      participants by post, with stamped-addressed envelopes provided for return. Other pilot
      measures (i.e. study processes) will be monitored and assessed by the research team to
      determine potential refinement needs. Feasibility outcome data will be collected by the
      research team (including time to recruit, attendance at classes, willingness of participants
      to be randomised) and by the participants (expenses diary) during the study period, using
      predesigned data collection forms. Mean differences with 95% confidence intervals will be
      calculated to determine any significant differences between the groups on the outcomes of
      stress, mindfulness and QoL.
    
  