
    
      PEAK addresses potential barriers to treatment access and engagement in at least four ways.
      First, the 10 sessions require fewer hours to complete relative to typical BPE programs.
      Second, PEAK content and process was developed with extensive input from primary stakeholders
      (i.e., parents of young children with ADHD). The iterative process used in the Development
      grant provided critical parental input regarding revision to maximize engagement. Third, the
      availability of online treatment delivery allows greater flexibility relative to F2F delivery
      in terms of time and location of completing BPE sessions. This should increase access for
      families with limited resources (e.g., transportation) or constrained schedules. Finally,
      online delivery may be less costly to access given need for fewer resources (e.g., space,
      child care), although relative cost-effectiveness will be explored in greater detail in the
      proposed project.

      Intervention Components. Both the F2F and online versions of PEAK contain 10 scripted BPE
      sessions that last approximately 1.5 hours. Session content includes: 1) Introduction to
      ADHD, 2) Attending, Rewards and Ignoring, 3) General Behavior Management Strategies, 4)
      Problem-Solving Approach, 5) Preventive Intervention, 6) Instructive Interventions, 7)
      Response Strategies, 8) Extending What Works to Community Settings, 9) Promoting Early
      Reading and Math Skills, and 10) Effective Communication Strategies. Supplemental Optimism
      Training will also be included to help parents identify/improve pessimistic thoughts about
      their parenting and their child's behavior. Each session contains didactic instruction
      interspersed with activities designed to enhance parent engagement. Sessions include video
      examples and interactive activities, such as role-play, group discussion for F2F, and
      check-in questions for online. Weekly homework activities are assigned for strategy practice.
      For example, parents choose one strategy (e.g., transitional warning, timer, choice)
      discussed during the session to implement at home. At the start of the following session, the
      session leader checks in with families on the use of the chosen strategy. The session leader
      praises successes and troubleshoots where strategy implementation went awry, suggesting
      alternative strategies or implementation approaches.

      For the online version of the program, parents are provided with password- protected
      individual access codes to the online PEAK program. Check-ins are provided weekly via each
      parent's preferred mode of communication (i.e., text, internet, phone) to query strategies
      implemented, praise success, and troubleshoot alternative strategies.

      Both the F2F and online versions of PEAK address many of the inner and outer contextual
      variables, particularly those that are malleable. For example, streamlined and/or online BPE
      may ease access challenges related to single parent status, inflexible treatment
      hours/location, or perceived stigma associated with obtaining mental health treatment.
      Program content is designed to enhance perceived sense of parenting efficacy through ongoing
      feedback from PEAK staff regarding use of strategies. Similarly, content is designed to
      provide parents with accurate attributions for child behavior difficulties in the context of
      understanding ADHD as well as environmental factors impacting behavior (e.g., antecedents,
      consequences). PEAK also includes content designed to help parents communicate and
      collaborate with teachers and school personnel.

      Process and Materials. The F2F program is fully manualized, with each session consisting of
      slides, scripted presentation notes, and activities. Advanced graduate students in School
      Psychology or Special Education who have completed courses in Consultation and Positive
      Behavior Support serve as Session Leaders. To assure high quality delivery, the Principal
      Investigator (PI) or co-PI attends the first session and provides feedback to the Session
      Leader. All sessions are audiorecorded and the PI or co-PI listens to each recorded session
      weekly and completes a fidelity checklist. Weekly feedback is provided to the Session Leader
      regarding strengths and areas for improvement.

      The online format is fully developed and ready for parent use. It consists of identical
      content, handouts, and practice activities to the F2F version. A Web Designer with expertise
      in technology is designated to address technical difficulties.

      Intervention Context. The PEAK program is intended for parents of young children, ages 3-5,
      at-risk for ADHD. Children had to have met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-5 criteria for
      one of the three presentations of ADHD based on clinical interview, parent/teacher behavior
      ratings (90th percentile). However, for future use, the investigators anticipate the program
      being equally (if not more) effective with children with less severe symptoms. Children were
      excluded who had diagnoses of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), pervasive developmental
      disorder, intellectual disability, neurological damage, or significant motor or physical
      impairments.

      A variety of care providers participated in the intervention and will be end users, including
      biological parents, stepparents, foster parents, significant others, and grandparents with
      custody of their grandchildren. The only restriction was that at least one English-speaking
      parent needed to participate because the program and assessments are in English. In addition,
      parents had to have an electronic device with Internet access (assessed prior to
      randomization) and express willingness to attend F2F meetings or complete online sessions.

      Theory of Change. PEAK was designed to address two target areas that are specifically
      problematic for young children at-risk for ADHD: poor parent-child interactions and
      difficulty with pre-academic skills. the investigators have sequenced sessions such that
      skills that have a theoretical overlap across components are taught first. Specifically,
      skills that comprise desirable parent-child interactions (e.g., providing praise, following
      through, offering constructive feedback) should be employed when engaged in activities to
      enhance pre-academic skills (taught in the last session). At the same time, there are
      strategies distinct to each intervention area. For instance, pre-academic readiness requires
      that parents engage in specific pre-academic activities.

      The purpose of the proposed randomized control trial (RCT) is to apply What Works
      Clearinghouse group design standards to examine the initial efficacy of two forms of delivery
      of streamlined BPE (F2F and online) relative to a wait-list control condition in a sample of
      3- to 5-year old children with clinically significant symptoms of ADHD. The objective is to:
      (a) extend findings from the pilot investigation to a large, diverse sample; (b) examine
      maintenance of effects; (c) identify moderators and mediators of treatment outcome,
      especially the degree to which these may differ for F2F vs. online treatment delivery; and
      (d) assess cost and cost-effectiveness of the two PEAK delivery formats. The specific aims
      are described below.

      Aim 1: Examine the immediate post-treatment effects of F2F and online BPE relative to a
      wait-list control (WLC) condition on parent knowledge of and fidelity with intervention
      strategies, parent acceptability of training procedures and interventions, child early
      academic skills, and child and parent behavior for families of young children at-risk for
      ADHD.

      Based on the pilot RCT findings, the investigators hypothesize that F2F and online BPE will
      lead to significantly greater improvement at post-treatment in parent knowledge of and
      fidelity with intervention strategies as well as child and parent behavior relative to WLC.
      The investigators do not expect that the two BPE conditions will differ with respect to these
      outcomes. Also based on the pilot RCT, the investigators expect treatment acceptability to be
      in the moderate to high range for both active treatment conditions with significantly higher
      ratings for F2F intervention. Finally, the investigators hypothesize small but statistically
      significant gains in child early academic skills for the F2F and online conditions relative
      to WLC, with no difference between active treatment conditions.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the degree to which post-treatment effects maintain at 6-month intervals for
      up to 2 years and whether maintenance of effects differs between groups for up to 1 year for
      all participants and up to 2 years for those controls who do not participate in treatment.

      Based on prior studies of BPE, the investigators expect post-treatment effects on child and
      parent behavior to maintain across the up to 2-year follow-up period with F2F and online BPE
      continuing to differ from WLC and no differences between F2F and online BPE.

      Aim 3: Identify possible moderators (i.e., parent session completion, parent income,
      education, marital status, and parent ADHD symptoms) and mediators (i.e., parent knowledge,
      fidelity, and stress) of treatment-induced changes in child behavior and early academic
      skills as a function of BPE and examine whether moderators/mediators differ as a function of
      BPE delivery format. This aim will involve identifying variables that predict differential
      response to F2F vs. online BPE delivery formats (i.e., what variables predict which families
      will benefit most from one delivery format vs. the other).

      Based on prior BPE studies, the investigators hypothesize that treatment effects will be
      greater for participants who complete all sessions and parents with less severe ADHD
      symptoms. Based on the pilot RCT findings, the investigators hypothesize that BPE effects on
      child behavior will be mediated by increases in parent knowledge and intervention fidelity
      along with concomitant reductions in parent stress. Because no prior studies have examined
      differential response to F2F versus online BPE, the examination of predictors of differential
      response to treatment delivery format is exploratory; thus, the investigators have no
      specific hypotheses in this area.

      Aim 4: Identify costs associated with F2F and online BPE as well as compare
      cost-effectiveness between the two delivery formats.
    
  