
    
      Background:

        -  New options for the treatment of patients with advanced thymoma and thymic carcinoma are
           needed.

        -  Belinostat, N-hydroxy-3-(phenylsulphamoylphenyl) acrylamide, is a hydroxamic acid
           deacetylase inhibitor that is able to inhibit both histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAC)
           Class I and II enzymes.

        -  An ongoing phase II study of belinostat in recurrent or metastatic thymic malignancies
           has shown activity which warrants further consideration of belinostat in the first line.

        -  Belinostat alterations in target protein levels due to gene expression changes may allow
           increased sensitivity of cancer cells to conventional chemotherapy.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives

        -  In the Phase I portion the primary objective will be to determine a safe and tolerable
           phase 2 dose, dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and preliminary activity for the
           combination of belinostat by continuous intravenous (IV) infusion (CIVI) with cisplatin,
           doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide in patients with advanced thymic malignancies.

        -  In the Phase II portion the primary objective will be to determine the clinical response
           rate (partial response (PR)+complete response (CR)) of belinostat in combination with
           cisplatin, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide in the first line treatment of patients with
           advanced thymic malignancies.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To determine time to response, duration of response, progression free survival (PFS) and
           overall survival (OS).

        -  To determine the toxicity profile and safety of this combination.

        -  To assess exploratory correlative markers in relation to response to treatment
           (immunohistochemistry and array Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH))

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed advanced thymic malignancies who are chemotherapy
           na(SqrRoot) ve.

        -  Measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function

      Design:

        -  The Phase I portion of the study will consist of four dose levels and dose escalations
           will follow according to traditional 3 patient cohorts.

        -  Once the maximum tolerated doe is determined, the phase II portion of the study will
           begin.

        -  Belinostat will be given as a 48h CIVI starting on day 1, doxorubicin as a slow
           intravenous (IV) injection on days 2 and 3, cisplatin will be infused over 1 hour on day
           2 and cyclophosphamide as a slow IV infusion on Day 3.

        -  Treatment will be given every 21 days for no more than 6 cycles or until disease
           progression. Treatment with belinostat alone may continue until disease progression.
    
  