
    
      BACKGROUND: Primary health care (PHC) services have special opportunities for healthy
      lifestyles promotion. Yet, despite its potential impact health promotion is not widespread
      and the results obtained are limited.

      OBJECTIVE: To explore the feasibility and efficacy of an implementation strategy for
      optimizing the promotion of physical activity, diet and smoking abstinence in PHC. The
      strategy is innovative for its collegiate planning between practitioners, researchers and
      managers, with a socio-ecological perspective and taking into account the real context of
      collaborating centers.

      DESIGN AND LOCATION: quasi-experimental hybrid implementation-effectiveness trial, conducted
      in 6 PHC centers (20 practices in 3 intervention centers and 21 in 3 control centers), with
      the collaboration of the majority of primary care professionals within each center, and the
      participation of 4017 attendees randomly selected from the target population. INTERVENTION
      CENTRES: Each of the intervention centers will be exposed to the PVS multicomponent
      implementation strategy, including training, information and communication electronic tools
      integrated into the electronic clinical record (ECR), local leadership, creation of a
      community of practice, practice facilitation, and audit and feed-back for the implementation
      of an intervention program to promote multiple healthy lifestyles (physical activity, healthy
      diet, and smoking cessation), based on the 5A's (Ask, Advise, Agree, Assist and Arrange
      follow-up), and modeled by professionals in each intervention center, according to their
      organizational context and available community resources and agents.

      CONTROL CENTRES: will receive the same training and dissemination of clinical guidelines,
      electronic support tools integrated into the ECR, audit and feed-back.

      MEASUREMENTS: Programs' implementation will be evaluated in terms of reach, adoption,
      implementation and acceptability by PHC staff, following the RE-AIM framework. PHC attendees
      will be followed with 2 repeated measurements at baseline, and 6 months to estimate change in
      patients' adoption of the minimum recommended level of healthy lifestyles.

      ANALYSIS: the investigators will compare the implementation rate of health promotion
      activities in intervention and control centers, the proportion of users exposed to the 5 A's
      and the observed change in users' healthy lifestyles. Centers with different intensities of
      actual implementation will be compared to explore characteristics associated with
      implementation and the interaction between implementation strategies and clinical
      effectiveness of the intervention programs.
    
  