
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective:

      Estimate the pathologic complete response rate (pCRR) after induction chemotherapy with
      carboplatin, nab-paclitaxel, and durvalumab in previously untreated stage III and IV SCCHN
      amenable to surgical resection

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Report the clinical complete response rate (cCRR) and clinical response rate (cRR)
           following induction chemotherapy

        -  Estimate the percent of patients who have a change in estimated risk level. Prior to
           induction, this will be assessed clinically (by imagining and physical exam). Post
           induction, this will be assessed by surgical pathology report

        -  Estimate the overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) associated with 3
           part therapy consisting of induction chemotherapy, surgery and risk-adapted use of
           chemoradiation

        -  Characterize the toxicity profile associated with both induction therapy and total 3
           part therapy consisting of induction chemotherapy, surgery and risk-adapted use of
           chemoradiation

      Translational/Exploratory Objectives:

        -  Correlative studies will evaluate cellular correlates of response and changes in the
           tumor microenvironment across therapy

        -  Explore correlation between measures of clinical response to induction chemotherapy and
           long term outcomes (PFS and OS) and compare them to pathologic measures of response
           (pCRR)

      PROCEDURES This is a single-arm, nonrandomized phase II trial consisting of 3 parts. After
      informed consent and screening, pre-induction, risk levels will be assessed clinically, by a
      combination of physical exam and imaging.

      Part 1: All patients will then receive 6 weeks of induction chemotherapy in Part 1 comprised
      of weekly cycles of carboplatin and nab-paclitaxel for 6 cycles in combination with
      durvalumab administered once every two weeks for 5 cycles (Day 1 of the weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, and
      9).

      Part 2: Within a 1-4 the week window post induction, tumor imaging will be followed by
      surgical resection.

      Part 3: After surgery, patients will be stratified into one of 3 risk categories based on
      their disease pathology, assigned a treatment group based on their risk. Low risk patients
      with receive durvalumab once every two weeks for 3 cycles, while medium risk or high risks
      groups will receive concurrent chemoradiation therapy followed by durvalumab once every two
      weeks for 3 cycles.

      Follow up After completion of study therapy (which will vary by study arm) patients will be
      evaluated every three months during follow up for progression over a period of 18 months.
      Each follow up visit will include physical examination, CT or MRI imaging of the neck. Chest
      imaging will be obtained (or not) as indicated by standard of care. After the first 18
      months, patients will be followed-up per standard of care, with documentation in the case
      report form (CRF) limited to progression and survival noted at their standard of care visits.
      If a patient should move away or otherwise be lost to in-person follow up but is amenable to
      telephone follow up, this will be permitted during the standard of care follow up period.
    
  