
    
      Background: Most antibiotics are prescribed in primary care, and most commonly for acute
      lower respiratory infections (ALRTI). Despite their marginal benefit, about 60% of these
      infections are currently treated with antibiotics in Catalonia, Spain. Several strategies
      have been developed to reduce inappropriate antibiotic prescribing, with the use of
      C-reactive protein (CRP) rapid testing and the improvement of the communication skills being
      the most effective interventions. However, most studies have been carried out outside
      Mediterranean countries. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and the efficiency of
      a continuous disease-focused intervention (CRP) and an illness-focused intervention
      (enhancement of communication skills to optimise doctor-patient consultations and share
      decision making with the aid of patient-centred leaflets) on antibiotic prescribing in
      patients with ALRTIs in Catalan primary care centres.

      Methods/design: A cluster, randomised, factorial, controlled trial aimed at including 20
      primary care centres (n=2,940 patients) with patients older than 18 years presenting for a
      first consultation with ALRTI, therefore with presence of infected acute cough of up to 3
      weeks' duration as the predominant symptom. Centres, according to socioeconomic and
      antibiotic consumption, will be randomly assigned according to hierarchical clustering to any
      of four trial arms: usual care, CRP testing, enhanced communication skills backed up with
      patient leaflets, or combined interventions. A cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis
      will be performed from the perspective of public health system. A qualitative study aimed at
      identifying the expectations and concerns in patients with ALRTIs and the satisfaction of
      clinicians with the different interventions will also be performed. Clinicians assigned to
      the interventions will participate in a 2-hour training workshop before the inception of the
      trial and will receive a monthly intervention-tailored training module during the trial.
      Clinical effectiveness will be measured by the antibiotic use within the first 6 weeks and
      the quality adjusted life years and secondary outcomes will be duration of illness and
      severity of cough measured with a symptom diary, healthcare reconsultations, hospital
      admissions and complications. National health care perspective will be adopted and the
      temporal horizon of the analysis will be one year. Health care costs will be considered and
      expressed in € of the current year of the analysis. Univariate and multivariate sensitivity
      analysis will be carried out.

      Discussion: The ISAAC-CAT project aims to improve the management of ALRTIs in primary care
      through use of two different clinicians' skills to help target antibiotic prescribing only to
      those most likely to benefit, and thereby reduce the risk of unnecessary exposure to
      antibiotics leading to adverse effects and/or the development of AMR without having a
      negative impact on health status, thus benefiting individual patients and society at large.
      This project will contribute to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of different
      strategies for more appropriate antibiotic prescribing that are currently out of the scope of
      the actual guidelines.
    
  