
    
      This is a prospective clinical trial assessing the effect of 1-month of dual therapy on
      patients with varying baseline OSA severity (mild to severe) who have been previously fully
      titrated to both PAP and MAS.

      This study will be conducted at 2 research centers; the Faculty of Dentistry, University of
      British Columbia (UBC), Vancouver and at the Faculty of Dentistry, Université de Montréal
      (UdM), Montréal.

      The research team will access participants' records to confirm eligibility for dual therapy.
      The clinical research coordinator will contact eligible patients via phone to ask if they are
      interested in taking part in the study. Eligible patients will also be asked if they are
      interested in taking part in the study during routine clinic visits. Where possible, patients
      will not be approached by their primary caregiver regarding participation in this study, to
      ensure patients do not feel pressurized into participating. Choosing not to take part in the
      study will not affect the participants' quality of care. If a patient is interested in taking
      part in the study they will be invited to review and sign the informed consent form.

      Consenting participants will be asked to use both MAS and PAP (dual therapy) together for a
      period of 1 month. During the first week of the dual therapy, PAP pressure will be adjusted
      automatically for a 1-week period, after which the pressure will be set remotely by the
      Respiratory Therapist at the 90th percentile.

      With permission, the research team will access the Sleep Apnea Dental Clinic records to
      collect data relating to previous treatment with MAS and PAP monotherapies. Data collected
      includes: PAP pressure, treatment adherence, subjective treatment assessment, Epworth
      Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaires (FOSQ), weight, blood
      pressure and oximetry data.

      At the end of the 1-month, a subjective and objective assessment will be conducted.
      Subjective data will be collected using a short questionnaire that will be completed by the
      participants pertaining to their experience with the dual therapy in addition to completing a
      short term medical/treatment update form. Participants' weight and blood pressure will also
      be reassessed. Objective adherence will be analyzed via data obtained from the PAP modem and
      from DentiTrac® smart chips embedded in the MAS. OSA-related quality of life will be
      reassessed using ESS and FOSQ questionnaires.
    
  