
    
      A critical challenge in the management of major depressive disorder (MDD) is the delay
      between initiating treatment with an antidepressant medication and clinical improvement.
      Preliminary studies (Fava et al., 2006; Krystal et al., 2007) suggest that targeting insomnia
      with eszopiclone (ESZ) in patients receiving fluoxetine may lead to more rapid resolution of
      symptoms. Studies have not yet been able to differentiate between competing explanations of
      this phenomenon: whether co-treatment with ESZ actually accelerates changes in the brain
      associated with antidepressant treatment response, or if its effects on the insomnia
      component are confined to the symptomatic level ("masking"). As a non-benzodiazepine
      GABA-receptor agonist with FDA approval for long-term use in the treatment of sleep
      disturbances, ESZ is an appropriate agent for targeting insomnia in MDD without major
      concerns around the development of tolerance. Further research in co-treatment would be
      advanced by understanding the mechanism(s) underlying accelerated improvement.

      Our prior work (Cook et al., 2001, 2002, 2005; Leuchter et al. 2002) has studied a new
      physiologic biomarker of response to SSRI and mixed-action antidepressants. The EEG-based
      cordance biomarker can detect the physiologic effects of successful antidepressant treatment
      at 48 hours, 1 week, and 2 weeks of treatment; in contrast, symptom differences between
      responders and non-responders did not separate until 4 weeks of treatment in our
      placebo-controlled trials. Additionally, the magnitude of early physiologic change was
      associated with the completeness of clinical response. Our biomarker has been independently
      studied and our findings replicated (Bareš et al., 2007). The cordance biomarker can be
      considered as a leading indicator or predictor of treatment outcome. As a non-invasive probe
      of brain physiology, it may detect early neurophysiologic changes associated with accelerated
      clinical response from eszopiclone.

      Other research has reported that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is reduced in many
      patients with MDD (Karege et al., 2002, 2005, Shimizu et al., 2003) and may rise during the
      course of treatment with antidepressant medication (e.g., Gonul et al., 2005; Yoshimura et
      al., 2007; Huang et al., 2007). BDNF-related neuroplasticity has been suggested as a
      mechanism by which medications can lead to mood improvement (Duman 2002; Manji et al., 2003).
      Sleep patterns have also been shown to have an impact on neuroplasticity (Taishi et al.,
      2001; cf. Benington & Frank, 2003). A simple acute phase-shift in sleep can impact BDNF
      levels (Sei 2003), suggesting that a link between sleep and symptomatic recovery from
      depression might operate via a BDNF mechanism and reflect changes in brain physiology.

      While Krystal and colleagues (2007) previously reported that the beneficial clinical effects
      of 8 weeks of co-treatment did not diminish significantly in the two weeks following ESZ
      discontinuation, controlled studies have not examined outcomes in clinically-likely scenarios
      employing shorter co-treatment periods (e.g., 4 weeks, during which much of the acceleration
      occurs).

      Based on these previous studies, this study will assess patients with MDD during treatment
      with an SSRI antidepressant, escitalopram (ESC), administered along with either ESZ or
      placebo (PBO), using (a) clinical symptom ratings, (b) serum levels of BDNF, (c) cognitive
      function, and (d) brain physiology with EEG.
    
  