
    
      Background: Dietary pulses, the edible dried seeds of legumes, are high in fiber, plant
      protein, and various micronutrients and low in fat and glycemic index (GI), have shown a wide
      range of health benefits for the prevention and management of type 2 diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease. However, dietary pulses are not well recognized for these advantages.
      Recommendations for dietary pulse intake vary across chronic disease guidelines. In specific,
      the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) guidelines for nutrition therapy
      have not made any specific recommendations regarding dietary pulses. The present umbrella
      review and updated systematic review and meta-analysis using the Grading of Recommendations
      Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach was thus commissioned by the
      Diabetes and Nutrition Study Group (DNSG) of the EASD to summarize the available evidence
      from prospective cohort studies of the association between dietary pulses/legumes and
      cardiometabolic disease outcomes (incident cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, hypertension
      and overweight/obesity).

      Need for proposed research: High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses represent the
      highest level of evidence to support dietary guidelines and public health policy development.
      As dietary guidelines and public health policy have shifted toward food and dietary-pattern
      based recommendations, there is a need for a systematic review and meta-analysis assessing
      the pooled association between dietary pulses/legumes and cardiometabolic disease outcomes.

      Objective: The investigators will conduct an umbrella review and updated systematic review
      and meta-analysis to summarize the association between dietary pulses/legumes and
      cardiometabolic disease outcomes in prospective cohort studies.

      Design: The umbrella review will consist of a literature search of the most recent and/or
      comprehensive systematic reviews and meta-analyses published in this area. The included
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses will be updated conducting a systematic search for
      prospective cohort studies published after the census dates of the included systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses. The planning and conduct of the updated systematic review and
      meta-analysis will follow the Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The
      reporting will follow the Meta-analysis Of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE)
      guidelines.

      Data sources:

      The umbrella review will consist of searching PubMed databases using appropriate search terms
      to identify the most recent and/or comprehensive systematic reviews and meta-analyses
      published in this area. The updated systematic review and meta-analysis will consist of
      searching MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials after the
      census dates of the included systematic reviews and meta-analyses from the umbrella review
      using appropriate search terms supplemented by manual searches of references of included
      studies. Authors will be contacted for applicable missing data.

      Study selection:

      The umbrella review will include the most recent and/or comprehensive systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses of prospective cohort studies assessing the association between pulse/legume
      intake and cardiometabolic diseases outcomes (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes,
      hypertension, overweight/obesity). The updated systematic review and meta-analysis will
      include prospective cohort studies ≥1 year assessing the association between pulse/legume
      intake and cardiometabolic diseases outcomes (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes,
      hypertension, overweight/obesity) published since the last census dates of the included
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses from the umbrella review.

      Data extraction: Data from prospective cohort studies in the most recent and/or comprehensive
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses will be included in the updated systematic review and
      meta-analysis. For newly identified prospective cohort studies, two or more investigators
      will independently extract relevant data and assess risk of bias using the Newcastle-Ottawa
      Scale (NOS) for observational studies. Risk ratios, odds ratios and hazard ratios for
      clinical outcomes will be extracted or derived from clinical event data across quantiles of
      exposure. All disagreements will be resolved by consensus.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome of the systematic review and meta-analysis will be incident
      cardiovascular disease. Secondary outcomes will include incident coronary heart disease,
      stroke, diabetes, hypertension and overweight/obesity.

      Data synthesis: The natural log-transformed relative risks of outcomes comparing the exposure
      to the reference group from each cohort will be pooled using the generic inverse variance
      method with random effects models and expressed as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence
      intervals (CIs). Heterogeneity will be assessed by Cochran Q statistic and quantified by I2.
      The significance level will be set at p<0.10 and an I2≥ 50% will be considered evidence of
      substantial heterogeneity. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the investigators will
      conduct sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed with
      recalculation of the summary estimates. If there are ≥10 studies, then the investigators will
      also explore sources of heterogeneity by a priori subgroup analyses (cohorts, sex, health
      status, follow-up [<10-years, ≥10-years], dose, level of adjustment of models, quality of the
      studies (NOS), and validation of the dietary assessment instruments). Meta-regression
      analyses will be used to assess the significance of categorical and continuous subgroups
      analyses. If there are ≥10 studies available, publication bias will be assessed by the visual
      inspection of funnel plots and formal testing using Begg's and Egger's tests. If publication
      bias is suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Evidence Assessment: The certainty of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using
      the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach.

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the role of
      dietary pulses in cardiometabolic disease risk, strengthening the evidence-base for
      guidelines and improving health outcomes by educating healthcare providers and patients,
      stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  