
    
      Patients will have blood and bone marrow tests performed as well as chest and sinus X-rays
      and tests of their heart and lung function. Approximately 5 tablespoons of blood will be
      drawn.

      All patients in this study will receive imatinib mesylate by mouth for 9 days, unless the
      patient is known to be allergic or have symptomatic intolerance to the drug, or if the
      leukemia has failed to respond to imatinib. Fludarabine 40 mg/m2 by vein for 4 days (days -5
      to -2), busulfan 130 mg/m2 by vein for 2 days (days -3 and -2), and ATG (Antithymocyte
      Globulin) 2.5 mg/kg by vein for 3 days (-3,-2 and -1).

      Patients will then receive the donor bone marrow or blood stem cells by vein over
      approximately one hour on day 0.

      After the infusion of the donor cells, you will receive immunosuppressive therapy with
      tacrolimus and methotrexate to decrease the risk of developing graft-vs-host disease (GvHD).

      Patients will need frequent blood tests to monitor their counts and blood chemistries. This
      is generally done daily while in hospital and at least twice per week for the first 100 days
      post transplant. You may need frequent blood transfusions and may have to be admitted to the
      hospital to receive antibiotics if they develop fever. Bone marrow will be examined
      frequently beginning four weeks after treatment to evaluate response to treatment; Blood and
      bone marrow exams are to be performed at one, two three, six, 12 and 18 months post
      transplant and yearly thereafter for 5 years. To collect a bone marrow sample, an area of the
      hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn
      through a large needle.

      Patients in whom treatment produces a remission, in which no sign of the leukemia can be
      detected, will receive no further therapy unless the leukemia recurs. Patients with evidence
      of leukemia after 3 months from the transplant will receive additional treatment with
      imatinib mesylate; those with detectable leukemia after an additional 3 months may receive an
      infusion of immune cells from the transplant donor.

      If there is evidence of leukemia after the transplant, you will receive additional treatment
      with imatinib mesylate. If leukemia cells can still be detected, additional donor immune
      cells will be given to you by vein.

      Patients are considered on the study for 5 years after the transplant.

      A total of 90 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  