
    
      As people move through natural environments, they experience both visual and inertial
      stimuli. These can be integrated into a unified perception of self-motion (i.e. common
      causation) or segregated so that inertial or vestibular stimuli represents self-motion and
      visual represents external motion. There has been very little work on how causal inference
      (CI) or determination of common causation occurs for visual and inertial stimuli. Yet this is
      an important factor in fall risk, motion sickness, simulator sickness, concussion, dementia,
      and migraine. This proposal aims to develop and establish methods for studying CI in visual
      and inertial heading perception. This will be used to define the relevant variables in CI for
      these sensory systems. Common causation is likely a plastic process that occurs when stimuli
      occur simultaneously. The proposal will also examine this hypothesis by adapting heading
      perception, which may form the basis for a novel vestibular rehabilitation method.

      Aim I: Causal inference (CI) for visual and inertial headings. During natural movements
      visual and inertial cues occur together. Inertial cues always represent self-motion, visual
      cues are ambiguous as they can represent motion through a fixed environment, environmental
      motion relative to the observer, or a combination of both. IA. Techniques for measuring CI
      for visual and inertial stimuli are not well established. The investigatorshave developed a
      technique to measure CI by presenting offset visual and inertial headings simultaneously
      using a full range of possible directions within the horizontal plane. Subjects report the
      perceived direction of the visual and inertial stimuli independently and whether or not they
      share common causation. These trial blocks can be repeated to determine reproducibility. IB.
      Parameters that influence perception of CI will be varied to determine their relative
      influences. These parameters will include stimulus timing, duration, and visual field size.
      It is hypothesized that full-field visual stimuli that are most consistent with the inertial
      stimulus will be perceived as having common causation. IC. Subjects with unilateral
      vestibular lesions will be tested using the techniques in IA. These individuals may have
      increased reliance on visual cues as well as decrease reliability and biases in inertial
      heading perception. As such, this may cause inertial headings to be more influenced by vision
      and result in a greater range of common causation.

      Aim II: Visual-inertial heading adaptation. Plasticity in vestibular perception has received
      minimal attention, despite perception being the primary issue in common disorders such as
      vertigo, motion, and simulator sickness. Better understanding of how adaptation occurs could
      form the basis for improved therapeutic options as well as better tolerated virtual
      environments and simulations. IIA. Exposure to visual and inertial headings with similar
      characteristics, that are systematically offset, will be studied. It is hypothesized that
      exposure to this situation will influence subsequent visual and inertial heading perception
      as well as their common causation. These factors will also be measured before and after
      adaptation. The limits of what types of offsets can induce adaptation, and the range of
      headings that can be adapted will be explored. IIB. Preliminary data demonstrate that heading
      adaptation can also be induced by exposure to a virtual environment with an angular velocity
      offset in the visual stimulus. This method of adaptation will also be studied with regard to
      its influence on perception of rotation, visual and inertial headings and common causation of
      these headings. As with IIA, the potential limitations of the method will be explored.

      Aim III: Heading adaptation after vestibular loss. Errors in heading perception are a
      clinically significant problem. Abnormal perception of rotation often quickly normalizes
      after vestibular lesions, but preliminary data indicate heading perception remains deviated
      for years afterwards. This could be due to asymmetry in the otolith system which current
      vestibular rehabilitation methods do not address. Abnormal heading perception may be a
      significant factor in other disorders including vestibular migraine, dementia, and
      concussion. Understanding long-term adaptation is potentially important in these populations.
      IIIA. Time course and etiology of perceptual pathology after acute vestibular lesions is
      unclear. This will be investigated by sequentially measuring bias and perceptual thresholds
      of yaw rotation, sway, and heading in individuals with acute loss of vestibular function.
      Initially subjects have a rotation bias towards the intact side which normalizes over time.
      The heading bias may correlate with rotational bias or may be related to otolith dysfunction,
      as measured with sway translation perception, or may occur as a result of adapting to the
      rotatory vertigo. IIIB. Study of long-term heading adaptation in subjects with chronic
      unilateral vestibular hypofunction (e.g. those who have had vestibular schwannomas removed,
      gentamicin ablative therapy for Meniere's disease). Since these subjects often have biased
      heading perception at baseline, they may be able to exhibit long term adaptation. Heading
      perception as well as visual-inertial common causation will be measured using the techniques
      described in Aim IC. Ability to adapt these patients to heading offsets will be measured
      using the methods established in normal controls (Aim II) but the adaptation will always be
      in a consistent direction to attempt to normalize baseline deviation in heading perception.
      It will be determined if durable long-term heading adaptation can be achieved. The proposal
      aims to understand how visual and inertial cues inform motion perception and how adaptation
      has the potential to improve pathological perception.
    
  