
    
      Outpatients seeking treatment for Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) will be screened, and those
      eligible and consenting will be randomized (n=40) to either buprenorphine extended-release
      (BXR, Sublocade) or sublingual buprenorphine (BSL). Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio
      immediately prior to starting the induction process. The primary hypothesis is that BXR
      treatment will significantly reduce opioid use as compared to BSL. This is a 12 week
      outpatient trial during which participants will be asked to come into the clinic for the
      first 4 days of week 1 and then twice weekly there after.

      For buprenorphine to be safely administered, participants must be in withdrawal from opioids.
      Individuals will be instructed to abstain from opioids starting at consent and will usually
      begin buprenorphine medication within 24 hours of consent. Because HPSO use may lead to a
      delayed onset of opioid withdrawal syndrome, the first day that buprenorphine is administered
      may not be up to three days after a participants last opioid use. Whichever day the first
      dose of BSL is administered will be considered the first day of the induction.

      BXR Injection group. There are two dosing schemes for the BXR induction as outlined below:

      a) If on any day of the buprenorphine induction a participant demonstrates a high tolerance
      to buprenorphine by tolerating 24 mg buprenorphine SL in one day, BXR 300 mg may be
      administered on that study day. This includes participants who on the first day of SL
      buprenorphine administration tolerate 24 mg. b) If a patient is able to tolerate 16 mg of
      buprenorphine SL for 2 consecutive days of the induction, BXR 300 mg will be given on the
      second consecutive day of receiving buprenorphine SL 16 mg. The second injection of BXR 300
      mg will be administered approximately 28 days later. The third BXR injection will occur
      approximately 28 days subsequent to the second injection at a dose of 100 mg.

      Maintenance BSL treatment group: Once a participant is able to be stabilized on 16 mg to 24
      mg per day during induction they will continue to receive buprenorphine in doses up to 24 mg
      administered once daily. Dose adjustments for craving/withdrawal/adverse effects will be made
      by the research psychiatrist. Medication will be dispensed on a weekly basis.

      For both study arms participants will be given comfort medications to help manage their
      withdrawal for the first two weeks of the treatment study as needed. Comfort medications
      prescribed will be clonidine, clonazepam, prochlorperazine, and zolpidem.

      If a participant is not in adequate withdrawal to be able to start sublingual buprenorphine
      (i.e., they continue to use once enrolled), they will have up to 10 days to initiate the
      induction for either arm of the study. If a participant is unable to start sublingual
      buprenorphine within 10 days of signing consent they will be considered an induction fail and
      will be provided referrals for other treatment options noted in the discontinuation section
      of the protocol.

      At each visit, patients will be seen by the Research Nurse and Research Assistant for
      assessment of vital signs, side effects and adverse events, collection of urine for
      toxicology, and research assessments. The research psychiatrist will conduct weekly
      assessments of the psychiatric and medical status of the study participants. All participants
      will have a manual-guided supportive behavioral treatment session with the research
      psychiatrist each week. This psychosocial intervention facilitates compliance with study
      medication and other study procedures, promotes abstinence from opioids and other substances.

      Post-study Assessments and Clinical Follow up: At week 12 (or earlier if the patient is
      discontinued from the study for clinical reasons or drops out) participants will be provided
      with clinical referrals for continuation of treatment. Post-study participants will be seen
      weekly for up to 4 weeks while continuing treatment with buprenorphine. Referrals will be
      arranged during this period for patients to continue buprenorphine or other appropriate
      treatment at community-based treatment programs.
    
  