
    
      Fever is a frequently observed part of the organism's response to infection, and it is a
      well-known fact that it has positive effects, as it inhibits the growth of microorganisms,
      and potentiates the activity of anti-microbial agents. On the other hand, fever increases the
      demand of tissues for oxygen and increases the production of carbon dioxide in tissues.
      Adapting to these metabolic changes requires an efficient cardiorespiratory apparatus. In
      other words, in patients with a limited cardiorespiratory reserve (typically patients of
      higher age or patients with a serious disease of the heart or lungs), the beneficial
      anti-microbial effect of fever may be masked with cardiorespiratory maladaptation to
      fever-induced metabolic changes. Indeed, one of the randomized clinical trials investigating
      the effect of "aggressive" antipyretic strategy used in practice (administration of
      acetaminophen at the temperature > 38.5 degrees Celsius, and addition of physical cooling
      should the temperature exceed 39.5 degrees Celsius upon the prognosis of critically ill
      patients showed that the "aggressive" treatment of fever may result in higher mortality when
      compared with a "permissive" approach, i.e. an approach when the treatment of fever is
      initiated only after the body temperature has exceeded 40 degrees Celsius. The study differs
      remarkably from other studies performed among the population of critically ill patients, and
      also from studies, which did not manifest the effect of fever treatment upon the mortality of
      patients, with the age of patients. The average age of patients in both arms of the study was
      only 47 years of age, whereas the average age of patients in other studies was usually around
      60 years of age. It is thus possible to presume that, due to the lower age, the patients in
      this study possessed a sufficient cardiorespiratory reserve for adaptation to metabolic
      changes induced with fever, which may have enabled a full manifestation of its anti-microbial
      effect, and may have led to better patient prognosis. The mortality rate in the group of
      patients with the "permissive" approach to fever treatment was only 2.6 percent, whereas, in
      the group of patients with the "aggressive" treatment, the mortality rate was 15.9 percent
      (p=0.06); due to this fact, the study was prematurely terminated by the Ethics Committee.
      Based on this study, we decided to test the hypothesis that the administration of ibuprofen
      in order to decrease the fever would lead to a worsening of the patient prognosis. Ibuprofen
      was selected due to its potent antipyretic effect, and also due to the fact that the
      favorable effect of its anti-inflammatory effect upon the prognosis of patients with sepsis
      has not been fully demonstrated.
    
  