
    
      The principal investigator will recruit subjects at the yoga studio and one of the
      investigators and the research assistant will recruit subjects at the NSU clinic. Potential
      subjects will go through a short verbal pre-screening to ensure they fit the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Subjects that fit this criteria will read and sign the consent form. The
      PI and research assistant will answer any questions about the study prior to the subject
      giving consent.

      Then the subject's initial weight will be measured on the postural scale and documented.
      Change in weight is the dependent variable in this study. The following independent variables
      will be measured: lumbosacral angle, sway rate and shift of weight posteriorly. The
      lumbosacral angle will be measured by a digital inclinometer. The lumbosacral angle is
      measured between the plane of the superior surface of S1 to the horizontal plane. Saur et.
      al., demonstrated that the inclinometer technique for lumbosacral angle has established
      validity and reliability in comparison to radiographic x-rays. Comparison of radiographic and
      inclinometer technique is clinically suitable for measuring lumbar position. Keeley et. al.
      reported high correlation coefficients for interrater reliability with the inclinometer
      technique on patients with chronic low back pain.

      The additional measurements of sway rate and center of gravity will be measured by the
      postural analyzer. The quadruple scale that will be used in this study is based on four
      digital force plates with computer communication operated by software enabling test analysis.
      The quadruple scale will provide numeric and graphic data on total weight, weight
      distribution (kg. or lb.), percentage weight difference, sway rate and an estimate of the
      location and deviation of the subject's center of mass. All data will be recorded and saved.

      Following those measurements, the subject will be asked to complete the Oswestry Low Back
      Pain Scale. The Oswestry Low Back Pain Scale is a suitable questionnaire for an
      English-speaking population and to enquire about areas of functioning specifically relevant
      to low back pain sufferers, such as lifting, walking, sitting, standing, sleeping and
      socializing. Fisher et. al. demonstrated that the Oswestry Low Back Pain Scale is an
      acceptable instrument for back pain patients with evidence of criterion-related validity,
      factorial validity and moderately high internal consistency. It has good face validity for
      the patients. According to Fisher et. al., the Oswestry Scale can be recommended as a
      relevant measure of disability with evidence of validity, reliability and sensitivity to
      change for both clinical and research purposes.

      The total amount of time needed to complete the measurements and the Oswestry Low Back Pain
      Scale should take 15 minutes. Biweekly, willing participants will be recruited and previous
      participants will be continually measured for weight, lumbosacral angle, sway rate and
      deviation of the subject's center of mass.
    
  