
    
      Primary Objective:

      - To determine whether sero-conversion rates against measles after co-administering
      measles-rubella (MR) vaccine and live attenuated JE vaccine at 8 months old are not lower
      than sero-conversion rates among those vaccinated with MR vaccine alone.

      Secondary Objective:

        -  Sero-conversion rates against rubella after co-administering of MR vaccine and live
           attenuated JE vaccine at 8 months old are no less than those vaccinated with MR vaccine
           alone.

        -  To describe the incidence of adverse reactions in concurrent group and non-concurrent
           vaccination group after initial vaccination and during the follow-up period.

      Subjects:

      - This study will enroll healthy infants who are between 8 months old and 8 months plus two
      weeks of age.

      Study Arms:

        -  The subjects are divided into two groups: a MR+JE vaccine co-administration group and a
           MR vaccine only group.

        -  After obtaining informed consent from parents or legal guardians, the infants will be
           randomly assigned to one of the two groups mentioned above. Children and family basic
           demographic information will be collected at enrollment. One blood sample will be taken
           before vaccination to measure baseline antibody levels and another blood sample 6 weeks
           (42-48 days) after vaccination to test for measles and rubella antibody response. JE
           vaccine will be given the MR vaccine only group after the second blood draw. Adverse
           reactions will be monitored and recorded after MR vaccination and during the follow-up
           period.

      Sampling size:

        -  Assuming a seropositivity rate of 93% for measles with minimal interference with JE
           coadministration, and power of 0.90 with a 0.05 significance level (one-tailed), for a
           non-inferiority margin of 5%, the sample size per group would be 447 and 526 with 15%
           attrition.

        -  The total sample size would be around 1052.

      Subject Assignment:

        -  The subjects will be randomly assigned to MR+JE group and MR only group. In order to
           randomize the two groups among different vaccination clinics, every 8 subjects are
           allocated to one randomized unit; random code is allocated to MR+JE group and MR only
           group according to the ratio of 1:1. The subject number in each vaccination clinic is an
           integer multiple of 8. This arrangement needs to code 132 randomized units, resulting in
           a total of 1056 subjects, slightly higher than the calculated sample size.

        -  The 1056 subjects will be allocated to the 2 provinces equally, with 528 subjects in
           each province. In each province there will be 264 infants in MR+JE group and 264 infants
           in MR only group.

      Standard Operating Procedures in the field:

      The specific procedures that the vaccination clinic participating in the project will do to
      the subjects are as follows:

        1. Make a list of the target children in the vaccination clinic, arrange for appointment
           for vaccination to children of 8 months old.

        2. The children's guardians take children to get the vaccination according to the
           appointment.

        3. Recruit the research subject, and sign the informed consent.

        4. Fill in "subject screening form", and screen the eligible subject.

        5. The first blood sample collection.

        6. Assign into the group according to the coding envelope.

        7. Corresponding vaccination of MR+JE or MR only according to the grouping information.

        8. Observation for 30 minutes after vaccination in the vaccination clinic.

        9. Fill in the questionnaire during observation

       10. Distribute the "diary card", notify returning it to the vaccination clinic six weeks
           later.

       11. Follow up the health condition and adverse events after vaccination.

       12. When the subjects come back to the vaccination clinic 6 weeks later, take the "diary
           card" back, and check the information.

       13. A second blood sample collection.

       14. JE vaccine inoculation for MR only group. Observation for 30 minutes.

       15. Inform the subjects that this survey is all over.

      Statistical Analysis Plan

        -  Primary statistical analysis will be to compare sero-conversion rates against measles
           and rubella between MR+JE group and MR only group using non-inferiority criteria.

        -  Secondary analyses will be to compare measles and rubella antibody titer levels between
           MR+JE group and MR only group, and to describe adverse reactions in both groups up to 6
           weeks after MR vaccination.

      Quality Assurance Plan

        1. Training Investigators: Administrative and technical personnel at all levels in study
           areas are required to participate in training on the study objectives, enrollment
           procedures, data collection, data entry and management, quality control measures, sample
           handling and transport, and all other operations involved.

        2. Supervision and Monitoring: Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (China
           CDC) will supervise and monitor each province at least two times during the
           implementation period;, the province (prefecture) will supervise and monitor each county
           at least two times during implementation period, and the county level will supervise and
           monitor each vaccination clinic on selected appointment days. The focus of supervision
           and monitoring will be to observe whether the vaccination clinics strictly follow
           protocols and procedures and any problems found can be quickly resolved with timely
           feedback. Any serious and consistent problems will be reported to the higher level, so
           that corrections can be made at all levels and in all project areas.

        3. Sample Management: Samples collected will be stored in secured, locked laboratories,
           with cold chain equipment, temperature monitoring and recording. The serum samples in
           tube A and tube B will be separately packaged and transported from county to province,
           and then to the designated laboratory, to avoid any loss or unexpected accidents.

        4. Vaccine Management: This study will use the same vaccines as the vaccines used in the
           national immunization program. Vaccination clinics will record vaccine types, the number
           of vaccine doses, and batch number. Expiration dates will be monitored and expired
           vaccines will not be used.

        5. Logistics Support: China CDC will provide sample coding bar, consent form, investigation
           questionnaire, data collection forms, and operation manual. Provincial / prefecture CDCs
           will be responsible for provision or procurement of equipment/materials used for blood
           collection, serum separation, transportation and storage, and laboratory supplies, and
           to ensure that all materials meet study requirements.
    
  