
    
      As well as the potential of the SNAP40 device to improve patient safety, we believe that the
      SNAP40 device will increase ED efficiency, improve and increase use of resources and enable
      improved patient flow through the ED. Currently the only option for continuous monitoring or
      regular observations in the ED is to connect the patient to a standard monitor. Whilst these
      monitors can be portable they are not lightweight enough to allow the patient to be
      ambulatory within the ED and therefore require the patient to have a bed and a bed space or
      cubicle. This leads to lack of space within the ED, less cubicles (which allow privacy) free
      for performing history taking, examination and procedures, difficulty accessing patients and
      difficulty transporting them to areas where specialist tests can be performed (i.e. radiology
      and ECG). SNAP40 may remove the need for patients to be confined to beds and bed spaces
      (unless clinically required) freeing up space within the ED and allowing the ED care
      processes to occur much more freely increasing efficiency and speed of patient processing.
      This will undoubtedly lead to improved patient experiences around their ED and hospital
      journey.

      The SNAP40 device also has the potential to free up resources, which can be used to improve
      patient care and experience in the ED. SNAP40 may reduce clinical staff time taken to record
      observations enabling them to provide patients with other aspects of care (i.e. analgesia and
      treatments) more regularly and in a timelier manner. Clinical staff may be able to spend more
      time with patients allowing better quality communication with them and their relatives. There
      will potentially be more time for traditional nursing care and personal care.

      Whilst there are some other similar medical devices on the market (i.e. www.biovotion.com,
      www.sensium-healthcare.com, www.vitalconnect.com, http://www.caretakermedical.net) using
      wristbands, patches or finger cuff technology, currently none are being used in ED clinical
      practice.

      This study will examine the SNAP40 device by comparing its performance to detect
      physiological deterioration against standard observations taken by clinical staff (nurses,
      doctors and clinical support workers) within the ED. The study will assess whether the device
      is able to detect physiological derangement sooner that standard monitoring devices.
    
  