
    
      In Multiple Sclerosis (MS), the highly variable distribution of demyelinization areas and
      axonal loss in the Central Nervous System can lead to very complex and unpredictable
      neurological deficits and clinical patterns. Gait disorders as reduced speed and stride
      length, gait asymmetry, increased muscular energy expenditure, balance deficit and increased
      risk of falling, represent one of the most disabling aspect. These motor problems strongly
      influence the level of independence that a person affected by MS is able to achieve,
      resulting in severe negative impact on quality of life. Therefore, the improvement of walking
      ability is a primary goal for rehabilitation treatment. Many studies demonstrated that a
      conventional rehabilitation treatment based on physiotherapy could be effective in increasing
      muscle strength and motor function, improving gait and mobility abilities, reducing fatigue
      and risk of falls, leading finally to an overall increase of patient autonomy. According to
      the most recent neurophysiological concepts based on neural plasticity, in recent years the
      rehabilitative approaches that seem to be more effective in improving functional performance
      are based on the concept of the task-specific repetitive training. As in the case of the
      constraint induced movement therapy (CIMT) for upper limb rehabilitation and the body weight
      support treadmill training (BWSTT) for the lower, the factors that appear to positively
      affect patient outcome are the intensity, precocity, repeatability, specificity in a training
      that incorporates high numbers of repetitions of task-oriented practice. Hence, the interest
      in automated robotic devices for gait training for MS patients has grown. With their
      consistent, symmetrical lower-limb trajectories, robotic devices provide many of the
      proprioceptive inputs that may increase cortical activation and stimulation of Central
      Pattern Generator (CGPs) in order to improve motor function. The use of
      robot-assisted-gait-training (RAGT) allows: repetition of specific and stereotyped movements
      in order to acquire a correct and reproducible gait pattern in conditions of balance and
      symmetry, early start of treatment using the activity with body weight support, safeguard of
      the patient with reduction of fear of falling, in order to increase the quantity and quality
      of the performed exercise while minimizing the intervention of a therapist. However, studies
      on the effectiveness of such methodologies are still poorly numerous in terms of functional
      improvement in patients with MS. The aim of this controlled cross-over study is to evaluate
      the effectiveness of a robot-driven gait orthosis (Lokomat - Hocoma, Inc., Zurich,
      Switzerland) gait training in patients affected by Multiple Sclerosis in comparison to a
      ground conventional gait training. The improvement in gait pattern, motor ability and
      autonomy in the functional activities of daily living will be assessed by using validated
      clinical and functional scales and quantitative instrumental analysis of gait kinematic
      parameters
    
  