
    
      Among patients with alopecia areata, patients with higher disease burdens are unlikely to
      have satisfactory outcomes with current therapies. Our hypothesis is that CTLA4-Ig will be
      effective therapy in moderate-severe alopecia areata by blocking re-activation of CD8+ memory
      T cells, thereby aborting the cytotoxic T cell inflammatory response underlying alopecia
      areata.

      Alopecia areata (AA) is a common autoimmune disease resulting from immune destruction of the
      hair follicle and subsequent hair loss. Despite its high prevalence, research into the
      pathogenesis and the development of innovative therapies in Alopecia Areata has lagged far
      behind other autoimmune diseases. Currently, there are no FDA approved drugs for Alopecia
      Areata. Abatacept is a safe intervention known to block costimulation and inflammatory
      responses in rheumatoid arthritis, which shares several susceptibility genes in common with
      Alopecia Areata. Both diseases share the involvement of CTLA4, which is the rationale for
      selecting Abatacept for evaluation in this clinical trial. CTLA4-Ig has been shown to prevent
      the onset of Alopecia Areata in the C3H-HeJ animal model of Alopecia Areata, demonstrating
      preclinical proof of concept data in Alopecia Areata.

      We will conduct an open label pilot study of 15 patients with moderate to severe Alopecia
      Areata treated with SC abatacept 125mg once per week for 6 months. A few subjects with
      alopecia totalis or universalis will also be included. Subjects will be followed for another
      6 months to evaluate durability of response following the treatment phase. The primary
      efficacy outcome will be the proportion of responders after 6 months of treatment compared to
      the historically known rate of response in untreated/placebo-treated subjects of 8 to 10%.
      Punch biopsies and peripheral blood will be obtained at baseline prior to treatment and then
      after 4, 12 and 24 weeks for immunomonitoring and molecular studies.

      The safety of and incidence of adverse events related to abatacept in this population of
      patients will also be analyzed as a secondary endpoint.
    
  