
    
      Unintended arterial puncture and local hematoma formation are the most common complications
      during internal jugular vein central venous catheterization. Other serious complications like
      pseudoaneurysm, arteriovenous fistula, arterial dissection, thrombosis, embolism are also
      possible. These complications mostly occur by mechanical trauma or injury when advancing
      needle back and forth to puncture internal jugular vein. Placement of guidewire or dilator
      can also cause mechanical trauma or injury around the vessel.

      Because internal jugular vein collapses easily during needle advance, anterior and posterior
      wall of the vessel can be punctured simultaneously. Posterior wall puncture can increase the
      risk of complications of the catheterization. Delicate puncture of the vessel and stable
      fixation of the needle after puncture are important to reduce overall number of
      catheterization attempts, increase success rate, reduce complications.

      Seldinger technique(thin-wall needle technique) is commonly used procedure to obtain safe
      access to central vein. The desired vessel is punctured with a sharp hollow needle, syringe
      is detached and guidewire is advanced through the lumen of the needle, and then the needle is
      withdrawn. Central catheter is then passed over the guidewire into the vessel. Contrarily,
      modified Seldinger technique(guiding sheath-over-the-needle technique) use needle that is
      covered with guiding sheath. After desired vessel puncture, guiding sheath is instantly slid
      over the needle into the vessel. The needle is withdrawn, guidewire is advanced through the
      guiding sheath, central catheter is placed into the vessel.

      When using Seldinger technique, it is important to fix the needle firmly with hand until the
      guidewire is placed into the vessel lumen. If hand fixation is not stable, needle tip can
      migrate from the lumen, can pierce the vessel wall, and carotid artery puncture, and local
      hematoma formation might occur. Even if there is no evidence of complications, when blood
      regurgitation fails, overall number of vessel puncture attempts would increase and it is
      expected that rate of complications of the catheterization would increase.

      When using modified Seldinger technique, guiding sheath is easily slid over the needle,
      providing stable route into the vessel lumen relatively in early step of the catheterization.
      Therefore, it is expected that stability of the fixation improves, success rate of the
      catheterization increase, and complications of the catheterization decrease. But there is no
      high level of evidence yet, and still decision to use which technique is based on experience
      of the operator.

      The investigators are going to compare the Seldinger technique and modified Seldinger
      technique on success rate and complications during central venous catheterization by
      prospective, randomized, controlled study.

      In addition, any difference in success rate and complications between the two techniques may
      be different depending on the experience of the practitioners. Therefore, the investigators
      also plan to compare the two techniques between experienced and non-experienced
      practitioners.

      The success rate and complications between the two techniques may also be different depending
      on the long and short-axis techniques. As subgroup analyses, we intend to investigate whether
      there is a difference between Seldinger and modified Seldinger technique according to the
      experience of the operator or long or short axis approach.
    
  