
    
      Study Population:

      Patients with MIUC fit to receive cisplatin.

      Study Design:

      The trial is designed as a non-comparative, open-label phase I/II study.

      Divided in two phases:

      The run In phase (I) and a phase II study. During the run-in phase, a limited number of
      patients (n=12-18) will be treated with durvalumab + ddMVAC or durvalumab + tremelimumab +
      ddMVAC (6-9 patients each). If the toxicity rate is acceptable (not higher than 2 out of 6 or
      3 out of 9 patients per arm) the study will continue as a randomized phase II study. During
      phase II, the efficacy and safety of durvalumab + ddMVAC and durvalumab + tremelimumab +
      ddMVAC

      Research hypothesis:

      Combination of checkpoint inhibitors (CPI), durvalumab ± tremelimumab, with neoadjuvant
      ddMVAC will improve the pathological complete response (pCR) rate in patients with
      muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma (MIUC). No additional toxicity of the combination CPI +
      ddMVAC is expected.

      Investigational Product(s):

      Durvalumab: 1500 mg IV D1 every 28 days Durvalumab will be administered at the hospital every
      28 days prior to administration of ddMVAC on D1.

      Tremelimumab 75 mg IV D1 every 28 days Tremelimumab will be administered first, with
      durvalumab infusion starting approximately 1 hour (maximum 2 hours) after the end of the
      tremelimumab infusion.

      Translational research:

      Mechanism of response/resistance to neoadjuvant treatment will be assessed by comparing
      molecular and immunological tumor profiles before treatment (transurethral resection tumor
      samples) and after treatment (cystectomy samples). In addition, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)
      and urine tumor DNA (utDNA) will be analysed during treatment (ctDNA and utDNA) and after
      surgery (ctDNA).

      Immunological profiles will be established using a specific metagene signature for major cell
      types of the tumor microenvironment and chemokines, cytokines and regulatory molecules , and
      will be validated using relevant markers by immunohistochemistry (IHC) on formalin-fixed
      paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor sections.

      Metabolomic profiling will also be conducted by analyzing metabolites present in urinary
      samples with a Proton-based nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR), and correlations with
      prognosis, molecular profile or/and with immunological signature determined.

      Finally, correlations between tumor pathological factors (e.g., pTNM, nuclear grade, variant
      squamous differentiation or sarcomatoid dedifferentiation) and prognosis will be evaluated
      using IHC on FFPE tissue sections.

      Sample Size: Approximately 120 patients are planned to be included.
    
  