
    
      Purpose and Design The primary aim of this project is to understand the significance of the
      newly discovered interaction between myosin VI (MVI) and the oestrogen receptor in breast
      cancer cells. The study will investigate the types of genes that MVI regulates and whether
      the sites of MVI - oestrogen receptor interactions (nucleus or cytoplasm) are important for
      the expression of oestrogen receptor targets. In breast cancer cells, oestrogen receptors can
      mutate to become permanently activated, leading to unrestrained tumour growth. Investigating
      the role of MVI in this metabolic scenario may reveal a potential therapeutic window for
      hormone refractory oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer.

      In order to answer these questions, the methodology will use combination of experiments on
      established cell lines and patient samples.

      The research proposal is a collaborative effort between Dr Chris Toseland (whose group has
      identified the link between MVI and the oestrogen receptor) at the University of Kent and the
      Breast Surgery, Pathology and Research and Development departments at Maidstone and Tunbridge
      Wells NHS Trust.

      Recruitment Potential patients for recruitment will be identified at the weekly
      multi-disciplinary meeting following a diagnosis of primary breast cancer and a decision to
      proceed with surgery as the first treatment. The actual explanation of the study will take
      place during the first treatment planning consultation with the treating breast surgeon. The
      patient will be given written information about the study as well as a contact number of a
      research nurse/ breast care nurse specialist for them to call if they wish to be included in
      the study. A second clinic appointment will be made with the co-investigator Miss Karina Cox
      to re-discuss the trial and obtain written consent. The consultant surgeon is familiar with
      the process of consent and will determine whether the patient has capacity to give consent
      for the study. We will exclude all patients with a metabolic disorder, significant
      co-morbidities and locally advanced or metastatic disease as well as those with a previous
      history of cancer treatment as the results of the study may be affected by their underlying
      disorder, previous treatment or current medication.

      Confidentiality The study will be conducted within the "Caldicott Principles'. Patients
      enrolled in the study will be given a unique identification number which will used on samples
      sent to The University of Kent for experiments. The clinical co-investigator will maintain a
      secure database of patient identifiable information including demographic and
      clinico-pathological tumour data.

      Conflict of Interest There are no conflicts of interest with this study. Any publications
      relating to this research will be summarised and distributed to participating patients.

      Tissue samples will not be stored indefinitely. All the tissue from the fresh frozen
      specimens will be used for the experiments. The paraffin slides, once analysed, will be
      returned from the University of Kent to Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells Pathology Department.
    
  