
    
      This survey was anticipated to enroll 2208 patients with elective surgery under general
      anesthesia from 28 hospitals or so in China. After obtaining approval from the Ethical
      Committee related to research involving human subjects,the investigators will enroll the
      patients according to the inclusion and exclusion criterion. The tympanic temperature will be
      monitored at the following time points respectively: Arriving at waiting area, entering the
      OR room, 5 min before and after anesthesia induction, every 15 min during the operation,
      after 2h the tympanic temperature will be monitored at every 30 min, Tympanic temperature
      will also be taken when the surgery complete and when patients arrived at PACU. Other
      information will also be collected including the type and dosage of anesthesia drug,duration
      of surgery and anesthesia, patient warming method，operation room temperature, the amount of
      the infusion of intravenous fluids and blood and their warming techniques during the whole
      operation procedure. The postoperative follow-up will be conducted and recorded within 30
      days after operation(for implantation surgery, the follow-up will be conducted within 90 days
      postoperatively ) which includes ICU stays, hospital stays, wound infection, new
      cardiovascular events.etc.

      The contract research organization will be delegated to do an on site monitor once a month
      (online monitor once a week) for each hospital participate the survey during the recruitment
      and perform the source data validation at the same time to review the related medical
      records,source data and the case report forms, etc.to ensure the data accuracy and
      completeness.

      Data management will be conducted through the whole survey procedure. In order to guarantee
      the validation of the data, two data managing staffs will input and verify the data
      independently.

      Statistical analysis software (SAS9.2) was used for the calculation of all the statistical
      analyses. The number of cases, mean, standard deviation, median value, maximal value and
      minimal value should be calculated for the descriptions of the qualitative parameters. Number
      of cases and percentages are used for the descriptions on the classification parameters.Two
      side test is used for all the statistical tests, P<0.05 indicates that the difference is
      statistically significant (unless indicated otherwise), and 95% confidence is used as the
      confidence interval.
    
  