
    
      In this multiple-dose study conducted at 4 centers, the pharmacokinetics of two dosing
      regimens of levofloxacin were assessed in medically stable men and women with varying degree
      of renal function. The study consisted of a 21 day pretreatment screening phase, a 7-day open
      label treatment phase, and a 7 day posttreatment phase (or a follow-up phase for subjects
      with early study withdrawal). Patients were randomized into 1 of 10 treatment groups, for a
      total of 6 patients per group, based on degree of renal function to ensure that creatinine
      clearance values within each group represented the full range of values defined in the Food
      and Drug Administration's (FDA) 1998 guideline for pharmacokinetic studies in patients with
      impaired renal function. Fifty-nine patients were enrolled in the study. All patients
      received a single 750-mg dose of levofloxacin on Day 1; subsequent doses of either 250, 500,
      or 750 mg of levofloxacin (q24h or q48h) were based on renal function. Blood samples were
      collected from each patient from Day 1 to Day 14 for pharmacokinetic evaluation. Urine was
      collected on Days 1 and 7 before dosing and over specific time intervals up to 24 or 48 hours
      postdosing depending on the patient's dosing regimen. Dialysate samples were collected on Day
      7 from HD patients immediately before dosing (as dialysis began) and at the end of the
      dialysis treatment. Patients were confined overnight at the study unit on Days 0, 1, 6, and
      7, and remained confined until the 24 hour blood samples were collected on Days 2 and 8.
      Safety was based on the incidence, relationship to therapy, and severity of
      treatment-emergent adverse events and on changes in clinical laboratory values (hematology,
      chemistry, and urinalysis), vital sign measurements, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and physical
      examination findings. Single 750-mg dose of levofloxacin on Day 1; subsequent doses of
      Levofloxacin 250 milligram (mg), 500 mg, and 750 mg tablets administered every 24 hours for 7
      days or every 48 hours for 7 days
    
  