
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the ability of a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen comprising
           alemtuzumab, fludarabine, and melphalan with or without cyclosporine, mycophenolate
           mofetil, and low-dose total body radiotherapy followed by haplotype-mismatched, KIR
           class I epitope-mismatched CD34-positive allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation to facilitate engraftment by day 35 post-transplantation in at least 85%
           of patients with relapsed, refractory, or poor-risk hematological malignancies.

        -  Determine the risk of graft-versus-host-disease in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of these regimens, in terms of progression-free
           survival, in these patients.

        -  Correlate outcomes, engraftment, and progression-free survival with the number of
           detectable alloreactive natural killer cell clones before transplantation and after
           engraftment in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine immune reconstitution in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, pilot study. Patients are initially treated with conditioning
      regimen A. If adequate donor engraftment is not achieved, subsequent patients are treated
      with conditioning regimen B.

        -  Conditioning regimen A: Patients receive alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on days -14 to -12;
           fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3; and melphalan IV over 20-30 minutes on
           day -2.

        -  Conditioning regimen B: Patients receive oral or IV cyclosporine twice daily and oral or
           IV mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days -15 to 0. Patients also receive
           alemtuzumab, fludarabine, and melphalan as in conditioning regimen A. Patients undergo
           low-dose total body irradiation twice daily on days -2 and -1.

      All patients undergo allogeneic, T-cell-depleted, CD34-positive peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation on day 0. Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on
      day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 14-56 patients (14-28 per regimen) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  