
    
      Liver cancer growth may be affected by a protein in the body called "vascular epidermal
      growth factor" (VEGF). A drug that blocks VEGF may be an effective treatment for liver
      cancer. Avastin is designed to block VEGF. Erlotinib hydrochloride is an investigational drug
      believed to work on cancer cells by affecting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), a
      protein that is important to cancer growth.

      If the screening evaluations show you are eligible to take part in the study, you may begin
      treatment. You will receive treatment in 28-day periods called "cycles". Treatment will be
      given on an outpatient basis. Because this is a research study, the Avastin infusion must be
      given every time at M. D. Anderson. Because erlotinib hydrochloride is given by mouth, you
      may take it away from M. D. Anderson.

      You will receive Avastin through a needle in a vein on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle. The first
      dose of Avastin will be given over about 90 minutes. If you do not have a reaction (such as
      fever/chills), the next dose will be given over about 60 minutes. If again no reaction
      occurs, each dose after that will be given over about 30 minutes. If you experience a
      reaction to the Avastin infusion, you may be given acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) by mouth
      and/or an antihistamine by vein over 30 minutes before each dose to help decrease the risk of
      further reactions.

      You will take erlotinib hydrochloride tablets by mouth every day. It is recommended that
      erlotinib hydrochloride be taken in the morning with a glass of water. Erlotinib
      hydrochloride should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after you have any food,
      grapefruit juice, vitamins, iron supplements, or other non-prescription medicines.

      Before each new cycle of study treatment, you will have urine collected, and blood will be
      drawn (about 3 tablespoons) for routine blood tests and to check your blood clotting. You
      will be asked questions about any side effects you may have had and about any medications you
      are currently taking or have taken since you last saw the study doctor. You will have a
      complete physical exam, including measurements of vital signs and weight. You will be asked
      about your ability to perform everyday tasks.

      You will also have CT and/or MRI scans of the tumor(s) every 8 weeks. Additional tests may be
      done during the study if your doctor feels it is necessary for your care. All testing and
      evaluations must be done at M. D. Anderson.

      If you experience severe side effects, treatment may be delayed, stopped, or you may receive
      smaller doses of the treatment. You may continue to receive study treatment unless the
      disease gets worse, the side effects are too severe, you decide not to take part any longer,
      or your doctor decides it is in your best interest to stop treatment. There is no maximum
      number of cycles that you can receive.

      When you stop study treatment, you will be asked to have tests and evaluations done at an
      end-of-study visit. You will have urine collected, and blood will be drawn (about 3
      tablespoons) for routine blood tests and to check your blood clotting. You will be asked
      questions about any side effects you may have had and about any medications you are currently
      taking or have taken since you last saw the study doctor. You will have a complete physical
      exam, including measurements of blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and weight. You will be
      asked about your ability to perform everyday tasks. You will also have CT and/or MRI scans of
      the abdomen and pelvis to check on your cancer.

      Once you stop receiving study treatment, the study doctor or nurse will continue to check how
      you are doing, either in the clinic or by telephone if you stop coming to M. D. Anderson,
      every 3 months for the rest of your life.

      This is an investigational study. Erlotinib hydrochloride is approved by the FDA for
      treatment of lung cancer, but it is not approved for liver cancer, so its use is considered
      experimental in this study. Avastin is approved by the FDA for treatment of colon and rectal
      cancer, but it is not approved for the treatment of liver cancer, so its use is considered
      experimental in this study. Up to 60 participants will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  