
    
      The goal of this study is to demonstrate that focal surgical retinotomies (holes in the
      retina) can result in predictable and lasting reduction in intraocular pressure while
      eliminating the risks associated with surgical retinectomy (broad areas of retinal removal).

      In the late 1990s and early 2000s, Joussen et al pioneered a technique to lower intraocular
      pressure in patients with advanced untreatable glaucoma. All patients had intraocular
      pressures on average above 40 that were unresponsive to any available treatments. Forty-four
      patients underwent broad areas of retinal removal (retinectomy). All patients exhibited
      dramatic reductions in intraocular pressure which were maintained for 5 years (Joussen 2003).
      Unfortunately, the technique carried significant risks. 1) a subset of patients had
      excessively low intraocular pressure reductions. 2) a subset of patients had secondary
      proliferative vitreoretinopathy (a scarring response) that resulting in retinal deatchment.
      Despite its incredible effectiveness, these risks made clinicians hesitant to adopt the
      technique. Additionally, glaucoma specialists are unable to perform the technical procedures
      required creating a chasm between diagnosing physician (glaucoma specialist) and the treating
      physician (retina specialist). Finally, surgical microtools tools at the time were still in
      their infancy.

      The current proposal attempts to make critical modifications to the technique used by Joussen
      et al. (2003). First and foremost, we plan to use surgical retinotomies (holes in the retina)
      in lieu of a broad surgical retinectomy (broad peripheral retinal removal). This is a
      critical difference. Removal of the peripheral retina to the ora serrata carries significant
      risk of postoperative proliferative vitreoretinopathy. This is largely due to residual
      vitreous which cannot be removed from the far peripheral retina. This residual vitreous
      contracts in the postoperative period causing elevation of the retinectomy edges allowing for
      retinal detachment. Surgical retinotomies (holes in the retina), that do not involve the
      vitreous base are commonly used in retina surgery and do not carry anywhere close to the risk
      of retinal detachment that surgical retinectomy carries. As an example, the majority of
      retinal detachments are repaired by draining fluid through an iatrogenic surgical retinotomy
      (a hole created by the surgeon in the retina). These holes are created in the posterior
      retina and yet are virtually always undetectable by the patient. (Of note, a peripheral
      retinotomy is even harder to detect). More recently, there has been an upsurge of free-flap
      autologous retinal transplantation for macular holes (Grewal 2016) and macular degeneration
      (Parolini 2018). In these surgical procedures, an area of peripheral retina is removed and
      transplanted to the macula. The site of removal leaves a hole in the retina. In these studies
      the rate of redetachment in patients in whom a retinotomy was created is no higher than that
      of other standard retina surgeries. It is therefore clear that creation of retinal holes
      (retinotomy) is far different in terms of long-term risks than broad retinal removal to the
      ora serrata (retinectomy). Additionally, this increase in retina transplantation has been
      made possible by the microsurgical surgical tools that are now available. However, in the
      case of both the retinal detachment repair and autologous transplantation, the retinotomy
      size is not sufficient to induce intraocular pressure lowering effects. We therefore seek to
      build upon the original work from Joussen et al (2003) which showed that retina removal can
      have dramatic intraocular pressure lowering effects, but seek to use surgical retinotomies
      (holes in the retina) to achieve this retinal removal thereby avoiding his surgical
      complications while capitalizing on the long-term efficacy. By varying the size and number of
      surgical retinotomy, we will be able to provide a normogram for effective prediction of
      intraocular pressure lowering effects. By effectively predicting the magnitude of this
      surgical procedure, ophthalmologists will have a predictable and reliable method for treating
      glaucoma. Furthermore, because a surgical retinotomy does not close, it is predicted to
      provide a life-long effect.
    
  