
    
      Bone marrow CD34+ cells will be obtained in the operating room, transduced with the
      lentiviral vector that contains a normal copy of the γc gene, and reinfused without any
      myeloreductive conditioning. Participants will be monitored for hematopoietic recovery from
      busulfan and for severe adverse events for 42 days post gene therapy. The primary endpoint
      assessing the efficacy of this approach will be T-cell immune reconstitution 52 weeks (± 4)
      weeks after transplantation. Continued and detailed evaluation of all aspects of immune
      reconstitution, protocol-related toxicity, and retroviral integration sites will also be
      performed. This study will evaluate the first use of a SIN lentiviral vector for the
      treatment of SCID-X1 and may lead to a new form of therapy that could be applied to the
      majority of newly diagnosed patients.

      OBJECTIVES

      Assess the safety, feasibility and efficacy of lentiviral gene transfer in newly diagnosed
      SCID-X1 patients transplanted with autologous CD34+ cells that have been transduced with a
      self-inactivating lentiviral vector (CL20-i4-EF1α-hγc-OPT) expressing a γc gene.

      Primary Objective 1: Evaluate the safety and feasibility of infusing at least 1 million
      transduced CD34+ cells per kilogram of body weight in SCID-X1 infants.

      Primary Objective 2: Evaluate the efficacy of lentiviral gene transfer for inducing
      significant T-cell reconstitution 52 weeks (± 4 weeks) after transplantation. Significant
      reconstitution of T cells is defined as at least 2 of the following 3 criteria being present:

        -  The development of T-cell proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) that are ≥
           50% the value seen in normal controls

        -  ≥ 1000 autologous CD3+ T-cells/μl in the peripheral blood

        -  ≥ 500 autologous CD4+ T-cells/μl in the peripheral blood

        -  ≥ 200 autologous CD4+ CD45RA T-cells/μl in the peripheral blood

      OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

        -  Correlate busulfan and its metabolite pharmacokinetics with toxicity, efficacy,
           engraftment of vector-transduced cells, and event-free survival and overall survival.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of busulfan dose-targeting with busulfan administration every 24
           hours for a total of 2 doses in order to achieve a cumulative busulfan area under the
           curve of 22 mg*hr/L.

        -  Evaluate B-cell function during longterm follow-up of protocol patients. Evaluation will
           include γc expression in circulating B-cells, measurement of serum IgG, IgA, and IgM
           concentration, measurement of antibody responses to vaccination, evaluation of IgG
           production after cessation of intravenous gamma globulin therapy in patients with
           clinical indications to discontinue IVIG.

        -  Evaluate NK cell numbers in long term follow-up of protocol patients. Evaluation will
           include flow cytometry evaluation of NK cell numbers.

        -  Determine the vector copy number and the location of vector-integration sites in sorted
           blood cells. Sorted T-cells, B-cells, NK cells, granulocytes and monocytes will be
           evaluated for vector copy number. Vector copy number in sorted T-cells will be evaluated
           as a potential safety measure and will be reported to the FDA if the vector copy number
           is greater than 5 copies per T cell in any patient at any time. Studies on sorted cells
           will also include deep sequencing with an automated sequencer to characterize insertion
           sites, and expression array analysis of T-cell clones to assay for gene expression
           alterations within 100 kb of the insertion sites.

        -  Evaluate the overall, long-term safety of lentiviral gene transfer. This will include
           complete clinical evaluation of any AEs resulting from the gene transfer procedure. If
           any oncogenic event is seen, this evaluation will include complete molecular
           characterization of the tumor clone including insertion site analysis, gene expression
           analysis, and evaluation for the LMO2, Cdkn2a, Notch1, Cyclin D2 gene alterations.
    
  