
    
      Proper airway management is essential for safe anesthesia practice. In particular,
      ventilation with an orofacial mask and endotracheal intubation are a crucial step in general
      anesthesia. The prevalence of a difficult airway is approximately 2.2% although it can vary
      greatly according to different groups of patients. It is defined, according to the American
      Society of Anesthesiology, as the clinical situation in which an experienced anesthesiologist
      has difficulty with ventilation using a face mask, during endotracheal intubation or both.
      Although other definitions also exist and include difficulty in ventilation or placement of
      supraglottic devices, difficult laryngoscopy defined by a 3 or 4 grade on the Cormack-Lehane
      scale or multiple attempts at intubation. A case of an unexpected difficult airway can lead
      to minor complications, such as loss or damage to teeth, pharynx or entail severe injuries,
      such as aspiration of gastric content, laryngeal lesions, respiratory failure,
      cardiorespiratory arrest or even death. Furthermore, complications increase considerably when
      there are no alternative plans and multiple repeated attempts at intubation are made.

      Thus, the factors that mostly contribute to complications when an unanticipated difficult
      airway is found are due to deficiencies in identification, communication, preoperative
      planning and lack of training. An unpredicted difficult airway is a situation in which
      decision making is difficult, management is complex, and it is considered a crisis situation.

      The importance of evaluation and management of the airway is such that different study groups
      within the main scientific societies of anesthesiologists are dedicated to studying and
      implementing protocols with the aim of avoiding these risky situations. A difficult airway
      should be detected during the pre-anesthetic visit, thus allowing the anesthesiologist to
      evaluate the patient, identify risk factors, advance to possible complications, and prepare
      an appropriate anesthetic plan. This means organizing both material and personal help,
      informing the patient; changing the type of anesthesia or even postponing elective surgeries
      to schedule them when the patient is correctly optimized making sure that the means in which
      the surgical procedure is safe.

      Regardless of the surgical procedure and the initial anesthetic plan, the evaluation of the
      airway should always be performed with all patients since any sedation or regional anesthesia
      can be converted into a general anesthesia and require control of the airway.

      In recent years, an increase in the efficiency of health procedures without the loss of
      safety or quality is expected. An attempt to protocolize a remote preoperative evaluation
      (telephone call) has been made which patients undergoing low complexity procedures. However,
      the most important limiting factor in remote pre-anesthetic evaluation is the inability to
      perform the airway assessment properly. Although there are risk factors that can be detected
      with a medical history such as a previous record of a difficult airway, obstructive sleep
      apnea syndrome, hoarseness, dysphonia or obesity, the traditional evaluative predictive tests
      require the physical presence of the patient and are based on the physical examination of the
      patient such as thyroid-chin distance, cervical mobility, mouth opening and subluxation
      capacity, or the assessment of pharyngeal structures by the Mallampati test consisting of the
      direct visualization of the upper airway. However, no test can predict a difficult airway
      based on a single characteristic in the patient's absence.

      The combined evaluation of several risk factors obtains greater sensitivity than when
      analyzed in isolation. This is the case of the Arné Test, which consists of a multifactorial
      index that offers a sensitivity and specificity greater than 90% to predict a difficult
      airway when a score greater than or equal to 11 is obtained. In this context, new evaluation
      methods have appeared, such as ultrasound or other imaging tests, which intend to correlate
      the anatomical images of the airway with the presence of a difficult airway. But, the
      detection of a difficult airway depends not only on the morphology, but also on its
      functional characteristics. With the introduction of new technologies many attempts to
      develop other methods to predict a difficult airway such as facial recognition based on image
      processing have been made, however they have not succeeded yet. Other investigators propose
      the analysis of voice parameters as a reflection of anatomical and functional characteristics
      of the superior airway. Specifically, studies carried out in the field of maxillofacial
      surgery describe how the expansion of the maxilla affects the widening of the upper airway
      and, consequently, in the formation of the vowels and how this translates into a variation in
      the properties of the voice, such as frequency or amplitude. Accordingly, the investigators
      propose that voice characteristic analysis could reflect the airway's anatomy and be able to
      predict a difficult airway.

      Building on this, the investigators aim to develop a voice airway assessment method that
      replaces anthropometric parameters evaluated in traditional tests to predict a difficult
      airway, facilitating a remote airway evaluation.

      Voice recording will be made through a smart phone application to patients who are going to
      undergo general anesthesia and require orotracheal or nasotracheal intubation, by direct
      laryngoscopy, at the pre-anesthetic visit. The day of the surgical procedure, the result of
      the intubation - whether or not a difficult airway exists- will be registered.

      The records of the mobile application database will be downloaded, the voice signal will be
      processed, and parameters related to frequency, morphology and perturbation will be extracted
      employing Matlab® as these are considered continuous variables, to determine the statistical
      significance of the differences within parameters. The non-parametric test of
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov will be used for an easy and a difficult independent airway groups. Thus,
      these variables will be introduced into several classification algorithms obtained by
      combined methods using machine learning in order to predict the classification of patients
      according to the Cormack scale grade and sensitivity and specificity will be determined to
      assess their ability to predict a difficult airway. The area under the receiver operating
      characteristic curve will be used to assess the ability of the method to predict difficulty.

      The recruitment period will take place over a period of 12 months or until the estimated
      sample size is reached. The total duration of the study will be approximately 6 months years,
      ending with a total of 800 patients.
    
  