
    
      Left bundle-branch block (LBBB) is an electrocardiographic marker often associated with
      underlying cardiac disease (such as coronary artery disease, dilated cardiomyopathy, etc) but
      in some cases it is also found in patients with isolated LBBB defined as "none apparent
      structural heart disease".

      Several investigations in animal and human study have showed a different electroanatomical
      activation in isolated LBBB when compared to LBBB in heart failure patients mostly due to
      coronary artery disease. The sequence of endocardial activation through the left ventricle
      has also proven to be heterogeneous in heart failure occuring at different septal regions.
      This electrical and mechanical variability seems to be related to location of LBBB block or
      lesion that could be proximal, distal or diffuse, consequently influencing also
      electrocardiographic aspects.

      These considerations explain and justify the great variability in the proposed "true or
      typical LBBB" definitions (derived from from Strauss, Perrin and Marican definitions and from
      Heart Association/American College Cardiology Foundation/ European Society of Cardiology
      guidelines) but also shift attention to relatively new concept of atypical LBBB definitions
      with extreme left or right axis deviation and of non specific intraventricular conduction
      delay defined as a wide QRS (≥110 ms) without the appearance of left and right bundle-branch
      block. In fact, several investigations have shown that QRS axis deviation is a predictor of
      unfavorable outcome after cardiac resynchronization therapy and LBBB. The less favorable
      outcome of cardiac resynchronization therapy candidates with LBBB and left axis deviation
      seems to be associated to the presence of a shorter activation delay, scar tissue and left
      ventricular hypertrophy. Moreover, actual LBBB definitions recommended by guidelines in
      cardiac resynchronization therapy patients differ significantly and only individual ECG
      criteria (such as electrocardiographic intervals QS or RS in lead V1, notch and no q wave in
      lead V5, V6, I and avL) seems to be associated to clinical outcome when compared with
      combining criteria.

      Finally, a frequent dyssynchrony of ventricular activation due to LBBB may be responsible for
      a dyssynchrony-related cardiomyopathy that needs to be identified early and differentiated
      from other forms of dilated cardiomyopathy through a multiparametric approach such as
      genetic, clinical data, electrocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance. In fact, in
      isolated LBBB undergone cardiac magnetic resonance it was observed a greater left ventricular
      volumes and lower global left ventricular Ejection Fraction despite the absence of
      cardiovascular disease as compared with control subject. Despite this, comparison between
      isolated LBBB and structural heart disease shows a different myocardial mechanism all the
      more unfavourable the more significant is the presence of underlying myocardial scarring. In
      the other hand, isolated LBBB, dyssynchrony-related cardiomyopathy and myocardial scarring
      could present different temporal phase in the clinical history of the same patient and that
      must be early identified.

      The aim of this present large-scale prospective observational study is to evaluate 1)
      clinical, electrocardiographic and imaging features in a population of patients with typical
      and atypical LBBB and " non specific intraventricular conduction delay" pattern during a
      long-term follow up and 2) association among eventual different LBBB patterns (typical,
      atypical (LBBB and extreme left and/or right axis deviation, fragmentation) and " non
      specific intraventricular conduction delay " pattern and tissue characterization, mechanical
      myocardial activation and perfusion. 3) a possible time-related evolution from "non specific
      intraventricular conduction delay" patterns to typical or atypical LBBB.
    
  