
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obesity is epidemic in the U.S. and is associated with increased risk for numerous medical
      problems. Many obesity-related risk factors are strikingly apparent in minority populations.
      Ethnic differences in obesity related risk factors begin as early as six to nine years of
      age. Thus, the need for overweight prevention efforts as early as the preschool years is
      critical.

      This study builds upon the findings of the "Hip-Hop to Health" program. The primary aim of
      Hip-Hop was to compare changes in body mass index (BMI [kg/m2]) in two groups of 3- to
      5-year-old minority children randomized to a Weight Control Intervention (WCI) or a General
      Health Control Intervention (GHI). Results for the children at the Year 1 and 2 follow-ups
      showed that children in the WCI had significantly smaller relative changes in BMI compared to
      children in the GHI control group. The success was among the schools that served
      predominantly Black children. Hip-Hop to Health was an efficacy trial delivered by trained
      specialists in early childhood education, and the first efficacy trial to document change in
      BMI in preschool children.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will test a 14-week teacher-delivered weight control intervention (TD-WCI) to a
      14-week teacher delivered general health control intervention (TD-GHI) in a randomized
      community trial occurring in 16 preschools in the Chicago School District. The study has the
      following aims: 1) to compare children in these two conditions on changes in BMI post
      intervention and at Year 1 follow-up; 2) to compare children in these two conditions on
      changes in television viewing, physical activity, and fat, fiber, fruit and vegetable intake
      at post-intervention and Year 1 follow-up; and 3) to compare classroom teachers in these two
      conditions on nutrition and exercise knowledge, nutrition attitudes, and support for healthy
      eating post-intervention and Year 1 follow-up.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  