
    
      There are just under one million people with HIV in South Africa who have initiated
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) but remain unsuppressed. South Africa has been making progress
      towards UNAIDS 90-90-90 targets but currently only 47% of those infected are suppressed. In
      South Africa, one major barrier to consistent treatment is intimate partner violence (IPV);
      nearly 50% of women have experienced IPV. The Common Elements Treatment Approach (CETA) is an
      evidence-based intervention intended to provide coping skills to women who have experienced
      IPV, and is comprised of cognitive-behavioral therapy elements. It is a transdiagnostic tool
      that can flexibly address a range of mental health problems (e.g. depression, anxiety) and
      represents the current best practice in global mental health as a more cost-effective,
      scalable and sustainable model. CETA is one of the most promising interventions to impact HIV
      outcomes through addressing the indirect effects of IPV on adherence and continuity of care.

      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial of HIV-infected women, with or
      without their partners, who have experienced IPV and have an unsuppressed viral load to test
      the effect of CETA, in increasing retention and viral suppression, and reducing violence. The
      study has three aims:

        -  Aim 1: Among HIV-infected women on ART who have experienced IPV and have an unsuppressed
           viral load, assess the effectiveness of CETA vs. active control at increasing the
           proportion retained and virally suppressed by 12 months and at decreasing the severity
           and incidence of IPV and other mental and behavioral health problems using an
           individually randomized trial;

        -  Aim 2: To identify mediators and moderators of CETA's effect on the primary outcome
           (retention and viral suppression);

        -  Aim 3: To assess the cost and cost-effectiveness of CETA vs. active control at
           increasing the proportion who are retained and virally suppressed by 12 months.

      Study staff will obtain full informed consent from those who meet inclusion criteria. For
      those that agree to participate, study staff will then randomize patients to CETA or control
      using sealed randomization envelopes. All subjects will be followed for 24 months to ensure
      data for primary and secondary outcomes is complete. Follow-up HIV data will be passive using
      routinely collected medical records from the clinics. HIV outcomes will be assessed at 3-,
      12- and 24-months post-baseline. Questionnaires on violence, substance use, and mental health
      will be administered at baseline, and at 3 months (following CETA end) and 12 months
      post-baseline. These include: Severity of Violence Against Women Scale, Center for
      Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale, Harvard Trauma Questionnaire, and Alcohol, Smoking,
      and Substance Involvement Screening Test. The primary outcome will be retention and viral
      suppression (<50 copies/mL) by 12 months after randomization. Secondary outcomes will
      include: 1) Viral suppression at 3 and 24 months; 2) Attrition at 12 and 24 months; 3) IPV,
      mental/behavioral health, alcohol and other substance use at 3 and 12 months; and 4) Cost and
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention.

      The primary aim is to analyze the impact of CETA in the full study population; however, our
      sample size was calculated to ensure our ability to detect differences separately among women
      who include a partner in the CETA intervention and those who do not. A sample of 400 women
      will be included which will give us 80% power to detect an absolute 21% difference between
      arms. The primary analysis will be a comparison of intervention and control by risk
      differences with 95% confidence intervals. The investigators will analyze direct effects of
      CETA on continuous outcomes (e.g., mental health) with linear mixed models.The impact of
      potential moderators on retention and mental health outcomes using interaction terms will be
      assessed. Micro costing methods will be used to cost all resources utilized and the cost
      effectiveness of CETA achieving the primary outcome will be evaluated.
    
  