
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Stroke represents a focal brain insult whereas chronic encephalopathy represents a diffuse
      brain disturbance involving cognition and memory. The predisposition to stroke and the
      potential for dementia were increasingly apparent from our studies and the work of other
      investigators in sickle cell disease. The ontogeny of these two processes required further
      study before the mechanisms could be clearly articulated; and a coordinated assessment of
      cerebrovascular perfusion was needed to decipher the relationship between focal perfusion
      deficits and occlusion of large and small cerebral vessels. 150 subjects were enrolled in
      these studies. Improved understanding of the mechanisms underlying these two devastating
      neurological complications of SCD should result in prevention or effective treatment.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Three hypotheses were tested: (1) clinically-silent cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      abnormalities represented the minimal expression of the neurovascular diathesis, and were the
      harbingers of clinically-overt strokes (study A); (2) sickle cell disease patients who
      developed cerebral infarctions had a predisposing risk factor(s) that contributed to this
      neurological complication (study B); and (3) sickle cell disease patients developed a chronic
      encephalopathy and dementia that was independent of the neurovascular diathesis (study C).
      Study A was a prospective evaluation of 50 SCD children aged 6 to 12 years attempting to
      identify a subgroup of patients at risk for the development of a clinically-apparent stroke.
      These patients were evaluated clinically, and underwent MRI scan, magnetic resonance
      angiography (MRA), and single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). Study B
      represented two studies designed to analyze risk factors for stroke. The first study was a
      retrospective case-control analysis of 25 young adults who suffered one or more strokes.
      These patients were age-matched to an SCD control group which had been clinically free of
      strokes and had MRI, MRA, and SPECT studies. The second study represented a prospective
      case-control analysis of children who were being followed in study A. Study C represented a
      prospective study of 50 SCD children, and 50 age-matched siblings or closest available
      relatives. Annual neurological examinations and neuropsychological evaluations were performed
      searching for evidence of chronic encephalopathy and dementia. The longitudinal study design
      was necessary to dissect out the subtle variables that contributed to the cognitive deficits.
      The study was renewed in FY 1998 to continue through FY 2004.

      Note: Darryl DeVivo was PI on Subproject which began in FY 1988 as a competing renewal. The
      total grant began several years prior to that. Dollars for the subproject were estimated at
      10% of the total funds awarded each year.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  