
    
      Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is a multi-system autoimmune disease characterised by chronic
      inflammation (i.e., a persistent and inappropriate immune response). It primarily affects the
      joints, causing swelling, pain, reduced muscle strength and high biomarkers of inflammation
      such as C-Reactive Protein (CRP) and Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR). This immune
      response also results in accelerated atherosclerotic processes, decreased Bone Mineral
      Density (BMD) and damage to cartilage in the affected joints. Until the mid-1990s, patients
      with RA had traditionally been advised to avoid physical exercise, due to concerns it may
      result in progression of joint damage; hospital admission for bed rest was common practice.
      However, in the last 20 years, studies have shown that combined moderate-intensity aerobic
      exercise and strength training, can improve joint swelling, increase cardiorespiratory
      fitness and strength, without exacerbating pain or joint damage in patients with RA. Thus,
      the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) recommends that patients with RA walk or cycle
      for at least 30 minutes three times a week at a moderate intensity of 60% to 85% of maximum
      heart rate (HRmax) to improve cardiorespiratory fitness. The ACSM also recommends static or
      dynamic strength training of all large muscle groups twice weekly, performing three sets of
      8-10 repetitions of 50% to 80% of one repetition maximum (1RM). While it is now established
      that exercise training can limit disease activity, and lower systemic inflammation, it is
      unclear whether short (e.g., six-weeks) and feasible exercise training programmes (e.g., two
      70 minute sessions per week) elicit the same effects as the commonly employed interventions
      that are more demanding (e.g., 3-12 months; 3-5 sessions per week). In addition, it is
      unclear whether such a short intervention can modify other factors implicated in
      non-communicable disease, such as type II diabetes and cardiovascular risk (e.g., glucose
      control, lipid profile, blood pressure).

      Objectives:

      To examine if a six-week moderate intensity aerobic exercise and muscle strengthening
      programme:

        -  Results in changes in disease activity.

        -  Improves cardiorespiratory fitness, strength and flexibility.

        -  Reduces disease related inflammatory markers.

        -  Reduces blood pressure, improves lipid profile and improves glucose control.

      Study Design:

      Twenty-four patients will be randomised to either the exercise intervention (n= 12) or the
      control group (n = 12). The exercise intervention will consist of combined aerobic and
      strength training group-exercise intervention lasting six weeks, with two classes per week.
      All participants will undergo assessments to measure markers of inflammation, disease
      activity, physical fitness, strength, flexibility and cardiovascular risk factors before and
      after the six-week intervention.

      Recruitment:

      Female patients aged 18 to 69 years of age with RA attending Rheumatology outpatient clinics
      at the Belfast and Social Health Care Trust hospitals will be invited to participate.
      Patients satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria who would like to take part will
      attend two appointments before being randomised to either the six-week exercise intervention
      or the control group. Following the six-week intervention all patients will return for two
      further appointments to repeat all measurements taken before the intervention.

      Measurements before the six-week intervention.

        -  Experimental Visit One. This visit is scheduled between 08:00-09:00 (duration 1 hour).
           Following written consent blood samples, blood pressure, anthropometry, joint
           examination, questionnaires will be carried out. All patients, in both groups, will be
           advised to arrive fasted with their last meal to have been eaten greater than 12 hours
           before arrival. Patients should refrain from exercise during the 48 hours before, and
           abstain from alcohol and caffeine for 24 hours.

        -  Experimental Visit Two. This visit is scheduled between 12:00-16:00 (duration 1 hour)
           and will consist of a 200 metre walk test, a sit and reach flexibility test, and
           strength test.

      Measurements after the six-week intervention:

        -  Experimental Visit Three. This visit is scheduled between 08:00-09:00 (duration 1 hour).
           It is identical to visit one. Measurements include a blood sample, blood pressure,
           anthropometry, joint examination, questionnaires. All participants in both groups will
           be advised to arrive fasted with their last meal to have been eaten at least 12 hours
           before arrival. Patients should refrain from exercise during the 48 hours before, and
           abstain from alcohol and caffeine for 24 hours.

        -  Experimental Visit Four. This visit is scheduled between 12:00-16:00 (duration 1 hour)
           it is identical to visit two and consists of the 200 metre walk test, a sit and reach
           flexibility test, and strength test.

      Exercise Intervention:

      The six-week exercise programme will comprise two 70-minute group exercise classes per week
      (usually 12 patients per class). Classes will be fully supervised and will be conducted at a
      fitness and rehabilitation gymnasium. Each class will consist of four parts (A-D, see below).
      Participants will also be asked to go for a moderate intensity walk once a week for 30
      minutes and maintain an exercise diary for all exercises including gym sessions.

      A. Warm up and stretching for five minutes:

      The warm-up will begin with standing and raising knees alternately for 30 seconds followed by
      gentle stretching of all the large muscles groups: lumbar, quadriceps, hamstrings, groin,
      pectorals, triceps, biceps, hands and feet muscles; stretching of each group will last for 30
      seconds. Stretches will be modified for each patient and supportive props used where
      necessary.

      B. Aerobic exercise for 30 minutes:

      Aerobic exercise will consist of 30 minutes cycling on a stationary cycle ergometer. This
      will begin with a five-minute, low-intensity warm-up (low intensity is Heart Rate(HR) < 50%
      of age predicted HRmaximum). Intensity will then increase to 60% HRmax for 20 minutes, ending
      with a five-minute low intensity cool-down.

      The exercise programme will be progressive, each week increasing in intensity by 5% of HRmax
      up to 85% HRmax during the final week. Patients will wear a wrist and chest heart-rate
      monitor, and will be advised when they have reached required intensity. This will be recorded
      at each class in their exercise diary along with minutes cycled. Progression of intensity
      will begin after week two to allow for familiarisation with the programme.

      C. Strengthening exercises for 30 minutes:

      This will consist of five exercises, working the large muscles of the upper limbs, lower
      limbs and abdomen: leg extension, bench press, low row, modified abdominal crunch and wall
      squat. Leg extension and low row will be performed on a pulley weights machine and bench
      press using the multi-gym system.

      One repetition maximum (RM) is the maximum weight in kilograms that can be lifted once and no
      more. Each of these exercises will start with three sets of 8-10 repetitions at 60% of 1RM,
      progressing by 5% of 1RM each week. RM will be recalculated weekly after week two. Modified
      abdominal crunch will begin by assessing the maximum number of crunches the patient can
      perform to near exhaustion. The participants will then perform this number two more times
      with a 90 second rest in between. After two weeks this will be progressed by recalculating
      the number of crunches to near exhaustion each week.

      The wall squat will start with assessment of the time the patient can hold the squat before
      becoming fatigued. This will be repeated twice more, with a 90 second rest in between. After
      two weeks this will be progressed by re-timing the wall squat until fatigue, each week
      thereafter.

      A record of all exercises performed, along with weights lifted, times, and heart rate will be
      documented weekly by each patient in their record sheets.

      D. Cool-down:

      Five minutes of light stretching of all the large muscle groups and instructions on
      performing moderate intensity walk each weekend. The cooI-down is identical to the warm-up.
    
  