
    
      The traditional government advice for weight loss in obese patients has been
      calorie-counting(CC) / portion control. In 2011 the government began recommending the MyPlate
      approach (MyP) for optimal nutrition and better weight control. The CC condition asks obese
      patients to reduce their daily calorie intake to less than a recommended calorie target. The
      MyP approach also limits daily calories but emphasizes eating MORE high-satiation foods by
      making ½ of daily food choices fruits and vegetables, and ¼ of daily food choices whole
      grains. The relative patient-centered outcome effectiveness of the MyP approach versus the CC
      approach has yet to be tested in clinic patients.

      Specific Aims:

      In partnership with a local community clinic, the investigators are conducting a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) comparing the patient-centeredness and efficacy of usual care compared
      to two government-supported lifestyle change approaches to reducing patient obesity risk.
      Study participants are 300 obese, low income, mostly Latino and African American adult
      patients or staff associated with a community health center in Long Beach, California. The
      interventions will be implemented by trained community lifestyle change coaches with brief
      support from clinicians.

      The first weight loss approach is the calorie-counting (CC), portion-cutting approach
      recommended at www.nutrition.gov . The second is the fill-up-sooner-on-fewer-calories
      approach found at http://www.choosemyplate.gov (MyP). The CC condition asks overweight
      patients to reduce their daily calorie intake to less than a recommended calorie target. The
      MyP approach also limits daily calories but emphasizes eating MORE high-satiation foods by
      making ½ of daily food choices fruits and vegetables, and ¼ of daily food choices whole
      grains. MyP uses progressive goal-setting to facilitate a doubling of usual fruit and
      vegetable intake. To facilitate adherence, the MyP approach also includes home environment
      changes to make healthier choices easier choices. All conditions encourage doing at least 150
      minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity a week. Primary patient-centered outcomes
      include self-reported satiety, health-related quality of life, self-efficacy to eat more
      fruits and vegetables, patient autonomy, and patient satisfaction, all of which are
      hypothesized to favor the MyP condition at 12 months follow-up relative to the CC condition.
      The primary medical outcome is a reduction in body weight.

      Specific Aims Aim #1. Use qualitative information from patients and clinical staff to revise
      intervention materials and procedures. Aim #2. Use results of a pilot test of the
      intervention conditions to revise intervention materials and procedures. Aim #3. Conduct a
      1-year RCT involving two home visits, two group education classes, and seven telephone
      support/ lifestyle change coaching calls. Aim #4. Obtain qualitative data from providers and
      coaches; combine with participant data to assess intervention feasibility, acceptability and
      perceived usefulness. Aim #5. Disseminate results and recommendations to community groups and
      public health professionals.

      Primary patient-centered hypothesis: Compared to the CC approach, the MyP approach will yield
      better 1-year outcomes on self-reported satiety and systolic blood pressure. Both
      government-recommended conditions will yield significant and similar 12 months declines in
      body weight.

      The MyPlate distillation of the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans shifted the emphasis of
      nutrition recommendations for desirable weight loss from counting calories to maximizing
      satiation, through the practical steps of eating MORE fruits and vegetables, MORE whole
      grains, MORE nonfat dairy, MORE water (and LESS sugary beverages). Calorie counting helps
      lose excess weight in the short term but rarely is able to sustain desirable weight loss
      long-term. The MyPlate approach may be easier to sustain because it allows eating up to 25
      percent more grams of food even as it reduces baseline calorie intake by 10 percent; the
      extra daily grams of food help the patient to feel full even while she is losing weight.
      Because MyPlate is a distillation of recommendations for all healthy Americans, regardless of
      body size, it can guide eating choices for everyone in the family and do so for a lifetime.
      If the MyPlate approach is shown to be as effective in helping patients to sustain 1-year
      weight loss as the DPP approach, more clinicians can be expected to actively engage their
      obese patients in weight loss efforts.
    
  