
    
      This is a major pragmatic multi-centre prospective parallel group open RCT. It will be
      conducted in the UK, Australia and New Zealand, funding is being sought in several countries
      to expand recruitment internationally. The study is in 2 phases: the vanguard and main phase.
      Therefore the study will run an internal pilot to prove recruitment of the relevant number of
      participants during the initial 2 years.

      The over-arching aim is to determine whether early AVR results in better clinical outcomes
      and cost-effectiveness than a strategy of expectant management in asymptomatic patients with
      severe AS.

      The primary hypothesis is that early AVR or TAVI in asymptomatic patients with severe AS will
      result in a reduction in the composite primary outcome of cardiovascular (CV) death and
      hospitalisation for heart failure (HHF) when compared to the conventional approach of
      expectant management.

      Potential participants will be identified by a member of the clinical care team following
      diagnosis with severe AS. Participants will be screened for eligibility using pre-specified
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. Eligible participants will be provided with a written version
      of the participant information sheet detailing the exact nature of the study, what it will
      involve for the participant and any risks involved with taking part. Participants will be
      given at least 24 hours to consider the information and decide whether or not to take part.
      The study will randomise up to 2844 patients with severe asymptomatic AS to either allocated
      expectant management OR aortic valve replacement. Participants randomised to AVR will be
      placed on a waiting list with the aim that surgery will be performed within 3 months,
      dependent on local hospitals' waiting lists. Participants randomised to AVR will undergo
      routine tests/procedures which may include coronary angiography. If the outcome of the
      coronary angiography reveals coronary heart disease, the decision to perform CABG or PCI will
      be made by the responsible cardiac surgeon and cardiologist, in consultation with the
      patient. All analyses will be undertaken using the principles of intention-to-treat with
      participants analysed in the group they were randomised regardless of treatment received.

      EASY-AS is collaborating with the EVoLVeD study (Early Valve Replacement guided by Biomarkers
      of Left Ventricular Decompensation in Asymptomatic Patients with Severe Aortic Stenosis,
      Clinical Trials.gov NCT03094143). In centres where both EASY-AS and EVoLVeD are running,
      participants in EASY-AS will be offered the opportunity to take part in EVoLVeD.

      Funding has been granted by the British Heart Foundation (UK), Medical Research Future Fund
      (Aus) and Heart Foundation (NZ). The UK sponsor is the University of Leicester. Additional
      support and resources for the study will be provided by the participating Trusts and their
      corresponding Clinical Research Networks in the UK. The central co-ordination centre is the
      University of Leicester Clinical Trials Unit.
    
  