
    
      1. Background:

           Telemedicine is critical during Covid pandemic. A seismic shift in clinical practice has
           occurred in the UK, with nearly all medical clinics cancelled or converted to telephone
           or telemedicine clinics (Attend Anywhere or Zoom). These fail to adequately substitute
           for a face-to-face consultation, with the National Health Service (NHS) needing higher
           quality, more clinically effective methods of remote patient interaction. This project
           will be the world's first evaluation of a novel, potentially transformative form of 3D
           telemedicine, facilitating telepresence as if the patient were in the room. This
           state-of-the-art system has been developed by an industrial partner, specifically to
           help with remote patient communication during Covid pandemic. This uses an array of 3D
           cameras connected to fusion and render servers, allowing reconstruction of a 3D image in
           real time. This may give more information about a patient's condition, particularly in
           more visual specialties such as Plastic Surgery

           The research will fulfil criteria for the European Commission's Model for Assessment of
           Telemedicine applications (MAST, Kidholm 2012). This will include participatory design,
           and evaluation with a preliminary cohort study, to shape the follow on research. This
           will assess clinicians' and patients' perception of system usability, delivery of
           therapies, clinical accuracy and interaction. On project completion, fulfilment of MAST
           criteria will enable upscaling and lead onto a randomized trial. The study design will
           be informed by participatory design prior to the start of the clinical study. This will
           include clinical stakeholders (specialist nurses, doctors and physiotherapists), the
           digital research team, and patient groups. The focus groups will collate user groups
           opinions about the 3D system, functionality, risks, and applicability.

           The clinical study will be a feasibility study involving clinician and patient feedback
           on 3D telemedicine, and will additionally collect safety, reliability and fidelity data.
           The study will be a mixed methods analysis assessing measures of usability,
           satisfaction, presence, task load index, and accuracy. Clinicians and patients will
           complete questionnaires and undergo a short interview on the use of both forms of
           telemedicine. There are no data regarding the use of 3D telemedicine, but this will
           leverage study design and validated questionnaires from other similar studies (Buvik
           2016). The study will continue as post covid services are being established.

        2. Aims

           This study will refine and pilot the feasibility of introducing 3D telemedicine into
           plastic surgery clinics and gain pilot data on the comparative efficacy and
           acceptability compared to face-to-face clinics, from both a patient and clinician
           perspective. The feasibility study will then inform the design and size of larger
           randomised study to compare 2D and 3D telemedicine.

        3. Research Questions Primary

           • Understand the feasibility and acceptability of introducing 3D telemedicine into
           plastic surgery clinics, in particular assessing safety, reliability and feedback data.

           Secondary

             -  Provide preliminary evidence regarding how 3D telemedicine compares to face-to-face
                consultations using clinician and patient assessments

             -  Assess the appropriate rating scales/instruments to take forward to a RCT

             -  Provide preliminary objective data to assess the accuracy of 3D telemedicine to
                determine clinical measurements (where applicable e.g. angles of contracture in
                hand) and outcome scoring scales (where applicable e.g. validated Unilateral Cleft
                Score Surgical Outcomes Evaluation Scale - UCLSOE)

             -  Provide preliminary data for machine learning training to Strathclyde University

             -  Safety and reliability measures of the system (number of failed and interrupted 3D
                telemedicine consultations).

             -  To assess if clinical outcomes determined by 3D Telemedicine are similar to
                face-to-face

        4. Study Design

      Pre-study Protocol Optimisation Focus groups will co-design the features and functionality of
      the 3D Telemedicine, and inform clinical/patient feedback questionnaires. Clinical
      stakeholders (specialist nurses, doctors and physiotherapists), the digital research team and
      patient groups (existing user groups in breast cancer, sarcoma, cleft, hand surgery and
      physiotherapy) will be invited to participate in focus groups. The discussion will explore
      user groups opinions and ideas about the 3D system, functions that they would like to see
      implemented, and scenarios where this may be advantageous over a standard 2D system, and
      potential risks, using open ended questions. The patient group will consist of 40 patients
      sampled from existing user groups and will include patients already known to the research
      team. Given the need for social distancing, these focus groups will be carried out by
      telephone.

      Survey of Current Telemedicine Clinics A clinician survey will be performed of current
      telemedicine clinics in Plastic Surgery, that are part of normal practice (e.g. Attend
      Anywhere). This will not require patient recruitment or patient involvement, and will use the
      same clinician questionnaire as described for the cohort study below. No patient
      questionnaires will be used. Consultations will be carried as normal clinical practice with
      no additional measurements or interventions.

      Cohort Study

      Patient Identification Patients will be recruited for this study from plastic surgery
      clinics, including breast cancer, sarcoma, head & neck reconstruction, flap reconstruction,
      limb reconstruction, hand trauma, burns and cleft lip. Clinicians recruited to the study be
      from Canniesburn Regional Plastic Surgery and Burns Unit. The wide spectrum of clinical cases
      including in this cohort trial will allow increased generalizability of the results.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Patients 1-95 years old (children will include post-cleft lip repair)

        -  Patients able to read and understand English

        -  Patients able to give informed consent

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patients not meeting the inclusion criteria

        -  Patients who do not have capacity to consent

        -  Patients who are registered blind or deaf

      Consent The patient information sheets (PIS) will be sent to the patients for their
      consideration prior to them attending their clinic appointment. The nurse will then take the
      patient into a private telemedicine clinic room to go through the PIS with them and answer
      any questions. If the patient wishes to participate, the nurse will provide a consent form
      which has some statements to agree to and sign. The patient can keep a copy of the signed
      consent form as well as the PIS.

      Additional consent will be taken for opting into photo or video recordings. Telemedicine data
      may be used in further research, including machine learning. The PIS will make it clear to
      the patient that a copy of their identifiable images will be held for research purposes.

      The PIS and consent will also explain that the our industrial partner will have access to the
      data, system and images (covered by a data processing agreement and 3rd Party Access
      agreement) to resolve any image quality, render, fusion, or transmission problems.

      Study procedures

      All patients will be assessed first face-to-face, and subsequently with 3D telemedicine by a
      separate clinician. In addition to the standard consultation, all patients will have the
      range of motion of the right and left elbows measured face-to-face with blinded (scales
      hidden) goniometers, and on the 3D system with a blinded on-screen goniometer. Patients will
      fill in a questionnaire and undertake a short exit interview after completion of
      consultations. Clinicians involved in this study will be asked to fill in a clinician consent
      form, and will be provided with a clinician information sheet prior to the study. The
      clinician fills in a questionnaire on the use of telemedicine for each patient, and undergoes
      an exit interview just once at the end of the study. The data for the elbow range of motion
      will be stored on computer and the clinician will re-measure at 1 week (patient does not need
      to return).

      The Clinician telemedicine questionnaire will be filled in once per patient and comprises 71
      items from the following rating scales.

      Mental Effort Rating Scale - single instrument Likert scale (Paas 1996) University of North
      Northway - 5 item - telemedicine questionnaire (UNN, Buvik 2016) System Usability Scale - 10
      item industry standard technology scale Presence Questionnaire - 29 item scale - assessment
      of presence in the system/virtual environment (PQ, Witmer 2005).

      Telehealth Usability Questionnaire - 21 item scale - assessment of telemedicine (TUQ,
      Parmanto 2016) NASA task load index (NASA TLX) - 5 item modified scale - an indication of the
      ease of performing a task and frustration levels.

      Semi Structured exit interview - will discuss with participant their views on the
      telemedicine system, what went well, and what can be improved.

      The clinician conducting the face-to-face will complete a shortened questionnaire with the
      UNN scale only. The patient will fill also fill in a shortened questionnaire with a maximum
      of 37 items, including the Mental Effort Rating Scale, Telehealth Usability Questionnaire,
      NASA TLX and System Usability Scale.

      The telemedicine consultation will include clinical outcome scales (where applicable e.g.
      unilateral cleft outcome scoring) recorded as part of normal practice. This will be compared
      to actual clinical outcomes taken in clinic on the same day (to provide "ground truth" for
      comparison with telemedicine measurements).

      Safety and reliability data will be collected throughout the study, incuding:

        1. Failed 3D telemedicine visits - failure and interruption, including reasons e.g.
           network/ software/ hardware. In event of failure a face to face consultation will still
           take place.

        2. Image aberration - record of subjective distortion/ noise.

        3. Correlation of face-to-face and telemedicine patient outcomes and findings

      The 3D system will be permanently set up in a locked clinic room in a non-covid hospital. The
      system can be switched to 2D if required.

      The 3D telemedicine system will comprise:

        -  80/20 aluminium frame support for cameras

        -  8 3D cameras

        -  2 Patient LED screens

        -  Fusion and render computers

        -  At 'receiving' end - standard computer and LED screen

      The system will be simple to use - 3D images will be viewed on a screen and can be
      manipulated in space, enlarged, and frozen using mouse controls. The research team's
      industrial partner will have provided training of clinic staff on how to operate the
      equipment and support of the equipment during the data collection activity. Training of the
      participating clinicians will take the form of a short introductory session by the research
      team at the start of each research clinic. The patient will likewise be shown how to use the
      system, but there will be no need for the patient to use any controls or interface.

      Follow Up

      There is no follow up required - patients are only required to attend an extended clinic
      visit and complete the study questionnaires.
    
  