
    
      Primary Objectives

        -  Evaluate effectiveness of CPAP to reproducibly reduce tumor and organ motion during
           radiation therapy treatments.

        -  Determine if CPAP allows for a reduction in normal tissue receiving radiation in chest
           and abdomen tumors and reduce heart exposure for patients receiving left breast
           irradiation.

      Entry Criteria: This is a proof of concept and feasibility study. We propose to study 10
      patients in each group for a total of thirty patients.

      Eligibility criteria Group1. Lung tumors and nodules with tumor motion greater than 1 cm on
      standard imaging (n=10) Group2. Left sided breast tumors with unfavorable anatomy, viz heart
      abutting chest wall (n=10) Group3. Upper abdominal tumors: Liver and Pancreas with tumor
      motion greater than 1 cm. (n=10)

      Pretreatment evaluations/management for patients meeting eligibility criteria CPAP All
      patients will be evaluated by a pulmonologist for their respiratory performances including
      physical examination, oxygen saturation and pulmonary function tests including DLCO that will
      serve for baseline measures. Then, adjustment session will be performed aiming to get
      adjusted to a CPAP device till the maximal tolerated pressure is not more than 16 cmH20 (TBD)
      for 30 minutes.

      All patients must be able to tolerate CPAP and comply with daily treatment. 4D CT: CT
      simulation is the basis of conformal treatment planning [24, 25]. By using a slow acquisition
      time of 3 minutes the motion effects due to breathing can be captured and a 4D image
      generated. The tumor position can be imaged throughout the breathing cycle and a Maximum
      Intensity Projection (MIP) can be constructed and used in treatment planning. If there is no
      tumor motion the size of the MIP would equal the tumor size. The MIP size will increase with
      increasing tumor motion. The planning software allows us to calculate the MIP dimensions and
      volume. In addition total lung volumes and change in diaphragm position can be calculated
      (Figure 1). Radiation therapy planning parameters and volumetric analysis of tumor and normal
      tissue motion and position are calculated using available software and transferred to the
      Eclipse treatment planning system [17].

      Treatment Planning:

      The Eclipse treatment planning system will be used to generate and compare plans for
      treatment with and without CPAP.

      Details of Intervention

      Simulation All treatment planning and CPAP evaluation will be done in the radiation therapy
      department. Patients will be simulated on the Phillips 4D big bore CT simulator. The 4D scan
      which is done slowly over several minutes allows us to assess the full range of tumor motion
      throughout the respiratory cycle. An ITV is calculated which includes the actual tumor size
      with an expansion to account for the range of motion of the tumor by accounting for tumor
      location throughout the respiratory cycle (MIP) The MIP is the basis for the ITV and is the
      structure used for treatment planning. Patients recruited for the study will be re-simulated
      with the patient in the same position while undergoing CPAP treatment. ITV size and volume
      will be calculated for the tumor in in both the standard and CPAP studies and used for
      planning.

      RPM: Diaphragm motion and respiratory cycle information will be obtained using the RPM for
      both the standard and the CPAP simulations. Differences in the respiratory wave cycle will be
      recorded [17].

      The MIP/ITV images will be transferred to the Eclipse treatment planning system and using
      both the standard breathing and CPAP simulations treatment plans will be generated. Standard
      radiation plan evaluation parameters will be used and plans compared with respect to tumor
      coverage and normal tissue and normal tissue in the radiation field.

      Radiation Plan:

      Identical field arrangements will be generated for CPAP and non CPAP plans. Plans will be
      evaluated using standard radiation therapy planning parameters including: MIP or ITV, total
      lung volume, volume of GTV/CTV/PTV/ V20 and MLD.

      Pre treatment Compare standard conformal radiation plans using Eclipse treatment planning
      system for each patient with and without CPAP.

      RPM tracings with and without CPAP will be compared for all groups pre- treatment.
    
  