
    
      Cork University Hospital is a designated cancer centre, under the national Cancer Control
      Programme treating in excess of 560 new cases of breast cancer each year. Breast surgery is
      performed by five specialist breast surgeons, with patients accessing services from either
      the National Cancer Screening Programme (BreastCheck) or via referral from family physicians
      to the rapid access symptomatic breast assessment unit. Both acute and persistent pain
      following incisional breast surgery is a significant problem. In the past, it has been
      reported that up to 50% of women undergoing incisional breast surgery experience significant
      pain immediately following surgery. One in three women may develop persistent post surgical
      pain lasting greater than 3 months. The use of multimodal analgesic regimen to include
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, paracetamol, low dose opiates and importantly local
      anaesthetic techniques have seen a significant improvement in post-operative pain management
      following incisional breast surgery. Local anaesthetic techniques such as paravertebral
      blockade have become commonplace in the management of pain following major incisional breast
      surgery.

      Current budgetary difficulties have brought increased pressures to bear upon the use and
      availability of hospital beds. This has resulted in a shift from an inpatient model of care
      to a day case model. More than 85% of all breast cancer surgery is performed as day cases
      (same day admission/discharge). The remainder of breast cancer surgeries require a same day
      admission with variable length of stay post-operatively. Pain is a significant determinant of
      length of post operative stay. Patients with moderate to severe pain are less independent,
      require assistance with basic care, consume opiate analgesics, suffer opiate-related side
      effects, are less compliant with post-operative physiotherapy and consume more healthcare
      resources than patients with mild or no pain. Therefore the design and implementation of an
      effective pain management strategy for women undergoing major incisional breast surgery is an
      essential component to the overall perioperative patient care pathway.

      Since 2010, patients undergoing major incisional breast surgery through BreastCheck at Cork
      University Hospital have received a multimodal analgesic regimen during and following surgery
      which is based upon the use of local anaesthetic continuous wound infiltration (CWI). The
      efficacy of CWI following mastectomy has been found to be equivalent to the gold standard
      paravertebral block. Similarly, the efficacy of CWI in women undergoing axillary lymph node
      dissection has previously been demonstrated. The clinical experience of women undergoing
      mastectomy with axillary clearance or sentinel node surgery suggest equivalence between
      paravertebral analgesia and CWI.

      Since January 2013, women undergoing major breast cancer surgery at Cork University Hospital
      have been enrolled in a prospective cohort study to evaluate the efficacy of an enhanced
      perioperative pathway. Elements of this pathway include improved process flow with the
      establishment of dedicated preoperative assessment and preadmission clinics, day of surgery
      hospital admission and an admission lounge adjacent to the operating theatres, standardised
      anaesthesia, analgesia and surgical protocols, goal based immediate post-operative recovery,
      early independent ambulation and enteral nutrition, active discharge planning and early
      assessment of hospital discharge readiness. Although women following major breast cancer
      surgery achieve hospital discharge readiness scores early, the length of hospital stay is
      determined by institutional and individual clinician convention, rather than objective
      assessment of home readiness.

      Parallel to work on the enhanced perioperative pathway, clinicians at Cork University
      Hospital have devised APP based technology which will be integrated into the perioperative
      pathway. Prior to surgery, the APPs will provide both clinician and user generated
      educational material relating to first person perspective on perioperative experiences. In
      the post-operative phase, the technology will enable clinicians to monitor and interact with
      patients remotely, thereby facilitating early hospital discharge. The technology will also
      enable patients to communicate anonymously with each other, generating contemporaneous
      communities of recovery.

      The objectives of this work are threefold:

      to identify, characterise and manage barriers to safe discharge within 23 hours of major
      breast cancer surgery; to evaluate the feasibility of discharging a select cohort of patients
      at 23 hours following major breast cancer surgery with indwelling CWI as the mainstay of post
      operative analgesia to evaluate the analgesic efficacy of CWI in women discharged within 23
      hours of major breast cancer surgery

      Primary Endpoint:

      The analgesic efficacy and safety of CWI in women discharged home within 23 hours of major
      breast cancer surgery as assessed by patient reported pain scores 24 and 48 hours discharge,
      and surveillance to detect adverse events associated with CWI use.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Quality of recovery at 24 & 48 hours (QoR 40) Analgesic Consumption at 24 & 48 hours Wound
      drain output at 24 & 48 hours Patient Satisfaction Score

      Preoperatively, patients will be screened at the preassessment clinic and their suitability
      for 23 hour discharge will be assessed according to institutional norms. The patients will
      receive preoperative, nurse delivered education regarding wound care and wound drain
      management. A mutually agreed discharge plan will be designed between the patient and the
      multidisciplinary team. The patient will receive their perioperative technology device and
      become familiar with the educational and communications functionality contained within.

      On the day of surgery patients will be admitted to the operating theatre day of surgery area
      (DOSA). In DOSA they will have the opportunity to meet the perioperative team again and ask
      any outstanding questions. They will then change into a theatre gown and enter the operating
      theatre.

      This patient cohort will receive standard propofol TIVA (T4 TIVA protocol attached). With
      standard monitoring in place (pulse oximetry, electrocardiography, non-invasive arterial
      blood pressure and inspired and end- tidal partial pressures of O2 and CO2), patients will
      receive preinduction Fentanyl 100mcg and Midazolam 2mg. Entropy processed frontal lobe EEG
      monitoring will be attached. Anaesthesia will be induced with propofol target controlled
      infusion (Marsh Algorithm; 4-6mcg/ml dose range using 2% Propofol) and the lungs will be
      assist ventilated in 65% oxygen/air mixture. Airway and intraoperative fluid management is
      entirely at the discretion of the responsible consultant anaesthetist.

      Intraoperative analgesia:

      Patients will receive Diclofenac 75mg and Paracetamol 1g during surgery. Administration of
      intraoperative morphine up to 0.1mg/kg will be at the discretion of the consultant
      anaesthetist. All patients will be given PONV prophylaxis with ondansetron 4mg and
      dexamethasone 8mg intraoperatively.

      Wound soakage with 40ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 adrenaline will be performed by
      the surgeon, allowing a minimum of 3 minute soakage time prior to wound closure. Two multiple
      port catheters will be placed by the surgeon, one directed towards the chest wound and the
      other towards the axillary wound. These catheters will then be connected up to the prefilled
      INFUSOR single use pump delivering 5 ml/hr of 0.25% bupivacaine.

      Postoperatively, all patients will be transferred from theatre to the post anaesthesia care
      unit (PACU) where they will remain until PACU discharge criteria are met. In the PACU, if
      patients experience pain, 10 ml of 2% Lidocaine will be administered through the catheters in
      CWI in the first instance. Morphine 2mg IV PRN may be administered as rescue analgesia if
      required thereafter. Patients may be administered additional antiemetics (Ondansetron) in the
      PACU.

      Following transfer to the ward, all patients will receive a standard analgesic regimen of
      Diclofenac sodium, 75 mg PO 12 hourly/ PRN and Paracetamol, 1 g PO/PR, 6 hourly /PRN, and
      Oxycodone (Oxynorm) 10mg 4 hourly /PRN.

      While in hospital, data in relation to patient recovery, pain and complications will be
      recorded using Cork University Hospital's perioperative pathway clinical data sheet.
      Following discharge, postoperative data will be collected using a bespoke android app
      specifically designed to capture outcome measures on the first and second post operative
      days. The app gathers anonymised data in relation to pain (slide-rule page analogous to the
      visual analogue score), quality of recovery (QoR40 Score), wound drain output in millilitres
      and patient satisfaction on a likert-type scale. Data will be collected following discharge
      on the first and second postoperative days. Participants will be encouraged to provide
      free-text feedback in relation to their healthcare experience. Any adverse events will be
      monitored, recorded and treated appropriately.

      Summary data with respect to the primary and secondary endpoints will be presented. Where
      appropriate, 95% confidence intervals will be calculated.
    
  