
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate analgesic efficacy of orally administered VTS-K (liquid oral ketamine taken
      simultaneously with VTS-Aspirin and oral ketamine (in a liquid form)) for pain management of
      adult ED patients presenting to the ED with acute musculoskeletal pain

      HYPOTHESIS

      In our pilot study we hypothesize that the VTS-K combination will result in analgesia with a
      change in pain score at least of 1.3 points on NRS. The primary outcome of this trial is the
      reduction in participant's pain scores at 60 minutes post medication administration.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Subjects: Patients 18 years of age and older presenting to the ED with acute musculoskeletal
      painful conditions (traumatic and non-traumatic) with a an initial pain score of 5 or more on
      a standard 11- point (0 to 10) numeric rating scale and requiring oral analgesia as
      determined by the treating attending physician. Patients' screening and enrollment will be
      performed by study investigators and research assistants. All patients will be enrolled at
      various times of the day when study investigators will be available for patient enrollment
      and an ED pharmacist will be available for medication preparation

      Eligibility Criteria: Patients 18 years of age and older presenting to the ED with acute
      musculoskeletal painful conditions (traumatic and non-traumatic) with an initial pain score
      of 5 on a standard 11- point (0 to 10) numeric rating scale. Patients will have to be awake,
      alert, and oriented to person, place, and time, and will be able to demonstrate understanding
      of the informed consent process and content. Patients also will have to demonstrate ability
      to verbalize the nature of any adverse effects they might experience as well as to express
      their pain severity by using the NRS.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients with altered mental status, allergy to aspirin and ketamine,
      pregnant patients, unstable vital signs (systolic blood pressure <90 or>180 mm Hg, pulse rate
      <50 or >150 beats/min, and respiration rate <10 or >30 breaths/min), inability to provide
      consent, consumption of Aspirin or NSAID's within 6 hours of arrival to the ED, active PUD,
      history of GI Hemorrhage, history of renal and hepatic insufficiency, past medical history of
      alcohol or drug abuse, or schizophrenia.

      Design: This is a prospective observational pilot trail evaluating analgesic efficacy and
      safety of VTS-K in adult patients presenting to the ED of Maimonides Medical Center with
      acute musculoskeletal painful conditions. Upon meeting the eligibility criteria, patients
      will be offered to participate in the study.

      Data Collection Procedures: Each patient will be approached by a study investigator for
      acquisition of written informed consent and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
      Act authorization after being evaluated by the treating emergency physician and determined to
      meet study eligibility criteria. When English will not be the participant's primary language,
      a language- appropriate consent form will be used and non-investigator, hospital-employed,
      trained interpreters or licensed telephone interpreter will assist in acquisition of informed
      consent. Baseline pain score will be determined with an 11-point numeric rating scale (0 to
      10), described to the patient as "no pain" being 0 and "the worst pain imaginable" being 10.
      A study investigator will record the patient's body weight and baseline vital signs.

      The on-duty ED pharmacist will prepare an oral dose of ketamine by using a formulary for
      parenteral use. The oral dosing regimen of ketamine is 0.5 mg/kg that will be placed in the
      syringe or a medication cup. The research associate will deliver both medications
      (VTS-Aspirin and Oral Ketamine) to the patient. Study investigators will record pain scores
      and adverse effects at 15, 30, 60, and 90 minutes. If patients reported a pain numeric rating
      scale score of 5 or greater and requested additional pain relief, an oral immediate release
      morphine tablet of 7.5 mg will be given

      All data will be recorded on data collection sheets, including patients' sex, demographics,
      medical history, and vital signs, and entered into SPSS (version 24.0; IBM Corp) by the
      research manager. Confirmation of written consent acquisition for all participants, and
      statistical analyses will be conducted by the statistician, who will work independently of
      any data collection.

      Patients will be closely monitored for adverse effects during the entire study period (up to
      90 minutes) by study investigators. Common adverse effects that are associated with oral
      ketamine are felling of unreality, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, and sedation. Common adverse
      effects are associated with VTS-Aspirin are nausea, dyspepsia, epigastric discomfort.
    
  