
    
      Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) can modulate neuronal activity and has
      been shown to improve symptoms in patients with schizophrenia, but the underlying neural
      mechanism is unknown.This study hypothesized that repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation of the cerebellar vermis can alter the ciliary-related functional connections in
      schizophrenia, thereby improving negative symptoms, cognitive function, and emotional
      symptoms. Therefore, this study will firstly explore the difference in cerebellar functional
      connectivity between patients and healthy controls, and on this basis, patients undergo a
      resting state functional magnetic resonance scan before and after rTMS intervention in the
      cerebellar vermis, and observe the cerebellar function connection in the treatment. Before
      and after changes, analyze the relationship between these changes and clinical efficacy to
      explore the neural mechanisms of efficacy.

        1. Aim of the study 1.1 Using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging to
           observe the differences in cerebellar functional connections between schizophrenia
           patients and healthy controls, and to further understand the role of cerebellar
           abnormalities in the clinical symptoms of schizophrenia; 1.2 Provide evidence-based
           evidence and imaging evidence for the clinical efficacy of rTMS intervention in
           cerebellar palsy for patients with schizophrenia, and further understand the neural
           mechanism of efficacy.

        2. Content of the study 2.1 Based on previous studies, this study will use resting-state
           functional magnetic resonance imaging to observe abnormalities in behavioral and
           cerebellar neural networks in patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy
           controls, and to explore these abnormalities and schizophrenia. The relationship between
           clinical symptoms. 2.2 According to the research hypothesis, this study will perform a
           resting-state functional magnetic resonance scan of the patient before and after rTMS
           intervention in the cerebellar vermis. The functional connection analysis method is used
           to observe the changes of the cerebellar nerve network before and after treatment, and
           the imaging data and clinical evaluation. The data of the scale is combined to explore
           the neural mechanisms of treatment.

        3. Study design This study used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to
           investigate the differences in cerebrospinal function connections between schizophrenia
           and healthy controls. Based on this, a randomized double-blind control design was used
           to study the repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of the cerebellar vermis for
           patients with schizophrenia. The clinical efficacy of the treatment and the neural
           mechanisms of the therapeutic effect. Inpatients with schizophrenia were admitted to the
           Shanghai Mental Health Center, and patients who met the criteria and successfully
           enrolled were randomly grouped (by random number table method), corresponding to the
           rTMS true stimulation group or the rTMS pseudo-stimulation group. Except for the rTMS
           operator, neither the patient nor the evaluator of the scale knew the patient's
           grouping.
    
  