
    
      Physiatrists use back braces (lumbar support, back corset, semi-rigid brace, and lumbar
      orthotic) for symptomatic management of patients' chronic low back pain (CLBP) despite very
      poor evidence supporting their use in the few published studies that have examined them.
      Evidence supporting back braces in other populations, such as pregnant women, and patients
      with sub-acute or acute low back pain, is better established. However, the benefits of back
      braces in the CLBP population are very unclear.

      A Cochrane review on the role of lumbar supports in treating chronic LBP revealed that
      limited evidence was available, which led to the conclusion that, "it remains unclear whether
      lumbar supports are more effective than no or other interventions for treating low-back
      pain." The research emphasized the need for high quality randomized trials evaluating the
      effectiveness of back braces, and also recommended that compliance of brace wear be
      monitored.

      The mechanism by which back braces might help patients with CLBP is also unclear. The
      semi-rigid design of the commonly used back brace does not mechanically limit movement enough
      to suggest that movement limitation is the mechanism by which back braces provide relief.
      However, some studies have suggested that back braces help patients with CLBP by providing
      postural support or a kinesthetic reminder of their posture. Using posturography, Munoz et
      al., studied the forces applied by lumbar bracing and concluded that back braces seem to help
      by improving the quality of balance strategy used by the patient. Another mechanism by which
      back braces are believed to help patients is by providing warmth underneath the brace.

      There is poor published information regarding adherence to instructions (compliance) about
      the use of back braces. Based on the investigators' anecdotal clinical experience, adherence
      rates vary widely among patients who are prescribed back braces, ranging from non-use to
      constant use around the clock. Poor adherence to instructions can be a significant factor
      resulting in inconclusive evidence supporting the role of back brace in patients with CLBP. A
      recent study showed that a strong predictor for consistent adherence to back brace usage was
      a positive attitude towards it. In this study, positive attitude towards the back brace
      explained 41% of the variance in outcomes. In addition, investigators found that perceived
      benefit from the brace outweighed any subjective discomfort.

      Back braces have been used as adjunctive therapy in addition to other conservative care
      options. A recent study evaluated the cumulative effect of bracing to exercise and found that
      bracing helps to increase trunk stiffness and augments muscle contractions, which may remind
      the patients to better comply with exercise instructions. This suggested a potential
      synergistic effect of bracing and exercise in the management of patients with CLBP.
    
  