
    
      Primary research question:

      Has the rate of hospital admissions for acute respiratory tract infections (RTIs) among
      children aged 14 years and under decreased following the 1 July 2007 introduction of a ban on
      smoking in public places in England?

      Study design:

      Interrupted time series design

      Study population:

      The population at risk or is the number of children aged 14 years and under living in England
      at any time during the study period. The age restriction is applied to minimise the potential
      effect of self-smoking on the outcome.

      Intervention:

      The intervention under study is the ban on smoking in enclosed public places implemented in
      England 1 July 2007.

      Study period:

      The study period is 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2012. This is the maximum time period
      surrounding the ban's introduction for which both denominator (population at risk) and
      numerator (number of hospitalisations) data are available through the data sources at the
      geographical area level required.

      Outcome:

      The primary outcome is the rate of unplanned hospital admissions for acute RTIs. Secondary
      outcomes include the rate of unplanned hospital admissions for acute upper RTIs (URTIs), and
      the rate of unplanned hospital admissions for acute lower RTIs (LRTIs). Admissions containing
      both a diagnosis of an URTI and a LRTI will be counted as a LRTI only. The secondary outcomes
      are thus mutually exclusive.

      The following International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 codes will be used to
      identify acute RTIs:

      URTIs: A37, H66-H67, J02.0, J00-J06, J09-J11 (excluding J10.0, J11.0) LRTIs: J10.0, J11.0,
      J12-J18, J20-J22, J40-J42 Only unplanned hospitalisations where either a primary or first
      secondary diagnosis of an acute RTI is recorded, will be included. Admissions with a primary
      diagnosis of asthma are excluded to prevent overlap with a previous study assessing the
      impact of the English smoking ban on paediatric asthma hospitalisations. Transfers between
      hospitals following initial admission will not be included. As a unique patient identifier is
      not available in the source database, it is not possible to distinguish between first and
      subsequent admissions for individual children.

      Data sources:

      Data on the number of unplanned hospital admissions for acute RTIs will be derived from the
      Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) database governed by the Health and Social Care Information
      Centre (HSCIC). HES contains individual-level data on all hospital admissions at National
      Health Services (NHS) hospitals across England. Mid-year population estimates to define the
      population at risk will be obtained through the Office for National Statistics (ONS).

      Data extraction and handling:

      The number of unplanned hospital admissions for acute RTIs among children aged 0-14 years as
      extracted from HES will be aggregated by HSCIC into strata based on all possible combinations
      of the following covariates: age group (0-4 years; 5-9 years; 10-14 years), sex (male;
      female), Middle Super Output Area (MSOA), admission month, and admission year. MSOA is a
      geographical indicator for areas with 5,000 to 15,000 inhabitants. A count variable
      indicating the corresponding number of hospitalisations will thus be assigned to each
      stratum.

      Mid-year population estimates according to strata based on all possible combinations of the
      same covariates will be extracted. Monthly population estimates will then be calculated via
      linear extrapolation of mid-year estimates.

      The following additional covariates will be obtained by linking the specific indicators at
      MSOA-level: region, urbanisation level, and socioeconomic status (SES). MSOA will then be
      dropped as a covariate and counts will be aggregated into strata based on combinations of the
      following covariates: age group, sex, region, urbanisation level, SES, admission month, and
      admission year. RTI hospitalisation rates will be calculated for each stratum.

      Sample size:

      Sample size calculation for time-oriented analyses is complicated given the complexity of the
      models, and in a way redundant given that nationwide data are being used for the current
      study. No prior studies have specifically evaluated changes in the number of hospital
      admissions for respiratory infections among children following the introduction of smoke-free
      legislation.

      In a previous epidemiological evaluation of the Scottish smoking ban a highly significant
      (p<0.001) annual drop in asthma hospitalisations of 18% (95% confidence interval (CI) 15-22)
      was found among children <15 years of age. Meta-analyses of observational studies indicate
      that second-hand smoke exposure is associated with higher risk of respiratory tract
      infections in infancy (OR 1.54 (95% CI 1.40-1.69) for lower respiratory tract infections in
      infancy and 1.62 (95% CI 1.33-1.97) for middle ear disease in childhood) when compared to
      incident and current asthma in children (OR 1.21 (95% CI 1.08-1.36), and 1.30 (95% CI
      1.22-1.39), respectively. This indicates that smoke-free legislation is likely to have a
      larger effect on acute respiratory infections than asthma. Furthermore, paediatric hospital
      admissions for acute respiratory infections are more common than for asthma, and the study
      period for the current study is longer than compared to the previous asthma study. Therefore,
      the current study is expected to have ample power to detect a significant and clinically
      relevant drop in hospitalisations for respiratory infections, if present.

      Statistical analysis:

      Relevant population determinants will be described for the pre and postban periods.
      Aggregated hospitalisation rates will be modelled over the study period using an interrupted
      time series approach. Changes following the introduction of smoke-free legislation will be
      studied, taking into account seasonal patterns in RTI rates and the potential effect of
      relevant covariates (age group, sex, region, urbanisation level, SES). Final model selection
      will be based on the corrected Aikaike's Information Criterion (cAIC).

      On 4 September 2006 the 7-valent pneumococcal vaccine (PCV) was introduced into the childhood
      immunisations schedule at 2, 4, and 13 months of age, with a catch-up programme for children
      born from 5 September 2004. The relative contribution of true pneumococcal infections to the
      total burden of admissions for respiratory infections, the majority of which is likely to be
      of viral aetiology, is expected to be small. However, considering the close temporal
      proximity of PCV introduction to that of the smoking ban a sensitivity analysis will be
      performed to study its potential effect on the impact estimation of the smoking ban.

      All analyses will be performed for both the primary and the secondary outcomes using Stata
      12.0.
    
  