
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Bioresorbable scaffolds (BRS) represent a novel approach during percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI), which provides transient vessel support with drug-delivery capability
      without the long-term limitations (very late stent thrombosis) of the metallic drug-eluting
      stents. Patients with Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) often feature
      thrombus-rich lesions with large necrotic core, which may be associated with delayed arterial
      healing and impaired stent-related outcomes. Besides clinical indication and underlying
      plaque morphology, sufficient and potent strut coverage depends on several additional factors
      (patient characteristics, stent type and procedural factors). Particularly, acute incomplete
      stent apposition is a strong procedural risk factor for later deficient neointimal coverage.
      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a high-resolution intravascular imaging modality, that
      enables in-vivo evaluation of the immediate stenting result, and the vascular healing pattern
      including strut coverage at follow-up.

      AIM:

      The objective of this study is to investigate if OCT-guided Magmaris BRS implantation in
      patients with NSTEMI can improve the coronary arterial healing at 6 months compared to
      routine angiographic guidance only. Further to investigate if the plaque composition/lipid
      content will influence on the vascular healing.

      METHOD:

      The study is designed as a prospective, randomized trial. After pre-dilation, patients will
      be randomly assigned to either: (1) OCT-guided PCI, or (2) angio-guided PCI with Magmaris BRS
      implantation. In the OCT-guided group, OCT will be used for vessel and BRS sizing. After
      Magmaris BRS implantation the result will be controlled with OCT and: 1) BRS under expansion
      and/or, 2) strut malapposition and/or, 3) edge dissection- and/or 4) residual stenosis at the
      distal and/or proximal reference segment(s) that may require further intervention. A final
      OCT will be performed in case of re-intervention.

      In the angio-guided group an OCT will be performed only after angiography final and
      acceptable result.

      A follow-up OCT will be performed after 6 months in all patients to assess the vascular
      healing and a vasomotor test will be performed in half of the patients. After 12 months the
      dynamic changes in vascular healing will be assessed in the first enrolled half of the
      patients.
    
  