
    
      This is a 24-week, Phase III multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy,
      parallel-group study. Eligible subjects will be randomized to GSK573719/GW642444 125/25mcg,
      GSK573719/GW642444 62.5/25mcg, GW642444 25mcg, or tiotropium treatment groups in a 1:1:1:1
      ratio. Treatments will be administered once-daily in the morning by inhalation using a Novel
      Dry Powder Inhaler (Novel DPI) and HandiHaler. There will be a total of 9 study clinic visits
      conducted on an outpatient basis. Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria at Screening
      (Visit 1) will complete a 7 to 10 day run-in period followed by a 24-week treatment period.
      Clinic visits will be at Screening, Randomization (Day 1), Day 2, after 4, 8, 12, 16, and
      24-weeks of treatment, and 1 day after the Week 24 Visit (also referred as Treatment Day
      169). A follow-up contact for adverse assessment will be conducted by telephone approximately
      7 days after Visit 9 or the Early Withdrawal Visit. The total duration of subject
      participation, including follow-up will be approximately 26 weeks. All subjects will be
      provided with albuterol/salbutamol for use on an "as-needed" basis throughout the run-in and
      study treatment periods. At screening, pre-bronchodilator spirometry testing will be followed
      by post-albuterol/salbutamol spirometry testing. Post-albuterol/salbutamol FEV1 and
      FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) values will be used to determine subject eligibility. To
      further characterize bronchodilator responsiveness, post-ipratropium testing will be
      conducted following completion of post-albuterol/salbutamol spirometry. Spirometry will be
      conducted at each post-randomization clinic visit. Six hour post-dose serial spirometry will
      be conducted at Visits 2, 6, and 8. Trough spirometry will be obtained 23 and 24 hours after
      the previous day's dose of blinded study medication at Visits 3 to 9. All subjects will be
      provided with an electronic diary (eDiary) for completion daily in the morning and the
      evening throughout the run-in and treatment periods. Subjects will use the eDiary to record
      peak expiratory flow (PEF) each morning, dyspnea scores using the Shortness of Breath with
      Daily Activities instrument (SOBDA), daily use of supplemental albuterol/salbutamol as either
      puffs/day from a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) and/or nebules used per day, and any healthcare
      contacts related to COPD. Additional assessments of dyspnea will be obtained using the
      Baseline and Transition Dyspnea Index (BDI/TDI) which is an interviewer based instrument. At
      Visit 2, the severity of dyspnea at baseline will be assessed using the BDI. At subsequent
      visits (Visits 4, 6, and 8) change from baseline will be assessed using the TDI. General
      health status will be evaluated using the subject-completed EQ-5D questionnaire at Visits 2,
      4, 6, and 8. Disease specific health status will be evaluated using the subject-completed St.
      George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) at Visits 2, 4, 6, and 8, and the subject-completed
      COPD Assessment Test (CAT) at Visits 2, 6, and 8. The occurrence of adverse events will be
      evaluated throughout the study beginning at Visit 2. SAEs will be collected over the same
      time period as for AEs. However, any SAEs assessed as related to study participation (e.g.,
      study treatment, protocol-mandated procedures, invasive tests, or change in existing therapy)
      or related to a GSK concomitant medication, will be recorded from the time a subject consents
      to participate in the study up to and including any follow up contact. Additional safety
      assessments of vital signs (blood pressure and pulse rate), 12-lead ECGs and standard
      clinical laboratory tests (hematology and chemistry) will be obtained at selected clinic
      visits.
    
  