
    
      Abstract: Research Question:

      Estimates are that there will be 854,000 severely visually impaired veterans in the year 2005
      and 890,000 in the year 2010. Statistics, based upon the 2000 census, suggest that it will be
      well into the next decade before the number of severely visually impaired veterans begins to
      decrease. Waiting time for admission to VA blind rehabilitation centers (BRCs) is often a
      year or more. Low vision services are an important aspect of blind rehabilitation, as 85% of
      veterans admitted to BRCs have useful remaining vision. In the private sector, low vision
      services are provided in outpatient settings. Yet, legally blind veterans are still
      encouraged, if not required, to attend regional inpatient programs to obtain therapy with low
      vision devices because a reimbursement model is not available for outpatient blind
      rehabilitation and few low vision outpatient clinics have rehabilitation professionals to
      provide this training. The VA system needs alternative service delivery options for veterans
      who are unable to participate in inpatient rehabilitation. Outpatient low vision programs
      should provide continuity of care with the regional BRC programs and insure local access to
      low vision care that is high quality, timely, and cost-effective. Currently, the VERA
      Reimbursement Model allocates $27,826 per blind rehabilitation admission. Outpatient low
      vision programs have the potential to substitute for inpatient low vision services and more
      costly inpatient rehabilitation programs may not be necessary for higher functioning
      veterans. The purpose of the proposed research is to measure the effectiveness of a low
      vision outpatient program for legally blind veterans with central vision loss from macular
      diseases that could be provided at local VA facilities.

      Specific Objectives are to:

        1. Compare the mean change in self-report of difficulty performing daily activities
           measured with the Veteran's Affairs Low Vision Visual Function Questionnaire - 48 (VA LV
           VFQ-48) reading domain scores from baseline to 4 months after randomization [two months
           after veterans participate in a low vision outpatient program or usual care (waiting
           list) control group].

        2. Determine if the mean change in VA LV VFQ-48 composite and reading domain scores from
           baseline to 4 months after randomization [two months after veterans participate in a low
           vision outpatient program or usual care (waiting list) control group] can be predicted
           by baseline measures of visual impairment, functional status and life state or explained
           by measures of functional status after rehabilitation.

        3. Perform an economic evaluation of costs and cost-effectiveness of the low vision
           outpatient program.

        4. Compare the mean change in VA LV VFQ-48 scores from the clinical trial from baseline to
           4 months after randomization (two months after veterans participate in a low vision
           outpatient program) to historical data on the mean change in VA LV VFQ-48 scores from
           the Hines BRC program.

      Hypothesis: Compared to the usual care (waiting list) control group, veterans in the
      treatment group will self-report a reduction of .78 logits or more in difficulty performing
      daily living activities measured by the VA LV VFQ-48 reading domain scores from baseline to 4
      months after randomization (two months after veterans participate in a low vision outpatient
      program).The .78 logit change is clinically significant, as this improvement corresponds to
      the change in visual ability that would accompany a 6-line improvement on an EDTRS visual
      acuity chart.

      Significance: The NIH includes visual impairment, chronic visual deficiencies that impair
      everyday function that are not correctable by ordinary glasses, among the 10 most prevalent
      causes of disability in America. Persons confronted with vision loss often feel limited and
      frustrated performing everyday activities such as reading, traveling from place to place, and
      recognizing objects or people. As a result, they may experience loss of self esteem, social
      isolation, difficulty working and reduced independence. The low vision team evaluates the
      level of remaining vision, prescribes special lenses or devices and techniques for using
      remaining vision more effectively. Low vision rehabilitation restores independence by
      enabling persons with vision loss to perform daily living tasks independently at home, at
      work or within the community.

      Research Design: the proposed study is a randomized clinical trial conducted at two sites.
      Subjects are 122 legally blind veterans from Hines Hospital and Heffner VAMC. Veterans will
      be randomized to treatment from a new low vision outpatient program or a usual care (waiting
      list) control group. Following a low vision examination, veterans in the treatment group will
      receive 5 (2-2 1/2 hour) therapy sessions at the local VA sites and one home visit to
      evaluate the home environment and set up prescribed devices. The primary outcome measure is
      change in reading domain scores on the VA LV VFQ-48, a telephone questionnaire where subjects
      self-report their difficulty performing daily living activities in the community. Other
      measures include, instructors rating of veteran's visual skills and use of low vision devices
      after rehabilitation, visual skills for reading (PEPPER VSRT), health status (SF-36), and
      symptoms of depression (CES-D). Outcomes will be compared with T tests. Multiple linear
      regression models will be used to identify predictors and explain outcomes. Costs and cost
      effectiveness of outpatient treatment compared to treatment in an inpatient BRC will be
      evaluated.
    
  