
    
      BACKGROUND Pain in conjunction with dental treatment should be avoided, especially when
      treating children. Many dental procedures may result in procedural and/or postoperative pain.
      There is a well-documented relationship between perceived pain during dental treatment, and
      the development of dental fear and anxiety. This may lead to suffering for the patient,
      avoidance of dental care, and increasing treatment costs for the individual and society.
      Dental care professionals are responsible for providing as painless dental treatments as
      possible to their child patients. Earlier studies have pointed towards an underusage of local
      anesthetics when providing dental care to children. Though previous studies have not been
      able to fully answer why this is. Thus, the aim of this study is to gain knowledge into how
      dental professionals and students experience and relate to the child patient's experience of
      pain during and after dental treatment.

      METHOD This is a qualitative study using Grounded Theory (GT). Dental students in their last
      two years of education and dental professionals (dentists, dental hygienists, and dental
      assistants), will be consecutively enrolled after signing an informed consent form.

      In-depth interviews of approximately one hour each will be performed with the informants at a
      place of their convenience. Appropriate measures will be taken regarding public health
      recommendations in effect due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

      In GT no sample size calculation is done. Participants will be included until saturation in
      data is reached, i.e. no new information can be obtained from further interviews. In GT this
      is often achieved after 10-15 interviews, but due to the scope of this study involving
      several different professionals and students it is likely the number of informants will be
      closer to 25. All interviews will be tape recorded, and without delay, the interviews will be
      transcribed verbatim. Data analyses and data collection will be done in tandem. The
      transcribed interviews will be analyzed, and codes identified. These codes will then be
      merged into different preliminary categories. In the following axial coding process, each
      category will be further developed by identifying common dimensions and characteristics
      (subcategories). Relations between data and categories is sought, and hereby a new whole is
      created. Selective coding will lead to data saturation and validation. Saturation can also be
      achieved by already retrieved data being re-coded.

      KNOWLEDGE GAINS GT is a theory generating method. This is especially suitable for research
      areas where theories are scarce or lacking. A lot of research within the medical and dental
      field today, takes the perspective of the investigator, and far too seldom is the subjective
      experience of those directly affected (e.g. professionals and/or patients) heard. From this
      study we will gain new knowledge into dental professionals' and students' perception of the
      child patients' experiences of procedural and postoperative pain. These knowledge gains will
      be important for future research strategies related to pain. In the longer run the results
      can help lead to a better training of undergraduate students and professionals.
    
  