
    
      For almost 17 % of cases patients over 75 years are sent for inappropriate reasons to the
      emergency unit. They are described as inappropriate hospitalization because they don't
      require the use of technical platform or diagnostic neither therapeutic procedures under
      medical supervision. Those are inappropriate because the patient could have a paramedical and
      social care at home or in more efficient structures. The hospital remains the place of remedy
      for social and health situations whose resolution was not possible because of a lack of
      infrastructure available, of patient or his relative information, or a lack of coordination
      in medico-social establishment.

      These inappropriate hospitalizations involve an increase of length of stay that enhancing the
      fragility and vulnerability of the elderly. They have deleterious effects as decompensation,
      comorbidities and loss of autonomy.

      Moreover, the suffering of natural or informal caregivers is also an important public health
      question; Caregivers may have a serious disease resulting from caring their relative. That
      leads to increase their consumption of health care and medical goods.

      This comprehensive study will highlight the deficiencies of the actual health care through
      the analysis of the speech of the different parts involved (main study). Simultaneously, a
      comparative analysis of the costs of health care will be conducted (economic combined study).

      When a patient over 75 years will arrive in the emergency or geriatrics units of the
      University Hospital of Besançon and the reason for admission indicated in the hospital record
      will be " difficult home care " or " caregiver burn out " or any other reason unjustified
      from a strictly medical point of view, the investigator will ensure the patient's eligibility
      under the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria, and will do a review of appropriateness of
      hospital according Appropriate Assessment Protocol criteria.

      All patients corresponding to the inclusion criteria during the three months of the inclusion
      period will be identified in the reference population. Expected active file is fifteen
      patients in three months. The reference population of patients in the active file will be
      followed for six months. Steps of their health care will be identified and described in a
      questionnaire detailing the patient's pathway by collecting data on:

        -  Dates when they change their place of living or care,

        -  Places of living or care at every step.

      The qualitative study will include five patients of the reference population in order to
      describe, analyze and understand in depth their health care through semi-structured
      interviews. To analyze a variety of pathways, 5 patients will be selected in order to
      represent the heterogeneity of admission places (emergency or geriatric unit), as well as the
      places of origin (home institution).

      The interview will be also proposed to relevant people involved (health professionals,
      professional home) in the situation and at least to one relative designated by the patient.

      For each change of place of residence or place of care (or return at home) of the five
      patients, the interviews will be conducted with the patient and relevant stakeholders.

      At the end of the first step, the investigator will join to the outgoing mail, a document to
      ensure that the later steps of patient health care is collected. For each step, the referring
      health professional will have to do the same in order to compile data of the patient's
      pathway.

      Thus, from an estimate of three key steps to describe and analyze the healthcare trajectories
      of five patients during six months, 90 interviews will be conducted, transcribed and
      analyzed.

      The economic combined study will focus on the five patients followed in the qualitative
      study. This descriptive and prospective study will analyze the differential costs between the
      actual health care course and a more appropriate care course. The study will be conducted
      according to a "societal" perspective.

      The most appropriate health care courses will be selected by healthcare professionals who
      specialize in elderly care in the Besançon area (medical structures, gerontological
      network…). The patients actual care courses will be presented to them and they will
      collectively decide which care course would have been most appropriate for each patient.

      The costs of the actual and most appropriate courses will be evaluated as follows:

        -  Direct medical costs regarding hospitalizations, consultations, medical and technical
           procedures, laboratory and pathology costs, and medical transport expenses.

        -  Direct non-medical costs regarding social expenses (accommodation). Welfare received by
           the elderly patients; expenses of the elderly patients or their relatives related to
           special facilities and adaptation of the home. Allowances received by relatives in case
           of sick leave and the cost associated with consumption of medication and medical
           transport (sleep disorders, anxiety and depression, nutritional and memory disorders,
           cardiovascular disorders including hypertension, decompensation of chronic diseases...).

      These costs will be collected:

        -  in the patient's medical record,

        -  in the record compiled by the social worker,

        -  in the databases of Regional Health Authority of Franche-Comté

        -  in the hospital Discharge Abstract Database (PMSI)

        -  as well as with a questionnaire to patients and caregivers.

      The global expenditure related to the actual care course and the most appropriate course as
      defined by healthcare professionals will be calculated.

      Finally, this economic combined study will analyze the differential costs between current
      patient health care and a more relevant patient health care.
    
  