
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Gather allele-sharing statistics at approximately 100 candidate loci throughout the
           human genome most likely to influence genetic risk of cancer.

        -  Use these allele-sharing statistics to test the interaction of each locus individually
           with cancer-associated, rare alleles of HRAS1.

        -  Generalize this approach for one of four cancers (breast, colon, lung, or prostate),
           using allele-sharing statistics to test the interaction of each locus with every other
           locus.

        -  Replicate positive results in a distinct set of sibling pairs with cancer.

        -  Examine, when loci contributing to risk are detected, the influence of this genetic
           background on clinical outcomes, such as survival.

      OUTLINE: Each patient-sibling pair completes a family history questionnaire about the
      incidence of cancer in the family. Blood samples are obtained from both the patient and the
      sibling (and both living parents, if available).

      The blood samples are genotyped using approximately 300 micro-satellite markers flanking 100
      candidate genes previously implicated in genetic risk for cancer. Certain loci are a priority
      due to their association with HRAS1: BRCA1 and all known mismatch repair loci; other repair
      genes, such as ATM; the Bloom's syndrome locus; and the XRCC group. Other genes are also
      mapped.

      Patients do not receive the results of the genetic testing and the results do not influence
      the type and duration of treatment.

      Patients only are followed annually.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 1,000 patient-sibling pairs for breast cancer.
      After 18 months, another 1,000 patient-sibling pairs will be accrued for breast cancer.
      Therefore, up to 2,000 patient-sibling pairs will be accrued over 5 years. (Feasibility of
      accruing pairs for lung, colon, and prostate cancer is being assessed.)
    
  