
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      l. To determine whether the score on Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) obtained
      prior to treatment is associated with the ability of patients to complete four cycles of
      chemotherapy without dose reduction or a more than 7-day delay.

      II. To estimate by regimen the percentage of patients who are able to complete four cycles of
      chemotherapy regardless of dose reductions and delays.

      III. To compare actual and calculated carboplatin area under the curve (AUC) in this patient
      population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the percentage of patients who are entered after primary surgery versus those
      entered to receive primary or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the percentage of patients who are
      treated with each allowed regimen, and the percentage of patients who eventually receive
      surgery in the primary chemotherapy group.

      II. To determine whether the need for assistance with IADLs at time of registration is
      associated with choice of chemotherapy regimen (in both primary chemotherapy and primary
      surgery patients).

      III. To explore whether age, baseline scores on the geriatric measures (functional status,
      nutritional status, or co-morbidity) and quality-of-life (QOL) are correlated with likelihood
      of completing four courses of chemotherapy without dose reduction or a more than 7-day delay.

      IV. To explore reasons for and timing of dose reductions and delays. V. To describe
      toxicities, pre-/post-chemotherapy QOL, and pre-/post-chemotherapy scores on geriatric
      measures in this patient population.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore potential relationships of carboplatin AUC, paclitaxel clearance, and
      paclitaxel time above a plasma concentration of 0.05 mcM to nadir neutrophil and platelet
      counts during course 1 of treatment.

      II. To explore the association between baseline IADL and survival. III. To explore the
      association between IADL and the functional well-being (FWB) subscale in the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy ? Ovary (FACT-O).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive chemotherapy comprising carboplatin, paclitaxel, and filgrastim (regimen 1)
      or carboplatin alone (regimen 2) every 21 days for 4 courses according to their physicians
      and/or patients' choice. Patients may undergo surgery and/or further chemotherapy at the
      discretion of treating physician. Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and
      periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic studies.

      Patients' quality of life is assessed by the FACT-O, the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Treatment ? Neurotoxicity (FACT-Ntx subscale), the IADL, and the Ability to Complete Social
      Activity questionnaires at baseline, prior to courses 1 and 3, and then 3-6 weeks after
      completion of course 4. Nutritional status, such as body mass index and weight loss, and
      comorbidity and hearing impairment are also assessed.
    
  