
    
      Patients in both groups will receive dietary and postural advice from the treating physician.
      Patients in the experimental group will be treated with an early active swallowing therapy
      including a consultation with a speech and language therapist twice a week and a detailed
      program of swallowing auto-exercises twice a day, from the start to one month after the end
      of radiotherapy. All speech therapists will be given precise guidelines based on the current
      state of the art and knowledge. All patients will be analyzed in intent-to-treat.

      Two ancillary studies will complete this global concept of the evaluation and prediction of
      severe alteration of Quality of Life (QoL) and Dysphagia.

        1. A first study will evaluate videoradioscopy. Its objectives are to evaluate the ability
           of videoradioscopy at 3 months to predict poor QoL at 6 and 12 months, to identify
           videoradioscopic predictors of severe dysphagia, asymptomatic aspirations,
           cricopharyngeal stenoses and active swallowing rehabilitation efficiency. Each patient
           of both arms of the main study will undergo a videoradioscopy before the beginning of
           the radiation delivery (baseline evaluation), and at 3 and at 12 months. Data analysis
           will be centralized and will concern: APS (Aspiration and Penetration Scale) score,
           residue, Defective Laryngeal elevation, pharyngoesophageal sphincter dysfunction. Data
           will be correlated to the parameters of the main study in order to establish predictive
           models.

        2. A second ancillary study will evaluate the dose-volume histograms of radiotherapy. The
           objectives are to identify predictors of dysphagia and of active swallowing
           rehabilitation efficiency, and to establish "2D" and "3D" predictive models of
           dysphagia. Imaging and dosimetric data (IMRT (Intensity Modified RadioTherapy) planning)
           and dose-volume histogram will be collected from the patients of the main clinical
           trial. Analysis will be centralized. Data will be correlated to the parameters of the
           main study in order to establish predictive models.
    
  