
    
      Status epilepticus (SE) is a disorder with high mortality and morbidity. There are strong
      indications that ongoing seizure activity substantially reduces the chances on a good
      outcome. This implies that optimal treatment of SE should start as soon as possible.
      Unfortunately, treatment options are limited and often based on little evidence. Besides,
      current treatment options are hampered by serious side-effects like respiratory depression
      and impaired consciousness. Therefore, the advent of new and effective anti-epileptic drugs
      (AEDs) is of great potential interest for the treatment of SE. Presently, the newer AEDs are
      mainly used in later stages of SE at a time when the disease is often more difficult to
      control. The characteristics of one of these recently introduced anticonvulsants i.e.
      levetiracetam seems to provide a number of fortunate properties for application as first-line
      treatment of SE. The complicating side-effects of "classical" AEDs, like a decrease in
      cardiorespiratory function or in level of consciousness are hardly present. Besides,
      levetiracetam may lower the need for benzodiazepines, reducing chances on respiratory
      depression by benzodiazepines at higher doses. Due to a remarkable synergism with first-line
      administered benzodiazepines, levetiracetam may therefore reduce the need for intubation or
      ICU treatment. Besides, it may enhance the immediate cessation of seizures, prolong the
      anti-seizure activity of benzodiazepines and provide neuroprotective properties. The
      sustained efficacy of levetiracetam would suggest that long term sequelae secondary to
      neurological damage, may also be reduced. Levetiracetam IV has recently been shown to be safe
      in healthy volunteers, and becomes available for iv application in clinical practice, early
      2006. To date, there are hardly any data available on its applicability in medical
      emergencies like SE. We propose as a first step the executing of a phase II study on
      tolerability and safety of intravenous levetiracetam in patients with SE. Current first-line
      treatment of SE consists of standardized administration of benzodiazepines. For the study we
      propose to apply this regimen together with the iv administration of levetiracetam as add-on
      therapy.
    
  