
    
      Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and Flash glucose monitoring (FGM) are tools today mainly
      used in the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes. Both glucose monitors are
      subcutaneous tissue sensors, which provide a tissue fluid glucose measurement every 1 to 5
      minutes. The real-time glucose sensor trend data can help patients with diabetes better
      manage their insulin needs with meals and exercise. The following glucose monitoring systems
      are two of the most current sensor technologies available for clinical use the Dexcom G5
      (Dexcom Corporation), and the FGM (Abbot Freestyle Libre).

      High glucose levels in patients with type 1 or 2-diabetes lead to increased risks of micro-
      and macrovascular complications, while low glucose levels may lead to unconsciousness.
      Therefore, it is important for patients to manage glucose levels as close to normal (4-7
      mmol/l) as possible. This is generally performed by appropriate dosage of different insulins,
      calculated from the preprandial glucose level, carbohydrate intake, and physical activity. In
      spite of careful dosage, glucose levels often become too low or too high.

      CGM is a novel tool to detect low and high glucose levels, and it is capable of sounding an
      alarm for low and high glucose levels. CGM has been available in clinical practice in Sweden
      for approximately 5 years. FGM is as CGM also a novel tool to detect low and high glucose
      levels, but is not capable of sounding an alarm for low and high glucose levels. FGM has been
      available in clinical practice in Sweden since late 2014.

      Since both CGM and FGM measure the glucose level by a sensor in subcutaneous tissue, there is
      uncertainty in the estimation of blood glucose levels. The accuracy of a certain CGM or FGM
      system can be assessed by comparing the glucose levels estimated by the glucose monitors with
      measured glucose levels in capillary blood samples. To our knowledge there are no studies
      comparing the accuracy of the Dexcom G5 sensor with the Freestyle Libre sensor. In the
      current study, we will compare the accuracy and treatment experience of these two glucose
      monitoring sensors available on the market for clinical use in patients with type 1 or 2
      diabetes and renal impairment with an eGFR<30 ml/min both in and not in dialysis.
    
  