
    
      Patients undergoing previously scheduled rest or stress echocardiography with the primary
      investigator as the supervising physician will be identified and consented. The standard
      stress echocardiography procedure will be performed. Definity® or LUMASON will be removed
      from refrigeration and agitated for 45 seconds to vaporize into its gaseous phase. One mL of
      Definity® or LUMASON will then be diluted in 29 mL of isotonic, sterile saline. Patients will
      undergo baseline echocardiography followed by stress with either dobutamine or exercise.
      Standard Definity® or LUMASON will be injected intravenously into the subject via peripheral
      intravenous access obtained prior to the study by a registered nurse at the end of the rest
      or stress portion of the procedure coinciding with image acquisition. Contrast enhanced
      echocardiography by standard acoustic acquisition will be performed following rest or stress
      for the indicated diagnostic purpose of the test. By the end of the exam, the gaseous
      Definity® or LUMASON will have undergone manual compression via manual pressure and condensed
      back to its liquid phase. At this point, the compressed Definity® or LUMASON will be given
      intravenously with repeated transthoracic echocardiography. During this second round of image
      acquisition, real time (RT) imaging (35 Hertz) and 1:1 triggered (Tr) end systolic imaging at
      various mechanical indices (MI's) up to 1.2 will be performed in standard transthoracic
      echocardiography windows. Acoustic Intensity (AI) within the left ventricular (LV) cavity,
      the anterior myocardium (AM) and inferolateral myocardium (ILM) at end systole will be
      obtained at each MI setting with real time or triggered imaging. Differences in AI between Tr
      and RT imaging within the AM and ILM at each MI will be used to quantify bubble
      activation/destruction. Following image acquisition, the patient will be observed for 30
      minutes by echo lab staff with nearby resuscitative equipment per current protocol. If no
      adverse events are noted, the patient will then be dismissed.
    
  