
    
      Rationale and purpose of this study:

      "One-stop" (also named simultaneous) hybrid coronary revascularization has emerged as a
      novel, safe and feasible minimally invasive approach in selected patients with multivessel
      coronary artery disease (CAD). The benefits of "one-stop" hybrid procedure compared with
      conventional PCI are unclear, however.

      This study is a single center randomized clinical trial to compare the safety and efficacy of
      "one-stop" hybrid procedure with conventional PCI in the treatment of selected patients with
      multivessel CAD requiring revascularization with suitable coronary anatomy.

      Sample size:

      We examined the results of SYNTAX trial and of the hybrid procedures published previously.
      The 1-year MACCE rate (the primary endpoint) is estimated as being 18% for PCI/stenting and
      8% for the hybrid group. The sample calculated for this trial is 480 patients.

      Design/Methodology:

      Trial design: A single center randomized clinical trial comparing "one-stop" hybrid procedure
      versus conventional PCI with SES in 480 patients with suitable anatomy who need
      revascularization.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to undergo either "one-stop" hybrid procedure or
      conventional PCI with SES.

      Randomization:

      Patients will be evaluated by both a cardiac surgeon and an interventional cardiologist.
      After obtaining informed written consent, patients will be randomized to receive "one-stop"
      hybrid procedure or conventional PCI with SES. An expertise-based randomization will be used.

      The data adjudicators will be blinded to the study. Due to the nature of this study, the
      operating surgeons, cardiologists, anesthetists, other operative room staff, and ICU staff
      will not be blind in this study.

      Study intervention:

      Candidates will be randomized to receive "one-stop" hybrid procedure or conventional PCI.
    
  