
    
      Prolotherapy treatments have been used since the 1950s for the treatment of weakened or
      damaged soft tissue and cartilage. Pre-clinical studies have demonstrated an anabolic
      response leading to thickened collagen tissue following treatment. Prolotherapy has been used
      to treat various tendinopathies, non-specific low back pain whiplash injuries, and partial
      ligament and tendon tears. Injection solutions used in the past include P2G (phenol,
      glycerine and glucose), sodium morrhuate and simple dextrose. Today, most prolotherapists use
      simple dextrose as an off-label treatment. Current treatment methods of the RC have several
      short-comings. Steroid injections, the most commonly applied treatment today for RC tears,
      have a short term benefit at the very most and have been found, when repeated, to lead to
      deterioration in pain, function and even tendon structure. Surgery is expensive, requires a
      long rehabilitation program, and has a very significant re-tear rate. In addition, studies
      are not conclusive regarding its effectiveness as compared to conservative treatment for the
      treatment of RC tears. No prolotherapy studies have been performed in the treatment of
      partial RC tears. Considering the extent of this endemic disorder, it was decided to explore
      prolotherapy for the treatment of partial rotator cuff tears.

      • Patients will be referred from local community clinics both by orthopedic surgeons as well
      as from family physicians. Patients will have received a steroid injection into the
      subacromial bursa and will have failed to respond.

      Patients will receive 3 monthly treatments all under ultrasound.

      25 patients will be recruited to this Pilot study. It is impossible to make an accurate
      estimation of the sample size of the trial needed as no prolotherapy study has been done
      specifically on partial RC tears.

        -  Patients with partial tears of less than 1 cm measured in a thorough ultrasound
           examination either in length or in width in any of the rotator cuff tendons are eligible
           for the trial.

        -  Patients will sign a consent form. They will rate their pain NRS score out of 10 prior
           to treatment and fill out (hopefully) an Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS) Questionnaire. (The
           principle investigator has translated this questionnaire into Hebrew and has received
           approval from Oxford University for use in this research).

        -  Dr. Wende will perform all treatments under ultrasound in both groups, up to 3
           treatments in each patient.

        -  The radiologist evaluating pre and post treatment ultrasound scans will be blinded to
           the dates of the exam.

        -  Before the first treatment, an ultrasound scan of the shoulder will be performed by a
           musculoskeletal radiologist in Hadassah.

        -  4 points within the shoulder will be injected. Structures to be injected will include
           the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis tendons as well as the inferior
           glenohumeral ligament. 20% dextrose and 0.5% lidocaine will be injected.

        -  All patients will be followed up by an unbiased, independent investigator 1, 6 and 12
           months after the last treatment at which time the NRS pain score is questioned and an
           OSS questionnaire is filled out.

        -  6 months after the last treatment, patients will have a repeat ultrasound scan of the
           shoulder 6 and 12 months after the last treatment, the range of shoulder motion will be
           examined by an independent investigator.
    
  