
    
      -  Because no one knows which of the study options are best, participants will be
           "randomized" to one of the study groups: 1. Diet Intervention arm, 2. Diet and Exercise
           Intervention Arm, 3. Bevacizumab, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and diet intervention,
           4. Bevacizumab, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, diet and exercise intervention arm.

        -  Participants assigned to groups 1 or 2 will receive a diet intervention or diet and
           exercise intervention. They will be seen by the doctor for physical examination every 12
           weeks for the first two years during the intervention, and then on an every 6 month
           basis. Routine laboratory testing will be done at the time of the visits as well. Other
           blood tests will be done to measure the effect of the diet and exercise interventions at
           the beginning of the treatment, at 6 months, and at 1 year from the start of the
           treatment. Additionally, one blood test will be done at the beginning of the treatment
           to look for hereditary differences in genes related to metabolism.

        -  Participants assigned to groups 3 or 4 will undergo the following: Medication:
           Participants that are placed in the bevacizumab and cyclophosphamide and methotrexate
           (CM) arm will receive bevacizumab intravenously once every 3 weeks for approximately 6
           months, followed by every 6 week treatments for additional 1.5 years; cyclophosphamide
           orally once a day and methotrexate orally twice a day for the first two days of each
           week. The treatments with CM therapy and bevacizumab will continue for approximately 6
           months. Physical Exams: once 6 weeks of drug therapy (2 cycles)is completed, physical
           examination frequency is reduced to every 6 weeks (every other cycle) for the additional
           6 cycles. Once 24 weeks of drug therapy (8 cycles or about 6 months since the start of
           therapy) are completed, physical examination will be done every 12 weeks for the
           duration of protocol therapy. Blood Tests: chemistry and hematology testing will be done
           prior to start of Cycles 1, 2 and 3 and then every 6 weeks (every other cycle) for the
           duration of cyclophosphamide and methotrexate chemotherapy. After 24 weeks (8 cycles) of
           drug treatment, hematology/chemistry testing frequency can be reduced to every 12 weeks
           (every other cycle) for the rest of bevacizumab treatment. Urine Tests will be done
           every other cycle for the duration of treatment. Heart function testing by
           echocardiogram will be done at 6 months, 1, 2, and 3 years after participants start the
           study. Ultrasound of the blood vessels will be done on those randomized to receive
           bevacizumab with CM chemotherapy. This test will be done at baseline and after
           completion of the first and second cycles of therapy.

        -  Activities for all Groups: Lifestyle Intervention: All women in this study will complete
           a number of tests at baseline, 6 and 12 months. Diet Only Group: Participants assigned
           to this group will be asked to participate in a series of 13 telephone calls over the
           course of 1 year with. Those assigned to the Diet and Exercize Group (in addition to the
           information listed above) will receive counseling targeted toward increasing physical
           activity.
    
  