
    
      We propose a randomized controlled trial to compare re-engagement into quit line treatment
      between low income smokers receiving IVR intervention to re-engage into treatment through
      quit line services and those receiving usual care (no intervention to re-engage). Subjects
      will be recruited from two state quit lines (Washington (WA) and Indiana (IN)). WA and IN
      were selected because they both contract with Free & Clear for quit line services and have
      supported research collaborations in the past. Both states have agreed to participate in this
      study. Three thousand subjects will be randomized to the intervention or usual care prior to
      entry into the IVR calling database. This sampling frame was defined based in our past
      research experience in using similar method to re-engage low income smokers from ethnic
      populations and assumed a high proportion of invalid phone numbers and difficulties on
      successfully reaching individuals even after several call attempts. In our previous
      re-engagement study, 29% of the phone numbers provided by quit line users were invalid 12
      months later and 38% of the subjects were never reached after five attempted calls.
      Therefore, in this study we are anticipating successfully reaching 30% of the sample.

      This is a feasibility study and the main outcome is re-engagement into treatment, measured by
      re-enrollment into quit line support after receiving the IVR intervention. Process measures
      are IVR calls answered and satisfaction with IVR calls. Thirty-day point prevalence
      abstinence at 6 months after intervention will be also measured, as a way to preliminarily
      evaluate the efficacy of this intervention.

      The target population of this study is low income smokers, defined as being a Medicaid
      recipient or uninsured by the time of their first enrollment into quit line treatment. This
      working definition for eligibility criterion was chosen because health insurance status is
      routinely assessed in the provision of quit line services and it is a good proxy indicator of
      income.
    
  