
    
      Essential hypertension, a major health problem worldwide, is a disease generally considered
      to require life-long treatment. However, evidence suggests that hypertension is caused by
      specific phenotypic changes caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors.
      Thus, in principle, hypertension could be prevented by prevention of these phenotypic
      changes. Animal data indicate that early treatment that blocks the renin-angiotensin system
      have long-term effects after treatment withdrawal. The present human study is testing whether
      early treatment (with the AT1- antagonist) is able to have a persistent effect after stopping
      treatment.

      This is a monocenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study in healthy,
      normotensive (consultation diastolic blood pressure over 2 visits < 85 mmHg) subjects 18 to
      36 years of age whose both parents have essential hypertension. The primary objective is to
      determine whether pharmacological treatment with an angiotensin receptor blocker is able to
      restrain or delay the progression to hypertension. Secondary objectives are to investigate
      whether any long-term effect on blood pressure is related to the effect of treatment on renal
      haemodynamic function, or on the left ventricle mass.

      Subjects are recruited by use of hospital registers to identify persons who have received the
      indication essential hypertension, and are of an age that they may have children of the
      appropriate age. These persons are then mailed asking if they do have children with a partner
      who is also hypertensive, and asking permission to contact the children. The diagnosis of
      hypertension of the parents is checked following evaluation by the physicians who are
      treating them.

      One hundred subjects were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: placebo; or
      candesartan cilexetil, 16 mg, once daily. Before inclusion and after 12 months of treatment
      glomerular filtration rate, renal vascular resistance, echocardiography and 24-hour blood
      pressure monitoring were performed. Subjects were evaluated at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 10 months
      to ensure compliance and to control blood pressure. After 12-months of treatment, 24-hour
      blood pressure monitoring were performed in a scheduled manner over a 10-year period. The
      primary effect parameter is 24-hour blood pressure measured 10 years after withdrawal of
      treatment. Interim analyses will be made at 1, 2 and 5 years by an independent data
      committee. Secondary effect parameters will be numbers on antihypertensive treatment at 2, 5
      and 10 years after withdrawal, as well as the effect of treatment on renal vascular
      resistance and left ventricular mass.

      A substudy is comparing renal haemodynamics and genetic profil of the subjects with persons
      having normotensive parents.
    
  