
    
      This study prospective single center study . A total of 10 patients are selected to be
      treated with dental implants for their bilaterally missing edentulous condition, which can be
      supported by either removable or fixed rehabilitation. The edentulous space can either be in
      maxilla or mandible. The study is performed at the Department of Implantology (Sri Sai
      College Of Dental Surgery and Research Center, Vikarabad, India). The study is approved by
      institutional ethics committee (IEC).

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

        1. Nobel Biocare Replace Select Dental Implants of size 4.3x10 mm. Healing abutments and
           implant abutments. 20 Numbers.

        2. Nobel Biocare surgical kit

        3. Nobel Biocare physio dispenser

        4. Transchymal Dental pulp derived Allogenic mesenchymal cells.

        5. Ostell ISQ device along with a Smart peg.

        6. A Centrifuge.

        7. Sterile centrifuge tubes,

        8. Sterile pipettes

        9. Bone roungers

       10. IOPA and KKD Radiographic system

       11. Cold saline

       12. Suture material and suture needles

       13. 70% isopropanol

       14. Chiller and a Thermo cool box to carry dry ice

       15. Sterile cotton and gauze

       16. Mouth mirror

       17. Dental examination Probe

       18. Needle holder

       19. Artery Forceps and scissors.

       20. Surgical gown,patient drape, Mouth mask, head cap and surgical gloves

       21. High power suction and suction tips.

       22. Betadine and chlorhexidine mouthwash.

       23. BP blade handle and BP blade no 11,12 and 15

       24. Canon DSLR camera

       25. Patient models and surgical guide

       26. Informed and written consent forms.

       27. Case history records

       28. Photography and videography waiver consent form

       29. Ethical Clearance Certificate

       30. CBCT

       31. Vital parameters data sheet

       32. Diagnostic reports of CBP, RBS, CT, BT and Hg%

       33. Antibiotic and anti-allergic prophylaxis.

       34. A local anesthetic solution containing 2% lignocaine with 1:100,000-epinephrine and 2ml
           disposable syringe.

       35. Statistical analysis software IBM SPSS version 19.

      METHODS

      Clinical Procedure

      Pre-operative planning is based on clinical and radiographic examination. After thoroughly
      recording the case history. The following investigations will be done prior to implant
      placement surgery: CBCT, CBP, CT, BT, Hg%, RBS, Vital signs and other relevant
      investigations. If all the parameters fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      patient's impressions are made and study models poured. Intraoral and extraoral photographs
      are taken. The surgical guide is constructed on the diagnostic models.Stem cells are carried
      from stem cell bank to the Department of Implantology in a cryovial, safely placed in the
      special device, which contains dry ice, to maintain the viability of stem cells.

      Surgical Procedure

      On the day of surgery, the dental operatory is thoroughly fumigated and all the infection
      control protocols are followed.The participants will be receiving oral and written
      information about the study and shall be providing the informed consent along with
      photography and videography waiver consent. Antimicrobial prophylaxis (amoxicillin 1gm) and
      antihistamine prophylaxis (20mg cetirizine) orally 1 hour before surgery should be given to
      the patient. The universal precautions protocol is followed to protect yourself, the patients
      and the dental assistant.The patient is asked to rinse the Oral cavity with chlorhexidine
      gluconate solution (0.2%) for 1 minute before surgery.

      IMPLANT PLACEMENT ON THE CONTROL SIDE

      To standardized the protocol the patient's right side is selected as the control side and
      left side as the test side. The surgical procedure is carried out under local anesthesia
      containing 2% epinephrine with 1:100,000 epinephrine. The surgical guide is placed on the
      teeth and is used to mark the position of the implant with round drill till it hits the bone.
      Mucoperiosteal flaps were raised with mid crestal incision and intrasulcular incision
      extending to one tooth mesially and other teeth distally. After full thickness flap
      elevation, the osteotomy sites are prepared using the drilling sequence instructed by the
      manufacturer.The dental implants Nobel Biocare Replace select (4.3 *10mm size) 4.3mm diameter
      and 10mm length is selected and placed in the osteotomy site with IF of 40 Ncm.Before
      approximation of the flap, the primary stability of the implant is recorded with the ostell
      device, which has a transducer attached to the device and a magnetic attachment smart peg is
      attached to the implant with a plastic peg holder each implant is measured twice from two
      different angles,around 90 degrees and parallel to the crestal line.The two measurements
      buccolingually and mesiodistally are recorded and an average of both the values are taken.The
      measurements values are then transferred into implant stability quotient (ISQ) units, which
      are given on a scale of 1- 100, with 100 being the highest degree of stability and it works
      on the principle of resonance frequency analysis (RFA).The smart peg is removed and Healing
      abutments are placed over the dental implants. The flap is sutured monofilament sutures 4-0.
      IOPAR are taken with KKD Radiograph system, which standardizes the distance between the
      collimator and the IOPAR.

      IMPLANT PLACEMENT ON THE TEST SIDE

      To standardized the protocol the patient's left side is chosen as the test side.The surgical
      procedure is carried out under local anesthesia containing 2% epinephrine with 1:100,000
      epinephrine. The surgical guide is placed on the teeth and is used to mark the position of
      the implant with round drill till it hits the bone. Mucoperiosteal flaps were raised with mid
      crestal incision and intrasulcular incision extending to one tooth mesially and another tooth
      distally. After full thickness flap elevation, the osteotomy sites are prepared using the
      drilling sequence instructed by the manufacturer. the stem cells are centrifuged in a sterile
      environment as per the instructions are given by the stem cell bank.(Thawing protocol )Human
      mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) are primary cells which can be successfully used for infusion
      purpose.The following is the recommended protocol for thawing and infusion of these
      cells:Remove the Cryovial of stem cells from dry ice,defrost the vial containing stem cells
      by placing in between both the palms with constant, moderate agitation, until ice in the
      ampule is no longer visible,immediately disinfect the vial with 70% isopropanol.Working under
      laminar flow hood, open the vial and transfer the contents to a sterile 15ml centrifuge tube
      and centrifuge at 3500 RPM for 5 minutes. Decant the supernatant and to the pellet add 1 ml
      of saline.Mix properly and the cells are ready for infusion at the osteotomy site. Remove the
      contents in a sterile dappen dish and before infusion of stem cells at the osteotomy site the
      implant is dipped in the solution for 3 minutes so that the stem cells adhere to the titanium
      implant surface. The same dental surgeon performs all the cases. The dental implants Nobel
      Biocare Replace select (4.3 *10mm size) 4.3mm diameter and 10mm length is selected and placed
      in the osteotomy site with IF of 40 Ncm11.Before approximation of the flap, the primary
      stability of the implant is recorded with the ostell device, which has a transducer attached
      to the device and a magnetic attachment smart peg is attached to the implant with a plastic
      peg holder each implant is measured twice from two different angles,around 90 degrees and
      parallel to the crestal line.The two measurements buccolingually and mesiodistally are
      recorded and an average of both the values are taken.The measurements values are then
      transferred into implant stability quotient (ISQ) units, which are given on a scale of 1-
      100, with 100 being the highest degree of stability and it works on the principle of
      resonance frequency analysis (RFA).The smart peg is removed and Healing abutments are placed
      over the dental implants. The flap is sutured monofilament sutures 4-0.IOPAR are taken with
      KKD radiograph system, which standardizes the distance between the collimator and the IOPAR.

      POST SURGICAL TREATMENT

      The patient is advised to take soft diet for one week and not to spit and rinse for the next
      24 hours. Antibiotics, Antihistamines, and NSAIDs must be continued for 3 days. Postoperative
      edema if any must be controlled with corticosteroids. The sutures are removed one week
      postoperatively.

      Recall visits

      Weekly recall of the patient for 12 weeks for evaluation and recording of implant stability
      measurements with Ostell ISQ device. Patient safety measures are evaluated on every visit
      like unusual pain, swelling, allergic reaction, inflammation, outgrowth, vital signs, blood
      assay or any unspecific reactions should be noted down. The emergency contact number is
      provided to the patient to report any abnormal incidence immediately. The prosthetic part of
      the treatment is to be carried out after 3 months either with removable or fixed
      rehabilitation.

      Statistical analysis

      Descriptive statistics will be computed to summarize the data for its central tendency and
      dispersion. Two sample t-test will be applied to see the mean change in the outcome variable
      between experimental and control groups. Repeated measures of ANOVA are being applied to see
      the time changes between experimental and control groups. Where ever data is not following
      uniformity, either transforming the data or nonparametric statistical technique will be
      applied. The analysis will be performed using IBM SPSS Version 19.0.
    
  