
    
      BACKGROUND Depression is one of the most common conditions among primary care patients.
      Nevertheless, there are several problems in its diagnosis, clinical management and outcomes.
      The INDI study, which is based in a collaborative care model, aims to improve the management
      of depression in primary care patients. INDI has been proved previously to be an efficient
      intervention showing clinical and socio-economic benefits. INDI is intended to be implemented
      in the clinical practice within the context of primary care.

      METHOD Aim: Test the feasibility and the impact of an implementation strategy of the INDI
      model for the management of depression in primary care.

      Design: This is a casi-experimental study within the context of primary care. Specific
      geographic areas will be identified to implement the INDI program (intervention group) and
      other areas with similar features will to be compared (control group.

      Participants: Patients diagnosed with depression will be invited to voluntarily participate
      in this study. Additionally, the investigators will also consider as participants the health
      professionals, the centres of primary care, as well as the health organizations of the
      geographic areas where the study will take place: Camp de Tarragona and Valles Occidental
      (Catalonia, Spain).

      Intervention: The INDI model is a health care program for improving the management of
      depression. INDI includes clinical, training and organizational interventions with the
      participation of nurses as care managers. An active strategy based on the Promoting Action on
      Research Implementation in Health Services's model (PARIHS) will be designed for the
      implementation.

      Evaluation: This study will use qualitative and quantitative methods to obtain data on the
      variables related to a successful implementation: feasibility, acceptability, and impact.

      Discussion: In this study, the investigators aim to test the feasibility of a clinical
      intervention INDI, based on a collaborative care model, in the management of depression in
      primary care setting. If the implementation of such intervention is successful, then the
      achieved data and experience will help to plan a strategy to generalize the INDI model to the
      Catalan health system. The investigators expect significant clinical benefits to the
      patients, the health system and to the society.
    
  