
    
      Fifty patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) treated with Xalatan for whom the
      monotherapy was not sufficient to achieve the target IOP, will be included in the study. Non
      responders were defined when IOP was > 20 mmHg or if the IOP reduction was less than 25% from
      the baseline IOP. Patients will be classified as having POAG when they had a typical
      glaucomatous visual field and/or a typical abnormal optic nerve head, open angle at
      gonioscopy, IOP > 21 mmHg with no treatment and no clinically apparent secondary cause for
      their glaucoma (EGS guidelines).

      Visual fields will be assessed by an Humphrey Field Analyzer 750 (HFA, Humphrey, Inc, CA,
      USA), 24-2 SITA (Swedish Interactive Threshold Algorithm) standard. A glaucomatous visual
      field defect was defined as: 1) three adjacent points depressed by 5 dB, with one of the
      points depressed by at least 10 dB; 2) two adjacent points depressed by 10 dB; or 3) a 10 dB
      difference across the nasal horizontal meridian in two adjacent points. None of the points
      could be edge points unless immediately above or below the nasal horizontal meridian. In
      addition, visual field testing was considered reliable only when false-negative responses
      were less than 30% and fixation losses were less than 20% on HFA.

      The abnormal optic nerve head classification was based on the presence of an optic rim notch
      or of diffuse / generalized loss of optic rim tissue, vertical cup/disc diameter ratio
      asymmetry unexplained by side differences in optic disc size, disc haemorrhage.

      In each centre, patient's recruitment will start as soon as the ethical committee will
      approve the protocol. Each sites will recruit 10 patients (5 + 5).

      Cosopt will be added to Xalatan when Xalatan is effective but not sufficient to reach the
      target pressure (Add group) (n = 25), while when Xalatan is effective and sufficient to reach
      the target pressure no other medication will be added (control group) (n = 25).

      (EGS guidelines: Target pressure is a subjective value that none is able to assess (until
      now!). Efficacy of a drug: when the medication can decrease IOP as described in the phase
      three of their clinical trial. Not sufficient: when the medication is effective but is not
      able to reach the target IOP.)

      Each patient will be submitted to three different visits:

        -  Baseline visit: Systemic Pressure, IOP, VF, HRF, Visual Acuity, ophthalmic examination
           with corneal central thickness (CCT)

        -  Visit at 1 month: Systemic Pressure , IOP, Visual Acuity, ophthalmic examination

        -  Visit at 3 months: Systemic Pressure, IOP , HRF, Visual Acuity, ophthalmic examination
           (+ CCT) ODPP will be calculated by: "systemic diastolic pressure - IOP" at each session.
    
  