
    
      Dialysis patients have limited physical functioning as measured by self-reported functioning,
      peak oxygen consumption, physical performance tests, and tests of muscle strength. A recent
      study highlighted the severity of debility, reporting that more than one third of
      hemodialysis patients were unable to perform the normal activities of daily living without
      assistance. In addition, physical functioning has been shown to be a major determinant of
      patients' assessment of their global quality of life. Taken together, available evidence
      suggests that impaired physical functioning is widespread among dialysis patients and
      profoundly affects their lives. Therefore, interventions to improve functioning in this
      population have the potential to significantly improve quality of life.

      Muscle wasting and weakness are particularly attractive targets for intervention because they
      are related to loss of function and can be objectively measured and targeted for improvement.
      Small studies support the possible benefits of two strategies to increase muscle size and
      strength among patients on dialysis. Anabolic steroids were frequently used to ameliorate the
      anemia associated with end-stage renal disease prior to the introduction of recombinant
      erythropoietin, and these agents were noted to cause an increase in serum creatinine along
      with increases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. More recently, nandrolone decanoate has been
      shown to increase lean body mass and improve physical performance, and resistance exercise
      training has been shown to increase strength and improve physical performance. Neither of
      these preliminary results has been confirmed, nor have the relative benefits of these
      strategies or their potential additive or synergistic effects been examined. Therefore, we
      designed a study to compare changes in lean body mass, muscle size and strength, physical
      performance, and self-reported functioning over a12 week period among hemodialysis patients
      randomly assigned to one of four groups: 1) nandrolone decanoate, a synthetic testosterone
      derivative, by weekly intramuscular injection (ND); 2) weekly placebo injections (PL); 3)
      lower extremity resistance exercise training during dialysis sessions three times per week
      plus weekly placebo injections (EX); and 4) resistance exercise plus nandrolone injections
      weekly (EX+ND).
    
  