
    
      Background: Loneliness is related to poor health in later life. One way in which loneliness
      is often addressed is via befriending services, such as those offered by ALONE. The mission
      statement of ALONE's befriending service is to reduce the impact of loneliness on poor
      health. ALONE have identified a need for an empirical evaluation of the potential benefits of
      befriending services. Aims: The proposed research aims to create empirical evidence regarding
      the impact of befriending services on health and loneliness, assisting ALONE in developing
      and refining their mission statement. The research question is: "Do befriending services
      improve health (measured as health-related quality of life and cognitive function), and do
      they mitigate the impact of loneliness on health?" A secondary aim is to identify, using
      exploratory methods, potential mechanisms through which befriending impacts health.

      Plan of Investigation: A mixed methods design, integrating qualitative and quantitative
      methods, is planned.

      The quantitative component comprises an AB single-case experimental multiple baseline design,
      analysed using generalised additive modelling, and the qualitative component comprises
      semi-structured interviews (with befriender-befriendee dyads and healthcare professionals
      associated with the service) designed and analysed according to the principles of grounded
      theory. Results will be integrated according to mixed methods guidelines, undergo
      triangulation, and an economic analysis will evaluate the cost should the service be rolled
      out nationally. All results will be integrated to form the basis of recommendations for the
      befriending sector, to be disseminated to policymakers. Results will also be disseminated via
      peer-reviewed publication and lay report.

      Potential Impact: The study has potential to improve the service offered by ALONE by
      empirically testing its effectiveness and mechanisms of action, influence policy with this
      information, and contribute to theoretical understanding of the nature of the relationship
      between befriending, loneliness, and health.
    
  