
    
      Fat tissue obtainment. Subjects will undergo liposuction under local anesthesia. In this
      procedure, Ringer's solution with the anesthetic lidocaine and vasoconstrictor adrenaline
      infused into the adipose compartment to minimize blood loss and contamination of the tissue
      by peripheral blood cells. 15 minutes later a hollow blunt-tipped 3 mm cannula introduced
      into the subcutaneous space through small (0.5 cm) incision. The cannula attached to syringe
      and under gentle suction moved through the adipose compartment, mechanically disrupting the
      fat tissue. Aspirate volume - approximately 150 cc. Procedure time - 30 minutes.

      ADRC isolation. Aspirated fat tissue placed into sterile tubes with transport medium and
      delivered into the laboratory within 15 minutes. To isolate the ADRC, part of lipoaspirate
      (approximately 100 cc) washed extensively with equal volumes of phosphate-buffered saline and
      digested with collagenase. After enzyme activity neutralization decomposed fat tissue
      eliminated and ADRC washed 3 times with saline. Cells divided into 3 portions. First portion
      used for counting, viability and sterility assessment. Second portion prepared for freezing
      in liquid nitrogen. Third portion mixed with fat micrograft.

      Fat tissue enriched micrograft preparation. Obtained fat tissue (approximately 20-30 cc)
      washed repeatedly. Aspirated fat settled down in syringes placed in vertical position, after
      that liquid fraction eliminated. Syringes with fat filled up with Ringer's solution and
      procedure of settlement repeated 3-5 times. Washed fat placed on metallic mesh and mashed up
      using metallic spatula. Homogenized fat mixed with prepared ADRC and collected in syringe for
      further injection. Ratio fat micrograft/fat for ADRC estimated according to aspirate volume
      and usually forms 1:10. For example, ADRC obtained from 100 cc of fat tissue should be mixed
      with 10 cc of fat micrograft.

      Fat micrograft preparation is also possible in Puregraft System (Cytori Therapeutics Inc) -
      closed disposable system for fat tissue selective washing.

      Periurethral injection of fat micrograft enriched with ADRC Urethra punctured several times
      circle-wise at the bulbomembranous region at a depth of 5 mm under endoscopic vision and
      0.5-1 mL of fat micrograft enriched with ADRC injected each time. Total volume of solution
      injected - approximately 8 mL. After fat micrograft injected, urethral balloon catheter
      placed and removed the following day.
    
  