
    
      RESEARCH QUESTION

      Can community-led delivery of HIV self-tests be used to maximise public health and social
      benefits and reduce costs without introducing social harms?

      RESEARCH AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

      The broad aim is to determine the benefits, costs and safety of community-led delivery of
      HIVST kits in rural Malawi, with a focus on testing and linkage to care and prevention
      services among defined population sub-groups: men, adolescents aged 15-19 years old, and
      adults aged 40 years or older.

      The specific objectives are to conduct a cluster randomised controlled trial to:

        1. Establish the effectiveness of community-led HIVST campaigns on lifetime and recent HIV
           testing in predefined sub-groups.

        2. Investigate the impact of community-led HIVST campaigns on: (a) population-level
           initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and uptake of voluntary medical male
           circumcision (VMMC), (b) knowledge of HIV prevention, (c) stigma reduction

        3. Explore how differences in community-led HIVST campaigns affect uptake of HIVST and
           linkage to care and prevention and values, attitudes and behaviours around HIVST.

        4. Estimate the costs and cost-effectiveness of community-led HIVST campaigns compared to
           the standard of care (SOC).

      RESEARCH DESIGN

      The main study consists of a cluster-randomised trial evaluating the effectiveness of
      community-led HIVST campaigns on coverage of HIV testing and linkage to follow-on services
      compared to the Ministry of Health (MoH) SOC, facility-based HIV testing services (HTS). We
      are also interested in understanding the cost-effectiveness of community-led HIVST campaigns,
      and broader social benefits on stigma reduction.

      The unit of randomisation is the Group Village Head (GVH), who are traditionally-appointed
      leaders that oversee a group of villages, and their catchments areas. Outcomes are measured
      through (i) household surveys in evaluation villages selected for each study cluster, and
      (ii) clinic records of patients coming from the study clusters.

      For the primary outcome, measured using the households surveys, we assume that lifetime
      testing rates for adolescents aged 15-19 years old in the SOC arm are 35-50%, based on the
      recent Demographic and Health Survey. With 16 clusters per arm and 50 adolescents per
      cluster, we will have at least 90% power to detect a 20% absolute increase in lifetime
      testing using a coefficient of variation of outcomes (k) of 0.25. If k=0.3, for a 20%
      increase in lifetime testing, we would have 90% and 80% power with SOC testing rates of
      35-40% and 45-55%, respectively. If the absolute increase in lifetime testing is lower at
      15%, then for k=0.25 we would have 80% power for SOC testing rates of 35-40%. With
      adolescents making up 20-25% of the adult population, this will require 250 adults per
      cluster.

      SUB-STUDIES

      We will also be conducting a series of sub-studies related to the trial, including:

        1. Process evaluation to monitor progress of the intervention and adherence to guidelines,
           and understand how differences in the context-driven intervention affect HIVST uptake
           and linkage to care and prevention.

        2. Qualitative evaluation to explore which aspects of the community-led intervention were
           pivotal in affecting HIV testing and linkage outcomes and values, attitudes and
           behaviours around HIVST.

        3. Economic evaluation to estimate costs, cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit per
           individual tested, newly diagnosed as HIV positive, started on ART and circumcised.
    
  