
    
      Primary endpoint

        1. Objective Response Ratio (ORR) [Time frame: prior to study completion, average 3 years]

             -  Evaluate the effectiveness of a combination of a PD-1 inhibitor (pembrolizumab)
                with a multikinase inhibitor (lenvatinib) using an objective response rate (ORR) in
                poorly differentiated or anaplastic thyroid cancer at 12 weeks and 24 weeks after
                starting treatment.

             -  Evaluate the efficacy of the investigator's choice of chemotherapy plus PD-1
                inhibitor (pembrolizumab) using an objective response rate (ORR) in poorly
                differentiated or anaplastic thyroid cancer at 12 weeks and 24 weeks after
                initiation of treatment. Includes patients with a confirmed partial (PR) and
                complete response (CR) as the best response according to RECIST v 1.1.

        2. Overall survival at 6 months in the pembrolizumab and lenvatinib cohort [Time frame: 6
           months]

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Safety Profile (Number / Severity of Serious Adverse Events, SAEs) [Timeline: SAEs will
           be reported in the clinical trial within 6 months of the end of the study]

        2. Duration of Response (DoR) [Time frame: from date of first documented clinical response
           (PR, CR) to date of first documented progression, date of death from any cause or
           patient failure, whichever comes first, is estimated to be 36 months]

        3. Progression-Free Survival (PFS) [Time frame: from date of enrollment to date of first
           documented progression, date of death from any cause or patient failure, whichever is
           earlier, up to 36 months]

        4. Overall Survival (OS) [Time frame: from the date of enrollment to the date of death from
           any cause or patient failure, whichever comes first, estimated up to 36 months]

      Study design Prospective interventional two-cohort non-comparative single-center study.
    
  