
    
      Autophagy is a cellular quality control pathway that degrades aged or damaged organelles and
      protein aggregates within lysosomes. By doing so, autophagy provides an alternate source of
      energy for cells to cope with adverse conditions. The level of autophagy determines the
      degree to which aged cells are able to eliminate damaged organelles and/or toxic aggregates
      and mount a protective response against stress. At the physiological level, nutrient
      deprivation or fasting is one of the most robust stimuli for autophagy across diverse
      experimental systems.1 Our lab has shown important roles for autophagy in lipid/glucose
      homeostasis and regulation of energy balance. We have found that autophagy degrades cellular
      lipid stores via a process we described as lipophagy. We have also shown contributions of
      autophagy to the regulation of feeding as well as its developmental roles in maintenance of
      muscle and fat mass. In addition to these physiological functions, a number of studies have
      revealed that mice lacking autophagy in the central nervous system show rapid onset of
      neurodegeneration and an early death.2,3 These studies support a central role of autophagy in
      the maintenance of healthspan.

      It is well-established that autophagy activity declines with age, which has led to the
      hypothesis that autophagy failure contributes to the metabolic syndrome of aging. In fact,
      young mice with tissue-specific knockout of the autophagy gene Atg7 display features of
      aging, including loss of muscle mass (mimicking sarcopenia of aging), fatty liver, decreased
      adipose lipolysis, de-differentiation of brown fat, and pancreatic β-cell dysfunction.4-6
      Conversely, restoration of autophagy via pharmacological or genetic approaches prevents
      age-associated decline in cell function and improves stress response-thus directly extending
      healthspan. As a consequence, there is great interest in developing new experimental
      approaches to prevent age-associated chronic diseases. In fact, caloric restriction (CR) has
      been shown to stimulate autophagy and extend lifespan and healthspan in multiple experimental
      models. While these CR studies were carried out in simpler organisms, such as flies, worms,
      and mice,7-9 similar studies in humans are largely lacking. Since autophagy is activated by
      starvation, the prevailing hypothesis is that caloric restriction (CR) or more physiological
      approaches such as intermittent fasting will stimulate autophagy in humans, which in turn
      will prevent or retard the onset of age-associated chronic diseases. There is limited
      knowledge if indeed extended periods of fasting will activate autophagy in humans. In
      addition, we do not know what duration of fasting may be required to stimulate autophagy in
      humans. Finally, we do not know if, nor by how much, fasting-induced autophagy is reduced in
      aging humans. Due to the aforementioned gaps in our knowledge regarding autophagy in humans,
      in this study we will test the ability of extended periods of restriction to food to
      stimulate autophagy in healthy, young individuals. Further, we will compare the extent to
      which autophagy is reduced in healthy older subjects, when compared to those observed in
      young controls. In our study, we will be using samples of adipose tissue, a metabolically
      active endocrine organ, and peripheral blood cells, which have both been evaluated in prior
      autophagy studies and can be obtained in a less invasive manner.
    
  