
    
      DESIGN This trial is a multicenter, parallel clinical trial with 3 intervention arms, two of
      them with Mediterranean Diet (MD) supplemented extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) or tree nuts
      (TN) and the last one is the control group without any kind of nutritional intervention.

      SAMPLE Seven groups across Spain have agreed to participate in the trial and will recruit
      participants. With a 5% alpha error, 90% power and considering an incidence of recurrence of
      depression after 2 years of intervention of 35% in the MD groups and of 50% in the control
      group, we will need 240 participants in each group. Considering also possible losses, finally
      we have estimated a sample size of 750 participants, 108 participants in each of the
      recruitment centers.

      The inclusion criteria were defined after an exhaustive review of the scientific literature
      and under consensus among all the psychiatric and clinical psychologists included in the
      study. We will include 1 participant with a unique episode of depression for each three
      participants with 2 or more episodes.

      SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS Clinical psychologists and psychiatrists will carry out the
      pre-selection of the participants after a detailed review of their clinical records. When a
      participant is pre-selected, the psychiatrists will perform a semi-structured interview (MINI
      interview) according to DSM-V criteria and a Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale to
      discard depression and other mental disorders diagnoses and to assess depression remission
      degree. This information will be completed with some questions included in the eligibility
      questionnaire such as medical conditions or problems related with the adherence to the MD.
      Moreover, participants will receive detailed written information of the study and the
      informed consent that they have to sign. The nurse will perform a venipuncture to obtain a
      blood sample according to the normal protocol. Moreover, in a subsample of the sample the
      participants will be instructed to collect a stool sample. Finally, all the data will be
      transferred to the dietitians of the study.

      The dietitians of the study will be responsible for the periodic contact with the
      participants and to perform the nutritional intervention and follow-up. Contacts will be made
      through new technologies such as a web platform, a mobile app, telephone and email.
      Additionally, if a participant is not familiarized with these technologies, the dieticians
      will use postal mail to send all the information.

      RANDOMIZATION AND INTERVENTION The study dietitians will perform the randomization of the
      participants to the corresponding intervention group following tables of random allocation
      according to the recruitment order balanced by age, group, and recruitment center. The
      randomization process will be performed from the coordination center. The psychiatrists who
      will perform mental evaluation of the participants will not participate in the process of
      randomization to avoid knowing to which group has been assigned each patient.

      MD groups The protocol used in this trial is similar to that applied in the PREDIMED trial.
      In fact, the dietitians of this trial have participated in the PREDIMED trial and are
      collaborating also in the PREDIMED-PLUS.

      The MD group will receive EVOO (A 1-liter free supply every 2 weeks) or TN (20 grams per
      day).

      In the beginning of the trial the dietitian will provide a comprehensive number of reasons to
      adopt a MD to each participant, and will negotiate a change in his/her diet, working with the
      subject to determine what he or she considers an attainable goal. This compliance degree will
      be assessed every 3 months by the dietician through a telephone call to the participants.
      Every 3 months participants will also receive information about food items typical of the MD
      and adapted to the season of the year, a quantitative 1-week buying list of food items
      according to the season of the year, a weekly plan of meals (with detailed menus) adapted to
      the buying list and cooking recipes for cuisine practices according to the suggested menus.

      Web page and mobile app will be updated each week with news related MD and its health
      effects.

      Any doubt or suggestion made by our participants will be taken into account by our dietitians
      at any moment of the intervention period.

      Control group Control group will not receive any kind of nutritional intervention although
      these participants will have an email and access to the project web page but with some limits
      for contents related with the intervention. To avoid losses during follow-up in the group,
      these participants will receive some incentives such as cinema tickets or discount vouchers
      in supermarkets

      INFORMATION ASSESSMENT

        1. MINI interview To assess mental disorders diagnosis

        2. Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale questionnaire (Med Clin 2002;118:493-9) To
           assess depressive symptoms severity

        3. Eligibility questionnaire: to assess presence of severe diseases, food allergies and
           assessment of the willingness to make diet changes (Prochaska model)

        4. Baseline general and follow-up questionnaires: Socio-economic, anthropometric and
           life-style variables and diagnosis of diseases and use of psychotherapy and medication

        5. Conformity to the Mediterranean diet questionnaire (J Nutr 2011; 141:1140-5)

        6. Semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire (Br J Nutr 2010;103:1808-16)

        7. Minnesota physical activity questionnaire (Am J Epidemiol 1994;139:1197-209)

        8. SF-36 quality of life questionnaire (Gac Sanit 2005;19 :135-50)

      A clinical interview will be administered to discard a diagnosis of depression at baseline.
      This interview will be repeated every year. Coinciding with the medical visit blood
      extraction will be performed every year. Stool samples will be collected in a subsample both
      in the beginning and at the end of the trial.

      Every four months psychiatrists will administer the Montgomery-Asberg questionnaire by
      telephone except in the beginning of the study or once a year in which the questionnaire will
      administer face to face in the consulting room. If there is any suspicion of depression
      reported by the psychiatrist after the telephone interview or reported by any patient
      relative the participants will be cited to attend the consulting room.

      The adherence to the MD, nutrient and food intake, physical activity and quality of life will
      be assessed through validated questionnaires that were already used in the PREDIMED trial.
      The dietitians will collect information on diet, physical activity, quality of life and
      medical and life-style variables at baseline and yearly using new technologies, and the
      telephone.
    
  