
    
      Particularly invalidating in some cases, pruritus is defined as an unpleasant sensation that
      causes the need to scratch.

      Epidemiologically, it is a common disorder as a third of the population feels in a given
      week. Treatment is difficult, especially as the pathophysiological mechanisms remain poorly
      understood, particularly in the central nervous system.

      Specific pathways, or at least selective of the pruritus of transmission have been
      identified. From the skin to the brain, two ways exist: a histaminergic pathway (classical),
      and a non-histaminergic pathway (related to the activation of PAR-2 receptors by serine
      proteases). If urticaria belongs to the first track, the respective share of each channel is
      unknown to other causes of pruritus. The pruriceptors, located in the skin, transmit
      information by specific fibers at the spinal cord, which then project through the lateral
      spinothalamic tract to the thalamus. Then at midbrain and cortex, a vast network involving
      sensorial areas, motor and emotional areas was identified by functional neuroimaging, with
      activation zones which may be different depending on two channels (with overlapping zones ).
      The contribution to the perception of pruritus of these brain regions is the focus of current
      research.

      A promising non-invasive method to study the pruritus channels with neuroimaging is to use
      the phenomenon of "contagious pruritus': seeing other people scratching, itching and
      sometimes scratching is induced in the observer, and the activated brain network is similar
      to that which is activated by pruritus usually. This phenomenon is even more important in
      subjects with atopic dermatitis than in healthy subjects.

      In this project, the investigators plan to characterize pruritus central pathways in patients
      with different types of chronic pruritus compared to healthy subjects, particularly regarding
      the respective contributions of histaminergic pathways (pathway involved in pruritus of
      hives) and "PAR-2-ergic" (pathway involved in the itch of psoriasis).
    
  