
    
      ANGER EVALUATION:

      Anger will be assessed by the Spielberger State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory (STAXI).
      This instrument was developed to evaluate the expression of anger components and their role
      in a variety of medical conditions. These are statements to be assessed on a Likert scale of
      4 points. Individuals are asked about the intensity of his anger, and how often experience
      this emotion.

      The anger trait measures individual differences in willingness to experience anger. It is
      evaluated through 10 questions, with their scores between 10 and 40 points. It is divided in
      temperament and anger reaction. Anger expression provides a general index on the frequency
      with which anger is experienced, expressed, suppressed or controlled and is evaluated with
      three subscales: anger inside, when angry feelings are repressed or stored; anger-out, when
      the individual expresses anger toward other persons or objects in the environment; and anger
      management (control) which measures the frequency with which each individual tries to control
      the expression of raiva. Each of these subscales is assessed by eight questions, ranging from
      32 to 64 points. The total score for the expression of anger is evaluated by the results:
      Total + in total off - control +16.

      Randomization All patients were evaluated during hospitalization for AMI, but only those
      anger control score were less than 27 points were invited to participate. A randomization
      list was obtained by random.org site and were generated sequential envelopes, sealed and
      numbered which were opened in order day in assessment of endothelial function.

      Endothelial function Endothelial dysfunction is an early dysfunctional vascular responses
      observed in tissue prone to develop atherosclerosis and is also associated with vessel with
      atherosclerosis in later stages. The evaluation of endothelial function will be performed by
      researchers "blinded" as to treatment group. The endothelium-dependent vasodilation of the
      brachial artery will be evaluated by ultrasound with a linear transducer 3-12 MHz (EnVisor
      CHD, Philips, Bothell, WA, USA), being held automated measurements of vessel diameter to own
      the equipment used software. The evaluations will be conducted in the mornings after fasting
      for 12 hours under controlled temperature (22 ° C). After ten minutes of images of the
      brachial artery rest will be recorded with the linear transducer placed above the antecubital
      fossa continuously for one minute (basal). The sphygmomanometer is placed on the arm and
      inflated up to 50 mmHg limit above systolic blood pressure for five minutes, and the change
      in diameter of the brachial artery after 60 seconds of cuff deflation will be compared with
      the basal diameter. The images of the vessel diameter at end-diastole (identified by R wave
      of the ECG) will be digitized and recorded at intervals of 3 seconds throughout the
      procedure, and subsequently analyzed off-line using software itself equipamento41.

      ANGER TREATMENT:

      session 1 -Participants are asked what usually makes them angry. The "triggers" of anger are
      identified; the relationship between rabies and cardiovascular physiology is explained.
      According to Lipp and Malagris19 (p.115), "anger changes the way the body works, changes
      breathing, pressure increases, etc. When a person feels anger, the physical reaction that
      occurs is automatic and unplanned, it is difficult control, but the identification of
      triggers before the emotion sets in, will help to prevent it. Identifying and understanding
      anger in three dimensions: cognitive, emotional, and behavioral Think before acting Behavior
      is the final step, which you do not need be damaging.

      Session 2 - Participants are reminded of "elicitor rabies events". Investigate the situations
      that felt anger during the month and what they thought. To point out how the cognitions, that
      is, how one interprets the facts of life leads to different emotions. How anger behavior is
      directly linked to the interpretations people give to events; It is important to improve the
      way you evaluate events and the world around you. Closing: Deep Breathing Exercise Technical
      Time-Out: isolate yourself from the situation that generates anger to take control.

      The control group patients will not receive any anger managementtraining.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The minimum sample size was calculated in 88 patients to detect a 1% difference in
      flow-mediated dilation between the two study groups, with an average standard deviation of
      1.67%, p <0.05 and statistical power of 90 %. The data are presented as means and confidence
      intervals (95% CIs), unless otherwise specified. All analyzes will be based on the principle
      of intention to treat, and will be conducted by researchers who do and whether or not the
      cognitive training for control of anger. Repeated measures of analysis of variance will be
      performed to determine differences in flow-mediated dilation (primary endpoint) and all
      secondary outcomes between the two groups over time, using a conservative F test for the
      interaction between time and study group ( SPSS software, version 18).

      The Geisser correction for the F test is used to adjust the degrees of freedom for the
      roundness deviation (one of the conditions of the repeated measures analysis of variance
      [ANOVA]). logarithmic transformation of the data will be undertaken as appropriate. Fisher's
      post hoc analysis for unpaired and paired data will be performed and interpreted using the
      Bonferroni-Holm adjustment for multiple comparisons.

      The post correlation hoc analysis (by the Spearman rank-correlation method) will be performed
      to evaluate the relationship between the change in flow-mediated dilation of the baseline to
      3 months and the changes in the anger control scores assessed by STAXI from the beginning up
      to 3 months. Differences between categorical variables are calculated using the chi-square
      test. A value of P-tailed <0.05 is considered to indicate statistical significance.
    
  