
    
      Orotracheal intubation is the most efficient system for controlling the airways during
      general anesthesia, in order to keep them harmful, to prevent gastric intake and to allow
      mechanical ventilation and bronchial suction. However, a percentage ranging from 21% to 72%
      of patients undergoing orotracheal intubation have, in the period after exhumation, sore
      throat (POST) generally associated hoarseness. This complication stems from traumatism caused
      by tube placement and pressure exerted on the vocal cords and trachea wall during in situ
      parking. The incidence of POST is influenced by numerous factors such as age, smoke history,
      duration of tube positioning maneuvers, diameter of the endotracheal tube, pressure present
      in the headset, duration of intubation. The proposed methods for the prevention and treatment
      of POST are manifold and the literature on the subject is extensive. Several studies have
      assessed the effectiveness of systemic administration of opioids and NSAIDs or their peat
      application, by oral rinse and gargles, and the lubrication of the endotracheal tube cap with
      cortisonic or lidocaine-based ointments. Although analgesics and systemically administered
      anti-inflammatories have been found to be effective, topical therapies based on the
      application of corticosteroids, NSAIDs and lidocaine are an interesting alternative because
      they are also effective, but devoid of the effects collateralises of systemic administration.
      Among the drugs used in this mode there is also flurbiprofen, an NSAID successfully used in
      inflammation of the first airways which has also proven effective in the forms resulting from
      endotracheal intubation and the placement of the laryngeal mask. There are studies in the
      literature that have evaluated the oral administration of flurbiprofen spray. Recently,
      endotracheal tubes have been marketed to remove secretions that accumulate above the headset,
      sucking them through an accessory light. These secretions come from the upper airways and
      penetrate the initial part of the trachea because the presence of the endotracheal tube
      prevents the adduction of the vocal cords. The permanence of secretions facilitates bacterial
      growth and, in the long run, their passage under the cap, into the tracheobronchial tree. For
      this reason, the use of these tubes has been effective in reducing the incidence of pneumonia
      associated with invasive mechanical ventilation. The accessory light (sub-glottal suction
      door) has also been used to carry out washing with physiological solution, always in order to
      prevent material stagnation and bacterial growth above the headset. The propose of trial is
      that the sub-glottal intake door can also be used for the peat administration of
      anti-inflammatory drugs in order to prevent pain caused by endotracheal intubation. In fact,
      a drug thus administered will directly reach the anatomical structures most involved in the
      genesis of post-intubation pain, that is, the vocal cords and the expected part of the
      trachea. The population studied will be cardiac surgery, subjected to long-term interventions
      with consequent need for prolonged mechanical ventilation and therefore orotracheal
      intubation even in the post-operative period.
    
  