
    
      The molecular basis of many pharmacogenetic polymorphisms has now been elucidated, with
      genetic variations resulting in alteration of expression or function of receptors, enzymes,
      and transporters relevant to the safety and efficacy of a medical treatment. Genetics has
      been shown to be a significant factor in the variability of responses of medication choices
      and doses. With the rapid development of cost-effective high throughput molecular genotyping
      methods, pharmacogenetics has become increasingly important because of its potential to
      identify patients with increased risk of adverse drug reactions or decreased likelihood of
      response at standard dosage of drug. By identifying the genetic risks and the most effective
      therapy for an individual patient, clinicians may improve the efficacy of treatment and
      decrease the risk of adverse drug events. The addition of pharmacogenetic testing to routine
      clinical practice may also be extremely helpful because of the cost reduction associated with
      the identification of patients that will not respond to expensive drugs or with the
      identification of patients likely to suffer from severe adverse events. There are also
      tremendous efforts in the pharmaceutical industry to lower the cost for drug development;
      pharmacogenetics may fulfill the need to provide the right drug to the right patient and to
      increase the likelihood of success of large phase II and phase III clinical trials.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate how currently available genetic tests are being
      implemented in various clinics around the United States, and whether this information results
      in benefits to patient care. Patients presenting to clinics with pain, cardiovascular
      conditions, Arthritis, Type II Diabetes, and/or Mental Health disorders that are receiving
      Proove Bioscience's genetic testing will complete validated questionnaires to measure
      specific outcomes related to their treatment at each clinical visit, including medication
      efficacy, reduction in adverse drug events, and healthcare utilization. Physicians will
      document any changes made to treatment regimens, including adjustments to medications or
      non-pharmacological treatments, and any improvements in the outcome measures. Statistical
      analysis will be performed to calculate relationships between genotypic and phenotypic data
      points collected in this study.

      The results of this study will provide a measurable understanding of the medical and economic
      value of implementing genetic testing into clinical care. Furthermore, data points collected
      will be used to examine novel correlations and associations between single nucleotide
      polymorphisms and longitudinal clinical outcome measures.
    
  