
    
      Specific Aim 1: Test if the degree and duration of hyperoxia following ROSC from cardiac
      arrest is associated with the degree of in vivo oxidative stress during the
      post-resuscitation phase of therapy.

      Approach: We will conduct a multicenter prospective observational study of adult patients
      resuscitated from cardiac arrest. We will record data pertaining to oxygenation parameters
      and other factors and measure biomarkers of oxidative stress (isoprostanes and isofurans) in
      the plasma at 0 and 6 hours after ROSC using gas chromatography negative ion chemical
      ionization mass spectrometry. We will determine the exposure to post-ROSC hyperoxia by
      calculating the time-weighted average PaO2 and SaO2 for the post-resuscitation phase of
      therapy, and will test the association with plasma isoprostane and isofuran levels.

      Specific Aim 2: Test if the degree and duration of hyperoxia following ROSC from cardiac
      arrest is associated with the degree of neurological disability at hospital discharge.

      Approach: In the study described above, we will determine the Modified Rankin Scale at
      hospital discharge. We will perform multivariable analyses adjusted for numerous covariates
      known to be associated with outcome in post-cardiac arrest patients to determine if post-ROSC
      hyperoxia exposure is independently associated with neurological disability.

      Specific Aim 3: Test if the degree and duration of hyperoxia following ROSC from cardiac
      arrest is associated with neuropsychological outcomes among survivors at 180 days.

      Approach: In the study described above, we will assess neuropsychological outcome among
      survivors at 180 days. Neuropsychological testing will use validated instruments across five
      cognitive domains (attention, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV-digit span; (2) reasoning,
      Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV-similarities; (3) immediate and delayed memory, Wechsler
      Memory Scale-III-logical memory I and II; (4) verbal fluency, Controlled Oral Word
      Association Test; and (5) executive functioning, Hayling Sentence Completion Test). We will
      perform multivariable analyses to determine if post-ROSC hyperoxia exposure is independently
      associated with neuropsychological deficits.
    
  