
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the proportion of patients with CNS lymphoma who develop anti-idiotype (Id)
           and anti-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) humoral immune responses in the serum and/or
           CSF following patient-specific immunotherapy comprising recombinant tumor-derived
           immunoglobulin Id-KLH conjugate vaccine and sargramostim (GM-CSF).

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the time to receipt of first subsequent anti-lymphoma therapy after
           initiating immunization with the Id-KLH conjugate vaccine.

        -  To assess the correlation of anti-Id immune response in the CSF and/or serum with PFS
           and overall survival.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate the kinetics of humoral immune response development in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Pre-immunotherapy: Patients submit a tumor sample for manufacturing of the idiotype
           (Id)-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) conjugate vaccine and undergo placement of an
           Ommaya reservoir. Patients then receive induction therapy comprising methotrexate IV
           once every 2 weeks until a maximum radiographic response is achieved, as assessed by MRI
           of the brain. Patients then receive methotrexate IV once a month for 6 months. Patients
           with leptomeningeal or CSF involvement also receive intraventricular thiotepa twice a
           week until the CSF is clear on three evaluations and then once a week until the CSF is
           clear on four evaluations. Patients under 55 years of age also undergo whole brain
           radiotherapy (or craniospinal radiotherapy when extensive leptomeningeal disease is
           present). Patients who achieve a stable response to induction therapy proceed to
           immunotherapy.

        -  Immunotherapy: Patients receive recombinant tumor-derived immunoglobulin Id-KLH
           conjugate vaccine subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of weeks 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20,
           24, 28, 32, 36, 40, 44, 48, 52, 56, 60, 64, 68, 72, and 76. Patients also receive
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days 1-4 of the same weeks as the Id-KLH conjugate vaccine.

      After completion of therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  