
    
      Dexmedetomidine, an alpha 2-adrenoreceptor agonist, has been found to exerts an excellent
      influences on the filed of perineural block. It could shorten the onset time and prolong the
      duration of the nerve block and improved postoperative pain. However, Dexmedetomidine-induced
      bradycardia or hypotension has recently attracted considerable attention because of
      potentially grave consequences, including sinus arrest and refractory cardiogenic shock.
      Although meta-analysis showed that perineural dexmedetomidine as a local anaesthetic adjuvant
      for neuraxial and peripheral nerve blocks produced reversible bradycardia in only 7% of
      brachial plexus block patients and no effect on the incidence of hypotension, various
      clinical studies reported a significant decrease in heart rate. A low dose may help minimize
      cardiovascular risks associated with dexmedetomidine. However, few studies have addressed the
      clinical effects of low-dose dexmedetomidine as an perineural adjuvant. The present study was
      designed to test the hypothesis that low-dose dexmedetomidine, which till today has not been
      reported in the literature, added to ropivacaine for brachial plexus block would safely
      enhance the duration of analgesia without adverse effects when compared with ropivacaine
      alone. Investigators will conduct a single-center, prospective, randomized, triple-blind,
      controlled trial in patients undergoing elective forearm and hand surgery under
      ultrasound-guided supraclavicular brachial plexus block using either 20 mL of 0.5%
      ropivacaine or 0.5% ropivacaine plus 30 microg dexmedetomidine. The primary outcome is
      self-reported duration of analgesia . Secondary outcomes include onset time and duration of
      motor and sensory block, total postoperative analgesics, and safety assessment (adverse
      effects including cardiovascular inhibitions and postoperative abnormal sensation). Data will
      be collected and analyzed in a blinded fashion.
    
  