
    
      PURPOSE: To determine whether combining creatine with high intensity interval training (HIIT)
      results in better exercise performance and insulin sensitivity when compared to HIIT combined
      with placebo in healthy subjects.

      HYPOTHESES: a) Creatine + HIIT will result in improved exercise performance compared to
      placebo; b) Creatine + HIIT will result in improved insulin sensitivity compared to placebo.

      OBJECTIVES: To determine whether combining creatine with high intensity interval training
      (HIIT) results in better exercise performance and insulin sensitivity when compared to HIIT
      combined with placebo in healthy subjects.

      RESEARCH METHOD: A double blind placebo randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which 24 healthy
      young volunteers will participate in HIIT three times a week, for four weeks. Participants
      will be will be stratified for sex and randomized to one of two interventions; 1) HIIT plus
      Cr, or 2) HIIT plus placebo.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSES: A 2 (group) x 2 (time) way repeated measures ANOVA will be used to
      analyze all variables. Descriptive statistics (means, standard deviations [SD], and
      frequencies) will be calculated. Histograms will be used to identify any outliers and to test
      for normality. Data with skewed distributions will be log-transformed prior to statistical
      testing. Within group differences will be examined by paired t-test.

      24 participants will be included in this RCT. Sample size calculations were computed using
      means and standard deviations from a previous Cr + HIIT study [11] which showed an
      significant increase in cycling critical power with Cr + HIIT (6.72 +/- 2.54 % increase)
      compared to Placebo + HIIT (3.82 +/- 2.30 %). With 80% power at an alpha of 0.05 indicated
      that 11 participants per group are needed. To preserve power and account for potential
      drop-out we will recruit 12 per group.
    
  