
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) in molecularly selected patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer (CRC) receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or
      regorafenib).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) in molecularly selected patients with
      metastatic CRC receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or
      regorafenib).

      II. To define the objective response rate (ORR) in patients receiving panitumumab rechallenge
      versus standard therapy (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

      III. To define the clinical benefit rate (CBR = complete response + partial response + stable
      disease >= 6 months) in patients receiving panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy
      (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

      IV. To compare the safety and tolerability of panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy
      (TAS-102 or regorafenib).

      V. To compare quality of life (QOL) between panitumumab rechallenge versus standard therapy
      (TAS-102 or regorafenib) as measured by the linear analogue self-assessment (LASA)
      questionnaires.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess plasma pharmacodynamics biomarkers of response and resistance to therapy.

      II. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for a maximum of 24 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID) on days 1-5 and 8-12, or regorafenib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, at the discretion
      of the treating physician. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a maximum of 24 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 3 years after randomization.
    
  