
    
      People with inflammatory rheumatic diseases (IRS) such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
      spondyloarthritis (SpA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been shown to have
      reduced cardiovascular fitness and quality of life than the general population.
      Cardiovascular health is the single most important factor of total mortality. It has been
      shown previously that individuals with IRS tolerate both endurance training, resulting in
      improvement in function and cardiovascular health while also having a positive effect on
      disease activity measured through inflammation, pain, joint health and fatigue. In recent
      years, studies have also been conducted that demonstrate both the safety and effect of
      aerobic 4x4min high-intensity interval training (HIIT) for patients with IRS.

      This study will involve an intervention period consisting of 20 HIIT sessions. Participants
      are randomized into one of two training groups. One group will perform HIIT under the
      supervision of a healthcare professional. The other group will perform the same HIIT training
      with identical instructions, however they will be self-monitored with the aid and guidance of
      a mobilephone application.

      The purpose of the intervention is to increase maximum oxygen uptake and improve quality of
      life. The intervention period will consist of 2 weekly sessions lasting approximately 35
      minutes performed on non-consecutive days. The endurance training will consist of 4 intervals
      of 4 minutes duration, separated by a 3-4 minute active break and follows the principle of
      intensive aerobic interval training. Before and after the training period, identical testing
      (approximately 30-40 min) will be performed by both intervention groups. The testing will
      include measurements of work economy and maximal oxygen uptake in an endurance test.
      Additionally, quality of life questionnaires will be obtained.
    
  