
    
      Objective:

      The effect of antiplatelet therapy is impaired among patients, who recently underwent on-pump
      coronary artery bypass grafting. The impact of hybrid coronary revascularization using
      minimal invasive surgical techniques on the antiplatelet effect of aspirin and clopidogrel
      remains unclear.

      We hypothesize that hybrid coronary revascularization is associated with a transiently
      reduced antiplatelet effect of aspirin and clopidogrel. We hypothesize that the reduced
      antiplatelet effect of aspirin and clopidogrel could be explained by increased platelet
      turnover with an increased fraction of immature platelets in the peripheral blood.
      Furthermore, we hypothesize that the reduced antiplatelet effect is associated with increased
      inflammatory markers in the early postoperative phase. We hypothesize, that high platelet
      aggregation prior to the intervention is associated with reduced effect of antiplatelet
      therapy following hybrid coronary revascularization.

      Methods:

      40 patients with coronary artery disease will be enrolled in this prospective cohort study
      (recruited from a prospective pilot study conducted to assess feasibility and safety of
      hybrid coronary revascularization combining minimally invasive off-pump coronary artery
      bypass grafting through an inferior J-hemisternotomy (JOPCAB) with percutaneous coronary
      intervention - Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT01496664). Demographics and medical history
      are documented preoperatively. The predicted mortality is assessed by means of the logistic
      European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) I. Adverse cardiovascular
      events are recorded prospectively, including graft dysfunction, myocardial infarction,
      stroke, and pulmonary embolism.

      Six blood samples are obtained from each patient:

        -  Pre-OP: in the outpatient setting while patients were on aspirin 75 mg daily

        -  Baseline: in the morning prior to surgery after eight to ten days of aspirin
           discontinuation (off-aspirin)

        -  Post-OP: on the first postoperative day when aspirin had been resumed

        -  Pre-PCI: on the day prior to PCI

        -  Post-PCI: on the first day after PCI following initiation of dual antiplatelet therapy

        -  1-year follow-up: when patients were still on maintenance aspirin 75 mg and clopidogrel
           75 mg Platelet function analyses are performed using Multiplate® Analyzer (Roche, Roche
           Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany), VerifyNow® Aspirin, and VerifyNow® P2Y12 (Accumetrics
           Inc., San Diego, CA, USA). For Multiplate® Analyzer, arachidonic acid (1.0 mM) and
           adenosine diphosphate (6.4 and 20 uM) are used as agonists.

      Complete blood counts, including immature platelet fraction (IPF), immature platelet count
      (IPC), and mean platelet volume (MPV), are performed using a Sysmex XE-5000 haematology
      analyzer (Sysmex, Kobe, Japan) with upgraded software (XE IPF Master, Sysmex) enabling flow
      cytometric detection of the IPF. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are used according to the
      manufacturers' instructions to measure serum thromboxane B2 (Cayman Chemical, Ann Arbor, MI,
      USA) and thrombopoietin (R&D Systems Europe, Abingdon, UK). Plasma C-reactive protein was
      measured by immunoprecipitation using the Cobas® 6000 (Roche, Basel, Switzerland). Von
      Willebrand factor (antigen) and coagulation factor VIII (functional) are measured using the
      ACL TOP (ILS Laboratories, Bedford, MA, USA).
    
  