
    
      Primary Objective:

      Among Canadian male workers who are at high risk of having major depressive episode (MDE), to
      evaluate the impacts of an e-mental health intervention and telephone-based job coaching on
      the 12-month risk proportion of MDE. MDE will be measured by the WHO's CIDI-SFMD.

      Hypothesis: The risk proportions of MDE in the intervention groups will be lower than that in
      the control group over 12 months.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Among Canadian male workers who are at high risk of having MDE,

        1. to evaluate the impacts of an e-mental health intervention and telephone-based job
           coaching on:

             -  Changes in depression score

             -  Changes in anxiety score

             -  Changes in absenteeism

             -  Changes in presenteeism

             -  Return on investment

             -  Predicted MDE risk

           Depression and anxiety scores will be measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire
           (PHQ-9) and the Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), respectively. Absenteeism and
           presenteeism will be measured by the WHO's Health and Work Performance Questionnaire
           (HPQ).

           Hypothesis I: The reductions in depressive and anxiety scores in the intervention groups
           will be greater than those in the control group over 12 months.

           Hypothesis II: The means of negative changes in absenteeism and presenteeism scores in
           the intervention groups will be lower than those in the control group.

           Hypothesis III: Participants in the intervention groups will have greater reduction in
           predicted MDE risk than those in the control group.

        2. To compare participants who receive e-mental health program only and those who receive
           e-mental health program and job coaching services in

             -  One-year proportion of MDE

             -  Changes in depression score

             -  Changes in anxiety score

             -  Changes in absenteeism

             -  Changes in presenteeism

             -  Return on investment

             -  Predicted MDE risk

      Hypothesis IV: The risk proportion of MDE in the e-mental health plus job coaching group will
      be lower than that in the e-mental health only group.

      Hypothesis V: The reduction in depression and anxiety scores in the e-mental health plus job
      coaching group will be greater than those in the e-mental health program only group.

      Hypothesis VI: The means of negative changes in absenteeism and presenteeism scores in the
      e-mental health plus job coaching group will be lower than those in the e-mental health
      program only group.

      Hypothesis VII: Participants in the e-mental health plus job coaching group will have greater
      reduction in predicted MDE risk than those in the e-mental health program only group.

      The proposed mixed-methods study is a prospective, intention-to-treat, randomized controlled
      trial with 3 arms:

        -  Control group (n = 400): individuals will receive general information about men's mental
           health

        -  Intervention arm 1 (n = 400): individuals will receive the e-mental health program.

        -  Intervention arm 2 (n = 400): individuals will receive the e-mental health program, and
           telephone based interactive work-life coaching.

      An embedded qualitative interview component will be conducted with a sub sample of
      participants from the intervention groups to obtain in-depth perspectives about the
      effectiveness of interventions at the 12-month.

      Recruitment and Screening will be contracted to a telephone interview firm that has access to
      the numbers of household landlines and cell phones across the country. Recruitment will be
      conducted using the method of Random Digit Dialing (RDD).

      Online assessment: To ensure the use of the Internet, participants who complete the baseline
      telephone assessment are instructed to complete an online survey as the last step of the
      baseline assessment and informed consent. The online survey will include:

        -  A brief description of the purpose of the trial and commitment of privacy protection

        -  The Internet use (2 questions)

        -  The 12-item Job Content Questionnaire used in the Statistics Canada survey to measure
           self-reported work stress

        -  Consent and submission.

      Randomization. Participants who complete the baseline telephone and online surveys will be
      randomized into intervention and control groups. The randomization will be conducted and
      managed by the project coordinator affiliated with the project.

      1200 random numbers (between 0 and 1) will first be generated using Excel ("RAND()") for 1200
      study identification numbers (ID), ranging from 1 to 1200. The 1200 random numbers will then
      be sorted at the descending order and categorized into 3 equal groups:

        -  the ID numbers in the first group (n = 400) will be allocated to the control group

        -  the ID numbers in the second group (n = 400) will be allocated to the e-mental health
           program only

        -  the ID numbers in the third group (n = 400) will be allocated to the e-mental health
           group plus job coaching.

      The Excel sheet with ID numbers and random numbers will be kept and printed out for
      randomization.

      For example, a participant is the 3rd one who completes the online survey, which is
      determined by the date of completion. The project coordinator will search for ID #3 on the
      Excel sheet. The ID #3 is in the second group. This participant will be assigned to the group
      that will receive e-mental health program only.

      The date of randomization will be documented. Any outcomes/changes that occur after the
      randomization will be counted to the groups, regardless of course of the e-mental health and
      job coaching interventions and if the interventions are used by the participants.

      After randomization, the project coordinator will contact the participant by email. For those
      in the control group, the email will include a link to the men's mental health page of the
      Movember Foundation website; for those in the e-mental health only group, the email will
      include a link to the e-mental health program log-in page, and the user name. Password will
      be send in a separate email; for those in the e-mental health plus job coaching group, the
      email will include a link to the page for e-mental health program and appointment booking
      system, and the user name. Password will be send in a separate email.

      After randomization, a package including the following materials will be mailed to the
      participants:

        -  A thank-you letter

        -  the Movember Foundation web site link to men's mental health:
           https://ca.movember.com/mens-health/mental-health

        -  $20 incentive as appreciation of their participation.

      The project coordinator will not be involved in follow-up data collection.

      Follow-up assessments: The post-randomization assessments will be conducted at 6 months and
      12 months by interviewers at the Mathison Centre for Mental Health & Education, University of
      Calgary.

      To obtain in-depth information about how the e-mental health solution affects men's behaviors
      and risk profile, qualitative interviews will be conducted via telephone with 10% of
      participants in the intervention groups at the end of the randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      (i.e., after the 12-month assessment). The participants will represent those with diverse
      outcomes (clinical and occupational trajectories, and employment status changes). Qualitative
      interview data will yield in-depth data about the impacts of receiving the e-mental health
      solution and depression risk information on the outcomes. These data will be used to support
      and interpret the primary quantitative data base. The multiple forms of evidence generated
      through mixed methods designs are particularly useful for illuminating complex health
      issues.36

      Data management: The telephone interview firm will transfer password protected baseline data
      to the PI on a monthly basis. The group assignment data will be transferred in a separate
      file. The 6- and 12-month follow-up assessments will be conducted at the telephone interview
      laboratory at the Mathison Centre for Mental Health Research & Education (the Centre),
      University of Calgary. There are 5 trained telephone interviewers. Of whom, 2 can conduct
      interviews in English and French. The laboratory has 5 stations which are equipped with the
      Computer Assisted Telephone Interview provided by the VOXCO company. One month before the
      scheduled follow-up interviews, letters will be sent to the participants to remind them of
      the upcoming interview. An interview log will be developed for each participant to document
      interview time, schedule, call-back, contact information and for the interviewer to make
      comments.

      Over the course of the trial, the principal investigator (PI) and research staff will examine
      the data on a regular basis by running cross tabulation, frequency distribution and
      estimation of means and proportions to ensure the quality of the data and identify missing
      values and potential outliers. If missing values and outliers are found, the records will be
      referred back to the interviewer for clarification or call-back.

      After the 12-month interview, participants' group status will be linked with interview data
      by study identification (ID) numbers. Over the study period, the investigators and the
      interviewers who conduct the follow-up interviews in Calgary will not have access to
      participants' group status. The interviewers who conduct the baseline assessment and
      randomization, will not be involved in follow-up interviews.

      The PI and project coordinator will be responsible for maintaining the data and data quality
      control. A sub-committee has been formed for this trial. The committee members will
      communicate via teleconference at bi-monthly basis to review and discuss the progress,
      operational issues, data analysis and preliminary results.
    
  