
    
      Pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) is minimally invasive micro-endoscopic surgery of posterior eye
      chamber. Most often patients receive combination of loco-regional anesthesia (topical
      anesthetic plus retrobulbar or Subtenon block), performed by a surgeon, and moderate
      analgo-sedation, performed by an anesthesiologist. Although applied intravenous anesthetics
      are short-acting, carefully titrated and continuously infused, anesthesia can lead to
      cessation of adequate spontaneous patients' breathing detected as bradypnoea, hypoxia and
      hypercapnia reflecting respiratory instability of patient. Respiratory instability is
      accompanied by circulatory one, reflected in heart rate and blood pressure deflections from
      baseline values. Usually, before, during and after analgo-sedation until patient is awaken,
      low-flow nasal oxygenation (LFNO) of 2-6 L/min O2 is applied through nasal catheter providing
      maximum inspiratory fraction of oxygen (FiO2) of 40%. Beside coldness and dryness of LFNO
      (therefore causing discomfort to patient), LFNO is often inadequate to prevent respiratory
      instability manifested as hypoxia and hypercapnia and subsequent circulatory disturbances.

      Anesthesia risk is classified by American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status
      Classification System (ASA classification system) where patients of ASA class I anesthesia
      risk are generally healthy without systemic disease, patients deployed to ASA class II group
      have mild disease, having no functional impairment, higher risk ASA III patients have one or
      more significant organ function impairment.

      High-flow nasal oxygenation (HFNO) delivers to patient high flow heated and humidified
      oxygen/air mixture (up to 70 L/min, up to 100% FiO2) using soft nasal cannula. HFNO produces
      3-7 cmH2O of positive end-expiratory pressure therefore supporting patients breathing effort
      and providing apnoeic oxygenation, decreasing pharyngeal airway dead space and resistance.
      The patients find HFNO more comfortable as delivered gas is heated and humidified. HFNO is
      usually used for oxygenation of patients with predicted difficult oroendotrachial intubation
      prior to anesthesia, in process of awakening from anesthesia in postanesthesia care units and
      during process of weaning from mechanical respiratory support in intensive care units.

      Goal of this trial is to compare effect of HFNO and LFNO on oxygenation maintenance during
      standardized procedure of intravenous analgo-sedation in normal weight ASA I, II and III risk
      class patients for elective PPV.

      Investigators hypothesize that application of HFNO compared to LFNO in patients with
      preserved spontaneous breathing during procedural analgo-sedation for PPV contributes to
      maintaining adequate oxygenation, consequently adding to greater patients periprocedural
      respiratory and circulatory stability. Investigators expect that HFNO will provide reduced
      bradypnoea intervals (bradypnoea <12 breaths/min, FoB 1/min), longer maintenance of adequate
      oxygenation, shorter intervals of desaturation (peripheral blood oxygen saturation -
      SpO2≤92%), reducing hypercapnia (expiratory carbon-dioxide - expCO2≥45 mmHg) and less airway
      opening maneuvers performed by attending anesthesiologist (AOM). These will prevent partial
      respiratory insufficiency detected by low SpO2 accompanied by low or normal expiratory
      carbon-dioxide level (expCO2), and global respiratory insufficiency detected by decreased
      SpO2≤92% and increased expCO2≥45 mmHg.

      Investigators plan to conduct prospective, parallel group, randomized controlled clinical
      trial. Trial will be managed according to principles of Declaration of Helsinki for
      scientific clinical research and will be planned and guided according to CONSORT guidelines
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials). The trial has been approved by Hospital's Ethic
      Committee.

      The source of information are going to be 126 adult patients scheduled for PPV under
      analgo-sedation. Eligible participants will be interviewed and examined ambulatory by
      anesthesiologist, their ASA status, difficulty of airway management and body mass index (BMI)
      evaluated. After initial examination inclusive and exclusive criteria will be distinguished.
      Eligible participants who give voluntarily their written consent of participation will be
      included in this study. After that, participants will be assigned to equal ASA I, II and III
      risk class group. Each group will be randomized to intervention (HFNO) and control (LFNO)
      subgroup by computer random numbers generator. Randomization will be used until adequate
      number of participants in every subgroup is reached.

      Interventions: intervention subgroups participants will be oxygenated via nasal cannula using
      high flow (40 L/min) of humidified and heated oxygen in air mixture (FiO2 40%). HFNO will be
      applied by oxygenator (AirVO™2, Fisher and Paykell, New Zealand, Technomedika, Croatia
      d.o.o.) during procedural analgo-sedation for PPV maintaining spontaneous breathing. In
      control subgroups, LFNO will be applied via nasal catheter (Bauerfeind d.o.o. Zagreb,
      Croatia) using standard low-flow oxygen (5 L/min, FiO2 40%). In both groups concentration of
      oxygen delivered depends on oxygen flow which is regulated by standard flow-regulator
      (flowmeter). Oxygen is delivered through pipelines from central hospital gas supply or from
      portable cylinder gas supply.

      Anesthesia procedure will be uniformed for all participants. Integrated noninvasive
      monitoring of circulatory function (heart rate - EKG, intermittent mean arterial pressure -
      sphygmomanometer) will be set (Compact 7; Medical Econet GmbH, Germany). Respiratory vital
      functions: oxygenation (pulse oximeter), heart rate and expCO2 by using capnometer
      (Capnostream™35 Portable Respiratory Monitor, Medtronic, Belgium).

      Every participant will have established intravenous infusion of 250 ml NaCl 0.9% via
      intravenous cannula regulated by continuous flow (Extension set/CONTROL-A-FLO Regulator 19
      "Male Luer Lock Adapter", Baxter/Agmar d.o.o. United States of America/ Croatia).

      Oxygenation (HFNO or LFNO) will be continuously administered before institution of
      analgo-sedation until patients' awakening. It will be started 3 minutes before
      analgo-sedation (preoxygenation), continued during analgo-sedation and procedure of PPV
      (perioperative oxygenation) and up to 5 minutes after PPV and until patient is awake
      (postprocedural oxygenation).

      Induction of analgo-sedation will be instituted by droperidol 1.25 -2.5 mg bolus accompanied
      by continuous infusion of target remifentanyl concentration up to 0.05 mcg/kg/min. Intensity
      of sedation will be measured by Ramsay's sedation scale (RSS). Moderate sedation (RSS 4) is
      characterized by: purposeful response to verbal or tactile stimulation, no intervention
      required for airway patency maintenance, adequate spontaneous ventilation and sufficient
      cardiovascular function. Surgeon will apply topical local anesthetic on conjunctiva which is
      followed by regional anesthesia (Subtenon or retrobulbar block). Intravenous analgo-sedation
      will be administered via perfusor (B.Braun, Melsungen, Germany). Analgo-sedation will be
      discontinued immediately after end of PPV.

      Control of nasopharyngeal airway is achieved by using oropharyngeal airway, if necessary.
      Oropharyngeal airway (Airway; Vigon-Medicpro d.o.o.) will be inserted after achieving
      moderate analgo-sedation and only if base of tongue is closing airway by dropping on
      posterior pharyngeal wall. Every manipulation of patients airway by anesthesiologist will be
      documented (insertion of airway, jaw thrust maneuver).

      Measuring:

      SpO2, expCO2, heart rate (fC) and respiratory rate (fD) will be measured continuously, and
      simultaneously continuously noted in 5 minutes intervals - T0=before oxygenation, T1=15
      minutes after instituting LFNO or HFNO after beginning of analgo-sedation, T2=when patient is
      awake after oxygenation ends.

      Noninvasive measurement SpO2 will be performed by indirect method using a pulse oximeter on
      the index finger of the left hand (Compact 7, Medical ECONET GmbH, Germany).

      Blood pressure measuring and mean arterial pressure calculation will be repeated
      intermittently in 5 minutes intervals prior to-, during analgo-sedation and after patient is
      awaken. All measured parameters will be noted in identical intervals.

      The data will be collected uniformly by three researchers: an anesthesiologist who interviews
      and examines patients ambulatory, an anesthesiologist designated for procedural
      analgo-sedation and an anesthesiologist who will collect the data after the completion of the
      analgo-sedation procedure.

      The investigator in charge of the data collection will collect it from the pre-operative
      ambulatory list and the anesthesiologist list. The anesthesiology sheet will include all data
      from the trend table of the monitored vital parameters and from the simultaneously noted
      respiratory rate (fD) per minute and the expCO2.

      The data will be collected through non-invasive measurements: peripheral blood oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), heart rate (fC), respiratory rate (fD), blood pressure (mean arterial
      pressure - MAP), carbon dioxide exhaled values before, in the stabilization and at the end of
      the analgo-sedation, i.e. 5 minutes after awakening of the patient.

      A fourth researcher will be in charge of entering the collected data into the database. The
      statistician will analyze the data.

      Basic data analyses will be performed by statistician. Sample size is determined by statistic
      computing web program: http://www.stat.ubc.ca/~rollin/stats/ssize used statistic test
      Inference for Proportions:Comparing Two Independent Samples. Assessment of sample size is
      computed for two independent samples with assumption of clinically significant difference in
      patients' oxygenation: ≤88 and ≥99%. Statistical significance of difference will be inferred
      with 5% α-error, 50% β-error and study power 0.80.calculated size of sample is: 21
      participant pro subgroup (total of 126 participants).

      Possible biases and confounding variables could be caused by hypothermia of the participant
      and by sphygmomanometer pressure on the same arm where peripheral oxygenation level is
      measured. These difficulties can be bypassed by: adjustment of room temperature where
      analgo-sedation for PPV is performed and blood pressure measuring cuff placed on right arm
      (pulse oximeter placed on left index-finger).

      Any possible event that may occur during analgo-sedation that causes deviation from the study
      protocol will be the reason for exclusion of the subjects from the study and the PPV will be
      continued under anesthesia according to the rules of good clinical practice.
    
  