
    
      Anxiety disorders are the most common form of psychopathology, and are associated with
      substantial impairment. Longitudinal-prospective work has demonstrated anxiety disorders
      often begin in childhood and persist across the lifespan. Therefore, there is a critical need
      and opportunity to identify markers of risk that predict anxious trajectories of development.
      Such markers may be novel targets for intervention, that are evident before symptoms become
      impairing. Furthermore, identifying environmental factors that impact neural markers of risk
      may be useful in developing interventions. One promising biomarker of anxiety is increased
      brain activity in response to errors, as reflected by the error-related negativity (ERN). The
      ERN is a deflection in the event-related potential (ERP) occurring after an individual makes
      a mistake on lab-based tasks. In over 45 studies to date, the ERN has been found to be
      increased in anxious individuals, including children as young as age 6, and has thereby been
      proposed as a neural biomarker of anxiety. Critically, an increased ERN has also been shown
      to predict the onset of new anxiety disorders in children and adolescents, even while
      controlling for baseline anxiety symptoms.

      Considering the ERN is elevated before anxiety symptoms become impairing, it is crucial to
      identify factors that may modify the ERN early in life - so as to prevent the onset of
      clinical anxiety. Given the ERN can be potentiated in the lab with punishment for errors, the
      investigators hypothesized that exposure to critical parenting styles may sensitize children
      to their own mistakes. Indeed, the investigators did find, in a large sample of young
      children (295 six-year old children), that both observational and self-report measures of
      critical parenting style related to an increased ERN in offspring. Moreover, results
      suggested the ERN mediated the relationship between critical parenting and child anxiety
      disorders, supporting the proposition that an increased ERN may be one mechanism by which
      parenting impacts child anxiety. This finding has since been replicated in even younger
      children (approximately 4 years old), suggesting this neural risk marker for anxiety appears
      to be shaped by parenting behaviors, and thus, may be a modifiable biomarker. However, no
      previous work has examined to what extent modifying parenting may impact the ERN.

      Drawing upon this recent work, in the current proposal, the investiagotors will develop a
      novel psychosocial intervention to be administered to both parents and children, which aims
      to normalize the ERN in children (i.e., reduce over-reactivity to making errors). Given
      recent evidence that critical parenting and parental sensitivity to children's errors relates
      to an increased ERN in children, combined with pilot data suggesting that the ERN can be
      reduced via a psychosocial intervention, the investigators will use a brief, computerized,
      psychosocial intervention to directly target this well-established neurobiological risk
      marker in children.

      The proposed Mentored Career Development Award (K01) is designed to extend previous work on
      the ERN, parenting, and risk for anxiety in young children to test the extent to which the
      ERN can be modulated. Specifically, the investigators will recruit 100 parent/child dyads,
      high in error sensitivity, and randomize 75 to an intervention condition and 25 to an active
      control condition. The investigators will measure the ERN in children pre and post
      intervention, as well as baseline anxiety symptoms. At a six-month follow-up, the
      investigators will assess children's ERN, as well as anxiety symptoms, to examine to what
      extent intervention-related changes in the ERN relate to decreases in anxiety symptoms.
      Moreover, this training plan builds on the investigator's expertise on the ERN and anxiety,
      and integrates expertise in the design and implementation of computerized interventions, as
      well as advanced statistical analyses related to intervention outcomes. AIM 1: Examine
      whether a neural marker of risk for anxiety (i.e., the ERN) in children is decreased during a
      single lab visit, via a brief, computerized intervention designed to target error
      sensitivity. The investigators hypothesize that children that participate in the active
      condition will experience a decrease in the ERN at the first assessment, compared to children
      in the control condition. 1a. Examine whether initial intervention-related decreases in the
      ERN relate to decreased anxiety symptoms at the six-month follow-up. The investigators expect
      that the extent to which children's ERNs are normalized during the initial intervention will
      relate to a lasting reduction in anxiety symptoms. AIM 2: Examine whether the ERN in children
      in the intervention condition display a reduction in the ERN from the initial lab assessment
      to the six-month follow-up assessment. The investigators expect the parenting aspect of the
      intervention to impact children between the assessments, therefore the investigators
      hypothesize that children in the active condition will experience a reduction in the ERN
      magnitude from the first to second lab assessment. 2a. Examine whether intervention-related
      decreases in the ERN between the first and second assessment relate to decreases in anxiety
      symptoms at the six-month follow-up. The investigators hypothesize that the extent the ERN
      decreases from the first to the second lab assessment to relate to decreases in anxiety
      symptoms in children. AIM 3: Examine whether changes in the ERN, and thus changes in child
      anxiety, are mediated by changes in parenting style and parental sensitivity to children's
      errors. This exploratory aim focuses on validating the impact parenting has on child symptoms
      and explores to what extent a brief, computerized intervention can modulate parent behavior
      and thus anxiety symptoms in children.
    
  