
    
      A three group randomized trial with repeated measures. Participants are assigned by chance to
      one of three groups: 1) patient-directed, as desired music listening through headphones, 2)
      noise-canceling headphones only, or 3) usual care. Participants remain in the study, up to 30
      days, as long as they are receiving mechanical ventilation in the ICU, choose to withdraw, or
      become unable to complete the daily anxiety assessments. Information is collected daily on
      patient-perceived anxiety levels (visual analog scale & State Anxiety Inventory), ventilator
      settings, and all medications received. Urine is collected each day the participant is on the
      ventilator to determine level of stress (cortisol) if the kidneys are functioning
      appropriately and the participant is not receiving medications known to influence cortisol
      levels.

      Mechanical ventilation is a common treatment for respiratory problems for patients in the
      ICU. Patients receiving mechanical ventilation experience much anxiety and distress from the
      placement of the endotracheal tube (breathing tube) and the mechanical ventilator itself. The
      usual treatment for these symptoms are medications, which are very potent and have numerous
      adverse side effects, removing patient involvement and control from managing these symptoms.
      Music has been shown to decrease anxiety and promote relaxation in limited, single listening
      intervention studies with patients in the ICU on ventilators. This study tests whether having
      patients listen to preferred music (familiar & comforting) whenever feeling anxious and
      wanting to relax for as long as they would like to listen to music through headphones
      throughout the entire time they are on the ventilator can improve outcomes such as less
      anxiety, shorter time on the ventilator, receipt of fewer medications, and less stress when
      compared to patients who do not listen to music while they are on the ventilator. Results
      from this study will advance nursing science by providing evidence on the efficacy of a
      simple, self-directed intervention that the millions of patients who receive mechanical
      ventilation each year in the ICU can use themselves to treat the very common symptoms of
      anxiety and distress. Results from this study will expand the knowledge base of adjunctive
      interventions that can be implemented in the ICU to involve patients directly in managing
      their own symptoms, ultimately improving patient outcomes.

      Patients who are alert and can provide consent are invited to participate if they are on the
      ventilator in one of the participating ICUs. Patients remain in the study for as long as they
      are on the ventilator (up to 30 days) and can provide daily assessment of their anxiety
      levels. Patients are free to withdraw, however, at any time. Patients randomized to music
      receive an assessment of their music preferences by a professional music therapist. The music
      therapist then develops a music collection for each participant, based in individual
      preferences, that is kept at the bedside throughout the duration of being on the ventilator.
      The music therapist also visits with music participants' daily to determine if preferences
      have changed and if he/she desires additional music compact disks (CDs) to be kept at the
      bedside. Data is collected from the medical record on all medications and ventilator settings
      each day the participant is enrolled in the study. All urine is collected each day the
      participant remains in the study if the kidneys are functioning properly and the participant
      is not receiving medications known to influence cortisol, a marker for an integrative level
      of stress.
    
  