
    
      Clinical Trial Simulation Design and Investigational Plan: Our study sample will consist of a
      group of 10 randomly selected virtual Caucasian hemodialysis patients with Stage 5 chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) and a group of 10 randomly selected Caucasian age and weight matched
      healthy controls. Patients, 5 women and 5 men in each group, will be synthesized using
      clinical trial simulation techniques from the case report data reported by Lee, Leng, and
      Cooper and the experiments by Kirvela and coworkers. Our goal is to learn about the
      populations from which the study samples are drawn. To meet this goal, the investigators will
      perform Monte Carlo simulation.

      Both virtual control subjects and experimental hemodialysis patients meeting all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be studied in two phases.

      In phase 1, subjects will receive a ceiling dose of controlled-release oxycodone
      hydrochloride (hereafter CR-OC) totaling 40 mg twice daily for 2 weeks prior to the
      experimental hemodialysis procedure on day 15. Because patients in the hemodialysis group
      will be anuric, they will undergo hemodialysis three times weekly.10 During that time, they
      will receive supplemental oral immediate-release oxycodone every 4 h as needed to control
      their pain up to a visual analog scale level of < 3. These pain levels would correspond with
      plasma oxycodone concentrations of 20-50 ng/mL.

      Patients will be instructed to take their last dose of CR-OC 2 to 3 hours before starting the
      experimental hemodialysis procedure. This dosing schedule will ensure that the time to
      CR-OC's maximum concentration (Tmax) and its maximum concentration (Cmax) will be reached at
      the time of blood sampling at t = 0, enabling accurate assessment of CR-OC's elimination with
      negligible influence from absorption or redistribution.

      At 8:00 am on the 15th day, and this is phase 2 of the study, each individual will undergo
      hemodialysis for 4 hours. Two independent simultaneous blood samples for measurement of
      plasma oxycodone concentrations from both arterial inflow (Cin) and venous outflow (Cout)
      sites will be obtained immediately upon starting hemodialysis (t = 0) and immediately after
      hemodialysis before shutting off the machine (t = 4). For all calculations and ODE/PDE
      modeling (see Model Diagram), the oxycodone concentrations from those samples will be
      combined and averaged. Oxycodone's intradialytic extraction ratio will be calculated from the
      simultaneously sampled arterial (inflow) and venous (outflow) plasma oxycodone concentrations
      by dividing their difference by the arterial plasma oxycodone concentrations.

      Controls will eat three light meals and a bedtime snack daily. Hemodialysis patients will eat
      a standard renal diet. Foods will be free of known inhibitors of CYP2D6. Individuals will be
      digitally abstained from nicotine, caffeine, grapefruit juice and alcohol during the course
      of the study.
    
  