
    
      Ethical approval was obtained from Ethics Committee of Faculty of Medicine, Universitas
      Indonesia - Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital.

      Eligible subjects for this study will be recruited with consecutive sampling method within
      certain period until minimum number of subjects required for this study is filled.

      Informed consents will be given to each subject before participating in the study. Patients
      will be randomly divided into two groups using closed envelops.

      Subjects who will receive bilateral superficial cervical plexus block is the interventional
      group whereas subjects who will receive local infiltration of lidocaine 2% is the control
      group.

      Before, during, and after the procedure, all subjects are monitored (blood pressure, heart
      rate, respiratory rate, and electrocardiography). Monitoring data, including pain, will be
      recorded. Pain is measured by using visual analog scale or verbal numeric rating scale.

      Arterial blood sample (approximately 3 cc) from each subject will be withdrawn twice and put
      into tubes containing anticoagulant for substance-P examination. Initial withdrawal is done
      before the anesthetics are given while the last one is done after the tracheostomy procedure.

      Before the procedure, location for incision and block will be marked. Interventional group
      will be given 10 mL of Bupivacaine 0.5% on each side of the neck (as marked) by using 20 mL
      spuit with 25 G 1.5 inch needle whereas control group will be given 4 mL of Lidocaine 2% on
      incisional region (as marked) by using 5 mL spuit with 25 G 1.5 inch needle. 1 mg of
      Midazolam can be given intravenously before the block if there is no contraindication.
      Tracheostomy will be performed 15 minutes after the block is administered or local
      infiltration has worked. After tracheostomy, patients will be continually monitored in
      post-anesthesia care unit while their blood samples will be delivered to laboratory for ELISA
      test.
    
  