
    
      Most randomized controlled clinical trials regarding the effects of non-surgical periodontal
      treatment have focused on objective parameters. Their effects on patient-centered variables
      have been received very little attention. After determining clinical therapeutic efficacy,
      this study compared over 6 months the effects of two different forms of non-surgical
      periodontal therapy - scaling and root planing per quadrant (SRP) and one-stage full-mouth
      disinfection (FMD) - on scores of quality of life, fear, anxiety and pain of moderate chronic
      periodontitis. Initially, the sample size was calculated considering protocols' clinical
      efficacy. Specifically for the present study it was verified if the initial sample size would
      be enough for analysis of the subjective variables.

      Patients registered in dental care centers from University of Taubate, Taubate - Sao Paulo,
      Brazil and Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte - Minas Gerais, Brazil were
      informed about the objectives and methods of the study, being consecutively included in the
      study only after signing an informed consent form. Selected participants were randomly
      allocated to one of the treatment groups by a closed envelope system. According to the
      designated group, participants receive either conventional quadrant scaling in four weekly
      sections or full-mouth scaling within 24 hours.

      Two experienced trained periodontists carried out debridement procedures of both protocols
      with manual Gracey and McCall curettes and Hirschfield files.

      Specific validated instruments were used to evaluate subjective variables. Oral Impacts on
      Daily Performance (OIDP) and Oral Health and Quality of Life (OHQoL-UK) measured quality of
      life while Dental Fear Survey (DFS), Dental Anxiety Scale (DAS) questionnaires and, Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS) measured experienced fear, anxiety and pain, respectively.
    
  