
    
      Background:

        -  About 30,000 men will die from prostate cancer in the US in 2018. The majority of these
           men originally presented with localized cancer.

        -  Treatment options for patients with high risk, localized disease typically involve
           radical prostatectomy (RP) or radiation therapy (RT) in combination with androgen
           deprivation therapy (ADT). Following RP, 70% of patients with high-risk disease will
           experience a biochemical recurrence at 5 years, and approximately 20% will die of their
           disease in 10-15 years, likely due to metastatic disease that was not detectable using
           conventional imaging (99mTc-methylene diphosphonate bone scan and X-ray computed
           tomography) at

      the time of prostatectomy.

        -  Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is commonly expressed in prostate cancers and
           is associated with biologic aggressiveness.

        -  The second generation, PET tracer 18F-DCFPyl binds to the enzymatic portion of PSMA. It
           exhibits high uptake in tumor and rapid washout in normal tissues leading to high tumor
           to background ratios and the possibility of detecting metastases when conventional
           imaging is negative.

      Objective:

      -To determine if patients with a preoperative 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT that is negative for
      metastases experience 5 year progression free survival (PFS) which is improved (40%) over
      that of historical data (30%) based on a general population of similar patients who have not
      undergone imaging with 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT

      Eligibility:

        -  Men greater than or equal to 18 years of age at the time of providing informed consent.

        -  Patients must have histologically proven prostate adenocarcinoma confirmed by a CLIA
           certified laboratory

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status: less than or equal to 2.

        -  Must have prostate cancer with high risk features defined as:

             -  Gleason 8 and higher OR

             -  PSA > 20 ng/mL OR

             -  Clinical stage T3a (i.e. likely extraprostatic extension on MRI) or T3b

        -  Laboratory parameters:

             -  Hemoglobin >= 9 g/dL

             -  Leukocytes >=3,000/mcL

             -  Platelets >=100,000/mcL

             -  Total bilirubin <2 X normal institutional limits

             -  AST(SGOT)/ALT(SGPT) less than or equal to 3 X normal institutional limits

             -  Creatinine <2 X normal institutional limits OR

             -  eGFR >=50 mL/min/1.73 m2 for patients with creatinine levels above institutional
                normal (calculated via the MDRD equation)

        -  Patients must be planning to undergo radical prostatectomy and lymphadenectomy
           regardless of findings on 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT.

        -  Willingness and ability to undergo multiparametric prostate MRI and 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT

      Design:

        -  This is an open-label, non-randomized, multi-center trial designed to evaluate the
           impact of 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT imaging on Progression-Free Survival at 5 years in patients
           with high risk localized prostate cancer.

        -  All subjects meeting eligibility criteria will undergo baseline assessments to include
           multiparametric MRI of the prostate, 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate bone scan and
           contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen and pelvis.

        -  All subjects meeting eligibility criteria will undergo 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT.

        -  The study will enroll up to 200 patients from 7 centers. Up to 40 patients will be
           enrolled at NCI.

        -  All subjects will undergo radical prostatectomy and lymphadenectomy within 60 days
           following PET/CT imaging.

        -  Subjects will be evaluated at 6 weeks, at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months, at 2, 3, 4, and 5
           years post-prostatectomy to determine if there has been progression and to record
           details of subsequent treatment and response.

        -  18F-DCFPyL PET/CT imaging will be repeated at the time of progression.
    
  