
    
      Following an initial telephone screen to assess inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      evaluation will continue with an in-person evaluation to assess the presence or absence of
      active medical history and history of major psychiatric illness, as well as review of the
      consent document. If found to be eligible, participants would then be admitted to the study.

      The next step for eligible, consenting depressed subjects and healthy controls is a baseline
      hospital visit and baseline MRI. The baseline hospital visit will last about 4 hours. We will
      begin the baseline visit by collecting a urine sample for a drug (and, for women, pregnancy)
      test. As long as that is negative, we will then collect a blood sample of about 155cc. After
      the blood draw, participants will complete cognitive tests and meet again with the study
      psychiatrist. Participants will also complete a baseline Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and
      Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) of their brain at the Veteran's Affairs (VA) Hospital
      in San Francisco.

      After the baseline hospital visit and MRI, depressed subjects (but not healthy controls) will
      begin taking an FDA approved antidepressant, as prescribed by the study psychiatrist, for the
      next 8 weeks while they are enrolled in the study. The specific drug will be decided upon
      between the participant and the study psychiatrist at the in-person screening visit.

      After 4 weeks, depressed participants will return to UCSF to meet again with the psychiatrist
      to discuss symptoms and how to continue treatment; at that visit, they will have another
      blood draw of 155cc (the same blood draw as at baseline). Healthy controls will return at
      week 4 only for the blood draw.

      4 weeks later (after 8 weeks in total), we will bring both depressed and healthy participants
      back for an additional visit that will include the same blood draw, testing, and MRI as the
      baseline visit. A physician-investigator will meet with the depressed subjects to review
      their clinical responses to treatment and to make further treatment suggestions, which the
      subjects may use in discussions of their future treatment options with their personal
      physicians. If a decision is made to discontinue antidepressant treatment, the subjects will
      be given instructions on how to withdraw from the medication, and will be given up to a 4
      week supply of the drug to facilitate this withdrawal.
    
  