
    
      1. Study objectives

           1.1. Primary objectives:

           To examine viral factors, such as gt, subtype and viral load, associated with the
           morbidity and mortality of HEV infections in Belgium.

           1.2. Secondary objectives:

             -  To describe host factors associated with the morbidity and mortality of HEV
                infections in Belgium.

             -  To find independent host and/or viral factors that are associated with the
                morbidity and mortality of HEV infections in Belgium.

        2. Investigational plan

           2.1. General study design

           Retrospective cohort study.

           2.2. Study duration, enrollment and number of sites

           Subjects for which a serum sample is sent to the Belgian National Reference Center for
           Viral Hepatitis Sciensano to diagnose a HEV infection between January 2010 and June
           2018.

           2.3. Study population

           All patients with a confirmed or possible HEV infection at Sciensano between January
           2010 up to and included June 2018.

           2.3.1. Inclusion criteria:

             -  HEV RNA positive AND/OR HEV immunoglobulin (Ig)M positive

             -  Lab confirmation of the HEV infection performed at Sciensano

             -  All ages will be included

             -  Referring hospital in Belgium

           2.3.2. Exclusion criteria:

             -  No confirmation of HEV serology AND/OR polymerase chain reaction (PCR) performed at
                Sciensano

             -  Cases not diagnosed in Belgium

             -  Cases without clinical outcome data

        3. Study procedures

           Review of records. Re-evaluation of available liver biopsies by an expert liver
           pathologist (Prof. Tania Roskams, UZ Leuven).

           3.1. Data sources

           In Belgium, Sciensano acts as a National Reference Center (NRC) for viral hepatitis.
           Most of the documented HEV infections in Belgium are confirmed in Sciensano and samples
           on which HEV serology (IgM and IgG), PCR and genotyping have been performed are
           biobanked.

           3.2. Data collection

           A questionnaire will be sent to all treating physicians of patients with HEV infections
           in Belgium. If no response is received, a reminder will be sent by regular mail and
           later by e-mail. Different options will be offered to the treating physicians: to fill
           in the questionnaire, to complete the questionnaire by telephone with an investigator
           from Sciensano, to let the data to be collected at the center site by an investigator of
           Sciensano. Available liver biopsies from confirmed HEV cases will be retrieved from the
           pathology department of each center and re-evaluated by an expert liver pathologist.

           3.3. Variables collected

           Demographic data:

           Age and geographical origin. Date of symptom onset, date of diagnosis, date of loss to
           follow-up / death. Pregnancy at the time of diagnosis. Diabetes mellitus at the time of
           diagnosis. Immunocompromised status at the time of diagnosis. Known cirrhosis (fibroscan
           / biopsy / …), hematological or oncological disease. Other comorbidities. Blood
           transfusion history. Solid organ or stem cell transplantation preceding the HEV
           infection, type of organ and date. Renal function or renal replacement therapy.
           Infection in other family members. Use of alcohol and number of units per week. Use of
           illicit drugs. Travel abroad preceding the HEV infection and name of the country
           visited. Consumption of pork meat.

           Treatment data:

           Treatment with ribavirin. Treatment with other known/putative antiviral therapy.
           Reduction of immunosuppressive medication because of the HEV infection. Stop of
           immunosuppressive therapy because of HEV infection.

           Disease course and outcomes data:

           Acute hepatitis with complete recovery. Liver failure. Hospitalisation. Duration of
           hospitalisation in days. Admission to the intensive care unit. Duration of
           hospitalisation at the intensive care unit in days. Variceal bleeding. Bacterial
           peritonitis. Hepatic encephalopathy. Extrahepatic manifestations and type. Neurologic
           disease and type. Chronic HEV infection (as defined by HEV RNA positive for 3 months or
           more). Progression to cirrhosis as a consequence of HEV infection. Liver transplantation
           as a consequence of HEV infection and date of transplantation. Death and date of death.
           Death as a consequence of HEV infection. Total duration of symptoms in weeks.

           Biochemical data:

           HEV IgM, HEV IgG, HEV (quantitative) PCR, HEV genotype and subtype. HEV genotyping was
           performed by Sanger sequencing of a 348 base pair (between 2010 and 2016) or a 493 base
           pair (from 2017) region of ORF2. The obtained sequences were aligned against HEV
           reference genomes and submitted to HEVnet for genotype assignment (13). Presenting ALT,
           peak ALT, presenting AP, peak AP, presenting bilirubin, peak bilirubin, presenting INR,
           peak INR, presenting albumin, lowest albumin, presenting eGFR (CKD-EPI), lowest eGFR
           (CKD-EPI).

           Liver biopsy scoring:

           Histological grading and staging on H&E stained liver biopsy slides will be applied in a
           blinded manner. One expert liver pathologist, who is unaware of the infection status of
           the patient, will score the liver biopsies. The following parameters will be scored from
           0-4 in a semi-quantitative manner: general architecture, lobular and portal
           inflammation, presence of immune cells and necrotic cells, presence of interfaces. Per
           patient, a global score will be assigned taken into account the spread, mean and mode of
           the different scored parameters.

        4. Statistical analysis plan

      The characteristics of patients will be analysed with the chi-square test for categorical
      variables and student t-test (Welch test if unequal variances or Wilcoxon Rank sum test when
      normality is not met) for the continuous variables. Numerical data are presented as the mean
      and standard deviation or 95% confidence interval, while categorical are expressed as counts
      and percentages.

      The following independent viral variables are defined: HEV gt 3 clade type (abchijklm, efg
      and ra), viral load.

      The following independent host variables are defined, given their known association with
      disease outcome or severity: alcohol consumption, diabetes, gender, age, cirrhosis and
      immunosuppression.

      Differences between demographic factors, disease severity (expressed by laboratory data and
      histology) and disease outcomes (as defined by hospitalization status and duration, ICU stay,
      chronic infection, extrahepatic manifestations and death) will be analysed for the
      independent viral variables with an univariate analysis. Multivariable linear or logistic
      regression analysis will be performed with dependent variables that were found to be
      significantly associated with the independent variables in univariate analysis. Given the
      retrospective nature of the analysis, an upfront power calculation for the number of included
      patients for the investigated outcome is not possible. Statistical analyses are performed at
      a significance level of 5% using the statistical software R or SAS.
    
  