
    
      Pancreatic cystic lesions are increasingly encountered and typically discovered incidentally
      on cross-sectional imaging, occurring in approximately 2% of all American adults with a 37%
      prevalence in individuals over 80. Most of these cysts are mucinous (neoplastic) in origin
      and represent precursor lesions for pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      Discovering a pancreatic cyst typically presents a treatment dilemma, with options including
      either indefinite radiographic surveillance with MR (magnetic resonance) or CT imaging or
      surgical resection, both of which have significant limitations. Surveillance carries
      significant economic and possible psychological burdens while waiting for signs of malignancy
      to develop, as well as radiation exposure with computed tomography. On the other hand,
      surgical resection possesses a significant risk of serious adverse events (20%-40%) and
      mortality (1-2%). This clinical dilemma delineates the pressing need to develop effective,
      but more minimally invasive approaches for the elimination of these premalignant pancreatic
      cysts, and among these, endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle infusion (EUS-FNI) has
      emerged as an innovative and promising approach. Between November 2011 and December 30, 2015,
      investigators from interventional endoscopy, surgical oncology, hematology oncology, and
      pathology of the Penn State Hershey Medical Center conducted the CHARM I clinical trial. This
      was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, single-center study with an N of 46 patients
      required for 80% power to prove non-inferiority. Final results from CHARM I were as follows:
      Patients treated included 23 females and 16 males with the majority of lesions located in the
      body and head of the pancreas. Both the alcohol and alcohol-free groups recorded a 47% rate
      of complete ablation at 6 months, which increased to 64% for both groups at the 1 year
      follow-up. One subject experienced a complication in the alcohol arm (6%), and no subjects
      experienced complications in the alcohol-free arm.

      The overall objectives of CHARM II are to verify the significant findings of CHARM I in a
      multi-center clinical trial as requested by national investigators in this field. We expect
      that administering a specifically designed chemotherapeutic cocktail without prior ethanol
      lavage will result in an equivalent rate of cyst resolution with fewer complications when
      compared with lavage using alcohol. The results of this study will provide important
      information about the most efficient and safest method for treating premalignant pancreatic
      cysts, an important step for treating these lesions with a minimally invasive technique and
      preventing their progression to pancreatic cancer. Standard alternative treatment options for
      this patient group (if not taking part in this study) would be ongoing periodic radiographic
      surveillance with MR or CT imaging waiting for signs of malignancy to develop or to consider
      surgical resection (an option with significant rates of morbidity and mortality).

      This is an investigator-initiated, prospective, randomized, double-blinded, multi-center
      study evaluating ethanol lavage and chemotherapy for the ablation of mucinous and
      indeterminate type pancreatic cysts with malignant potential. Participants will be screened
      for the study according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. After confirming their
      eligibility, patients will be randomized to one of the following EUS-FNI treatment arms in a
      1:1 ratio:

      Control arm: After removal of cyst fluid, cysts will be lavaged for 3 to 5 minutes with 98%
      ethanol and then infused with an admixture of 3 mg/ml paclitaxel and 19 mg/ml gemcitabine.

      Experimental arm: After removal of cyst fluid, cysts will be lavaged for 3 to 5 minutes with
      normal saline and then infused with an admixture of 3 mg/ml paclitaxel and 19 mg/ml
      gemcitabine.

      Patients will be contacted by the study team via phone call at both 72 hours and 30 days
      after their EUS procedure to assess any adverse events that may have occurred. Within 2-3
      weeks of the having the EUS procedure, patients will receive the cyst fluid pathology
      results. At 3 months after the initial procedure, patients will undergo a follow-up EUS
      examination in the same manner as the initial EUS exam. During this exam, a complete
      pancreaticobiliary evaluation will be conducted, and the diameter of the previously treated
      cyst will be measured in the x and y dimensions to assess the 3 month response. Any cyst
      still >15mm and amenable to repeat ablation will undergo a second EUS-guided chemoablation
      treatment using the same lavage that the patient was randomized to initially. At both 12
      months and 24 months after the initial procedure, the patient will be seen in the GI clinic
      and undergo either an MRI-MRCP (magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography) or enhanced CT
      scan for a full pancreaticobiliary evaluation to assess the end-point treatment response.
    
  