
    
      The overall hypothesis is that PDT could provide exceptional benefit in patients with Basal
      Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS) and multiple BCC tumors because PDT is nonmutagenic, nonscarring,
      and can be safely repeated many times. The specific study hypothesis is that Vitamin D might
      be useful as a neoadjuvant to improve tumor responses to PDT. In preclinical studies, the
      investigators showed that epithelial tumors are more responsive to aminolevulinic acid
      (ALA)-based PDT when "primed" by pre-exposure to the dietary form of Vitamin D
      (cholecalciferol, D3). This study will test the hypothesis that oral D3 supplements,
      administered over a relatively short time, can boost the effectiveness of PDT for cutaneous
      (BCC) in this patient population. Patients with BCNS and multiple BCC, or normal patients
      with at least 3 BCC tumors, will be enrolled. They will receive three PDT treatments, at
      two-month intervals, over a 6 month period.

      Primary Objective

      • To determine tumor clinical clearance rates after neoadjuvant D3/PDT, and after PDT alone.
      To accomplish this, the first two PDT treatments in each study patient will be randomized,
      i.e. one PDT session will be performed after D3 pretreatment, the other without any
      pretreatment.

      Secondary Objective(s)

        -  To assess the level of PpIX accumulation in BCC lesions at various treatment visits, in
           the absence or presence of neoadjuvant D3. (Fluorescence dosimetry measurements)

        -  To assess tolerability of the technique. (Pain scale measurements)

        -  To assess patient satisfaction with the technique. (Cosmetic result, and questionnaire)

        -  To assess D3 serum levels (in serum) and VDR status (in leukocyte DNA), and correlate
           these results to clinical outcomes.

      Study Design:

      In this clinical study, each patient will serve as his or her own control with respect to BCC
      tumor responsiveness to neoadjuvant D3 supplementation. The first two PDT treatments will be
      randomized. Thus, patients in Group A will take D3 pills prior to the first PDT treatment,
      and placebo pills prior to the second PDT treatment. For patients in Group B, the order is
      reversed. Total amounts of D3 supplementation given will be adjusted, based upon serum
      25-hydroxy-D3 levels found at baseline. Patients with VD deficiency will take 14 days of
      neoadjuvant D3, vs. only 5 days if the initial VD level is normal.
    
  