
    
      Subclinical hypercortisolism (SH) is a status of asymptomatic hypercortisolism, which is
      present in up to the 30% of patients with incidentally discovered adrenal adenomas (adrenal
      incidentalomas, AI). Since AI are present in 7-10% of individuals after 60 years of age, the
      estimated SH prevalence in this population is 0.8-2%. In patients with SH due to an adrenal
      adenoma the risk of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular events, osteoporosis and mortality
      seems to be increased, and monolateral adrenalectomy beneficial. However, no randomized
      studies evaluated the effects of surgery on SH consequences and established the criteria
      indicating the need of surgery itself. Thus, in many patients the SH diagnosis is uncertain
      and the best approach (surgical or conservative) unknown. These uncertainties are also due to
      the influence of the individual glucocorticoid (GC) sensitivity. Indeed, in the single
      individual the various polymorphisms of GC receptor (GR) and the different
      11ß-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase type 2 enzyme (11HSD2) activity, regulating the tissue
      exposure to the active GC, may differently predispose to the consequences of GC excess.
      Therefore, in AI patients, beside the evaluation of the degree of the cortisol
      hypersecretion, the assessment of the cortisol sensitivity may be useful in establishing the
      individual risk of SH consequences and the possible usefulness of a surgical approach.

      Specific Aim:

      In AI subjects with uncertain SH the combined evaluation of the clinical features together
      with the parameters of cortisol secretion and sensitivity will consent to decide which
      patient has the greatest probability to ameliorate after surgery.

        1. To assess the variation of blood pressure control, lipids and glucose metabolism,
           vascular damage, bone mineral density (BMD), clinical and morphometric vertebral
           fractures, body composition, coagulation parameters, neuropsychological aspects and
           quality of life (QoL) in AI patients with uncertain SH after the surgical removal of the
           adrenal mass or after a conservative treatment.

        2. To assess in AI patients and uncertain hypercortisolism the effect of the surgical and
           conservative approach on cardiovascular, metabolic and bone manifestations,
           neuropsychological aspects and quality of life (QoL), in relation to the degree of
           cortisol secretion and sensitivity.

        3. To establish the best clinical-biochemical criteria for diagnosing SH, on the basis of
           the changes of the outcomes after the surgical or conservative approach, and therefore,
           for addressing the treatment of choice in the individual patient with AI.

      Methods. During the enrollment period (24 months), all patients between 40 and 75 years of
      age referred for unilateral AI larger than 1 cm will be evaluated.

      In all subjects, adrenocorticotroph hormone (ACTH), urinary free cortisol (UFC), cortisol
      after 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test (1mgDST) and the GR polymorphisms of
      N363S, BclI and ER22/23EK will be assessed. Patients with 1mgDST >1.8 mcg/dL will undergo a
      low dose (2 mg for 2 days) dexamethasone suppression test (LDDST). Patients with 1mgDST and
      LDDST >5 mcg/dL and suppressed (<5 pg/mL) ACTH levels will be excluded as affected by
      biochemically overt hypercortisolism, that requires surgery. AI patients with 1mgDST or LDDST
      <1.8 mcg/dL will be excluded as certainly not affected with SH. AI patients with AI >5 cm
      will leave the study as in this case surgery is mandatory.

      Eventually, after the enrollment period, 54 AI patients with uncertain SH will be included
      and randomized to surgery (Group1) or conservative treatment (Group 2). The follow-up period
      will last 24 months (after withdrawal of GC substitution therapy, if needed, for Group 1).
      Group 1 patients will undergo laparoscopic or laparotomic adrenalectomy, depending on the AI
      size and their clinical characteristics.

      Evaluations at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 months: blood pressure (BP), body weight (BW), body
      mass index (BMI), waist circumference, glucose, lipid and coagulation parameters, body
      composition and adenoma size by CT (Group 2 patients).

      Group 2 patients with a >1 cm adenoma increase or appearance of overt SH will leave the
      study. At baseline and after 24 months, bone mineral density (BMD) and quality (by trabecular
      bone score, TBS), vertebral fractures (VFx), carotid atherosclerosis, neuropsychological
      aspects and QoL, will be assessed.

      The patients will be defined: i) obese, in the presence of BMI >30 kg/m2; ii) hypertensive in
      the presence of systolic BP >130 mmHg and/or diastolic BP >85 mmHg and/or any
      antihypertensive treatment; iii) diabetic, in the presence of the World Health Organization
      criteria, and/or any hypoglycemic drug, iv) dyslipidemic, in the presence of triglyceride
      levels >150 mg/dl or high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels <40 or 50 mg/dl in
      males and females, respectively.

      The improvement/worsening during follow-up will be defined as follows: for obesity in the
      presence of a >5% BW decrease/increase, for hypertension if the non-hypertensive patients
      passed from a pre-hypertension category to another or the hypertensive patients from a
      hypertension grade to another; for diabetes and dyslipidemia if fasting glucose and
      cholesterol levels pass from a category to another, respectively, following the Adult
      Treatment Panel III criteria.

      The efficacy of the surgical and conservative approach on the basis of the changes of BP, BW,
      glucose and lipid control, BMD, VFx incidence (primary outcomes) will be compared. The effect
      of surgery on the coagulation parameters, carotid atherosclerosis, body composition,
      neuropsychological aspects and QoL (secondary outcomes) will be also evaluated.

      At baseline, and at 6, 12 and 24 months, beside ACTH, 1mgDST and UFC, the midnight salivary
      cortisol (MSalC) and urinary free cortisone (UFCo) levels and the UFC/UFCo ratio (index of
      11HSD2 activity) will be assessed In Group 1 and Group 2 patients the association between the
      changes of the primary and secondary outcomes with the cortisol secretion parameters and the
      presence/absence of GC sensitizing GR polymorphisms and the degree of 11HSD2 activity, will
      be evaluated.

      An algorithm for predicting the effect of the surgical or conservative approach on the
      primary outcomes in the individual AI patient with uncertain SH. The algorithm, based on the
      combination of the SH complications at baseline (hypertension, osteoporotic fractures,
      diabetes) with the presence/absence of GC sensitizing GR polymorphisms, degree of 11HSD2
      activity and parameters of cortisol secretion, will be retrospectively tested on the study
      population, will be elaborated. This would consent to evaluate positive and negative
      predictive value of the algorithm for predicting the response to surgery in the individual
      patient with AI.
    
  