
    
      Convergence of key-populations in the informal gold mining zones suggests the important
      exposure to HIV contamination of people living in these zones. The pilot project Sanu Gundo
      showed a prevalence of 8% in the site of Kokoyo, much higher than the 1.1% national
      prevalence. The large rates of HIV patients lost to followup underline the difficulties
      experienced by the health system. Introducing a community-based HIV care offer in proximity
      to people in the informal gold mining zones could contribute to the improvement not only of
      access to HIV prevention and testing, but also to the access and retention in care.

      Sanu Gundo ANRS 12392 is a non-randomized and non-comparative intervention trial.
      Community-based activities conducted by ARCAD Santé PLUS (during 5 months) including HIV
      testing will contribute to the construction of both a control and intervention groups. These
      groups will be formed by people tested positive to HIV during the community-based activities
      conducted by ARCAD Santé PLUS in two artisanal gold mining sites.

      The control group will include 129 participants positive to HIV in Diassa (Sikasso region),
      and the intervention group will include 136 participants positive to HIV in Kofoulatiè
      (Koulikoro region).

      The intervention consists local community-based activities for HIV care provided by ARCAD
      Santé PLUS for people living in Kofoulatiè (intervention group), whereas people living in
      Diassa (control group) will be referred to the Referral Health Centers (CSRéf) as recommended
      by the national guidelines.

      The total number of 265 participants diagnosed positive to HIV enrolled in the study
      corresponds (at least) to the HIV prevalence of 3% observed during the first two months of
      participants enrolment (November 2020 to January 2021). Accounting for survey attrition,
      refusal of the community-based HIV care and non-inclusion criteria, it is expected that 172
      participants (86 per group) will be followed-up during the whole duration of the study. This
      corresponds to the number of participants required to verify the primary endpoint of the
      study: a better retention rate in healthcare 12 months after of HIV diagnosis for people
      receiving community-based care by ARCAD Santé PLUS.

      A quantitative survey will be conducted with the administration of questionnaires at
      different point-times during the follow-up for HIV care: M1 (first contact with the
      healthcare system and linkage-to-care), M3 (linkage-to-care and initiation of ARV treatment),
      M6, M9 and M12 (medical follow-up and retention in care). Blood samples will be collected
      using Dried Blood Spot testing (DBS) at enrolment, M6 and M12. Furthermore, data will be
      collected about the characteristics of the healthcare centers around the artisanal gold
      mining sites (i.e. healthcare supply) and the costs of community-based HIV care.

      The results will overcome the lack of epidemiological data about HIV in the informal gold
      mining zones, about the way in which PLWH are linked-to-care, and about the extent of the
      PLWH loss to follow-up. The results will also allow both testing the feasibility of the
      implementation of proximity community-based services for HIV care in the informal gold mining
      zones, and evaluating their contribution to retention of PLWH in care. The success of this
      project could allow extending the proposed strategy to other informal gold mining zones in
      Mali.
    
  