
    
      A pressure ulcer is defined as an area of localized damage to the skin and underlying tissues
      caused by pressure, shear, friction, and/or a combination of these. The most common sites for
      pressure ulcers are the sacrum, heels, ischial tuberosities, greater trochanters, and lateral
      malleoli.

      In Singapore, the prevalence of pressure ulcers was 18.1%, while the incidence was 8.1% in a
      tertiary hospital in Singapore in 2002. With a rapidly ageing population in Singapore, the
      prevalence of pressure ulcers is expected to increase further.

      Pressure ulcers are associated with serious medical complications, prolonged hospital stay
      and frequent re-admissions. Patients with pressure ulcers generally have significantly poorer
      physical function, are less able to perform self-care, and are less mobile. A new pressure
      ulcer is estimated to increase a patient's hospital stay by nearly a factor of five.
      Furthermore, pressure ulcers are also correlated with more than two fold rates of increased
      mortality independent of the source of the ulcer. Pressure ulcers are one of the patient
      safety indicators reflecting quality of life according to the Agency for Healthcare Research
      and Quality. Besides affecting the quality of life of patients, pressure ulcers are also
      associated with the increased utilisation of healthcare resources resulting in a high cost
      burden to healthcare systems worldwide.

      Pressure ulcers occur in individuals with limited mobility due to pressure, or pressure in
      combination with shear, which decreases circulation and causes tissue damage. Elderly
      patients and patients with specific predisposing conditions such as hip fractures are
      particularly at risk. In addition, patients whom are malnourished are not only at risk of
      pressure ulcers but also have impaired wound healing. Patients with pressure ulcers tend to
      have negative energy balance and current guidelines recommend the assessment of nutritional
      status when progress for pressure ulcers closure does not occur and the use of oral
      nutritional supplements when an oral diet is not sufficient to meet requirements. In
      particular, nutritional care in wound healing should be directed at ensuring adequate supply
      of proteins and calories. Major guidelines currently recommend a minimum calorie intake of
      30-35 kilocalories per kg per day and protein intake of 1.25-1.5g per kg per day for adults
      with a pressure ulcer who are assessed as being at risk of malnutrition.

      Currently, there is paucity of studies demonstrating the effect whey protein has on wound
      healing in humans. The effect of whey protein on wound healing has only been studied in
      diabetic rats which has shown to accelerate closure and the healing process of their wounds.
      It was postulated that the healing property of whey was due to its ability to limit prolonged
      inflammation (reduction in IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1b and IL-10) and elevating the antioxidant
      defence system (by up-regulating glutathione and superoxide dismutase).

      Whey protein comprises of 20% of the protein content in cow's milk as compared to casein
      which makes up the remainder of 80%. Whey is made up of immunoglobulins, lactoalbumins,
      lactoferrin, cysteine and other minor proteins. Compared to casein, whey has rapid gut
      clearance as it is readily absorbed, has higher nutritional value, maintains and increases
      lean body mass and has shown to have greater muscle protein accrual in the elderly. Moreover,
      whey has positive immuno-modulatory effects and is able to maintain better glycaemic control
      in diabetics due to its lower post-prandial glycaemia, greater stimulation of incretin
      production and direct insulinotropic effect.

      At present, Peptamen® is the only product available in Singapore that contains 100%
      hydrolysed whey protein. It is a commercially available peptide-based diet (classified under
      "medical foods" by the US Food and Drug Administration) that provides complete nutrition. It
      is hypoallergenic (lactose- and gluten-free), appropriate for those with gastrointestinal
      maldigestion and/or malabsorption and can be used for total nutrition support via oral or
      tube feeding. We hypothesize that a 100% whey protein based diet (Peptamen®) enhances
      pressure ulcer healing.
    
  