
    
      In contrast to the recent study on BD oral ulcers, in which very carefully selected patients
      were enrolled (i.e. no immunosuppressive therapies and a new lesion of no more than 48hrs),
      this trial will be more "Real World" and enroll all patients with genital ulcers of BD,
      allowing randomization to eliminate biases between treatment and control groups. The
      advantages of this more open approach are twofold. First, this approach more directly
      measures the benefit of PTX gel therapy on the population that is more likely to use the
      therapy if it becomes approved. Secondly, those broader criteria will allow faster enrollment
      for a disease manifestation that occurs considerably less frequently than oral ulcers.

      This randomized proof of concept trial investigating the effect of topical PTX on BD genital
      ulcers will be double-blind, placebo controlled with a crossover component, and it will
      follow the patients during the treatment period of 30 days or until the healing of genital
      ulcers. Specifically, patients who receive placebo as their initial course of treatment would
      receive active drug in a second course of treatment in which they would be re-enrolled upon
      recurrence of another crop of genital ulcers. Conversely, patients who receive active drug in
      their initial course of treatment would receive placebo drug once they are re-enrolled for
      the second course of treatment.

      For all patients in either group, investigators will collect photographs of the external
      genital ulcer area, the size and location of the genital ulcers, number of ulcers, pain
      scores, and concomitant medications. This data will be collected for the following month or
      until the healing of genital ulcers. Additionally, adverse event experiences will be
      solicited. Data analyses will be exploratory comparisons of differences in safety and
      efficacy endpoints between BD patients who did and did not receive topical PTX.
    
  