
    
      Central Venous Catheter Placement:

      You will first have a central venous catheter (CVC) placed. A CVC is a sterile flexible tube
      that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will
      explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate
      consent form for it.

      The chemotherapy, some of the other drugs in this study, and the cord blood transplant will
      be given by vein through your CVC. Blood samples will also be drawn through your CVC. The CVC
      will remain in your body for about 2-5 months.

      Study Plans:

      If you agree to take part in this study, your doctor will choose one of the following 2 study
      plans based on the disease and your age and medical history.

      Fludarabine/Clofarabine/Busulfan/Rituximab/Total Body Irradiation:

      If you are between 1 and 80 years of age and can receive high-dose chemotherapy, and your
      doctor agrees, you will receive fludarabine, clofarabine, busulfan, ATG, total body
      irradiation, and possibly rituximab.

      If you are receiving this study plan medication, blood may be drawn to check levels of
      busulfan 1 or more times over the 4-day course of treatment. No more than 1 teaspoon will be
      taken at each blood draw.

      Day Treatment

        -  Day0 Admit, IV hydration, rituximab 375 mg/m2 (B cell malignancy)

        -  Day1 Fludarabine 10 mg/m2, clofarabine 30 mg/m2, busulfan AUC 5,000

        -  Day2 Fludarabine 10 mg/m2, clofarabine 30 mg/m2, busulfan AUC 5,000

        -  Day3 Fludarabine 10 mg/m2, clofarabine 30 mg/m2, busulfan AUC 5,000

        -  Day4 Fludarabine 10 mg/m2, clofarabine 30 mg/m2, busulfan AUC 5,000, rabbit ATG 1.25
           mg/kg

        -  Day5 Low-dose TBI 2 Gy in AM, rabbit ATG 1.75 mg/kg

        -  Day6 Rest

        -  Day7 Rest

        -  Day8 Cord blood infusions

      Fludarabine, Melphalan

      Day Treatment

        -  Day0 Admit, hydration

        -  Day1 Fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IV

        -  Day2 Fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IV, rabbit ATG 1.25 mg/kg

        -  Day3 Fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IV, rabbit ATG 1.75 mg/kg

        -  Day4 Fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IV and Melphalan 140 mg/m2 IV

        -  Day5 Rest

        -  Day6 Cord blood infusions

      Supportive Drugs:

      Starting on Day -3, you will receive mycophenolate mofetil as a tablet by mouth 2 times a
      day. If you are not able to take the tablet by mouth, you will receive MMF by vein over 2
      hours 2 times a day. If you do not have GVHD at Day 100 after your cord blood transplant, the
      dose of MMF will be gradually lowered. If you have GVHD, MMF may be stopped 7 days after the
      GVHD is controlled.

      Starting on Day -2, you will receive tacrolimus by vein as a continuous (nonstop) infusion
      until you are able to take it by mouth. You will then take tacrolimus by mouth 2 times a day
      for about 6 months. After that, your tacrolimus dose may be gradually lowered if you do not
      have GVHD. Your doctor will discuss this with you.

      Starting on Day 0, you will receive filgrastim (G-CSF) through a needle under the skin 1 time
      a day every day until your white blood count begins to recover. Filgrastim is designed to
      help cells in the bone marrow to divide, which helps raise white blood cells counts more
      quickly, lower fever, and decrease the risk of infection.

      Study Visits:

      At about 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to the transplant and study drugs, including
           GVHD.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check for CMV antibodies,
           and for genetic tests to learn if the donor's cells have "taken". The routine blood
           tests will be repeated as often as the doctor thinks is needed.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspiration to check the
           status of the disease.

      You will need to stay in the hospital for about 4 weeks. After you leave the hospital, you
      will continue as an outpatient in the hospital area, which means you will have to stay close
      enough to be able to come back for any visits for about 100 days after the transplant.

      Length of Participation:

      If the study suits you and you agree to join, you will be in it for one year after your
      transplant. You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, if the cord blood is infected and cannot be transplanted, if you are unable to
      follow study directions, or if your doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Fucosylation is not an FDA-approved process. It is
      currently being used for research purposes only. Fludarabine, busulfan, clofarabine,
      melphalan, mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, and rituximab are FDA approved and commercially
      available to be given to patients with leukemia or lymphoma having a cord blood transplant.
      Total body irradiation is delivered using FDA-approved and commercially available methods.

      Up to 25 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson
      Cancer Center, Scripps Green Hospital,University Hospitals Case Medical Center, and Texas
      Transplant Institute.
    
  