
    
      This is a Phase II, open-label study in up to 50 males and non-pregnant females, 19 to 50
      years old, inclusive, who are in good health and meet all entry criteria. The study is
      designed to assess the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of a single dose of a
      monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N9 virus vaccine (45 mcg of HA/0.75 mL) manufactured by
      Sanofi Pasteur administered to healthy adults who previously received two doses of monovalent
      inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur or one or two doses
      of placebo in Protocol 07-0023. All subjects will receive a single dose of the inactivated
      influenza A/H7N9 vaccine delivered intramuscularly. Reactogenicity will be measured by the
      occurrence of solicited injection site and systemic reactions from the time of the study
      vaccination Day 1/Visit 01 through 8 days after the study vaccination. Unsolicited
      non-serious adverse events (AEs) will be collected from the time of the study vaccination
      through roughly 28 days after the study vaccination. Serious adverse events (SAEs) and
      new-onset chronic medical conditions will be collected from the time of the study vaccination
      through roughly 6 months after the study vaccination. Immunogenicity testing against A/H7N9
      and A/H7N7 antigens will include performing hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) and
      neutralizing (Neut) antibody assays on serum obtained immediately prior to the study
      vaccination, and roughly 8 and 28 days after the study vaccination.

      An additional 60 mL of venous blood will be drawn immediately prior to the study vaccination,
      and roughly 8 and 28 days after the study vaccination for exploratory cellular immunology
      assays.

      The duration of this study for each subject will be roughly 6 months. The primary objectives
      are 1. to assess the safety and reactogenicity of a single dose monovalent inactivated
      influenza A/H7N9 virus vaccine in individuals who previously received two intramuscular doses
      of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7 vaccine-naïve. 2. To
      assess the serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody responses against A/H7N9 roughly
      28 days following receipt of a single dose of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N9 virus
      vaccine in individuals who previously received two intramuscular doses of a monovalent
      inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7 vaccine-naïve.

      The secondary objectives are 1. To assess study-vaccine related unsolicited non-serious
      adverse events following receipt of one dose of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N9
      virus vaccine in individuals who previously received two intramuscular doses of a monovalent
      inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7 vaccine-naïve. 2. To assess new-onset
      chronic medical conditions following receipt of one dose of a monovalent inactivated
      influenza A/H7N9 virus vaccine in individuals who previously received two intramuscular doses
      of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7 vaccine-naïve.3) To
      assess the serum HAI antibody responses against A/H7N9 at baseline and about 8 days following
      receipt of a single dose of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N9 virus vaccine in
      individuals who previously received two intramuscular doses of a monovalent inactivated
      influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7 vaccine-naïve. 4. To assess the serum neutralizing
      (Neut) antibody responses against A/H7N9 at baseline and roughly 8 and 28 days following
      receipt of a one dose of a monovalent inactivated influenza A/H7N7 virus vaccine or are A/H7
      vaccine-naïve.
    
  