
    
      Induction of labor is increasingly common in the United States, as the overall rate has
      increased from 9.5% in 1990 to 22.1% in 2006 with the goal to stimulate contractions prior to
      the onset of spontaneous labor. Cesarean delivery rates are also at an all-time high in the
      U.S., with more than 32% of patients being delivered by Cesarean in 2009. One of the most
      common indications for Cesarean section is a prolonged labor course. Patient's with a
      prolonged labor course are also at risk for infections, including chorioamnionitis and
      endometritis, as well as an increased risk of postpartum hemorrhage. There is a lack of
      information on ways to help shorten labor to potentially minimize these risks.

      The uterus is comprised of skeletal muscle, and labor has been likened to prolonged rigorous
      exercise. While oral hydration has been endorsed by ACOG for low-risk women in spontaneous
      labor, solid foods should be avoided. In turn, women with a prolonged induction or labor may
      benefit from glucose supplementation via IV fluids.

      The DEXTRONS study, J. Pare et al., looked at supplementation of D5LR versus normal saline in
      nulliparous patients who presented for a favorable induction of labor. This study showed a
      significant reduction in active labor time in the D5LR group versus the normal saline group.

      Currently, at Genesys Regional Medical Center, lactated ringers is the preferred IV fluid for
      patients presenting for induction of labor. This study will randomly assign patients to D5LR
      versus lactated ringers and examine the length of time from induction to delivery to
      determine if glucose supplementation has an effect on reducing length of induction in both
      nulliparous and multiparous patients for either a favorable induction of labor or an
      induction for post-dates. Secondary outcomes will include Apgar scores, need for special care
      nursery/NICU admissions, and mode of delivery. The study will begin in January 2019 and
      continue through July 2019. Patients who presented to labor and delivery and consent to be
      included in the study will be randomized to each group.
    
  