
    
      -  A prospective non-interventional, observational, descriptive study was conducted.

        -  At our institution a median of 250 adult patients are submitted to emergency
           appendectomy every year. From this universe, a sample of 152 patients with a power of
           80%, an error of 5% and 95% Confidence Intervals was required to perform this study.

        -  We included 268 patients in the database, of them 85 cases that did not comply with the
           inclusion criteria were excluded from the analysis. A total of 183 patients (100%)
           selected according to the following criteria were studied: Patients with appendicitis
           confirmed by histology operated on our institutional Emergency Unit with an age range
           from 15 to 80 years.

        -  Any patient with immunosuppressive or immunodeppressive known pathological conditions
           was excluded, as well as any patient with a pathological report describing a normal
           appendix.

        -  Patients were divided into four groups according to the interval of time calculated from
           the onset of symptoms to diagnostic: Group I from 0 to 24 h, Group II from 25 to 48 h,
           Group III from 49 to 72 h and Group IV more than 73 h.

        -  At admission demographic, clinical data, and the interval of time from the onset of
           symptoms to diagnostic was recorded, together with the White Blood Cell (WBC) count,
           C-reactive protein (CRP) values, and SIRS score.

        -  The primary outcome measure was to determine the expected systemic inflammatory response
           to acute appendicitis according to established groups of time intervals from the onset
           of symptoms to diagnostic using the SIRS for that purpose.

        -  The secondary outcome measure was the analysis of the CRP to measure the systemic
           inflammatory response, as another parameter which is habitually included within the
           diagnostic study of patients with suspected appendicitis.
    
  