
    
      The study involves two days of study visits. Subjects will be given a copy of the consent
      form on the morning of their first visit, and sign consent in a private room at Mount Sinai
      before any research related procedures are conducted. Subjects will then be brought to the
      Hess Center for Science in Medicine for injection for the [18F] AV-45 (or Amyvid) PET scan.
      On the second visit, which is to be conducted the day after the first visit, subjects will
      have the [18F]AV-1451 (or T807) PET scan and complete the neuropsychological testing battery.

      Both PET scans will be done entirely for the purpose of research. The scans will be read by
      nuclear medicine physicians and a clinical report will be sent to the PI. Any clinically
      relevant findings will be sent to the treating physician and will be communicated to
      patients. During both visits, subjects will be allowed time for meals and breaks between
      study procedures.

      Details of procedures:

      Amyvid PET scan: At the first visit, each participant will have an Amyvid PET scan. The scan
      involves use of a "tracer", which is a radioactive sugar-like substance. This type of PET
      scan involves a tracer called AV-45 (also known as Florbetapir, and by the trade name of
      Amyvid). It has been approved by the FDA for use in PET imaging. It binds to beta-Amyloid
      plaques that may or may not be present in the brain. Amyloid plaque is a sticky substance
      (protein) that accumulates in the brain in larger amounts in people who may have Alzheimer's
      disease. A thin line will be inserted into a vein in one arm for the injection of the tracer.
      Subjects will begin the Amyvid PET scan 50-60 minutes after the injection of the tracer, and
      scanned for about 20 minutes.

      T807 PET scan: On the day of the second visit, each participant will have an [F18] AV-1451
      PET scan, also known as a T807 PET scan. This type of PET scan is being studied by the FDA as
      a diagnostic tool. This PET scan involves a very similar procedure to the Amyvid PET scan the
      day before. Like the Amyvid scan, a thin line will be inserted into a vein in one arm for the
      injection of the AV-1451 radiotracer. This tracer binds to clusters of Tau protein inside the
      brain called neurofibrillary tangles. These tangles are associated with both Alzheimer's
      disease and memory problems that may be related to multiple head injuries or concussions.
      Scanning will begin 80 minutes after the injection of the tracer, and last for about 20
      minutes.

      Neuropsychological testing battery: The neuropsychological assessment is a battery of pencil
      and paper tests that measure memory and thinking abilities. In total it takes about two hours
      to complete.
    
  