
    
      Background:

        -  Clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is among the 10 most frequent diagnostic cancers
           in the United States with more than an estimated 62,000 new cases in 2016. The prognosis
           for patients with metastatic disease is poor with survival rates of 8%.

        -  The immunologic effects of recombinant human Interleukin-15 (rhIL-15), a stimulatory
           cytokine that promotes the differentiation and activation of NK cells, monocytes and
           longterm CD8+ memory T-cells, has been assessed in several Phase 1 trials in cancer
           patients.

        -  Avelumab is an anti-programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) fully human IgG1 antibody that
           inhibits PD1/PD-L1 interactions while leaving the PD1/PD-L2 pathway intact and enhances
           immune activation against tumor cells. It has received U.S. FDA accelerated approval for
           the treatment of patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) and urothelial
           carcinoma.

        -  Unlike other approved anti-PD-L1/PD1 antibodies, avelumab induces lysis of tumor cells
           via antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), indicating an
           additionalmechanism of action. However, avelumab has not shown ADCC against normal
           immune cell subsets in humans.

        -  More than 50% of ccRCC is PD-L1+ with higher expression in unfavorable prognostic
           tumors. Since the anti-PD-L1 antibody avelumab has shown ADCC activity in vitro, agents
           that may enhance ADCC by increasing number and activity of Fc-binding effector cells
           -such as rhIL15 - could improve efficacy of avelumab in this disease.

      Objectives:

      -Determine the efficacy of combined continuous intravenous infusion (CIV) rhIL-15 and
      avelumab treatment in patients with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 refractory metastatic clear cell renal
      carcinoma (ccRCC) by assessing the overall response rate

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  ECOG performance status of less than or equal to 1

        -  Histologically proven metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma with greater than or equal
           to 5% expression of PD-L1 in the tumor area confirmed by IHC

        -  Patients must have failed or relapsed and have progressive disease after at least 2
           prior therapies that include multityrosine kinase inhibitor like axitinib or sunitinib
           and an anti-PD1 or PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy like nivolumab which could
           have been administered in combination with an anti-CTLA4 agent like ipilimumab

        -  Adequate organ and marrow function

      Design:

        -  Open-label, single-center, non-randomized Phase II study

        -  Safety Run-in Cohort with 3-6 patients at dose level 2mcg/kg and 4mcg/kg CIV IL-15
           (recommended phase II dose) will ensure safety of recommended phase II dose rhIL-15 with
           fixed dose avelumab with Dose Expansion Cohort at 4mcg/kg dose level

        -  Efficacy of the combination will be assessed in a Simon two-stage phase II design with 9
           or 17 patients depending on demonstration of clinical activity in the initial group of 9
           patients

        -  Maximum 4 cycles (28-day cycle) of combination therapy

        -  To explore both Safety Run-in Cohort and further evaluation in a Dose Expansion
           Cohort,the accrual ceiling will be set at 25 patients.
    
  