
    
      Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is the most common cause of medication-resistant
      epilepsy in adults. The standard treatment for refractory MTLE is surgical resection by
      craniotomy. Stereotactic laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) is a new surgical
      technique being used to treat MTLE. Under MRI-guidance, a laser probe is inserted into the
      seizure focus and heat is used to destroy the tissue. Compared to temporal lobectomy, LITT
      results in shorter hospital stays, low complication rates, and possibly less cognitive
      decline; however, seizure freedom rates are potentially lower.

      During temporal lobectomy, neurophysiologic intraoperative monitoring (NIOM) can be used to
      better identify epileptogenic tissue and guide resection. This tool has been unavailable
      during LITT procedures. Recently, the investigators demonstrated in two cases that NIOM with
      a depth electrode is technically feasible during LITT and can identify epileptiform activity
      intra-operatively.

      This is a prospective trial of NIOM during LITT for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. The
      investigators will assess the safety of performing NIOM during LITT and whether data from
      NIOM (frequency and characteristics of epileptiform discharges recorded before and after
      ablation) are associated with seizure outcomes. If there is an association, NIOM could be
      used for prognostication and could potentially even be used to guide surgery.

      Hypotheses:

        1. NIOM performed by MRI-guided stereotactic depth electrode placed in the parahippocampal
           gyrus adjacent to the LITT catheter is safe, as compared to institutional LITT controls
           without NIOM and published LITT complication rates.

        2. Greater magnitude fractional decrements in discharge frequency from pre-ablation to
           post-ablation recordings will be significantly associated with better seizure outcomes,
           as measured by International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) surgical outcome scores.

      Objectives:

      The primary project goals are to assess if NIOM by parahippocampal depth electrode is safe
      during LITT of MTLE and to assess if the fractional decrement of interictal discharges (ID)
      on NIOM can be significantly correlated with outcome. The study will be powered to address
      these questions a priori. Post hoc analyses consisting of a multivariate analysis of other
      patient demographic data, NIOM findings, operative parameters, quality of life scores, and
      neuropsychiatric outcomes will also be assessed.
    
  