
    
      After a one-week single-blind placebo lead in, subjects will be randomly assigned to either
      venlafaxine or placebo for 8 weeks. They will undergo 6 QEEG studies (end of wash-in, and 48
      hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks after randomized treatment), with examiner and
      self-ratings of mood, anxiety, and clinical status at the time of each recording (Ham-D,
      MADRS, Ham-A, SCL-90, Beck, LIFE, and CGI) to assess improvement. Any subjects with
      significant deterioration in mood and/or suicidal ideation during the 8 week trial will be
      dropped from the study and placed in open treatment.

      At the end of 8 weeks, code will be broken and all subjects will be maintained/re-assigned to
      open-label treatment with venlafaxine for an additional 10 months if they wish. However, if
      the subject's primary physician believes that another clinically available antidepressant
      would be indicated instead of venlafaxine (due to history of prior non-response to
      venlafaxine, etc.), the indicated antidepressant medication will be administered. The
      antidepressant medication recommended by the primary physician will be provided free of
      charge for a one-year period. Tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors will
      not be included due to the greater possibility of serious clinical sequelae with these older
      medications. The open-label phase will consist of regular monitoring by the laboratory at
      intervals of three days and one week after beginning a new antidepressant medication, and
      then monthly clinical visits (or more frequently if clinically indicated) with QEEG
      recordings and assessments of mood and clinical status as above by the laboratory
      psychiatrist to ensure that the subject is getting appropriate care from his or her primary
      physician. Drug dose will be adjusted using standard clinical practice by the subject's
      primary physician in the community, and if the subject remains on venlafaxine, the dosage may
      be increased as high as 225 mg/day during this phase.

      Subjects will have one additional follow-up QEEG at the end of the open-label phase or when
      significant clinical improvement is detected (defined as resolution of DSM-IV symptoms, or
      Ham-D < 9). After the subject's depression resolves, he or she will continue to be monitored
      and given medication free of charge for the remainder of the one-year period, but will be
      seen clinically only by the primary physician in the community. A study psychiatrist will be
      available for consultation in cases of clinical necessity until the primary physician can be
      contacted. Subjects for whom venlafaxine is not clinically indicated and/or subjects who
      refuse the placebo portion of the study may be allowed to bypass the placebo-controlled phase
      and proceed directly to the open-label phase.
    
  