
    
      Previous studies in allergology have proved the safety of desensitization procedures in
      allergic patients with an imperative indication for a medication. This tolerance state is
      usually obtained after a cumbersome procedure requiring several hours to days. We have
      adapted successfully such a procedure to the patients with acute coronary artery disease
      requiring urgent aspirin (excluding the ST elevation myocardial infarction) (SILBERMAN et al,
      Am J CARDIOL 2005;95:509-10).

      Patients with a history of Aspirin or NonSteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs hypersensitivity
      appear to have alterations of eicosanoid metabolism : these drugs trigger an imbalance toward
      the leucotriene pathway. This case-control study aims to

        -  evaluate after desensitization therapy the anti-aggregant effect of aspirin in these
           very particular patients : clinical outcome, PFA test, levels of the urinary metabolite
           of thromboxane A2 (11 dehydro thromboxane B2) and also usual aggregation tests.

        -  assess the in VITRO basophil activation induced by aspirin before and after
           desensitization procedure by flow cytometric cellular allergen test using basophils
           surface marker and mediators' dosage. Before the challenge procedure these tests aim to
           confirm the clinically established diagnosis of hypersensitivity. After desensitization,
           these tests intend to better assess the efficiency of the induced tolerance, to attempt
           to identify predictors of successful desensitization as well as identify potential cross
           reactivity with other NSAIDs..

      This procedure is indicated in all patients with aspirin or NSAID intolerance with imperative
      cardiological indications for aspirin, such as acute coronary syndrome, or placement of a
      stent. The desensitization procedure must be performed in a coronary care unit; the patients
      are duly informed about benefits and risks of the challenge and provide written informed
      consent. Desensitization consists in rapidly escalating aspirin dose administration with ad
      hoc aspirin capsules prepared by the hospital pharmacist. Blood and urinary samples are
      obtained during the hospital stay for coronary and desensitization care. An additional blood
      and urine sample will be obtained 6 to 8 weeks later during an outpatient visit in the
      laboratory. Initial biological data will be compared to those of two control groups matched
      for age, gender and type of acute coronary syndrome :

        -  Controls 1: patients with CAD on aspirin, without history of hypersensitivity

        -  Controls 2: patients without CAD, not on aspirin and without history of
           hypersensitivity.
    
  