
    
      Background Dialysis patients show an exceedingly higher risk of death and cardiovascular
      complications (1). These patients are also characterized by poor physical performance and
      reduced quality of life. Observational findings in the United States Renal Data System
      (USRDS) indicated that physical rehabilitation programs after coronary artery bypass are
      associated with better clinical outcomes in this population (2). However, the hypothesis that
      physical training in dialysis patients may translate into better physical performance and
      clinical outcomes has never been tested in large randomized clinical trials. In studies
      performed so far, physical exercise was proposed during the dialysis session or between two
      dialysis sessions. These programs imply compliance, organization and cost problems, mainly
      related with intensification of visit to the dialysis centre. To limit these difficulties, a
      single easy-to-implement program of physical exercise for dialysis patients, prescribed in
      the dialysis centre but performed at home, has been recently elaborated and a pilot study has
      shown that this program improves physical performance in medium term (3).

      Purpose This clinical trial tests whether a physical program prescribed in the dialysis
      centre but performed at home improves the degree of fitness and the quality of life in
      dialysis patients.

      Study population

        -  Inclusion Criteria:

             -  500 Patients on dialysis

             -  Dialysis vintage>6 months

             -  Age>18 years

             -  Signed informed consent

             -  Stable clinical conditions

        -  Exclusion Criteria:

             -  physical or clinical limitations to deambulation

      Outcomes:

        -  Functional capacity : Evaluation of the variation in the distance covered in a
           pre-determined time with a validated walking test (six minute walking test); Evaluation
           of the variation in the time needed to complete 5 cycles of the "sit-to-stand-to sit"
           test.

        -  Quality of Life : Score obtained by a validated questionnaire for dialysis patients
           (Kidney Disease Quality of Life instrument o KDQOL).

        -  Fatal and non-fatal events (cardiovascular and all-causes).

        -  All-cause hospitalizations.

        -  Vascular access survival. The power analysis was performed by calculating the sample
           size for each clinical outcome contemplated by the study protocol. The overall sample
           size of the trial is that portended by the calculation demanding the highest individuals
           numbers (that of the outcome "fatal and non fatal cardiovascular events" in our
           instance).

      In a previous observational study by our group, the incident rate of fatal and non fatal
      cardiovascular events was at three years 25% (4). We hypothesised that the physical exercise
      will produce a 10% reduction in the hazard ratio of fatal cardiovascular events (hazard
      ratio: 0.70) as compared to that of the control group.

      References:

        1. Mallamaci F, Tripepi G, Cutrupi S, Malatino LS, Zoccali C. Prognostic value of combined
           use of biomarkers of inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, and myocardiopathy in
           patients with ESRD. Kidney Int. 2005 Jun;67(6):2330-7. PMID: 15882276

        2. Kutner NG, Zhang R, Huang Y, Herzog CA. Cardiac rehabilitation and survival of dialysis
           patients after coronary bypass. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Apr;17(4):1175-80. Epub 2006 Feb
           15. PMID: 16481413

        3. Malagoni AM, Catizone L, Mandini S, Soffritti S, Manfredini R, Boari B, Russo G,
           Basaglia N, Zamboni P, Manfredini F. Acute and long-term effects of an exercise program
           for dialysis patients prescribed in hospital and performed at home. J Nephrol. 2008
           Nov-Dec;21(6):871-8. PMID: 19034871

        4. Zoccali C, Tripepi G, Mallamaci F.Predictors of cardiovascular death in ESRD.Semin
           Nephrol. 2005 Nov;25(6):358-62
    
  