
    
      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the health effects of systematic dietary education and counselling and
           physical training in a group of Pakistani women with high risk of type 2 diabetes.

        2. To evaluate the intervention process in order to identify the most effective methods of
           intervention in regard to diet and physical activity for immigrant women of Pakistani
           origin.

      Background: Immigrants from South Asia have a high prevalence of type 2 diabetes, which may
      be prevented by intensive on physical activity and diet. This application concerns
      intervention with diet and physical activity in female (ongoing study) and male (extended
      study) Pakistani immigrants living in Oslo to reduce their risk for these diseases.

      Intervention design: The subjects will be 200 women randomized into an intervention group and
      a control group (100 in each). The women are being recruited from a township in Oslo with a
      high proportion of immigrants by using a network approach. Inclusion criteria is based on a
      risk score developed by Ramachandran et al for Asian Indians, entailing age, Body Mass Index,
      waist circumference, family history of diabetes and sedentary physical activity.

      The intervention will include a combination of individual counselling and group sessions. The
      intervention group will be divided into subgroups of 10-12 subjects. Each subgroup will have
      10 group sessions on diet/lifestyle in the 6 months the intervention period lasts, and will
      additionally have the possibility to join a cultural adapted exercise program of low
      intensity twice a week. This includes indoor activities (exercise with music) and outdoor
      activities (walking groups).

      Evaluation: The main end point of the intervention will be the fasting and 2-h plasma glucose
      value after an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). This will be measured at baseline and
      after 6 months of intervention.

      Secondary end-points will be Serum lipid profile (e.g. triglycerides, High-Density
      Lipoprotein-cholesterol) ; HbA1c ; C-peptide ; serum insulin; serum albumin; body weight;
      waist and hip circumference; maximum heart rate on treadmill test; self-reported level of
      intensity, duration and frequency of physical activity; self-reported level of "Stages of
      change" in regard to motivation and behavioural change; self- reported subjective health
      complaints; self-reported coping strategies; self-reported sleeping habits.

      Dietary information will be collected by 2 x 48 hours dietary recalls. The intake of energy
      and nutrients will be calculated from the recalls, as well as the intake of food groups.The
      diet will also be evaluated by a culturally adapted food frequency questionnaire including 20
      food groups (with portion sizes). In addition, the use of cooking oils will be registered by
      questions about the type and quantity oil used per time unit in the household. Additionally,
      information on knowledge and perceptions on diet and health before and after the intervention
      will be registered.

      Physical activity will be registered using an advanced continuous body monitor, SenseWear
      Armband yielding information on total energy expenditure, level of intensity, duration and
      frequency of physical activity, duration of lying down, duration of sleeping, and sleeping
      quality.

      The completion of the questionnaires will take the form of an interview by Urdu speaking
      staff.
    
  