
    
      The occurrence of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and its
      prevention/treatment induce further immunologic compromise. Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD)
      accounts for significant morbidity and mortality in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow
      transplants (BMT) or peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplants. The condition occurs as
      donor lymphocytes recognize the recipient's tissue as foreign and mount an inflammatory and
      destructive response in the recipient. GvHD has a predilection for epithelial tissues,
      especially skin, liver, and the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract. This can lead to severe
      skin lesions, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and liver failure. In addition, people with GvHD
      are especially susceptible to infection. Approximately 30-70% of people undergoing allogeneic
      HSCT for hematologic malignancies can anticipate experiencing acute and/or chronic GVHD. The
      physical consequences depend on the severity of GVHD, but moderate to severe organ system
      involvement is associated with substantial medical morbidity and mortality. The current
      standard of care treatment for patients with chronic graft-vs-host disease is steroid
      treatment with or without a calcineurin inhibitor. This treatment, while effective for some,
      does not control the chronic gvhd of all. The use of extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) was
      developed in patients with several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, including
      scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis. Successful use of ECP has also been reported in
      patients with cutaneous T cell lymphoma, the Sezary syndrome variant, cardiac and lung
      transplant rejection and other T cell mediated/autoimmune and autoimmune diseases and even
      after facial transplantation. More recently, ECP has proven to be a highly effective useful
      tool in the treatment of GvHD.

      The exact mechanism of action of ECP is unknown, but the principle of the process is to
      induce leucocyte apoptosis with UVA radiation after their exposure to psoralens, which are
      light sensitizers. These leukocytes are immediately re-infused into the patient, where they
      undergo early apoptosis. Following apoptosis, the leukocytes are engulfed by macrophage or
      other antigen-presenting cells, such as immature dendritic cells, in an anti-inflammatory
      cytokine environment. The anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion pattern, with a switch from
      TH1 to TH2 for CD4+ lymphocytes, and the engulfment by immature cells without co-stimulatory
      molecules induces anergy, by deleting effector T-cells that responded to the presented
      antigens. An increase in regulatory T-cells (T-regs) is also induced after ECP and may
      contribute to allograft acceptance by the recipient.

      ECP has also been effective in treating solid organ transplant rejection and improving the
      course of various autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus
      erythematosis, and pemphigus vulgaris. Since the early 1990s, ECP has been investigated as a
      rescue immunotherapy for patients with steroid resistant acute and chronic GVHD. ECP is
      generally well tolerated and Phase II data have confirmed activity in more than 250 patients
      with steroid-refractory cGVHD.

      ECP involves the isolation of peripheral blood buffy coat cells, ex vivo exposure of the
      cells to 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and ultraviolet-A radiation, and subsequent re-infusion of
      the treated cells to the patient. The combination of 8-MOP and PUVA results in DNA crosslinks
      and causes apoptosis. However, the direct induction of lymphocyte apoptosis is unlikely to
      account for the clinical efficacy of ECP given that less than 10% of circulating leukocytes
      are exposed to PUVA during ECP.

      The mechanism of ECP beyond the effects of apoptosis induction is incompletely understood.
      Studies to date suggest that ECP in autoimmune conditions or GVHD stimulates anti-idiotypic
      responses against host tissue-reactive T cell clones, attenuates antigen-presenting function
      by type 2 dendritic cells, and induces anti-inflammatory cytokine responses. In addition, an
      important component of tolerance induction is thought to involve the expansion of Tregs that
      suppress alloreactive mechanisms.

      ECP therapy has been studied in two well-defined minor MHC incompatible murine models of CD8+
      or CD4+ T cell mediated GVHD. These studies showed that ECP treated cells could successfully
      reverse established GVHD by reducing allogeneic responses of donor effector T cells and
      generating FOXP3+ Tregs from donor cells that had not been directly exposed to PUVA, thereby
      ruling out a mechanistic role for direct apoptosis of effector cells. The increase in Tregs
      occurred early after the infusion of ECP treated cells, remained stable for several weeks,
      and was required to reduce GVHD and mortality after BMT. Correlative data in humans is
      preliminary, but one small case series has shown an increase in the percentage of functional
      Tregs after 6 ECP procedures from 8.9% to 29% of the total circulating CD4+ cells (p = .05).
      UVAR Photopheresis System (Therakos, Inc., Exton, PA, USA) was approved for ECP treatment of
      advanced cutaneous T cell lymphoma in 1988 by the Food and Drug Administration. In 2009 FDA
      approval was granted for this indication for the new Cellex machine.
    
  