
    
      Seniors over the age of 65 years represent 13.1% of the United States population, with a
      projected 36% increase to 55 million by the year 2020. With advancing age, seniors experience
      an increased prevalence in memory loss, physical disability, and multiple chronic conditions
      (e.g., heart disease, emphysema, stroke, diabetes, cancers, hypertension, arthritis,
      osteoporosis, and macular degeneration). A large fear among seniors is loss of independence
      and removal from their homes to be placed in a nursing home. Seniors who remain in their own
      homes tend to have greater satisfaction, less depression, and maintain their physical
      function better than seniors residing in assisted living or nursing homes. Although remaining
      in the home is of utmost importance, many frail seniors teeter between safe living and
      personal endangerment. Falls, illness, and worsening memory all jeopardize a senior's
      independence and ability to remain in his or her home.

      The advance planning tool, Plan Your Lifespan, provides information that will help older
      Americans to "fill in the gaps" in their lives as necessary. An established plan would offer
      guidance toward obtaining those resources and professional services that would be useful to
      the senior. An effective plan would be dynamic and adaptable to the senior's changing health
      needs.

      The aim of this study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of the advance planning
      tool to determine subject understanding of home care services, advanced health planning, and
      other patient-centered outcomes. The investigators also hypothesize the following:

      H1: Compared to participants in the attention control group and controlling for baseline
      assessments, participants receiving the advance planning tool will show increased planning
      with regard to implementation/behavior, perception, and intention (measured via the Planning
      Assessment tool) one month after intervention.

      H2: Compared to participants in the attention control group and controlling for baseline
      assessments, participants receiving the advance planning tool will show increased confidence
      in accessing home services (measured via the Confidence in Accessing Home Services tool) one
      month after intervention.

      H3: Compared to participants in the attention control group and controlling for baseline
      assessments, participants receiving the advance planning tool will show increased
      understanding of home services (measured via the Understanding of Home Services tool) one
      month after intervention.

      H4: Compared to participants in the attention control group and controlling for baseline
      assessments, participants receiving the advance planning tool will be more likely to report
      communicating their preferences about issues related to lifespan planning to people who may
      need to make decisions for them (measured via the Communication about Lifespan Planning
      Questionnaire) after study intervention.

      H5: Compared to participants in the attention control group, participants randomized to the
      advance planning tool will report overall satisfaction with the intervention/attention
      control (measured via the Satisfaction with Intervention tool).

      The total duration of the intervention for each participant will be three months with
      assessments at baseline, post-intervention, and two follow-up assessments at one and three
      months for a total of 4 data collection points.
    
  