
    
      Atherosclerotic vascular disease is the leading cause of death in the United States.
      Atherosclerosis develops with increasing plaque burden and eccentric arterial wall expansion
      or remodeling, later leading to luminal obstruction. More than 90% of patients with CAD have
      carotid plaques. Statins have been shown to cause plaque regression in the carotid and
      coronary arteries. However, there is ongoing controversy about how low the target LDL should
      be in atherosclerotic patients. The benefits of aggressive LDL lowering with higher statin
      doses are counterbalanced by the potential for liver and muscle toxicity. High field (3
      Tesla) MRI is a promising new modality for measuring plaque volume with high spatial
      resolution. It is not clear whether increasing statin dose will lead to plaque volume
      reduction in the short-term (6 months) that can be measured by this new modality.

      The primary aim of the study is to determine if LDL lowering using statins in vascular
      disease patients with carotid plaque will be associated with measurable reduction in carotid
      plaque volume in the short term (6 months) using 3T MRI.

      The four secondary aims of the study are as follows:

      To compare the short term carotid plaque volume change using high field MRI in vascular
      disease patients whose statin dose was increased (dose increased) versus those whose statin
      dose was maintained (dose maintained).

      To determine if increasing statin dose in patients with carotid plaque will lead to
      measurable change in carotid plaque composition in the short term (6 months) using 3T MRI.

      To compare the carotid plaque volume change using 3T MRI with change in plaque burden score
      using carotid ultrasound .

      To determine the relationship between change in plaque volume with change in lipid levels
      (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL) and change in inflammatory markers (cytokines, high sensitivity
      CRP).

      The study is significant because it will provide insight into optimal statin treatment for
      atherosclerotic disease. It will also test a new modality for measurement of plaque burden. A
      reliable and sensitive test with high spatial resolution that accurately measures change in
      plaque volume will be helpful in assessing response to treatment and as a tool for future
      clinical trials in assessing efficacy of new treatment modalities that may reduce the need
      for expensive, long term studies that rely on clinical events for outcome measurement.
    
  