
    
      Sample selection Patients, receiving dental treatment in the Clinic of Restorative Dentistry,
      constituted the selection pool. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants
      before starting treatment. A total of 32 participants were examined to check if they met the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria by two precalibrated operative dentistry residents. The
      qualified patients were recruited in the order in which they reported for the screening
      session, thus forming a convenience sample.

      Patients, irrespective of age and gender, should have at least three non-carious cervical
      lesions on incisors, canines and premolars of the upper or lower jaw. Each lesion should be
      located at the cervical third of the buccal side of the tooth, be either at the same level or
      above the gums, have its cervical wall on dentin, not extend on adjacent surfaces and not
      exceed 5mm in length, 3mm in height and 1.5mm in depth.

      Patients receiving periodontal therapy, presenting high caries activity or TMJ problems
      needing treatment with mouthguards, were excluded from the study.

      A total of thirty two patients with ninety six lesions, were eventually included in the
      study.

      Restoration process

      All restorations were performed by only one experienced dentist. All three lesions per
      patient were restored with Tetric EvoCeram (Ivoclar/Vivadent, AG, Shaan, Lichtenstein) (Table
      X) following one of next adhesive procedures for each tooth, in a statistical random order:

        1. st method 1. Mechanical removal of sclerotic dentin with a round bur 2. Enamel beveling
           3. Enamel (30sec) and dentin (15sec) etching with phosphoric acid 4. Application of
           ExciTE (Ivoclar/Vivadent, AG, Shaan, Lichtenstein) (Table X) and curing for 10sec with
           800mW/cm2 light intensity (Cure TC-01, Spring Health Products, Inc, Norristown, PA, USA)
           5. Composite-resin application using a transparent cervical matrix (Kerr-Hawe, Orange,
           CA, USA) and curing for 40sec 6. Finishing and polishing

        2. nd method 1. Mechanical removal of sclerotic dentin with a round bur 2. Enamel beveling
           3. Application of AdheSE One (Ivoclar/Vivadent, AG, Shaan, Lichtenstein) (Table X) and
           curing for 10sec 4. Composite-resin application using a transparent cervical matrix and
           curing for 40sec 5. Finishing and polishing

        3. rd method 1. Mechanical removal of sclerotic dentin with a round bur 2. Enamel beveling
           3. Enamel (30sec) etching with phosphoric acid 4. Application of AdheSE One and curing
           for 10sec 5. Composite-resin application using a transparent cervical matrix and curing
           for 40sec 6. Finishing and polishing

      Randomization

      The methods were applied in random order (using randomization tables), by which the first
      randomly selected method was used to restore the tooth with the lowest tooth number
      (according to the FDI system), the second method was used for the tooth with the second
      lowest tooth number and the third one for the lowest. In case of more than three lesions, an
      equal number of restorations with each method was ensured. In instances of an uneven number
      of restorations placed in one patient, the inequality of number of teeth restored with each
      method was adjusted for by restoring the lesions with the respective methods in the next
      patient (again according to the respective randomization tables).

      Restoration evaluation

      Two experienced and calibrated dentists, not involved with the placement of the restorations
      and therefore blinded to the group assignment, performed the evaluation. For training
      purposes, the examiners observed 10 photographs that were representative of each score for
      each criterion. They evaluated 10 to 15 subjects each on 2 consecutive days. These subjects
      had cervical restorations and they did not participate in this project. An intraexaminer and
      interexaminer agreement of at least 85% was necessary before the beginning of the evaluation.
      All restorations were evaluated at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months according to …..
      criteria. The parameters evaluated were retention of the restoration, marginal integrity,
      marginal discoloration and recurrent caries (Table X).

      The parameters were evaluated using the criteria introduced by Hickel et al. 2007, 2010. The
      overall clinical effectiveness of the tested adhesives was recorded in terms of retention,
      marginal integrity, marginal discoloration, caries recurrence. Retention loss, occurrence of
      caries along the restoration margins, severe marginal defects and/or discoloration that
      needed clinical intervention (repair or replacement) were considered as clinical failure. The
      clinical effectiveness of the three methods was compared for the abovementioned parameters.
    
  