
    
      Once an eligible clinic patient is identified, written informed consent will be obtained. All
      patients will have blood drawn for the measurement of NT-proBNP immediately after consent is
      obtained. The patient will then be randomized to either the usual care or NT-proBNP arm.

      For each patient enrolled into the study the attending physician will ensure obligatory blood
      sampling for the measurement of NT-proBNP level every three months for a minimum of one year
      (4 samples). Conventional measures used in programmed management settings including history
      taking, physical and radiographic examination and echocardiography will also be undertaken as
      per clinical practice. Patients from both arms will be treated with the same conventional
      measures.

      One-half of the subjects in each clinic will be randomized to have these NT-proBNP values
      made known to the attending clinic physicians and nurse practitioners. The other half (Usual
      Care) will have these values blinded. During the study, attending clinic physicians can order
      NT-proBNP or BNP assays, if available in their institution, to assist the management of their
      patients if they feel it is clinically needed. Demographic variables such as age, gender,
      BMI, serum creatinine, and eGFR will also be collected in both arms. A dedicated research
      coordinator based in St. Michael's Hospital, the core centre, will monitor patients, data and
      blood sample collection from all participating clinics. NT-proBNP will be measured on site in
      clinics with the facility to measure NT-proBNP. For clinics that do not have the facility,
      the samples will be shipped to the core centre for measurement and the results will be
      provided to the clinic within one week for those patients who are randomized to open-label
      NT-proBNP. The research coordinator, via close communications with the clinic nurses and
      physicians, will ensure the process is immaculately executed and blinding is maintained.

      All patients will be followed every three months for a minimum of one year (4 samples) and
      will include an initial evaluation (Visit 1) along with four follow-up visits in the HF/heart
      functions clinics (Visits 2 - 5). A clinic visit will be requested for those patients having
      experienced a serious adverse event since Visit 1.
    
  