
    
      Several observational epidemiological studies indicate that anti-inflammatory treatments
      attenuate or prevent the symptoms of one of the most common mental disorders of late life,
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuropathological studies also support inflammatory or immune
      mechanisms in AD, including findings of reactive microglia within or near AD lesions. Such
      evidence, however, is circumstantial, and controlled, randomized drug trials are needed to
      determine efficacy.

      This project is designed to determine if the commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
      drug (NSAID), celecoxib, is efficacious in delaying progression of cognitive symptoms in
      people with age-related cognitive losses who are at risk for developing AD. A total of 135
      subjects with age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) who are at risk for further cognitive
      decline (age 40 to 90 years) will be randomized (double-blind design) to one of two treatment
      groups: celecoxib (400 mg/d) or placebo, and followed for 18 months. All randomized subjects
      will receive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, FDG PET scans, and selective genotyping
      (apolipoprotein E [APOE] and genetic risk for AD onset (e.g., APOE-4). Subjects receiving
      celecoxib are expected to show less evidence of cognitive decline than those receiving
      placebo. The proposed project builds upon our group's prior work on early detection of AD
      using brain imaging, genetic risk, and neuropsychological assessments. This project also is a
      logical follow-up to recent observational studies of a promising early intervention and will
      represent one of the first controlled, anti-inflammatory treatment trials for persons at high
      risk for age-related cognitive decline and the eventual development of AD.

      Subjects will be followed closely to ensure that medication is safely used, without side
      effects (e.g., gastrointestinal, renal, etc.).
    
  