
    
      The majority of spontaneous non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarctions (NSTEMI) are
      attributed to rupture of an unstable atherosclerotic plaque in an epicardial coronary artery
      with thrombus formation. On the other hand, the pathophysiology underlying myocardial
      infarction following non-cardiac surgery is not well understood. The literature suggests that
      a significant proportion of myocardial infarctions following surgery may result from
      decreased myocardial perfusion in the presence of stable coronary artery disease without
      plaque rupture or thrombus formation.

      Intra-coronary Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) provides superior visualisation of the
      vascular lumen and structures close to the arterial lumen compared to IVUS, including
      features of plaque instability, including atherosclerotic plaque contents, fibrous cap
      thickness, thin cap fibroatheromas (TCFA), macrophage infiltration and calcium (2-10). OCT is
      therefore an ideal imaging technique to examine the pathophysiology involved in POMI, where
      features of plaque rupture and thrombus formation can be clearly distinguished from stable
      plaques.

      An improved understanding of the pathophysiology of MI following non-cardiac surgery will
      guide management more appropriately.

      Primary objective

        1. To identify features of acute plaque rupture in peri-operative myocardial infarction
           (POMI)

        2. To compare frequency of acute plaque rupture imaging findings between POMI and
           non-operative non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI)

      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that features of acute plaque rupture will be more common in
      patients with non-operative NSTEMI compared to POMI.

      Outcome measures

      1. OCT features of coronary plaque rupture will be obtained at the time of coronary
      angiography, these features include thin cap fibroatheroma, intramural thrombus and plaque
      fissuring. OCT data from NSTEMI and POMI patient groups will be compared. Data on other
      plaque features, including fibrous cap thickness, lipid core, minimum luminal cross-sectional
      area (CSA), ruptured cavity CSA will also be collected, and compared between the two patient
      groups.

      There will be no clinical follow-up in this study.
    
  