
    
      Background:

      The poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) family of enzymes is critical for maintaining genomic
      stability by regulating a variety of DNA repair mechanisms. The carboplatin/paclitaxel
      combination has demonstrated a wide spectrum of clinical antitumor activity, making it an
      ideal platform for evaluation with novel agents, such as the PARP inhibitor ABT-888.

      Objectives:

      To determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ABT-888 in patients with varying
      degrees of renal or hepatic dysfunction.

      To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ABT-888 in combination with carboplatin and
      paclitaxel for patients with varying degrees of liver or kidney dysfunction.

      To provide dosing recommendations for ABT-888 in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel
      based on degree of hepatic and renal impairment.

      To define the dose-limiting toxicity and other toxicities associated with the use of this
      combination in patients with varying degrees of renal or hepatic dysfunction.

      To evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters of ABT-888, carboplatin and paclitaxel when
      administered as a combination in patients with varying degrees of renal or hepatic
      dysfunction.

      To evaluate the pharmacodynamic measurement of PAR and platinum adducts in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC) and tumor cells associated with the use of this combination

      in patients with varying degrees of renal or hepatic dysfunction.

      Eligibility:

      Patients must have histologically confirmed malignancy that is metastatic or unresectable,
      for which standard curative or palliative measures do not exist or are no longer effective,
      and for which there is expectation of response to the combination of carboplatin/paclitaxel
      (e.g., lung, ovarian, breast, and melanoma).

      Patients must have adequate bone marrow function.

      Patients with normal organ function, patients with all degrees of renal dysfunction, and
      patients with mild to severe hepatic dysfunction are allowed.

      Study Design:

      ABT-888 (80 mg) will be given orally on day -6 ( 1 day) of cycle 1 in all cohorts. ABT-888 in
      varying doses will then be given on days 1-7 of each cycle, with the dose depending on each
      patient's degree of renal or hepatic dysfunction.

      Fixed doses of chemotherapy will be given intravenously on day 3 of each cycle. For patients
      with renal dysfunction, carboplatin will be given at AUC of 6 and paclitaxel at 175 mg/m2.
      For patients with hepatic dysfunction, carboplatin will be given at AUC of 6 and paclitaxel
      at doses adjusted to each patient's degree of hepatic dysfunction.

      The dose of ABT-888 will be escalated to determine the MTD of the combination.
    
  