
    
      At the induction of anesthesia, Participants will be breathing 100% oxygen via a face mask
      and then, become anesthetized according to a standard protocol and at the discretion of the
      attending anesthesiologist. Participants will be receive fentanyl, lidocaine and either
      succinylcholine or vecuronium to facilitate tracheal intubation. Laryngoscopy will then be
      performed and the trachea intubated with a standard cuffed ETT. Inflation of the ETT cuff
      will be performed in accordance with the randomization of either air or 1.8% lidocaine/0.76%
      solution until such time as there is no air leak around the tube when administering positive
      pressure to 20 cm H2O. Anesthesia will be maintained with volatile anesthetic with or without
      a Propofol infusion. Vecuronium will be used to maintain the ulnar nerve train-of-four at 0-3
      of four twitches. Lungs will be mechanically ventilated with tidal volumes of 6-8 mL/kg to
      maintain end-tidalCO2 concentration at 30-35 mm Hg. Anesthesia maintenance will occur until
      the near end of the surgical procedure. The volatile anesthetic will be discontinued and
      Propofol will be initiated via a continuous infusion to facilitate transportation to the
      intensive care unit (ICU). After arrival to the ICU, Neuromuscular blockade will then be
      antagonized with neostigmine and glycopyrrolate, and the pharynx being gently suctioned under
      direct vision. Mechanical ventilation to be maintained until swallowing or spontaneous
      respiration begins, and then, converted to assisted manual ventilation. Extubation will be
      performed when all of the following criteria are met: 1) full reversal of neuromuscular block
      (ulnar nerve T4/T1 ratio 1:1, with sustained tetanus at 50 Hz for 5 s and no fade); 2)
      spontaneous ventilation; and 3) the ability to follow verbal commands (eye opening or hand
      grip) or demonstrate purposeful unilateral movement (attempting self-extubation); 4)
      demonstration of hemodynamic stability; 5) adequate hemostasis with combined chest tube
      output < 100 ml/hour.

      The Participant then will be closely monitored as a 1:1 by the room nurse, and by other staff
      (respiratory therapist, and ICU fellows and consultants) for toleration of the ventilator
      (coughing, double triggering, "bucking," etc.). on the cardiac surgical intensive care unit.
      Sedation amount will be recorded electronically once the patient lands in the ICU, until the
      time of extubation. A member from the study team will physically record "yes," or "no," on
      the form provided regarding the patient coughing, complaining of a sore throat or difficulty
      swallowing, having hoarseness or difficulty speaking.
    
  