
    
      This is a pilot study of single dose of 225Ac-J591 at 90 KBq/Kg in men with progressive
      mCRPC. If the patient responds and tolerates this dose, another may be given upon
      progression, provided at least 12 weeks after the initial dose.

      This research study is being done because the standard treatments for prostate cancer that
      has spread beyond the prostate gland are intended to minimize the adverse effects of the
      disease and make men live longer. These treatments, however, are not curative so additional
      treatments are needed. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a protein that is on the
      surface of most prostate cancer cells. It is absent from most other normal places in the
      body, but is present to some degree in the kidney, small intestine, salivary glands, and
      brain. J591 is a monoclonal antibody (an engineered protein) which recognizes PSMA.
      Actinium-225 (225Ac) is a small radioactive particle that emits alpha-particles
      (damaging/ionizing radiation). 225Ac-J591 is the combination compound that has the
      radioactive particle linked to J591. It is designed so that J591 will recognize PSMA and
      drags the radioactive particle 225Ac with it wherever it goes. This drug used currently is
      not FDA approved for any indication and is considered experimental.

      In the first part of the study, a small group of subjects will receive a dose of 225Ac-J591
      based upon a prior study. If that dose does not lead to severe side effects in many subjects,
      an additional small group will be treated. If the initial dose leads to too many severe side
      effects, another group will receive a lower dose. If it is determined by a physician that a
      subject's tumor has responded favorably to treatment, did not experience severe side effects
      and subject in agreement, then the subject will be allowed to receive one additional dose of
      the study drug 225Ac-J591, provided that at least 3 months have passed since the initial
      dose. For subjects receiving re-treatment, they will also participate in the same study
      procedures and followed for treatment including short-term and long-term follow up.

      All treatment visits and all visits involving investigational PSMA PET imaging are required
      to be performed at the Weill Cornell Medicine - NewYork Presbyterian site located in the
      upper east side of Manhattan.
    
  