
    
      Material and Methods Trial design Randomized clinical trial with placebo control. This study
      will compare the cognitive training program versus the placebo condition to assess the
      reduction on residual symptoms, the improvement in the neurocognitive function and brain
      activation changes in children and adolescents with ADHD receiving stimulants. Sixty
      subjects, six to thirteen years-old with ADHD confirmed by the Kiddie Schedule for Affective
      Disorders and Schizophrenia (K-SADS) will be randomly assigned to 12 weeks of cognitive or
      placebo training.

      Participants To be included in the study children and adolescent need to meet the following
      criteria (a) age between 6-13 years, (b) a diagnosis of ADHD classified according to the
      criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th edition), (c)
      medicated and stabilized with psychostimulants but partially restored - inattention SNAP
      score (mean scores of parents and teachers > or = 1), (d) a full scale intelligence quotient
      (IQ) of at least 80, (e) access to a computer with windows vista 7 and speakers, and access
      to internet. Participants will be excluded in case (a) another comorbid psychiatry diagnosis
      clinically significant and requiring treatment at the time of enter in the study protocol.

      Sample Size Calculation There was no previous study that used the design proposed in this
      investigation. Considering a reduction 20% higher of the SNAP-IV scores in the active group
      intervention (stimulants + cognitive training), sample size in both groups of 27 participants
      and standard-deviation in the magnitude of half of the medium score in each group (moderate
      variability), the study will be able to detect a moderate effect size (ES = 0,4). Calculating
      a sample loss of 10% each group, we define a sample size per group of 30 individuals.

      Cognitive intervention protocol:

      A portuguese version of the new Cognitive Computerized Training was created with the
      partnership of Yale University research team.

      The cognitive training program is composed by computerized exercises with six different games
      divided in multiples levels and sublevels with increasing difficulty. During the games,
      several neuropsychological domains are required from the participant such working memory,
      sustained attention, response inhibition and others. In each session the participant will
      play 6 games divided in 5 minutes blocks. The aim of these games is to engage and activate
      targeted neurocognitive systems This protocol will be run in schools. It will be consisted of
      4 times/week sessions (3 times at school and 1 time at home) for 12 weeks with 30 min of
      duration.

      The placebo cognitive training (control group) will contain the same exposure time of the
      active group but without any element regarding to the cognitive training.

      Pharmacological protocol All subjects must be receiving pharmacological treatment for ADHD
      with a stable dose of stimulants for at least 1 month in doses not inferior of 0.3mg/kg/per
      day of methylphenidate or 30mg/per day of lisdexamphetamine. Any increase in doses during the
      protocol will be permitted.

      Neuropsychological protocol An assessment before the beginning of the intervention and
      pos-treatment will be done by a trained neuropsychologist using three tests of a NIH toolbox
      (C8Kids platform): Flanker Test, Go/NoGo Test and List Sorting Test of Working Memory and a
      neuropsychological battery created by our team using six tests: CPT II (Conner´s Continuous
      Performance Test II), Digit Span, Spatial Span, Reaction Time Task, Trail Making Test and
      Picture Concepts.

      Neuroimaging protocol A subgroup of 10 participants from each group will be drawn to a
      functional resonance exam (MRIf) before and immediately after the cognitive or placebo
      training. During the exam they will do a neuropsychological tests ( Go/NoGo; N-Back - working
      memory - and SAT - sustained attention test).

      Statistical methods Statistical analyses will be performed with Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS) 12.0. The univariate analyses will be performed with the t student
      test / Mann-Whitney to continuous variables or Chi-Square test (X²) / Fischer test to
      categorical variables. The variables that present relationship with the outcomes will be
      maintained in multivariate models. The effective of the intervention over time will be assess
      through analyses of mixed models.
    
  