
    
      This randomized controlled trial initially included 48 diabetic obese patients with NAFLD,
      their age was 40 to 60 years and divide them equally into three groups. The data went to the
      analysis were 47 due to drop out of one subject. The 47 patients were randomly classified
      into 3 groups. Group I included 16 patients, received medical treatment with a program of HII
      exercise 3 times/wk for 8 weeks (HII group), group II included 15 patients, received
      moderate-intensity continuous (MIC) exercise 3 times/wk for 8 weeks (MIC group), and group
      III included 16 patients, received only medical treatment without exercise program (control).

      Inclusion criteria: All patients were diagnosed with NAFLD, type II DM, and obesity (body
      mass index [BMI] ≥30 kg/m2). The diagnostic criteria of NAFLD based on the diagnostic
      guidelines for NAFLD in the Asia-Pacific region.[29] All study participants were non-smokers.

      Exclusion criteria: Any patient had a severe life limiting illness (cancer, renal failure),
      uncontrolled heart disease, neuromuscular limitations, orthopedic problems, and endocrine
      disorders that could affect physical exercise was excluded from the study.

      The HII exercise program was performed on a cycle Ergometer with firmly grasping the rails to
      maintain balance. The exercise session was started with a 5 minute warm up involving cycling
      exercise without resistance of the Ergometer followed by three sets of 4-min cycling sessions
      at 80-85% of the VO2max with 2-min interval at 50% of the VO2max between sets. The session
      was finished with 5 minutes of cool down exercise.

      MIC group, each patient was received (MIC 3 times/week) for eight weeks, according to
      following parameters; 5 minutes warm up, followed by 30 minutes of continuous aerobic
      exercise on a cycle Ergometer with constant intensity at 70 to 75% of peak HR and 5 minutes
      cool down. Also, these measures were obtained at the beginning and the end of the
      intervention.
    
  