
    
      PTSD is a stress-related psychiatric condition that may occur following a traumatic event
      such as war, disaster, sexual abuse, violence, terrorism, and accidents. PTSD negatively
      impacts a person's daily life, resulting in relationship difficulties, difficulty in finding
      and maintaining a job, reduced cognitive and psychosocial functioning, substance abuse,
      high-cost healthcare use, and increased depression and suicide risk.

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine is a drug that releases serotonin, norepinephrine and
      dopamine in the brain and indirectly increases levels of the neurohormones oxytocin, arginine
      vasopressin and cortisol. In the context of psychotherapy, MDMA has been noted to reduce
      defenses and fear of emotional injury while enhancing communication and capacity for
      introspection.

      Cognitive-Behavioral Conjoint Therapy (CBCT) for PTSD is a three-phase, 15-session,
      manualized treatment. This Phase 1/2 open-label study will combine methods for conducting
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy with methods from the CBCT for PTSD in order to treat 10
      participants with chronic PTSD and their partners (intimate or non-intimate significant other
      who does not have a current diagnosis of PTSD) in order to explore whether combined treatment
      is effective. Each therapy team will have one therapist trained and experienced in MDMA
      assisted psychotherapy and one therapist trained and experienced in CBCT. During the first
      experimental session, both participants will receive 75 mg of MDMA followed 1.5 to 2 hours
      later by an optional supplemental half-dose of 37.5 mg. During the second experimental
      session, an initial dose of either 100 or 75 mg of MDMA will be administered to both
      participants followed by an optional supplemental half-dose of either 50 mg or 37.5 mg. The
      primary objective of this study is to assess changes in PTSD symptoms from Baseline to
      Primary Endpoint in CAPS-5 total severity scores in PTSD participants.
    
  