
    
      The study population of this proposed clinical trial is adults aged 60 years and above living
      in residential care homes or attending long-term care facilities in Hong Kong. Totally, 10
      residential care homes or long-term care institutions served by NGO dental outreach teams in
      various districts with different background were selected by the PI in consultation with the
      NGOs. All elders living in the selected residential homes were invited to attend a free
      dental examination. Elders fulfilling the inclusion criteria were invited to participate in
      this study and informed written consent will be obtained before commencement of the study.
      Dental treatments other than the study interventions were provided by dentists from the NGOs
      which serve the residential homes.

      Totally, 353 elder adults enrolled in the trial. The baseline examination was carried out in
      the residential home by two calibrated examiners, and so will be as follow-up examinations
      after 12 and 24 months. A portable dental chair, an intra-oral LED light, disposable dental
      mirrors and CPI probes were used in the examination.

      For each tooth that was not indicated for extraction, status of its crown and its root were
      assessed and recorded separately. Caries diagnosis was based on visual and tactile
      inspection. No radiograph was taken. Plaque and food debris that obscures visual inspection
      of the tooth surfaces were removed. Four surfaces (mesial, distal, buccal and lingual) per
      tooth were examined and the status were recorded using the following codes which basically
      follow the criteria recommended by the International Caries Detection and Assessment System
      (ICDAS II) Coordinating Committee (2009).

      The oral hygiene status of the subject was assessed and recorded by using the Visible Plaque
      Index (Ainamo & Bay, 1975). The presence or absence of visible plaque were recorded on four
      surfaces (mesial, distal, buccal and lingual) per tooth.

      The gingival status of the subject was assessed and recorded using the Gingival Bleeding
      Index (Ainamo & Bay, 1975). The presence or absence of bleeding within 10 seconds after
      running a probe across the gingival margin was recorded on four surfaces (mesial, distal,
      buccal and lingual) per tooth.

      Other information that was recorded included whether the subject normally wears a removable
      partial denture or not, and the subject's general health status and medications that affect
      the saliva flow rate.

      The same calibrated two examiners were blinded by the assignment of the participants. A
      random sample of 10% of the subjects were re-examined during each examination to monitor
      intra-examiner reproducibility.

      At the examinations, the subjects were asked to report on their oral hygiene practices, use
      of fluoridated toothpaste and other topical fluoride agents, and use of dental services
      during the study period.

      Oral health education talk and instructions on how to keep good oral hygiene were provided at
      baseline and every year to all the elders in the selected residential homes. Standard
      fluoride toothpastes with 1000-1500 ppm fluoride were provided free to all the elders in the
      selected residential homes over the 24-month study period.

      After the baseline examination, subjects satisfying the inclusion criteria of the study were
      stratified into two groups according to the number of natural teeth with exposed root
      surfaces in their mouth, those with 12 or fewer teeth and those with 13 or more teeth. The
      subjects were assigned to one of the two study groups by a research assistant using a block
      randomization method with a block size of 6. The stratified randomization procedure will help
      to ensure that the numbers of teeth involved in the two study groups are balanced. The
      interventions for the two study groups were provided by other dentists and are described
      below:

      Group 1 - plaque on the root surfaces of all teeth in the subject's mouth was removed and a
      38% SDF solution (Saforide, Toyo Chemical, Japan ) was applied onto the root surfaces using a
      microbrush/applicator. This will be repeated every year.

      Group 2 - plaque on the root surfaces of all teeth in the subject's mouth was removed and a
      10% povidone iodine solution (Betadine, Mundipharma, Switzerland) was applied, then followed
      by application of a 5% sodium fluoride varnish (Duraflor, Medicom, Canada) using a
      microbrush/applicator. This will be repeated every 4 months.
    
  