
    
      This is a clinical trial to test the clinical feasibility and safety of a novel CMR protocol.
      It aims to investigate a new Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (CMR) technique, called
      oxygenation-sensitive CMR (OS-CMR).

      OS-CMR is a T2*-sensitive CMR sequence based on the so-called blood-oxygen-level-dependent
      (BOLD) effect. Because de-oxygenated hemoglobin acts as an endogenous paramagnetic contrast
      agent, the signal intensity (SI) in OS-CMR images is linearly correlated with hemoglobin
      oxygenation in the tissue. An increase in deoxyhemoglobin results in an drop in SI in OS-CMR
      images, while an increase in tissue oxygenation results in an increase in SI.

      Therefore, OS-CMR has been found capable of assessing myocardial oxygenation and is being
      increasingly used to identify the vascular response of the coronary circulation to different
      stimuli.

      Very recently, OS-CMR was used to identify the coronary vascular response to specific
      breathing maneuvers. Specifically, a marked increase of myocardial oxygenation was observed
      during a long breath-hold following a 60s period of hyperventilation. The combination of
      these two maneuvers appear to induce consistent and detectable changes of myocardial
      oxygenation, based on CO2-mediated coronary vasoconstriction and vasodilation, while being
      well tolerated by participants.

      In this study, the investigators will use breathing maneuvers as coronary vasoactive stimuli
      to assess the myocardial oxygenation changes induced by such maneuvers with OS-CMR.

      The investigators aim to assess if the breathing-induced relative increase of myocardial
      oxygenation (Breathing-induced Myocardial Oxygenation REserve, B-MORE) in a coronary
      territory is clinically feasible to serve as a marker for the severity of coronary artery
      stenosis.

      Moreover, the investigators will assess the feasibility and safety of OS-CMR with breathing
      maneuvers in patients with suspected coronary artery disease in a multi-center setting.
    
  