
    
      Each patient will undergo a detailed history and physical examination with particular
      attention to symptoms related to sleep disorders, cardiovascular disease, medications, motor
      vehicle accidents, occupation and change in symptoms. Weight, height and neck circumference
      will be measured and BMI calculated and compared to previous measurements recorded in the
      medical chart. The research question we are exploring is whether the oral appliance approach
      is better in terms of successful treatment, compliance with treatment, safety and quality of
      life when compared to the conventional CPAP therapy in OSAHS. It is a cross over design.
      Consecutive patients who

        -  meet the eligibility criteria

        -  agree to a trial of therapy with the oral appliance

        -  give informed consent will be recruited.

      Inclusion criteria - stable on C-PAP for at least 3 months, and Previous diagnostic
      polysomnography within 2 years, and Pre-treatment AHI 10-30 ( mild-moderate sleep apnea), and
      Compliance > 4hrs per night, and Are willing and able to give informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria - AHI >30, or Oxygen Saturation < 85% for > 10% of study time during
      previous diagnostic PSG, Or less than 8 teeth per jaw Or not enough teeth in good periodontal
      health to allow retention of the appliance, Operates heavy machinery or motor vehicle as part
      of job, or Clinical evidence of severe tempero-mandibular joint dysfunction, or Previous
      Motor Vehicle Crash assoc. with sleepiness, or Major cardiovascular morbidity, or Medically
      complicated or medically unstable. Thirty patients will be recruited over a period of 1 year.
      Prior to treatment baseline ESS and SAQLI will be recorded. Physical attributes will be
      recorded and if BMI and neck circumference are unchanged from pre-treatment records PSG will
      be deemed unnecessary at this point. Baseline RDI, and snoring index off treatment, will be
      recorded using portable snoresat monitoring.

      All patients will visit the dental clinic for fitting and adjustment of the Klearway
      appliance. The appliance will be advanced under supervision of the clinic and patients will
      be assessed at intervals of 2-4 weeks. Titration will be assessed clinically based on patient
      sleepiness, snoring, comfort, and maximal jaw adjustment. Snoresat monitoring will be
      repeated while wearing the appliance in the optimal position to ensure adequate titration.
      Once titration has been completed the patient will be asked to wear the appliance exclusively
      for a period of at least 7 days. Full PSG will be recorded after 7 days while using the
      appliance. ESS will be measured at the time of PSG. Treatment efficacy at this point will
      determine safety to continue using the appliance. Treatment failure will be defined as an ESS
      >4 over baseline an AHI of >20 or > 50% of pre-treatment baseline.

      Patients will be seen and reassessed and informed of sleep study results. Patients able to
      use the appliance safely will be asked to continue to use their OSA treatments individually
      and will be allowed to decide themselves which mode of therapy they will use each night.
      Patients will keep a daily diary recording use of treatment modality, length of time worn and
      also location (home, vacation etc). At the end of the study patients will be seen and diaries
      collected. Satisfaction levels will assessed and side effects recorded. Objective CPAP
      compliance will be analysed by downloading CPAP machines. Future treatment preference in
      terms of either treatment or a combination will be recorded.
    
  