
    
      This is a multicenter, open label, randomized phase II trial. Women with primary cancer and
      overexpression of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2) who have not received prior
      treatment for invasive breast cancer will be included. The study will analyze the efficacy
      and tolerance of Lapatinib and Docetaxel and the Trastuzumab and Docetaxel after 4 cycles of
      Epirubicin and Cyclophosphamide in patients with breast cancer HER2 positive.

      102 patients will be stratified according to tumor size and estrogen receptor status
      (positive or negative) to be randomized to receive one of the following treatment arms:

        -  Experimental arm: Epirubicin 90mg/m2 in combination with cyclophosphamide 600mg/m2
           intravenous (IV) every 21 days for 4 cycles, followed by oral Lapatinib 1250mg once a
           day plus docetaxel 100mg/m2 IV every 21 days for 4 cycles with the administration of
           granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) between days 2 and 7 or on day +1
           according to the G-CSF used by the site.

        -  Control arm: Epirubicin 90mg/m2 in combination with cyclophosphamide 600mg/m2 IV every
           21 days for 4 cycles, followed by a loading dose of Trastuzumab 8mg/kg IV followed by
           Trastuzumab 6mg/kg IV every 3 weeks plus docetaxel 100mg/m2 IV every 21 days for 4
           cycles with the administration of G-CSF between days 2 and 7 or on day +1 according to
           the G-CSF used by the site.

      Treatment duration: The patients will be in treatment for an average of 6 months for both
      arms.

      Study population: Patients with operable or locally advanced breast cancer, HER2 positive who
      are candidates to receive neoadjuvant treatment and who have not received pre-treatment for
      invasive breast cancer.

      Population in study and number total of patients:

      The aim is to determine if neoadjuvant treatment with selective therapy can increase the
      complete pathological response (pCR) in breast cancer by the determination of molecular
      markers in the tumoral sample before treatment. Then, and between 3 and 4 weeks after the
      last administration of Docetaxel, and 24 hours after the administration of Lapatinib, surgery
      will be performed and in the surgical sample will be determined the molecular markers
      analyzed before of the treatment in the tumor sample.

      Patients with HER2 positive, defined as immunohistochemistry 3+ or positive fluorescence in
      situ hybridization (FISH), will be included. If immunohistochemistry 2+ it will be necessary
      to confirm the HER2 positive status by FISH. All results will be reevaluated later in the
      central laboratory.

      Statistical consideration: The sample size has been calculated using the 2-stage Simon method
      and with pathological complete response (pCR) as the primary study end point. Sample size has
      been based on the null hypothesis of a pCR of 40% and an alternative hypothesis of a pCR of
      60%. Assuming an alpha error of 0.05 and a test power of 80%, 92 evaluable patients will be
      required to be recruited and retained in the study. Sixteen patients per arm will be included
      in the first stage, for at least eight pCR per arm to be seen, and 30 additional patients per
      arm will be included in the second stage for a total of 46 evaluable patients in each arm.
      Assuming a 10% drop-out rate, 102 patients will be recruited.

      The objective of the random distribution to treatment arms is to select the most active arm
      for a subsequent development. It is based on a standard of pCR of 40%, in order to detect an
      increase in the pCR rate of 60% in both arms, it would be necessary to include 46 patients in
      each arm (Simon's method in 2 stages (Optimal design)). It has been considered an error a =
      0.05 and a power 80% statistics. Therefore, in the first stage it would be necessary to
      include 16 patients in each arm if we found more than 7 patients with pCR in each arm we will
      continue including until reaching the 46 in each arm. The results will be significant if we
      find at least 23 patients with pCR in each arm. Assuming that 10% of patients are not
      evaluable, the number The total number of patients to be included is 102 patients (51
      patients per arm of treatment).
    
  