
    
      The primary objectives of the proposed evaluation are to answer the following questions using
      a cluster-randomized evaluation design:

        -  Is it feasible to standardize the delivery of MIYCN counseling services in existing
           urban health facilities?

        -  Can quality of MIYCN counseling service be improved by upgrading and standardizing
           existing MIYCN counseling service in urban health facilities?

        -  What are the impacts of standardized and upgraded MIYCN counseling service on
           utilization of MIYCN services?

        -  What are the impacts of standardized and upgraded MIYCN counseling service on knowledge
           and behaviors of clients including: Pregnant women - 1) consumption of diversified
           foods; 2) intake of IFA and calcium supplements during pregnancy; Mothers of children <1
           y - age-appropriate infant feeding

      The study will use a cluster-randomized design with mixed methods of data collection
      including 1) Light baseline data collection to assess facility comparability, 2)
      Facility-based endline data collection and 3) Community-based endline survey.

      A total of 10 health facilities from two NGOs in Dhaka urban areas will be randomly allocated
      to receive intensified MIYCN interventions. Another 10 health facilities from the same two
      NGOs will be randomly allocated to the comparison groups. The list of the 20 facilities will
      be chosen by A&T, and catchment areas for the finalized list will be identified.
      Characteristics of women (such as age, education, socio-economic status) in these catchment
      areas will then be compared with urban women in other areas using DHS data (if data
      available), to check for comparability between our sample versus the general urban
      population.

      The study will use mixed data collection methods including: 1) facility assessment; 2)
      provider survey; 3) case observations (include ANC visits, child visits [both sick child and
      immunization], and counseling section), and 4) client interviews. The baseline survey will be
      started in June-July 2019, and an end-line survey is planned to be conducted in
      August-September 2020 for facility-based data collection and November- December 2020 for
      community-based data collection. Due to budget constrains, baseline data collection will
      focus to assess facility comparability, but not include client data.
    
  