
    
      Introduction: The World Health Organization establishes that only 38% of children under six
      months of age in the developing world are exclusively breastfed and only 39% of children
      between 20 and 23 months they benefit from this practice. This problem is more evident in
      adolescent mothers, in whom the social, family and cultural influence, their level of
      knowledge, and the quality of health care services are decisive in the decision to give
      breast milk to their babies or not. sons. In this sense, nursing must design and implement
      educational intervention strategies for the promotion, protection and support of exclusive
      breastfeeding in the first six months of life.

      Objective: To determine the efficacy of an educational intervention in first pregnant
      adolescents for the maintenance of exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of life.

      Methods: experimental study type randomized controlled clinical trial with first-pregnant
      adolescents assigned to an intervention group and a control group. The sample will be made up
      of a total of 118 first-pregnant women, 59 first-pregnant women in each study group.

      The intervened group, in addition to receiving the usual prenatal care education, will
      receive an educational intervention of counseling on breastfeeding. The control group, in
      addition to the usual information on prenatal care, will receive an educational intervention
      related to infant care activities. The educational intervention will take place in 4 weekly
      sessions. Likewise, the intervention and control group will be given the final assessment of
      knowledge once the fourth educational intervention is finished and at 6 months postpartum. In
      addition, the maintenance of exclusive breastfeeding will be verified in the intervention and
      control group through home visits at two, four and six months postpartum.

      Randomization: It will be carried out by blocks in groups of equal size, randomized 1: 1. The
      generation will be given by one of the researchers who will not perform the intervention, nor
      the initial or final evaluations.

      Expected results: it is expected to increase the level of knowledge and a lower rate of
      abandonment of breastfeeding in the group of first pregnant adolescents operated on.
    
  