
    
      1. Introduction:

           Anterolisthesis refers to an anterior displacement of a vertebra over subjacent vertebra
           causing low back pain, radiculopathy and hamstring tightness. Hamstring tightness causes
           improper patterns in the lumbopelvic region. There is a dura matter which connects
           suboccipitalis and hamstring muscle and reduction in the tone of suboccipitalis will
           thus cause decrease in tone of hamstring muscle. Myofascial release is a manipulative
           treatment that attempts to release tension in fascia and has an effect to decrease
           soreness of muscle.

           1.1.Problem statement: Generally in patients with anterolisthesis a single component is
           considered as a treatment, this study thus aims to be a bridge filling the gap in the
           scientific cognizance

           1.2.Purpose of the study:The target of the study is to see the outcome of sub
           occipitalis myofascial release on tightness of hamstring muscle, pain and disability.

           1.3.Objectives of the study: To evaluate the efficacy of suboccipital myofascial release
           and conventional physiotherapy treatment in tightness of hamstring muscle, pain and
           disability

        2. Procedure:

      Total male (n) and female (n) patients between the age of 35 and 55 years with grade 1 and 2
      Anterolisthesis will be selected on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      suitable sample will be randomly allocated into 2 groups - experimental and control group
      respectively. The popliteal angle test will be carried out to assess hamstring length and
      modified oswestry disability index will be used to quantify disability for low back pain.
      Visual analogue scale will be used to measure intensity of pain. All the necessary measures
      will be taken among the participants of experimental group.The MFR technique will be given in
      the upper cervical region with the patient in supine position. The MFR will be given for
      three repetitions per session, three times per week for the period of four weeks. The control
      group will be receiving conventional physiotherapy treatment for hamstring tightness which
      includes static stretching, modified hold-relax stretching and contract relax technique.
    
  