
    
      Active illicit drug use, regardless of diagnostic category (i.e., abuse or dependence), along
      with medication non-adherence, are the problematic behaviors targeted for change in this
      study. The investigators will develop and test an innovative mobile-phone delivered text
      messaging intervention designed to reduce drug use and increase HIV medication adherence.

      In the first phase of our work (quarters 1-2), the investigators will use qualitative,
      formative methods with user input to develop the assessment and intervention contents, while
      our technology partner develops the mobile phone application shell with which the
      investigators will conduct initial pre-coding usability testing. Focus groups will be used to
      inform the final design of the text messaging application, and participant input will provide
      important information to help us determine the number and rate of messages.

      The investigators plan to recruit 1-2 focus groups from three participating clinics and will
      spend a day to two days in each location to conduct the groups and to conduct individual
      interviews with participants who prefer a private interview. In the past, the investigators
      have succeeded in recruiting groups of 5-8 participants by using flyers, word of mouth, and
      reminders from providers to prompt participants to call our study staff to arrange
      participation. The investigators also have typically scheduled groups with several weeks'
      notice, in both daytime and evening hours, to accommodate the schedules of employed and
      unemployed participants. The investigators plan to provide lunch or snacks, and to compensate
      participants for their time.

      The purpose of the focus groups and individual interviews is to develop the content of the
      phone application, and to address their adherence barriers and drug use patterns, so that the
      investigators can program messages (queries) that are the most appropriate for this
      population. Other topics to be covered in focus groups and individual interviews will include
      preferred rate of messaging, types of messages desired, use of language and terms that
      participants understand for random and scheduled queries, followed by iterative user testing
      of the pre-programming shell of the program to determine whether they understand the flow,
      understand all terms and symbols, etc. The investigators will gather quantitative (count)
      data as well as qualitative (free response) data, which the investigators will analyze for
      rates and themes, respectively. Themes will be derived by analysis of transcripts of
      interviews and focus group sessions, then grouped into related categories to determine common
      and unusual concerns of participants. The investigators will ensure that the program
      addresses all common issues, and the investigators will decide on a case by case basis
      whether and how to incorporate unusual issues. However, unusual issues may be important ones,
      representing likely crisis intervention topics to plan for. The count data will provide raw
      numbers in which to anchor the thematic data. Given that people who text may send and receive
      50 or more messages per day routinely, it does not seem overly burdensome to request that
      they respond to the system 5 times per day, but this issue will be addressed directly in the
      focus groups. This formative work will be used to generate appropriate content and structure
      for the intervention that best fits the needs of this unique rural, HIV+, drug using
      population.

      The revision of our existing text messaging tool, Stem, will take approximately 6 months,
      proceeding iteratively. The investigators will iteratively test the acceptability and
      usability of components of the tool with the target population before finalizing its
      programming by conducting guided sessions with participants who will review the program via
      screenshots. The resulting product will be the novel mobile phone application, Text, which
      the investigators will test with users on the phones in their homes for a 2 week period in
      quarter 2 to identify any remaining programming needs to finalize the system for the pilot
      trial.

      There are three distinct types of messaging events planned Random queries will be sent at a
      rate of 4 per day during normal waking hours for that participant, as recommended by the
      leading Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) researchers. The second type is a medication
      dose reminder, which for most patients will occur once or twice per day with current ART
      medication regimens. The third type is an event-contingent message, which the PARTICIPANT
      initiates, for events like drug craving, drug use, etc. Therefore, most participants will
      receive 5 or maybe 6 messages per day from the system, and may send 1-2 messages confirming
      taking their medications, or may send us more messages if they report a critical event.

      The current Stem system is programmed on a web-based application. A staff member interviews
      the participant to determine which kinds of messages they want to have sent with emphasis on
      personal meaning and concerns for confidentiality. The staff member then types the message
      into the web-based program while the patient is present. The investigators have an archive of
      previously used personal messages that new participants could review and reuse or create
      their own messages. For the enhanced TEXT application proposed here, the investigators will
      use the same procedure to develop messages. Staff members will also assist the participants
      in programming the cell phone with appropriate numbers and reviewing its relevant features.
      Therefore, staff members will do all of the programming, with the participant's guidance
      about what messages will be helpful to them. When literacy is an issue, the investigators
      will use a combination of simple textable icons along with a few words to assist the
      participant in understanding the message.

      The finalized intervention will be compared to usual care in a small pilot randomized trial
      that will demonstrate the feasibility of the approach, and yield evidence of promise
      (estimates of effect sizes) as recommended by recent publications on conducting pilot work.
      In this phase, the investigators will test the new Text intervention in the field with real
      participants who will be assessed at baseline, then randomized to receive the phones and Text
      intervention or usual care over a 12 week period (quarters 3-6). The investigators will
      assess participants again at 3 and 6 months as a post-treatment follow-up, and complete data
      cleaning, analyses, and reporting during the final months of the project (quarters 5-8). The
      investigators plan to begin enrollment of participants in the pilot trial in quarter 3,
      enrolling 8-12 participants per month until the investigators have enrolled 70 people, which
      will occur during quarter 5 or 6. This will permit a 6 month follow-up of all participants.

      Hypotheses: Based on the rates of change the investigators saw in the two pilot studies, the
      investigators expect that: 1).The intervention will result in a 20% decrease in Missed Visit
      Proportion (MVP) compared to usual care. 2).The intervention will result in a 20% increase in
      adherence by pharmacy refill data compared to usual care. 3).The intervention will result in
      a 25% decrease in drug use over 30 days compared to usual care. Lastly, while not a formal
      hypothesis, the investigators expect that the intervention will be feasible and acceptable
      for participants, and the investigators will measure this using an exit interview.
    
  