
    
      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a rare and progressive disorder and shortness of breath and
      fatigue, especially during exercise, are very common symptoms, resulting in a reduced
      capacity to perform daily activities and in an impaired quality of life. Furthermore, reduced
      exercise capacity in PH is associated with depression and anxiety disorders. Recent
      literature reveals a strong association of sedentary time with adverse cardiovascular
      outcomes, so that the development of therapeutic strategies to avoid this event is pivotal in
      the management of PH, in addition to the beneficial results of modern medical treatment.
      Recently the role of exercise and rehabilitation in different respiratory and cardiac
      conditions has been evaluated in the literature, overtaking the concerns raised in the past
      that exercise could worsen the condition and thus the progression of these kind of diseases,
      but just a few studies have been done in patients affected by PH.

      International guidelines on pulmonary hypertension recommend avoiding strenuous exercise that
      leads to distressing symptoms, while encourage low level graded aerobic exercise, such as
      walking, as tolerated. Nonetheless, little is still known about the effects of lifestyle
      changes, such as the amount of physical activity that patients can or should practice.
      Pedometers have been used to enhance the daily physical activity and to improve, when
      assessed, some prognosis related outcomes, both in healthy subjects and those affected by
      different pathological conditions, in particular cardiac and respiratory diseases. However, a
      training model based on step count targets has never been evaluated in PH, to our knowledge.
      Step counting devices have recently experienced a surge in popularity as a tool for
      motivating and monitoring physical activity in the general population, especially combined
      with applications for smartphones, that provide feedback, such as an overview of the data
      recorded. Thus, it seems reasonable to explore the opportunity to develop a step count based
      training model to enhance daily exercise in PH patients, through these non-invasive, patient
      friendly and relatively inexpensive devices.
    
  