
    
      Statement of the problem: Oral diseases remain a major health problem all over the world.
      Periodontal diseases and dental caries are the most common non-communicable oral diseases in
      mankind and the leading cause of tooth loss. Both diseases can lead to nutritional compromise
      and negative impact on self-esteem and quality of life. As the International situation is now
      changing towards the use of non- toxic and environmentally friendly products, development of
      modern drugs from traditional medicinal plants should be emphasized for the control of
      various human diseases. Moringa oleifera (MO) is an extraordinary nutritious vegetable tree
      with high medicinal value for its antibacterial properties. Formulation of various natural
      dental remedies from this plant and their testing for their effectiveness might yield
      promising antibacterial, antiplaque and anticariogenic agents with minimal side effects.

      Aim of the study:

      Part I: The aim of this in-vitro part of the study is to formulate a nontoxic mouthwash from
      MO leaves extract, having antimicrobial activity, to be used in part II of the study.
      Furthermore, stability and efficacy of the developed mouth wash will be evaluated.

      Part II: The aim of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the antibacterial,
      antiplaque and anticariogenic effect of MO mouthwash compared to chlorhexidine mouthwash.

      Materials and Methods:

      Part I: In this part of the study; MO leaves will be extracted using different solvents. The
      active constituents in the form of total phenolic content (TPC) and total flavonoid content
      (TFC) of the developed extract will be assayed. All the prepared extracts will be evaluated
      for their antibacterial activity against S. mutans and P. gingivalis. The MO extract(s),
      which have the highest antibacterial activity will be tested for the cytotoxicity effect on
      gingival fibroblast cells using cell culture facilities and MTT [3-(4,
      5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] assay. The MO mouth wash will be
      prepared after determination of the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for the extract
      with the highest antibacterial activity and non-cytotoxic effect. Eventually stability and
      efficacy of the developed mouth wash will be tested under different storage conditions.

      Part II: A triple-blind, parallel arm, randomized controlled clinical trial involving 90
      patients with biofilm-induced gingivitis (plaque-induced gingivitis) and moderate-high caries
      risk will be carried out. Patients will be divided equally into three groups and will receive
      either the base formula mouthwash (BF; negative control), MO incorporated into the base
      formula mouthwash or commercial 0.12% Chlorhexidine HCL mouthwash (Hexitol®, H; positive
      control). After professional oral prophylaxis (scaling and polishing), clinical parameters
      measurement (gingival index, plaque index, modified sulcular bleeding index, stain index)
      will be determined for the project. Unstimulated saliva and plaque samples for Streptococcus
      mutans colony forming units (CFU) will be collected at baseline, 7th, 14th and 21st days.
      Salivary flow, salivary pH and International Caries Detection and Assessment System II (ICDAS
      II), will be recorded at baseline, 21st day, 3 months and 6 months.
    
  