
    
      Individuals with diabetes mellitus (DM) are disproportionately affected by atherothrombotic
      disorders, including cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular diseases.
      Atherothrombotic disease risk and mortality are also increased with metabolic syndrome, a
      constellation of risk factors present in more than 34% of adults, even in absence of
      diabetes. Yet, large clinical trials of diabetes therapies have shown that conventional
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, specifically hyperglycemia and hypertension, do
      not fully account for increased CVD risk associated with DM.

      There may be an etiologic link among insulin resistance, inflammation and thrombotic events.
      This study seeks to determine if certain two diabetes medications (the insulin sensitizing
      medications) will affect certain biomarkers (or laboratory tests) for CVD in individuals with
      untreated DM or impaired fasting glucose.

      Patients will be screened for inclusion into this this double-blinded, randomized),
      placebo-controlled study. If inclusion criteria are met and exclusion criteria not met,
      patients will be enrolled in the the study. Half of the subjects will be randomized (like the
      flip of a coin) to take two insulin sensitizing, anti-diabetic drugs pioglitazone (Actos) and
      metformin (Glucophage) taken together for three months and the other half of the subjects
      will take corresponding placebo (dummy) tablets.

      Laboratory measurements will be obtained on the morning(s) following the two in-patient
      overnight stays in the Mayo Clinic Clinical Research Unit. The first stay will be at baseline
      and the second stay will be 3 months after baseline. Insulin sensitivity will be measured in
      the morning following a standardized meal the preceding night, and after an overnight fast.

      The changes (from baseline to 3 months) in insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, the lipid
      profile, thrombotic markers and inflammatory markers will be determined and compared between
      the two arms of the study (placebo versus insulin sensitizing drugs).
    
  