
    
      Aim: In a prospective, randomized, two arm intervention study- the PIES project- we aim to
      investigate the impact of different time points of introduction of complementary food on
      growth, body composition, atopic disease and neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm infant
      with a birth weight <1500 grams. Furthermore, we want to investigate whether a certain
      standardized feeding protocol meets the nutritional needs of premature infants, and obtain
      data on safety and efficacy in this context. Methods: At term infants are stratified
      according to breastfed or formula fed and randomized in one of the following groups: an EARLY
      complementary feeding group (introduction of complementary food between the 10th and 12th
      week of life corrected for term, n=76) and LATE complementary feeding group (introduction of
      complementary food between the 16th and 18th week of life corrected for term, n=76). The
      infants will be fed with standardized complementary food in addition to formula or
      breastfeeding until they are one year corrected for prematurity. In an age dependent step up
      concept, food boxes are delivered to the parents: five types of standardized food boxes with
      manifold complementary food according to the infants' age and the ability to tolerate small
      pieces are available for each child during the study. The standardized complementary feeding
      regimen allows calculating exact intake of nutrients and therefore will provide information
      concerning primary and secondary outcome. The follow up phase will last until 5 years of age.
      Within regular visits anthropometric data (height, head circumference, weight, BMI and
      z-scores ) and body composition via the PeaPod® system will be gathered. Data on atopy will
      be assessed by clinical scoring system SCORAD (SCORing Atopic Dermatitis) and the laboratory
      parameters Fx5(Fx5 test uses six food allergens: wheat, egg, cow's milk, soya, peanut and
      fish) and IgE (immuneglobulineE). Neurodevelopmental outcome will be assessed at the age of
      one and two years corrected for term by the Bayley Scales and the K-ABC (Kaufman Assessment
      Battery for Children). The nutritional concept will be monitored concerning short term safety
      and efficacy (bone metabolism, iron status, protein- and lipid status) as well as regarding
      long term outcome (diabetes and obesity markers IGF-1 (Insulin-like growth factor-1,
      adiponectin and leptin).

      With the PIES project we intend to close a gap of knowledge in feeding the premature infant
      during the first year of life and to understand the impact of complementary feeding on
      growth, atopy, neurodevelopmental outcome and later obesity.
    
  