
    
      Psychiatric disturbance is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), with anxiety and depression the
      most frequent diagnoses. The lifetime rate of major depression is up to 50%. However, even
      symptoms of mood and anxiety which are not severe enough to warrant a diagnosis of a
      psychiatric disorder can still have a big impact people's lives. The investigators want to
      find ways to make people with MS feel better and cope better in their day to day life, and to
      be stronger inside themselves so that they don't become worried or stressed so much in the
      future. Positive Mental Training (PosMT) is a 12 week programme which aims to help people
      overcome the negative thinking and feelings that come with worry and low mood and become more
      positive, confident and resilient. To find out if Positive Mental Training is helpful in MS
      the investigators are running randomised controlled trial. Patients with MS who score higher
      than 4 on either the Hospital Anxiety (HADS-A) or Depression Scale (HADS-D) will be admitted
      to the trial. They will be randomly allocated to either an intervention or control group. The
      intervention group will be given the treatment immediately, the other 12 weeks later. In
      addition to the HADS, patients will be asked to complete two further questionnaires asking
      about how low mood and anxiety affecting them, both when they enter the trial and 12 weeks
      later. These are the Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale (SWEMWBS) and EuroQol
      health related quality of life - 5 dimensions - 5 levels (EuroQol-5D-5L). The primary
      function of this pilot trial is to ascertain suitability and acceptability of this treatment
      for people with MS, and to guide planning of a subsequent full trial. Feedback will therefore
      be obtained from participants in the treatment group of their experience of using the
      intervention. Though the sample size of this pilot trial is small, by comparing the change in
      scores on rating scales in patients given the treatment to those who have not been given it
      yet (the control group), it may be feasible to ascertain if PosMT is a useful treatment in
      MS.
    
  