
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the 3-year cumulative incidence of cardiac events in women 60 years and
           older with HER2-positive breast cancer who receive single agent trastuzumab (Herceptin®)
           in the adjuvant setting.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the 1-year cumulative incidence of asymptomatic cardiac left ventricular
           dysfunction in women 60 years and older with Her2-positive breast cancer who receive
           single agent trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting.

        -  To evaluate long-term cardiac toxicity (5-year cumulative incidence of cardiac events)
           in women 60 years and older with Her2-positive breast cancer who receive single agent
           trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting.

        -  To assess the relation between physiologic markers of chronic heart failure and
           trastuzumab-related cardiac dysfunction in women 60 years and older with Her2-positive
           breast cancer who receive single agent trastuzumab.

        -  To assess the relation between pro-inflammatory cytokines and trastuzumab-related
           cardiac dysfunction in women 60 years and older with Her2-positive breast cancer.

        -  To determine the effect of this drug on the health-related quality of life and
           functional, cognitive, and mental status of women 60 years and older with Her2-positive
           breast cancer.

        -  To determine the 5-year disease-free survival and overall survival of women 60 years and
           older with Her2-positive breast cancer who receive single agent trastuzumab in the
           adjuvant setting.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Blood is collected every 6 weeks during treatment. Samples are assessed for plasma cardiac
      markers (N-terminal brain natriuretic protein and troponin-I) and pro-inflammatory cytokines
      (interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α). Patients complete Quality of Life and Quality of
      Health and Comprehensive Geriatric assessments of functional, cognitive, and mental status
      changes at baseline, weeks 26, and 52.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 4 years.
    
  