
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is prevalent and the leading cause for mortality in the United
      States. The American Heart Association's (AHA) 2020 Impact Goal is to improve the
      cardiovascular health of all Americans by 20 percent while reducing deaths from CVD and
      stroke by 20 percent. Maintaining healthy levels of physical activity (PA) is critical in
      maintaining cardiovascular health, but older adults are inactive. Inactivity may be
      influenced by low levels of motivation. Standard behavioral counseling techniques typically
      implemented within the primary care setting target increased motivation, but lack the key
      component of self-control. The addition of electronic activity monitors (EAMs) that provide
      interactive self-monitoring, feedback, and social support may further increase motivation for
      exercise by providing more effective behavior change techniques than standard protocols.
      Investigators will conduct a three month intervention trial that will test the feasibility of
      adding an EAM system to brief counseling within a primary care setting. Participants (N = 40)
      will be randomized to receive evidence-based brief counseling plus either an EAM or a
      pedometer. Investigators propose two Specific Aims:

      AIM 1: Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of implementing a technology-enhanced brief
      intervention to increase physical activity in a primary care setting. Measures of feasibility
      will include days the EAM was worn, usage of the app, technological problems, attrition, and
      adverse events. Acceptability will be measured by self-report and focus groups.

      AIM 2: Compare the counseling plus EAM intervention to a counseling plus pedometer
      intervention. Primary outcomes will be changes in PA and cardiovascular risk. We will also
      investigate secondary outcomes (differences in adherence, weight and body composition, health
      status, motivation, physical function, psychological feelings, self-regulation).
    
  