
    
      Painful menstruation, also known as dysmenorrhea, is a common problem affecting a significant
      percentage of women. In the United States and Europe, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs) and oral contraceptives are the most commonly prescribed treatments for this
      condition. However, in China, oral contraceptives are not commonly prescribed for unmarried
      women. Acu-injection, a procedure involving the injection of vitamin K into acupuncture
      points, has become standard treatment for dysmenorrhea at many Chinese health care
      facilities. This trial will assess the willingness of young Chinese women to participate in
      an acu-injection trial, explore the utility of pain measurements after injection, and
      determine the effectiveness of the injections. This study will also help in planning larger
      acu-injection clinical trials.

      This study will last for five menstrual cycles. Participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of three groups. Group 1 participants will receive a vitamin K3 injection in an acupuncture
      point of both legs and a saline injection in the right buttock. Group 2 participants will
      receive a saline injection in an acupuncture point of both legs and a saline injection in the
      right buttock. Group 3 participants will receive a saline injection in a pseudo-acupuncture
      point of both legs and a vitamin K3 injection in the right buttock. Injections will be
      administered one time during the first 2 days of the first menstrual cycle for participants
      who are experiencing menstrual pain. Participants will record their level of menstrual pain
      before injection and at 2, 5, 30 and 60 minutes after the injections. Participants who do not
      respond to or are not satisfied with the acu-injection treatment will be offered either
      Chinese herbal medicine or NSAIDs within 1 hour of the injection. After the injection visit,
      participants will be asked to complete questionnaires about any menstrual pain or side
      effects they may be experiencing for five subsequent menstrual cycles.
    
  