
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of neurological impairment in young adults, and early
      rehabilitation is essential for the recovery of these patients.

      It is already known that muscle loss is one of the main factors responsible for functional
      disability and dependence in stroke survivors, being observed already in the acute phase and
      mainly in the lower limbs. The physiological mechanisms involved in stroke-related muscle
      loss, such as muscle inactivity, denervation, malnutrition, inflammation and metabolic
      disorders, among others have been reported in studies, but there is no consistent evidence
      regarding effective therapies to avoid muscle loss.

      The NMES is already widely used for the prevention of muscular loss in patients with various
      pathologies. Studies have also reported the efficacy of NMES in patients with subacute or
      chronic stroke. In patients with acute stroke, the literature is rather scarce. The
      investigators are aware of only one study that evaluated the effects of NMES on muscle mass
      loss, but the authors did not evaluate the effects of this intervention on the physical
      performance or functionality of the patients. Thus, the investigators consider the importance
      of further studies to know the effects of NMES on muscle loss in patients with acute stroke
      and the need to evaluate the effects of NMES on the physical performance functionality of
      these patients aiming at the possibility of offering an intervention option precocious and
      effective for this population.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of NMES associated with conventional
      physiotherapy compared to conventional physiotherapy in the muscular architecture and
      functionality of patients with acute stroke.

      This is a randomized clinical trial in which the participants will be randomly divided into
      experimental group (EG) and control group (CG), being evaluated before and after the
      intervention.

      The sample will be composed of hospitalized patients diagnosed with acute stroke at the
      Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA).

      The estimated sample is 70 patients (35 in each group). Waiting for a 0.5 cm difference in
      muscle thickness between groups and a standard deviation of 0.68 and 2 of 0.80, with a
      significance level of 5%, 80% power.

      Randomization will be performed through data generated by a computer program that presents
      the coded distribution. The sequence generation of the numbers to be randomized will be
      performed by a researcher blind to the study - after selection of the patients according to
      the eligibility criteria - keeping it confidential until the beginning of the intervention.

      Data collect:

      Socio-demographic data will be collected such as: age and sex; anthropometric variables:
      weight, height and BMI; and clinical data: stroke region, side of hemiparesis, comorbidities,
      complications during the hospitalization period (eg pneumonia, need for decompressive
      craniectomy), functional condition prior to the current stroke, time to start physical
      therapy, time to onset of NMES, total time of NMES, time to reach orthostasis and time to
      start ambulation. These data will be obtained through the review of medical records and
      interviews with patients or relatives.

      Assessments: The evaluations described below will be performed within 72 hours of hospital
      admission and repeated at hospital discharge or within 21 days.

      Assessment of muscle architecture - The assessment of muscle thickness will be performed in
      the femoral and tibial quadriceps muscles (TA). The images will be obtained by ultrasound
      using the Portable Ultrasound System (Vivid i®, GE) with a linear arrangement probe (60mm,
      7.5 MHz - Vivid i®, GE). The same researcher (who will be blinded for the interventions) will
      do all the evaluations, which will be performed with the musculature at rest.

      Muscle Strength Assessment: Manual Dynamometry, Medical Research Council (MRC)

      Functional and Inability Assessment: Barthel's Index Modified

      Walking assessment and functional capacity: Functional Ambulation Category (FAC)
    
  