
    
      Rationale: Electroencephalographic status epilepticus is described in 9-35% of patients with
      postanoxic encephalopathy after cardiac arrest and is associated with case fatality rates of
      90-100%. It is unclear whether (some) electroencephalographic seizure patterns in these
      patients represent a condition which can be treated with antiepileptic drugs to improve
      outcome, or have to be regarded as an expression of severe ischemic damage, in which
      treatment with antiepileptic would be futile. Therefore, both treatment with and treatment
      without antiepileptic drugs are considered standard modalities in these patients. We aim to
      compare these standard strategies and hypothesize that aggressive and early treatment of
      electro-encephalographic status epilepticus with antiepileptic drugs improves outcome as
      compared to treatment without these drugs.

      Objective: To estimate the effect of medical treatment of electro-encephalographic status
      epilepticus on neurological outcome of patients with postanoxic encephalopathy after cardiac
      arrest

      Study design: We will perform a multicenter clinical trial with randomized treatment
      allocation, open label treatment and blinded endpoint evaluation (PROBE design). The
      intervention contrast will be aggressive medical treatment vs. no treatment of
      electroencephalographic status epilepticus, in addition to standard best medical management
      of comatose patients after cardiac arrest, including mild therapeutic hypothermia.

      Study population: The study population will consist of adult patients with postanoxic
      encephalopathy after cardiac arrest, admitted to the intensive care unit, with
      electroencephalographic status epilepticus on continuous EEG, who are eligile for inclusion
      in this trial.

      Intervention: Treatment of electroencephalographic status epilepticus will be based on
      guidelines for treatment of overt status epilepticus. The objective of this treatment will be
      to suppress all epileptiform activity in the EEG. If the electroencephalographic status
      epilepticus will return after tapering sedative treatment at 24 hours, the procedure will be
      repeated. If the status will return after 2 x 24 hours, it will be considered refractory.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome measure will be neurological outcome
      defined as the score on the Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) at 3 months dichotomized as
      good (CPC 1-2 = no or moderate neurological disability) and poor (CPC 3-5 = severe
      disability, coma, or death).

      Sample size: With a presumed reduction of poor outcome of 7%, from 99% - 92%, alpha of 5%,
      power of 80%, one tailed testing, and one interim analysis by an independent data safety and
      monitoring board, the objected number of inclusions is 172. With an estimation of an
      incidence of electroencephalographic status epilepticus of 20% in patients with postanoxic
      coma, the total number of patients to be monitored will be 860.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation: Medical treatment of
      electroencephalographic status epilepticus may modify the high risk of death. Otherwise, this
      treatment of electroencephalographic status epilepticus may lead to prolonged hospitalization
      of several days of comatose patients that otherwise would have died. The risk of an increase
      of morbidity or mortality on the longer term is considered negligible.
    
  