
    
      The aim of this pilot study is to compare NAVA and PSV in order to establish their influence
      on cranial blood flow, assessed in the mean cerebral artery (M1 tract bilaterally).
      Secondarily, it will be evaluated the effectiveness in guaranteeing the gas exchange and
      patient-ventilator interaction during each ventilation mode.

      Patients will be evaluated in order to establish their readiness for assisted mechanical
      ventilation.

      The following clinical criteria must be respected:

        -  a heart rate of less than 120 bpm, blood pressure between 90 and 180 mmHg;

        -  dopamine/dobutamine less than 5 mcg/kg/minute, norepinephrine less than 0.25 mcg/kg/min;

        -  PaO2/FiO2 > 150;

        -  PEEP (positive end-expiratory pressure) minor or equal to 10 cmH2O;

        -  Vt between 6 and 8 ml/kg;

        -  respiratory rate less than 35 breaths per minutes and without respiratory distress
           signs;

        -  blood pH between 7.35 and 7.45; Afterward, patients will be submitted to three different
           mechanical ventilation trials in partially assisted modes: the first one in PSV mode,
           the second one in NAVA mode and the third one in PSV mode again. Each trial will last 30
           minutes. PSV will have PEEP set by clinician and pressure support will be set in order
           to obtain Vt between 6 and 8 ml/kg. NAVA will have the same PEEP as PSV and NAVA level
           will be set to obtain the same peak of Inspiratory pressure of PSV.

      The expiratory trigger will be adjusted to the 50% of the inspiratory flow peak in PSV.
      During NAVA, the expiratory trigger is fixed to 75% of diaphragmatic electrical activity. The
      inspiratory fraction of oxygen (FiO2) will be set in order to obtain a peripheral oxygen
      saturation of more than 94%.

      Ultrasound evaluation, using transcranial Doppler technique will be performed to evaluate the
      cerebral blood flow speed (average/systolic speed) near the point of emergency, in the middle
      length and at the bifurcation of M1 bilaterally, at the end of every ventilation trial. At
      the end of each trial, PaCO2, Ph and blood oxygenation (PaO2) will be obtained performing
      ABGs. Moreover, traces of flow, airways pressure (Paw) and electric diaphragmatic activity
      (EAdi) will be recorded and acquired through a dedicated ventilator software called NAVA
      tracker.

      This will allow evaluating the patient-ventilator interaction (trigger delay, asynchronous
      events, and asynchrony index).
    
  