
    
      The Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) Disease Genetic Epidemiology Study is a family-based case-control
      study to be conducted by the National Cancer Institute. The study subjects are 603
      individuals who were determined to belong to families with VHL disease confirmed through
      screening under NIH protocol #89-C-0086 between 1988 and 1998. There are 293 patient
      volunteers with VHL disease and 310 volunteer patients free of VHL disease, most of whom have
      already had genetic testing for mutations in the VHL gene. Adults as well as children aged 13
      - 17 will be included. All subjects will give informed consent prior to participation; for
      minor subjects, assent will be obtained from the minor and consent from the parent/guardian.
      This protocol provides the potential to benefit people with VHL disease (although not
      necessarily the study subjects themselves) and possibly people with sporadic (non-hereditary)
      forms of the tumors which occur in VHL disease. The risks and discomfort associated with this
      study are minor.

      The present protocol is a new epidemiologic component to VHL research at NIH which will
      relate the expression of VHL tumors to lifestyle factors (tobacco and alcohol use; physical
      activity), occupational exposures, reproductive and hormonal factors, demographic factors,
      medication use, diet, and putative susceptibility genes. Information will be collected by
      telephone interview and a written, self-administered diet questionnaire. A cheek cell sample
      will be obtained for analyses of genetic polymorphisms. Medical records will be obtained to
      document events reported by the subject at interview. Primary comparisons will be between VHL
      patients with a particular manifestation and VHL patients who are free of that condition.
      Additional comparisons may be made with unaffected family members who lack a mutation in the
      VHL gene, as appropriate.
    
  