
    
      ZipLine Medical, Inc. has developed a novel, non-invasive skin closure device called "Zip
      Surgical Skin Closure" to replace sutures, staples and glue for closure of the skin layer for
      surgical incisions or laceration repair. The device is designed to provide closure speed
      superior to sutures, while resulting in a suture-like cosmetic outcome.The ZIPS study is a
      randomized, clinical trial comparing outcomes of procedures that use the Zip Surgical Skin
      Closure device with the outcomes of procedures that use stitches. The Zip Surgical Skin
      Closure is not an investigational device and is currently used in hospital across the United
      States. The Zip Surgical Skin Closure is a non-invasive (in other words, does not pierce the
      skin or enter into the wound) device to hold skin closed while healing can occur. It adheres
      to the skin close to the incision and uses adjustable straps to hold the incision closed. It
      is typically worn on the skin for 7-14 days and is removed by peeling from the skin. Patients
      will be randomized to either Zip Surgical Skin Closure or sutures, in addition to dissolvable
      sutures for the deeper layers, for surgical procedures for cardiovascular implantable
      electronic devices (CIED) i.e. pacemakers or defibrillators. Both of these closure techniques
      are considered standard of care at this facility and are not themselves experimental.
      However, the goal of this experimental study is to see if there are any significant
      differences between the two closure methods, in a controlled study environment.

      Since the Zip Surgical Skin Closure device is relatively new to the market, there is a
      limited amount of information available describing the experience of patients and doctors
      using the device. In this study, the investigators will be looking to compare the Zip
      Surgical Skin Closure and stitches methods for the time necessary for the surgeon to close
      the incision, cosmetic appearance of the resulting scar, and satisfaction of you and your
      surgeon. The investigators will also be monitoring both study groups for occurrence of any
      adverse (unfavorable) events. Patients will be followed for a total of 3 months for this
      study. All study visits align with standard of care follow up for post-implantation of CIED.
      Non-identifiable pictures will be obtained of the scar during follow up and both patients and
      surgeons will complete questionnaires indicating their experience and satisfaction with the
      either skin closure method.
    
  