
    
      A large group of heavily drug-exposed HIV-infected individuals with detectable HIV-1 RNA
      exists as a result of the sequential use and failure of existing antiretroviral agents from
      each of the 3 antiretroviral drug classes (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
      [NRTIs], protease inhibitors [PIs], and nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
      [NNRTIs]). Systematic approaches are needed to define "salvage therapy" regimens for this
      patient group. This trial uses a short-term study to determine the initial safety,
      pharmacology, and antiviral potency of MMF in augmenting the antiretroviral effect of ABC,
      which then can be appraised for use as a salvage regimen. After rapid oral absorption, MMF is
      hydrolyzed to form MPA (mycophenolic acid), the active metabolite. Recent in vitro studies
      show that MPA concentrations as low as 62.5 nM synergistically increase the antiviral effect
      of ABC or ddI, or of ABC in combination with ddI, against multinucleoside-resistant HIV
      strains. These observations suggest that MMF in combination with ABC might play a role in
      antiretroviral therapy in patients with drug resistance, and continued clinical evaluation of
      MMF is warranted.

      At study entry, patients stop current NRTIs but continue taking PIs and NNRTIs with study
      treatment. The first 50 patients are stratified by plasma HIV-1 RNA (below 40,000 copies/ml
      or 40,000 and higher copies/ml) and randomized to either Arm A or Arm B. Arm A receives ABC
      with MMF placebo; Arm B receives ABC and MMF. Only ABC and MMF are provided by the study.
      Treatment is received for 4 weeks and patients are evaluated for safety, tolerability, and
      virologic response. At Week 4, entry genotype results are provided to patients and
      antiretroviral therapy may then be altered as indicated. Patients are unblinded to study
      treatment as soon as possible after Week 4 but no later than Week 7. Future opening of Arm C
      to 125 additional patients is delayed until the first 50 patients have reached Week 4 and an
      interim review of safety and virologic response is completed. Responders may continue study
      treatment through Week 24. At 10 clinic visits patients have blood drawn for HIV-1 RNA
      determinations, CD4 and CD8 cell counts, and genotyping. Patients may participate in
      pharmacokinetic substudy A5121s.
    
  