
    
      Treatment seeking insomnia sufferers most often present in primary care venues where the
      first and usually only treatment is a prescription for a sedative hypnotic, typically a
      benzodiazepine or newer benzodiazepine receptor agonist, For some patients, short term or
      intermittent use provides satisfactory insomnia relief. However, more than 65 percent of
      individuals who are prescribed hypnotics use them for more than a year, and over 30 percent
      remain on these agents for more than five years. Whereas some patients may appreciate partial
      or full relief of insomnia symptoms with ongoing hypnotic use, continuous long-term use of
      these agents may not represent optimal therapy. Many insomnia patients who participate in non
      drug insomnia therapy such as as cognitive behavioral insomnia therapy or CBTI achieve
      sustained insomnia remission lon after a time limited course of treatment. However it is
      difficult for most long term hypnotic users to convert to a self management approach.
      Intervention that combine CBTI with a supervised medication tapering or SMT have shown the
      greatest promise for achieving this outcome, but almost 50 percent of patients who receive
      this treatment either fail to discontinue hypnotics or resume them over time. Previous
      research provides only rudimentary understanding of how to help long term hypnotic users
      discontinue their sleep aids and successfully manage their insomnia with CBTI techniques.
      This R34 gathered key pilot data to address these limitations. Specifically this project
      compared the currently recommended tapering pace which is a 25 percent dose reduction every
      two weeks with a slower 10 percent dose reduction every two weeks. The study also conducted
      all tapering in double blinded fashion. A total of 78 patients were enrolled and first
      completed a course of CBTI over a six week period. They they were randomized to of of the two
      tapering conditions or to a control CTRL condition in which their medication was not tapered.
      After the 20 week tapering period the study blind was eliminated and those in the CTRL
      condition were offered an open label tapering period. All patients were assessed for hypnotic
      use at the end of their respective tapering periods and then again 3 months later. Study key
      outcome measures included hypnotic discontinuation rates, nights per week hypnotics were used
      and weekly diazepam dose equivalents of hypnotics used. This line of research should inform
      clinical practice by helping to refine guidelines for tapering controlled substance hypnotic
      medications.
    
  