
    
      Although coronaviruses (CoV) cause mild infections in the community, such as colds, they can
      also cause more severe infections. There are many subspecies of coronaviruses that can pass
      from animals to humans and can be transmitted between humans. One of these subspecies is
      COVID-19 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2), or SARS-CoV-2, and has made a
      worldwide pandemic from the beginning of 2020. Many countries are taking measures to protect
      everyone, including those in the risk group, to prevent disease in large groups and balance
      hospital bed capacities against the COVID-19 pandemic. Among these measures; There is an
      incentive for public health practices such as contact isolation, quarantine, frequent hand
      washing, not going out of the house unless needed, and social distance. In the investigator's
      country, preventive and therapeutic measures (such as quarantine, social distance) are taken
      against the COVID-19 pandemic and the public is constantly informed in this context. In this
      process, going out of the house, going to the hospital and being in the hospital brings with
      it the anxiety to get sick. Despite all these, there are compulsory situations requiring
      people to be in the hospital during the pandemic period. One of them is to give birth and
      then the baby stays in the hospital due to the need for intensive care.

      Although it is a pleasant feeling for women who have just given birth to feel the feeling of
      motherhood, to embrace the baby, to attach it to the baby, adapting to the new situation with
      the accompanying responsibilities can force the mother psychologically In the period when the
      feeling of motherhood begins, the hospitalization of the baby for any reason and the
      separation of the mother and the baby may be an additional source of stress. The fact that
      this process is experienced during the pandemic period can increase the anxiety and stress in
      the mother much more. It is important for nurses to determine the needs of mothers whose
      babies are in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) during their pandemic, in order to
      reduce their anxiety and anxiety by applying appropriate nursing approach. This study was
      planned to determine the anxiety and anxiety levels of mothers who had a baby in the NICU
      during Coronavirus disease pandemic and the factors affecting them.
    
  