
    
      The primary aim of this 6-site prospective cohort study is to develop algorithms usable in
      the clinical setting that predict decompressive laminectomy (DL) outcomes (i.e., success vs.
      failure) in older adults with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), the most common indication for
      spine surgery in older patients. The clinical algorithms developed will be based primarily on
      factors outside of LSS that are important aging-related predictors of pain and disability
      (e.g., hip osteoarthritis (OA), fibromyalgia syndrome, depression, anxiety, fear-avoidance
      beliefs, dysfunctional coping). Preliminary data support the impact of some of these factors
      on DL outcomes, but no study has included comprehensive assessment of rigorously collected
      data in the context of a prospective cohort. Thus LSS treatment remains focused exclusively
      on the lumbar spine and treatment outcomes suboptimal with, on average, < 20% reduction in
      pain. An estimated one in three DL patients does not improve at all. Further, anatomical
      evidence of LSS (i.e., based on advanced imaging) exists in many older patients without pain
      or functional compromise. Two hundred fifty patients with symptomatic LSS scheduled to
      undergo DL without fusion and who have no dementia, spinal instability, or prior lumbar
      surgery will be recruited from spine surgery practices at each of the 6 participating sites
      (VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Durham VA Medical Center [MC], Richmond VAMC, Ann Arbor
      VAMC, Denver VAMC, San Antonio VAMC). Within 30 days prior to DL (i.e., at baseline),
      participants will undergo comprehensive and rigorous assessment of pain and
      disability-generating factors including: 1) SS symptoms with the Brigham Spinal Stenosis
      questionnaire (BSS, the most specific available LSS measurement tool); 2) musculoskeletal
      comorbidities (scoliosis, kyphosis, hip osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia symptoms, severity of
      spinal stenosis, degenerative disc and facet disease); 3) mood (depression [with the Centre
      for Epidemiology Studies Depression Scale (CES-D)], anxiety [with the GAD-7]); 4) cognitive
      function (normal vs. mild cognitive impairment with the computer-based assessment of mild
      cognitive impairment); 5) psychological function (fear-avoidance beliefs [with the Fear
      Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire], chronic pain self-efficacy [with the Chronic Pain
      Self-Efficacy Scales], dysfunctional pain coping skills [with the Cognitive Strategies
      Questionnaire], treatment expectancy, illicit substance use, alcohol use, smoking status,
      PTSD symptoms); 6) medical comorbidity (including BMI); 7) demographic factors (age, gender,
      race, educational/marital status). The BSS will be collected at baseline, at the first
      postoperative visit, and every 3 months for one year. Prediction rules, based on the
      comprehensive set of factors measured and DL success/failure determined by the BSS, will be
      created using multiple methods to maximize predictive accuracy and validated subsequently in
      a separate cohort of 100 individuals. Investigators will apply these rules to future
      comparative effectiveness trials that test personalized LSS treatment approaches (i.e., that
      involve targeting extra-LSS factors as part of the total treatment package) as compared with
      DL alone. An exploratory aim of the proposed study is to evaluate the use of Goal Attainment
      Scaling (GAS) as a DL outcome. This patient-centered outcomes measurement approach is used
      commonly in the rehabilitation setting, but never before in DL patients. To prepare for
      future comparative effectiveness trials, investigators want to develop GAS as an outcome
      measure because it can be used to track outcomes in SS patients across surgical and
      non-surgical interventions, and investigators anticipate that both will be employed as part
      of personalized treatment. Investigators will explore (through 10-12 patient interviews) and
      refine (with a modified Delphi panel of experts) GAS goals in patients with SS, and measure
      goal achievement in a subset of 20 participants. What might happen if older adults with LSS
      were treated in the context of a comprehensive pre-operative program before undergoing DL?
      Might long-term outcomes associated with DL improve? Might patient satisfaction improve?
      Might some patients avoid DL? These are questions that ultimately investigators hope to
      answer.
    
  