
    
      Background

      The immune system is affected by the colonizing microbiome. The gut microbiome has been
      associated with a multitude of inflammatory diseases, such as the development of autoimmune
      diseases. The association between microbiome and allergic diseases, asthma, type I diabetes
      and inflammatory bowel diseases have been demonstrated. Moreover, changes in gut microbiome
      during the first weeks of life have been associated with the development of atopy.

      Already at birth, a low concentration of bacteria is present in the meconium of the vaginally
      delivered infant. Although the neonatal stool is not fully sterile, colonization of the
      intestinal tract takes place at delivery and throughout the first years of life. The gut
      microbiome of infants delivered vaginally (VD) and by cesarean section (CS) differs markedly
      from each other and this difference persists throughout the first years of life. The gut
      microbiome of infants born by CS have a lower total microbiota diversity and lower Th1
      response than those born by VD. Infants delivered by CS been shown to be more likely to
      develop chronic inflammatory and allergic diseases, eg. inflammatory bowel disease, and
      systemic connective disorders, and asthma than those delivered vaginally.

      Partial restoration of the microbiota of CS-infants was seen when introduced with vaginal
      microbial transfer. However, the vaginal microbiome is very limited to mainly Lactobacillus
      spp. and does not contain the microbes that are abundant in the gut microbiota of the mother.
      Fecal transplantation, or intestinal microbiota transfer, is used to treat chronic infections
      of Clostridium difficile. However, fecal transplantation has not been used to compensate for
      the low diversity of CS infants. In this pilot, proof-of-concept and safety evaluation study,
      the researchers aim to assess the feasibility of fecal transplantation after birth in infants
      delivered by CS.
    
  