
    
      The clinical result of catheter treatment in the patients with acute myocardial infarction in
      these several decades improved because of progress of early reperfusion therapy and stent
      treatment technique. However, the no-reflow phenomenon is still remaining as a problem, which
      is involved in a decrease in left ventricular function and worsening of prognosis. It is
      considered that the no-reflow phenomenon is induced by atherosclerotic and thrombotic emboli,
      endothelial dysfunction of capillary vessels, free radicals and cytokine. The treatment
      combining the peripheral protection and thrombus aspiration aiming at prevention of no-reflow
      is expected to reduce no-reflow and the infarct size and has been conducted on the patients
      with acute myocardial infarction. However, a lot of randomized studies have been conducted,
      so far, which do not lead to reduction of infarct size and improvement of survival rate, and
      the efficacy has not been demonstrated.

      Some explanations have been suggested for this phenomenon:

        1. The operation method of device is complicated, and it is difficult to acquire the
           treatment technique.

        2. Giant thrombus and solid lesion could not be aspirated effectively.

        3. A lot of randomized studies have not focused on the "patients with anterior descending
           lesion of thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grade 0/1, of which the time from
           onset to treatment is within 6 hours," considered to have the largest benefit of
           prevention of no-reflow.

      In recent years in Japan, excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) has been used in the
      patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), and not only debulking of arteriosclerotic
      lesion but also thrombolytic effect have been reported. In the Camel trial and Utility of
      Laser for Transcatheter Atherectomy Multicenter Analysis around Naniwa (ULTRAMAN) registry,
      the efficacy and safety in ACS have been reported, but the infarct size has not been
      evaluated.

      This time in this study, it is considered that verification whether or not ELCA is able to
      improve the myocardial salvage in anterior ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) using
      myocardial scintigram (acute-phase BMIPP and chronic-phase TF) will provide the useful
      information helpful for selection of treatment to medical care staffs and patients for future
      patients suffering from ACS and will be able to contribute to further improvement of medical
      science and medical practice.

      MRI will be performed twice at 5-9 days and at 6 months post index ST elevation myocardial
      infarction to assess myocardial damage and functional variables, which details will be
      described in the following outcome measurement section.
    
  