
    
      Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is the disease caused by Severe Acute Respiratory
      Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). SARS-CoV-2 primarily infects the upper and lower
      respiratory tract and can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in a subset of
      patients with a known high mortality rate. Additionally, some patients develop other organ
      dysfunction including myocardial injury, acute kidney injury, shock along with endothelial
      dysfunction and subsequently micro and macrovascular thrombosis.

      Much of the underlying pathology of SARS-CoV-2 is thought to be secondary to a dysregulated
      immune response and more recently a hypercoagulable state leading to immunothrombosis.
      Currently, two therapies have shown efficacy in large multicenter trials for the treatment of
      COVID-19, one of which is an antiviral (remdesivir) and the other is an immunosuppressant
      corticosteroid meant to dampen the immune response (dexamethasone).

      Spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase involved in the intracellular
      signaling pathways of many different immune cells. In this pilot study we propose to use
      fostamatinib (an SYK inhibitor) as a targeted therapy for the immunological complications of
      hospitalized patients with COVID-19. The biological mechanisms by which SYK inhibition may
      improve outcomes in patients with COVID-19 include the inhibition of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines by monocytes and macrophages, decreased production of neutrophil extracellular
      traps (NETs) by neutrophils, and inhibition of platelet aggregation; three pathways that are
      mediated through Fc receptors (FcR) recognition of antigen-antibody complexes or activation
      of c-type lectin receptors (CLEC).

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of fostamatinib for the
      treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19.

      We will randomly assign fostamatinib or matched placebo (1:1) to 60 eligible COVID-19
      patients who are a 5 to 7 on the 8-point scale (requiring supplemental oxygen via nasal
      canula or noninvasive ventilation, requiring mechanical ventilation or extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation).
    
  