
    
      The diagnosis of cancer and the treatments used may be the cause, for the patient, of a
      significant emotional and psychological anxiety. For many years, several studies have
      evaluated the impact of visual and sensitive techniques on the well-being of the patient:
      landscaping of gardens,use of positive distraction means (decoration, brightness of spaces,
      photographs, layout of natural scenes, aquarium installation, etc.). The objective of these
      studies was to give to the patient a contact with nature reinforcing the positive emotions
      and reducing stress.

      A randomized study including 37 patients who will undergo flexible sigmoidoscopy of
      diagnosis, to receive during the intervention, audio stimulation, audio and visual
      stimulation by glasses (Virtual IO, 1000 Leonora), or no stimulation. Audio and visual
      stimulation reduced abdominal discomfort (measured using visual analog scale VAS) and a
      decrease in anxiety (measured by the Stress Symptom Ratings scale) compared to the group
      without stimulation (p <0.05), but without solid evidence given the small number of patients
      with an imprecise randomization.

      Other distraction systems using paintings of nature scenes combined with a listening to the
      sounds of nature were used during bronchoscopy: 80 patients were randomized (distraction
      systems versus control group without stimulation): the decrease in pain (rated on a 5-point
      scale from poor to excellent) was significantly greater in the intervention versus control
      group (p <0.015). There was no significant effect on anxiety measured by the S-STAI scale
      compared to the control group (with a 6 point difference between groups). Another Chinese
      prospective randomized controlled trial (Lee et al. 2004), conducted on 165 patients, has
      shown that visual and audio distraction (by Eyetrek system, Olympus) could reduce the need
      for sedatives used during colonoscopy compared to the group with visual distraction only and
      in the distraction-free control group (p <0.01). From the years 1960-1970, the development of
      digital audiovisual technologies allowed to develop virtual reality techniques. The term
      "virtual reality" (VR) refers to a computer technology that simulates artificially the user's
      environment, with which the user can interact. In oncology, virtual reality (VR) techniques
      have been used in 3 situations :

      - during painful procedures: A randomized controlled study conducted on 30 adolescents with
      cancer who will undergo a lumbar puncture, analyzed the impact of VR glasses on pain assessed
      by VAS and the feedback of the patients. There was no statistically significant difference
      between 2 groups but pain scores were lower in the VR group (The mean VAS in the VR group was
      7 points with a range ranging from 0 to 48 while in the control group the average was 9
      points with a range from 0 to 59).

      Another randomized study conducted on 59 children with cancer whose treatments required
      access to a subcutaneous venous device assessed the value of VR distraction, non-virtual
      distraction and the absence of distraction. Reductions in pain and anxiety have been observed
      (measured by VAS) in children using VR distraction but were not significant given the small
      sample size. However the reduction of the heart rate was significant in the VR distraction
      group (p <0.05).

      - during hospitalization: This situation is considered stressful because it is linked to a
      change in the state of health and because it introduces stressful conditions like lack of
      autonomy, privacy, etc.

      A study showed on 19 hospitalized patients with metastatic cancer, exposed to 4 sessions of
      30 minutes for 1 week with a VR headset, an increase in joy over the 4 sessions (before and
      after the test, p <0.009) and a decrease in sadness over the 2nd session (before and after
      the test, p <0.003).

      Another study showed on 33 hospitalized patients with metastatic cancer under the same
      conditions as the Banos study, an increase in positive emotions and a decrease in negative
      emotions after each session (p <0.05).

      - during the chemotherapy infusion to reduce the symptoms related to the treatment or
      disease: A study evaluated the interest of VR by head-mounted display (Sony PC Glasstron
      PLM-S700) in 16 women aged 50 years and older during chemotherapy infusions. The symptoms
      such as anxiety and fatigue were assessed (STAI scale and revised Piper scale PFS). Patients
      were randomized to 2 chemotherapy sessions with the use of VR head-mounted display for one
      session and without stimulation for the other session. A decrease in anxiety immediately
      after the session was shown in this small number of patients (p = 0.10). On the other hand,
      there was no difference for fatigue but the study was carried out only on one session of RV.

      It was showed a benefit of VR in 123 patients with breast, lung or colon cancer, receiving 2
      chemotherapy sessions: participants were randomized according to a cross-over design in order
      to receive the VR intervention (by i-Glasses SVGA HeadMounted Display helmet) during one
      chemotherapy session and to receive during the other session no VR intervention (control
      arm), each patient being their own control. This technique was using a laptop, VR headset,
      and software. The Symptom Distress Scale was used to assess symptoms of distress immediately
      after the session and 48 hours after the session. No significant difference was found for the
      symptoms of distress between the session receiving the VR intervention and the session not
      receiving the intervention of VR. However, the study only assessed the use of VR over a
      single treatment session. The patients who received the VR technique had a decrease in
      anxiety during the initial session of chemotherapy (decrease of 3.34 points, p = 0.01). In
      addition, the perception of the time during the chemotherapy session was significantly
      altered, making the session more tolerable because it is shorter and thus validating the
      distraction capacity of this intervention.

      When it comes to physical variables (vital signs), 4 studies found a significant difference
      in heart rate with a lower rate in the Virtual Reality group.

      However, few studies in oncology have looked at non-isolating devices for VR (without helmet
      or glasses), therefore without excluding the patient from his environment. This non-isolating
      technology has also been considered as being able to offer the patient a more secure
      environment.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of this kind of stimulation during the
      intravenous treatment in patients with cancer.
    
  