
    
      Non Traumatic Coma in children is an important pediatric emergency. It has been an enigma for
      clinicians for many years. To find the cause of coma and to determine the prognosis is a
      taxing question for the attending clinicians and the primary concern for relatives in every
      case.

      Non-traumatic coma in childhood accounts for high morbidity and mortality in pediatric age
      group. It can result from wide range of primary etiologies. Etiology of coma and clinical
      status at the time of admission are likely outcome predictors. Infection is the commonest
      etiology for coma in all age groups .

      Coma in children is recognized to be a non-specific sign with a wide potential differential
      diagnosis. Among various etiological factors identified for non-traumatic coma, considerable
      regional diversity exists in them with infectious problems suggested to be more common in
      developing countries. There has been few case series in developing countries with specific
      reference to infective etiology and there are also differences in infective agents between
      developing and developed countries. Similarly prediction of outcome of coma is difficult
      early in the course of the illness, especially in children. There have been many studies
      suggesting prognostic parameters of coma in adults, but limited reviews are available for
      children.

      Etiologically it can be divided into two broad categories: those without focal neurologic
      signs (e.g., metabolic encephalopathies); meningitis syndromes, characterized by fever or
      stiff neck and an excess of cells in the spinal fluid (e.g., bacterial meningitis,
      subarachnoid hemorrhage); and conditions associated with prominent focal signs (e.g., stroke,
      cerebral hemorrhage). In most instances coma is part of an obvious medical problem such as
      drug ingestion, hypoxia, stroke, trauma, or liver or kidney failure. Conditions that cause
      sudden coma include drug ingestion, cerebral hemorrhage, trauma, cardiac arrest, epilepsy, or
      basilar artery embolism. Coma that appears subacutely is usually related to a preceding
      medical or neurologic problem, including the secondary brain swelling of a mass lesion such
      as tumor or cerebral infarction.

      Central nervous infections are the most common cause . Toxic-metabolic, status-epilepticus,
      hypoxic-ischemic, intracranial bleed etc. are other main causes.

      Neurological outcome is often the foremost concern of parents and physicians .Etiology of
      coma and clinical status at the time of presentation are the most likely predictors of
      outcome. Simple clinical signs have been found as good predictors of outcome .

      Non-traumatic coma is an important source of morbidity and mortality in the pediatric age
      group. Accurate diagnosis of etiology of childhood coma in resource poor countries is
      complicated by overlap in clinical presentation, limited diagnostic resources, disease
      endemicity and co-morbidity . Considerable skill is required to distinguish the group at high
      risk for further deterioration, potentially leading either to death or severe handicap. This
      study attempts to identify the common etiological factors of pediatric comatose patients as
      well as the predictors of poor outcomes in these patients .

      Episodes were defined on the basis of a Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) of less than 12 for more
      than six hours . Many acutely ill children are not fully conscious because pathologic
      processes may affect the parts of the central nervous system that mediate consciousness;
      alteration in the state of consciousness is a common feature of many different conditions.

      Many of these children make a full neurological recovery. However, depending on the
      underlying etiology non-traumatic coma may cause considerable mortality and morbidity in
      pediatric age group .
    
  