
    
      Eustachian tube dysfunction is one of the most common problems encountered in general
      otolaryngology clinical practice. Symptoms of ear pressure, decreased hearing, ear pain, ear
      popping, and frequent ear infections are often blamed on the inability of the Eustachian tube
      to equalize air pressure across the ear drum. If the Eustachian tube is occluded, the middle
      ear space becomes a closed chamber in which normal gas exchange cannot occur. Treatment of
      Eustachian dysfunction has traditionally focused on a two tier system. First, patients are
      most often placed on a nasal steroid and an antihistamine. This medication regimen leads to
      decreased nasal inflammation, mucosal swelling, and treats nasal allergy. In many patients,
      this treatment improves symptoms completely or reduces them to a tolerable level. If the
      patient's symptoms are not improved, the next step in management is to create a surgical
      tract to the middle ear via a myringotomy (a hole across the ear drum) and placing a pressure
      equalization tube across the tympanic membrane. This bypasses any anatomical obstruction in
      the Eustachian tube and allows the middle ear pressure to equalize with the atmospheric
      pressure across the tympanic membrane. Unfortunately, despite this, there are patients with
      refractory symptoms, often ear pressure and subjectively decreased hearing. These symptoms
      are also frequently associated with inner ear disease, specifically endolymphatic hydrops.
      Endolymphatic hydrops is felt to be related to over production of endolymphatic fluid, the
      fluid within the inner ear. Thus, we propose that patient's will refractory Eustachian tube
      dysfunction are experiencing an inner ear phenomenon, and that they would benefit from
      treatment similar to how endolymphatic hydrops (or over production of endolymphatic fluid) is
      managed. The mainstays of management of endolymphatic hydrops are a low sodium diet and
      diuretic treatment (hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene). Both of these treatments aim to reduce
      endolymph production.
    
  