
    
      After enrollment, subjects' previous tumor block used for glioblastoma diagnosis that is
      consented to provide during the study period will be sent to a central laboratory for the
      assessment of MGMT status. Moreover, subjects will be randomized in either Control or Study
      arm at Visit 2. Subjects in Control arm will receive a standard chemoradiation. However,
      subjects in Study arm will receive a standard chemoradiation in combination with concurrent
      JP001 in whole study period. During the study, a sufficient amount of investigational
      products will be supplied to subjects in study groups until next scheduled visits. Subjects
      will self-administer investigational product orally with water at approximately the same time
      in each day. Subjects should fast for a minimum of 2 hours prior to any doses of JP001 and/or
      Temozolomide and then fast for another 1 hour after taking JP001 and/or Temozolomide. During
      and at the end of treatment, subjects will be evaluated for efficacy and safety parameters.
      Moreover, there will be a Follow-up visit for safety 4 weeks after the End-of-Treatment
      visit. If a subject is early withdrawn from the study, the End-of-Treatment visit should be
      arranged and all assessments assigned in this visit should be performed. The Safety Follow-up
      visit for early withdrawn subjects could be either clinic visit or telephone contact. If
      withdrawn subjects refuse to perform Follow-up visit, the Follow-up visit is allowed to
      cancel. For subjects who completed or discontinued study treatment, assessment of survival
      status will be performed every 8 weeks by telephone contact until death, study end (last
      subject last visit; the last subject needs to be followed at least 30 months), or study
      termination by Sponsor. Survival information will be recorded in the medical source and CRF.
      If subjects are lost to follow-up or refuse to receive the assessment of survival status, the
      investigator will record the last date subjects known to be alive in the medical source and
      case report form.
    
  