
    
      Many stroke survivors suffered problems with the upper extremity, such as paresis, synergy
      movement, hypertonicity, jag movement, sensory deficit. An inability to use the upper
      extremity in daily life can lead to loss of independence with ADLs and of important
      occupations (eg,work, driving). For individuals with more severe paresis, the potential for
      recovery of upper extremity function is greatly reduced. Robotic therapy can deliver larger
      amounts of upper extremity movement practice for these individuals. Although the Robotic
      therapy appears to provide some benefit for upper extremity motor abilities and participation
      but is of uncertain utility compared with dose-matched conventional upper limb exercise
      therapies. Objective: To investigate the effects of robot-assisted hand rehabilitation with a
      Gloreha device on sensory, motor, and ADL ability for patients with stroke.

      Materials and Methods: Thirty patients with moderate motor deficits were recruited and
      randomized into 2 treatment groups, AB or BA (A = 12 times of robot-assisted hand
      rehabilitation, B = 12 times of standard therapy) for 12 weeks of treatment (Sixty minutes a
      time, twice a week), 1 month of break between conditions for washout period. The performance
      was assessed by a blinded assessor for five times (pre-test1, post-test 1, pre-test2,
      post-test 2, follow up at three month). The outcome measures Fugl-Meyer Assessment-Upper Limb
      section(FMA-UE),Box and block test(BBT), Maximal voluntary contraction(MVC) of extensor
      digitorum communis(EDC), Abductor pollicis brevis(APB), Flexor digitorum(FD), Dynanometer,
      Semmes-Weinstein hand monofilament (SWM), Revision of the Nottingham Sensory Assessment
      (EmNSA) for hand evaluations, Modified Barthel Index for ADL ability. Collected data will be
      analyzed with ANOVA test by SPSS version 20.0, and alpha level was set at 0.05. The
      hypothesis are robot-assisted hand rehabilitation with a Gloreha device has positive effects
      on sensory, motor, hand function, and ADL ability among patients with stroke.
    
  