
    
      This is a randomized, three-arm double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center study to
      evaluate the effects of oral administration of Trichuris suis ova (as compared to placebo) in
      the treatment of pediatric patients diagnosed with Autism. The target sample size to be
      randomized into the study will be approximately 60, randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to one
      of three treatment groups:

        1. Placebo (n= 20 patients). These patients will receive a blinded dose of placebo every
           other week.

        2. 2500 TSO every other week (n= 20 patients). These patients will receive a blinded dose
           of TSO every other week

        3. 7500 TSO every other week (n= 20 patients). These patients will receive a blinded dose
           of TSO every other week

      Double-blind treatment will be given for a total of 16 weeks.

      This study will have 3 phases:

        -  Screening period, comprising up to 5 weeks prior to Baseline (Day 1)

        -  Double-blind treatment period for 16 weeks

        -  An untreated follow-up period for 26 weeks. Following informed consent, patients will be
           screened on the basis of diagnosis of autism, vital signs, clinical laboratories medical
           history and a physical examination. Eligible patients will be randomized to double-blind
           treatment with TSO 2500 every other week, TSO 7500 every other week, or placebo every
           other week, in a ratio of 1:1:1. During the double-blind study phase, study drug will be
           provided in the clinic in a liquid form and will be administered every other week,
           starting with the Baseline visit, through Week 14. Week 14 is the last double-blind
           treatment administration of the study, while Week 16 is the primary time point for
           assessment of efficacy. Patients will return to the clinic every other week during the
           double blind treatment period.

      After completion of the double-blind phase, patients will then return to the clinic 26 weeks
      following the last dose of study medication for a safety assessment and stool sample culture.
    
  