
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine safety and tolerability, and define the maximum tolerated dose of pelareorep
      (Reolysin), carfilzomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma.

      II. Obtain evidence of reovirus entry into myeloma cells via localization of reoviral
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) in multiple myeloma (MM) cells (in situ hybridization [ISH]), and
      active viral proliferation/replication via localization of reoviral capsid protein
      (immunohistochemistry [IHC]) in MM cells in cycle 1 day 9 bone marrow biopsies in all
      patients enrolled in dose escalation cohorts.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Obtain preliminary data on response as determined by International Myeloma Working Group
      criteria after protocol therapy.

      II. Obtain overall and progression free survival data for all treated patients. III. Assess
      cytokine arrays of peripheral blood obtained on days 1, 2, 9, 15 and once during days 22-28
      of cycle 1, and day 1 of cycle 2 and each successive cycle to obtain exploratory data
      regarding inflammatory cytokine concentrations and their correlation with response.

      IV. Investigate pretreatment cycle 1 days 1 and 9 bone marrow aspirate interferon (IFN)-beta
      in MM cells as a potential marker of Reolysin resistance.

      V. Measure the induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and autophagy markers to
      explore their respective roles in MM cell death following combination Reolysin and
      carfilzomib in patients treated in all dose escalation cohorts.

      VI. Evaluate pretreatment cycle 1 days 1 and 9 peripheral blood to explore the antiviral
      humoral response by measuring the production of neutralizing reoviral antibody (NARA) using a
      functional killing assay.

      VII. Obtain cycle 1 day 1 pretreatment and 1 and 4 hours after treatment, and pretreatment
      cycle 1 days 2 and 9 peripheral blood, and pretreatment cycle 1 days 1 and 9 bone marrow
      aspirate samples to investigate the role of carfilzomib in modulating the antiviral immune
      mediated response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of Reolysin.

      Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV), carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes, and
      Reolysin IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  