
    
      Acne vulgaris is a common skin disease characterized by inflammatory papules, pustules, and
      comedones that is prevalent in men and women of color. In fact, acne is the most common
      dermatologic diagnosis made in SOC populations. Although individuals of all skin types can
      develop acne vulgaris, there are important differences in darker skin types that are
      important to consider when choosing an optimal treatment.

      Complications from acne are of great concern in this population, as keloids, hypertrophic
      scars, and post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH) are more common in skin of color. PIH
      may last for weeks to months and, in many cases, is more troublesome to patients than the
      acne itself. Overall, facial acne and its sequelae have a greater impact on perception of
      appearance, negative emotions, and social functioning in women of color than white women.

      Dapsone is a sulfone compound with anti-inflammatory properties that has been shown to be
      effective in the treatment of acne vulgaris in SOC. Aczone ® (dapsone) gel, 5% administered
      twice daily has been associated with significant improvement in overall acne severity, acne
      signs, and impact on quality of life in women of color. Two phase III trials of a newer
      formulation of Aczone ® (dapsone) gel, 7.5% used once daily demonstrated that this product is
      effective, safe, and well-tolerated for the treatment of acne in both men and women; however,
      limited data is available regarding its efficacy and safety in SOC.

      Further, some investigators of the phase IV study on the safety and efficacy of dapsone gel
      5% in SOC anecdotally reported improvement in hyperpigmentation over 12 weeks, although this
      was not a planned efficacy outcome. Further research is needed on the potential effects of
      dapsone gel on hyperpigmentation and PIH in SOC.

      The current study will investigate the therapeutic impact of Aczone gel 7.5% in SOC males and
      females ages 18 and older with acne vulgaris. The study will also evaluate the impact of
      Aczone gel on post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation using the Postacne Hyperpigmentation Index
      (PAHPI) and mexameter-measured melanin index (MI).
    
  