
    
      In the vast majority of sub-Saharan African countries, all mothers attend an immunization
      (EPI) visit when their child is 6 to 8 weeks old (the first EPI visit for BCG and OPV0
      vaccination, takes place at childbirth).

      This study primarily aims at utilizing existing strategies to prevent postnatal HIV-1
      transmission through optimizing the use of lamivudine as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for
      at risk children. For this purpose, the study will use recently marketed diagnostic point of
      care (POC) tests at the first level of care for maternal HIV-1 viral load and early infant
      diagnosis (EID). This POC early infant diagnosis will also allow optimizing treatment of
      HIV-infected infants by offering to all the benefits of an early ART initiation.

      The hypothesis is that the second visit for routine vaccination (Expanded Program of
      Immunization visit 2: EPI-2) represents a unique opportunity to link EPI and PMTCT programs
      and introduce rescue preventive and therapeutic interventions. The EPI visit will allow an
      opportunity to:

        1. Assess the efficacy of the PMTCT cascade.

        2. Identify HIV-1-infected children early and refer them for early initiation of treatment

        3. Provide their children with an antiretroviral drug that can protect them from HIV-1,
           irrespective of their mother's adherence to ART as part of the Phase III Randomized
           Controlled Trial.

      The Phase III RCT will be testing a rescue preventive intervention among HIV-1-uninfected
      children exposed to HIV-1 by their HIV-1-infected breastfeeding mothers against a control
      routine Option B+ implementation.

      Following a brief questionnaire and counselling on ART adherence and breastfeeding,
      participant mothers aged 15 years or older who meet eligibility criteria will be randomized
      to the control or intervention arms at a 1:1 ratio.

      The phase III Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) testing a rescue preventive intervention
      among HIV-1-uninfected children exposed to HIV-1 by their HIV-1-infected breastfeeding
      mothers against a control routine Option B+ implementation.

      In the control arm, routine Option B+ national guidelines including HIV-1 plasmatic viral
      load testing will be adhered to as part of the clinics' usual practice. Visits will take
      place at 6-8 weeks, 6 and 12 months post-partum to collect samples from the mother for the
      analysis of viral load results at 12 months. In addition, at 6-8 weeks, 6 and 12 months
      post-partum, POC tests will be done for the diagnosis of HIV-1 in their infants (by HIV-1 DNA
      PCR) and results will be shared within 2 hours. Children infected with HIV-1 will be referred
      to the National Programme for confirmed diagnosis and immediate ART.

      The intervention arm aims at reducing the risk of HIV transmission for infants exposed to
      large amounts of HIV-1 through breastfeeding, which correlates with the maternal plasma viral
      load. At 6-8 weeks post-partum, a venous blood sample will be taken from the mothers to
      assess their viral load using a GenXpert® HIV RNA POC test. Concomitantly, a capillary blood
      sample will be taken from the child for the detection of HIV-1 (by HIV-1 DNA PCR). Children
      infected with HIV-1 will be referred to the National Programme for confirmed HIV diagnosis
      and immediate ART.

      For children that are not HIV-1 infected in the intervention arm, the results on the mother's
      viral load will guide the next steps:

      - Mothers with a detectable plasma viral load (≥ 1000 copies/mL) will receive reinforced
      counselling on ART adherence.

      In addition, their child will be initiated on PrEP, lamivudine syrup (7.5 mg twice daily if 2
      to 4 kg; 25 mg twice a day if weight <8 kg; and 50 mg twice a day if weight >8 kg). Mothers
      will come with their child to the study site every month (at M3, M4, M5, M7, M8, M9, M10 and
      M11) to collect drug supplies, safety follow-up, child's PrEP adherence adherence and
      counselling, mother's ART adherence and reporting. In Zambia, high risk HIV negative infants
      on a 12-week prophylactic regimen and are still taking ART at this visit, their first day of
      the study prophylaxis administration will take place at Month 3.

      - Mothers with an undetectable viral loads (<1000 copies/mL) will continue receiving ART
      adherence counselling. However, the children of these mothers will not be initiated on PrEP
      on the study at 6-8 weeks of age. However, because ART compliance declines rapidly over time
      within the first year of initiation, additional monitoring on the viral load of the mother
      and the diagnosis of the child will take place at 6 months: If the maternal plasmatic viral
      load is ≥ 1000 copies/mL, the child will be initiated on PrEP, lamivudine syrup (7.5 mg twice
      daily if 2 to 4 kg; 25 mg twice a day if weight <8 kg; and 50 mg twice a day if weight >8
      kg), until the baby is 12 months old or until the confirmed end of breastfeeding.
      Breastfeeding will be considered to be ceased if the mother confirms she is no longer
      breastfeeding for 2 consecutive monthly visits.

      Children infected with HIV-1 will be referred to the National Programme for confirmed
      diagnosis and immediate ART.
    
  