
    
      The frequency of twin pregnancies has increased significantly, especially because of the
      assisted reproduction and advanced maternal age at conception. The twin pregnancies are
      responsible for 25 % of all preterm birth. Consequently, twin pregnancies are more associated
      with perinatal mortality and morbidity when compared to single pregnancies. Additionally, the
      short cervix (< 25 mm) in singleton and twin pregnancies are associated with significantly
      increased preterm birth.

      Randomized controlled trials in singleton pregnancies reported that profilatic cervical
      cerclage and vaginal progesterone reduce significantly the rate of early preterm birth. In
      twin pregnancies, vaginal progesterone and profilatic cerclage have been shown to be
      ineffective in prevention of preterm birth.

      However, two individual pacient data meta-analyses reported in a subgroup of women with twin
      pregancies and short cervix, that vaginal progesterone reduce significantly adverse neonatal
      outcomes. Nowadays, the effet of cervical pessary is contraditory, mainly in women with short
      cervix.

      This is a randomized prospective trial at São Paulo University Medical School. This trial
      will involve 312 women with twins pregnancies and short cervix between 16 and 27 weeks and 6
      days of gestacional age. Women with twin pregnancy and short cervix ( defined according to
      the gestacional age ) will be assigned randomly to daily vaginal progesterone (400mg)
      combined with insertion of cervical pessary, isolated use of daily vaginal progesterone
      (400mg) isolated insertion of cervical pessary or expectant management (no intervention). The
      primary outcome is to compare the rate of spontaneous delivery < 34 weeks of gestacion
      between groups.The secondary outcome is to compare the neonatal adverse outcome between the
      groups.

      The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that the insertion of a cervical pessary
      combined with vaginal progesterone, in twin pregnancies with short cervix would reduce the
      spontaneus preterm birth < 34 weeks' gestation.
    
  