
    
      The GEMMA study will address genomic, environmental, microbiome, and metabolomic factors that
      may affect the development of autism spectrum disorders (ASD).

      Genome: The project will study children who have a first-degree relative (sibling) with ASD
      so that investigators can understand how their genes may contribute to whether they develop
      ASD or not. A number of genetic variants identified to date occur in genes encoding
      glycosylated extracellular proteins and in enzymes directly involved in glycosylation.
      Investigators will perform whole genome sequencing in the subgroup of children that will
      develop ASD in order to learn more about these specific genes and also to identify other
      genes that may be involved in ASD pathogenesis. The genetic variant landscape will be mapped
      and variants will be annotated and interpreted based on all contextual information available.
      This effort will enable the identification of patient- and cohort-specific variations that
      can then be further refined into biomarker signatures and optimized into predictive and
      diagnostic markers of ASD.

      Environment: When infants enroll in the study, investigators will record information about
      their environment including whether they were born vaginally or by Cesarean section and
      whether they have received antibiotics. Over time, investigators will also consider other
      parts of the infant's medical, dietary and social history including feeding modality
      (breastfeeding versus formula feeding), illnesses, infections, antibiotic use, diet and
      growth to understand whether any of this information is related to ASD development. This data
      will be updated monthly until each enrolled infant reaches 3 years of age, yielding a
      valuable compilation of information that will provide insight on how environmental changes
      affect whether the child develops ASD or not.

      Microbiome: The human gut, compromised of the small and large intestine, is home to many
      types of bacteria. These bacteria help to break down and digest food, provide the body with
      energy, and make vitamins that the body need to thrive. This diverse community of bacteria is
      called the gut microbiome, which is known to play a large role in the development of the
      immune system. A main goal of the GEMMA study is to understand how the microbiome is affected
      by factors such as food intake or antibiotic drugs, and how this may affect the development
      of ASD. Investigators hope to learn more about this relationship by studying the members of
      the gut microbiome before and after autism development in the subset of enrolled infants who
      will develop ASD. The project will compare microbiota of ASD children with and without GI
      symptoms to determine whether different microbiota composition and differentially expressed
      bacterial genome perturb intestinal barrier function and immune response, leading to ASD in
      genetically at-risk infants. By doing this, the project will uncover patterns in the gut
      microbiome that may help investigators to predict who will develop ASD before it happens.

      Metabolome: The processes that occur in the gut, such as the digestion of foods and
      production of vitamins, create products that are called metabolites. The specific metabolites
      that humans produce differ from person to person and depend on many factors, including genes,
      members of the gut microbiome, and food choices. The collection of metabolites produced by a
      sample is called the metabolome. The project will study the metabolomes of different infants
      while taking note of any changes to their environment and monitoring them for ASD. Studying
      the metabolites in this way is called metabolomics. In doing this, investigators hope to find
      patterns, or specific metabolomic profiles, that might predict when someone may develop ASD
      before it happens.
    
  