
    
      This study aims to examine the effect of perineural hydrodissection (PNH), a novel treatment
      for CTS. PNH is a minimally invasive, ultrasound-guided, percutaneous technique in which the
      median nerve is released by injecting fluid (local anesthetic and corticosteroid)
      circumferentially, using larger fluid volumes and higher pressure to target areas of adhesion
      between the median nerve and its surrounding structures. In chronic CTS, a rind of perineural
      fibrosis develops, tethering the median nerve to the overlying flexor retinaculum and to the
      adjacent flexor tendons. Theoretically, the removal of tethering to adjacent structures, via
      perineural hydrodissection, should allow circumferential bathing of the median nerve with the
      local anesthetic and corticosteroid, thus reducing inflammation and prolonging symptom
      relief.

      The primary outcome is pain as measured by the Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire (BCTQ).
      Secondary outcomes include health-related quality of life measures using the Disabilities of
      the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire and the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain.

      The selected questionnaires have been shown to correlate well with domains of the
      International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF) (3). Other
      secondary measures include the ultrasound appearance (cross-sectional index) of the median
      nerve, and electromyography (EMG) measurements (including sensory and motor conduction
      velocities, and amplitudes), before and after the injection.

      The study hypothesis is that PNH will show greater benefits in terms of pain, function, and
      patient quality of life when compared to corticosteroid injection in patients with CTS. The
      null hypothesis is that there is no difference. The study is powered to address the primary
      outcome and will also be powered to identify minimally important differences in functional,
      sonographic, and electromyographic outcomes.
    
  