
    
      The representative (systematic stratified multistage) random sample was generated according
      to the territorial principle (Kish method) in 13 regions of the Russian Federation. The study
      sample included 22,906 participants (8353 males and 13553 females) 25-64 years old, with a
      response rate - 80%, examined in 2012-2014. The following regions were included: Volgograd,
      Voronezh, Vologda, Ivanovo, Kemerovo, Orenburg, Samara, Tomsk, Tyumen regions, St.
      Petersburg, Krasnoyarsk, Primorsky Territory and the Republic of North Ossetia-Alania. All of
      the subjects were examined using a standard questionnaire consisting of 12 modules and
      containing information on age and gender composition, educational status, professional
      affiliation, level of well-being of survey participants, the presence of behavioral risk
      factors: smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, low physical activity, poor nutrition, as
      well as anxiety and depressive disorders. In addition, the questionnaire included anamnestic
      data on chronic diseases and drug therapy. Quality of life was assessed using the EUROQOL
      international questionnaire - EQ-5D All subjects were measured blood pressure (BP) and heart
      rate twice according to the standard procedure. Anthropometric procedures included measuring
      weight (kg), height (m), waist circumference (cm), calculating body mass index (BMI; kg /
      m2). The lipid profile was determined for all patients, including levels of HDL and HDL
      cholesterol, triglycerides, as well as glucose, creatinine and uric acid. The levels of these
      parameters in blood serum were determined by Abbot Architect c8000 biochemical analyzer
      (USA). The Additional Screening program, included sphygmomanometry, duplex scanning of
      carotid arteries, and evaluation of the parameters characterizing the functioning of
      metabolic systems (apo B and apo AI, as well as LP (a), C-reactive protein (hsCRP), NT-proBNP
      - the N-terminal propeptide of cerebral natriuretic hormone B-type, dash Nootropic hormone
      (TSH), insulin, D-dimer) in addition to the main survey was conducted in the 5
      regions.Continued monitoring of mortality. Deaths were verified in residential registers and
      from telephone calls. The latest mortality update includes deaths through 2019.
    
  