
    
      Purpose:

      Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness of a behavior change communication (BCC)
      intervention in changing raw sap consumption behavior to prevent human consumption of NiV
      contaminated sap from unprotected trees in the districts of Rajbari (Phase one) and Natore
      (Phase two), in NiV-affected regions in Bangladesh.

      Methods: The research study will be conducted in two phases.

      Phase one:

      We will conduct a BCC program to test the effectiveness of a single message of "do not drink
      raw sap". We will conduct a baseline survey as pre-intervention assessment in two
      intervention upazillas in Rajbari District and two control upazillas in Kushtia District. The
      intervention will consist of community meetings in each of the intervention area villages as
      well as an awareness campaign through closed circuit television in selected village tea
      stalls. We will conduct endline survey to as a post intervention assessment in the same
      upazillas in Rajbari and Kushtia Districts.

      Main outcome measures/variables: Proportion of people who continue drinking raw date palm
      sap.

      Phase two If a substantial proportion of the population continues to consume raw date palm
      sap even after implementation of the "avoid drinking sap" intervention, and the Government of
      Bangladesh agrees, we will conduct a BCC program to test the effectiveness of a risk
      reduction approach, encouraging people to avoid drinking sap, but telling them that if they
      do, to reduce risk they should only drink sap that comes from trees protected by banas. In
      addition to community meetings to convey this message to the general public, we will meet
      with gachhis and tree owners to encourage them to use banas. We will conduct a baseline
      survey as pre-intervention assessment in both intervention and control areas in Natore and
      Gopalganj Districts respectively. The intervention will consist of meetings with gachhis,
      tree owners and the community in each of the intervention area villages as well as an
      awareness campaign through closed circuit television in village tea stalls. We will conduct
      endline survey to as a post intervention assessment in both intervention (Natore District)
      and control areas (Gopalganj District).

      Main outcome measures/variables: Proportion of people who stop drinking sap or who drink sap
      from skirt protected trees.
    
  