
    
      The contrast agent, ferumoxtran-10, is made of ultra small iron oxide particles (USPIO). Once
      they are injected through vein, they are taken up mostly by liver, spleen, bone marrow, and
      lymph nodes. It takes about 24 - 36 hours to reach peak uptake in the lymph nodes. The
      ability of current imaging techniques to detect the lymph nodes disease is known to be less
      than perfect. Current techniques only use anatomic information (size). Previous studies have
      shown that this new contrast agent may be able to detect normal and abnormal lymph nodes,
      using MRI procedure, called MRI lymphangiogram. This new contrast agent is being evaluated to
      determine whether it can be used to detect normal and abnormal lymph nodes.

      The study includes 2 parts. The first part will involve you receiving a MRI examination
      before the contrast is injected. The second part will involve you receiving a MRI examination
      about 24 hours after the injection. It will take about 20 minutes for each part.

      If you are already scheduled to have a routine pelvic MRI, the first part of this study will
      be added at the end of the routine MRI. You will then be asked to return next day to complete
      the second part of the MRI. If you are not already scheduled to receive a MRI as part of your
      standard of care, you will come in to the MRI suite at M. D. Anderson and complete both parts
      over about a 24-hour interval.

      You will be lying on the MRI examination table during the scanning. At the end of the first
      part of the study, the contrast will be infused slowly through vein over about 30 minutes in
      the recovery area. You will then be observed for 30 minutes to 2 hours, depending on your
      tolerance to the contrast agent. The images taken during the first part will be then be
      repeated 24-36 hours later. You will receive a follow-up telephone call from a member of the
      study staff on Day 3.

      Once the second part of the MRI is performed, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. This contrast agent is currently being evaluated by FDA and
      has not been approved yet. A total of 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  