
    
      Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) was defined recently by the European society of human
      reproduction and embryology (ESHRE) as the loss of two or more pregnancies that occur after
      spontaneous conception and assisted reproductive technology excluding ectopic, molar
      pregnancies and implantation failure (1,2). The exact prevalence of RPL is difficult to
      estimate but most studies including the American society for reproductive medicine (ASRM)
      repost that RPL affects 5% of women. In approximately half of the women with RPL the etiology
      will remain unexplained while in the remaining half the cause will be defined as one or more
      of the following, genetic factors, anatomic factors, endocrine factors, autoimmune and
      infectious (1,3-6). 15% of patients with RPL are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome
      which is considered as an autoimmune disease (7,8). The ESHRE and ASRM guidelines recommend
      treatment of prophylactic doses of unfractionated heparin and low-dose aspirin for RPL women
      with high titers of antiphospholipid antibodies. For RPL women with the remaining
      immunological conditions glucocorticosteroids, IvIg , TNF inhibitors, and G-CSF treatment are
      not evidence-based but can be given in research context (1,4,8). Glucocorticosteroids are
      drugs that reduce inflammation by blocking the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. They
      suppress the activity of T cells and decrease cytokines levels- IL6, IL1β, TNFα. This drug is
      a known treatment for inflammatory diseases including asthma, Crohn's disease, and rheumatoid
      arthritis (9,10). In a recent review in 2017 Bandoli et al (11) summarized that
      corticosteroids are often necessary to control the symptoms of various medical conditions in
      pregnancy, including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory
      bowel disease. Investigations into adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes following
      corticosteroid exposure have lacked adequate exploration into confounding by disease or
      disease severity. The evidence for cleft palate alone is not sufficient to summarize. The
      estimated risk of cleft lip with or without cleft palate from corticosteroid exposure has
      weakened over time, and no study published after 2003 has reported a statistically
      significant risk estimate. This review does not find sufficient evidence to support an
      increased risk of preterm birth, low birth weight, or preeclampsia following systemic
      corticosteroid use in pregnancy. There is insufficient evidence to determine whether systemic
      corticosteroids are linked to gestational diabetes mellitus.

      Recently, a few studies were conducted with different protocols to investigate the impact of
      steroid therapy on women with RPL. Eight studies had reported a positive effect of prednisone
      on live birth rate. Hasegawa et al (12) found a significantly effective live birth rate of
      76.5% compared to 8.3% (p<0.01) in 17 treated RPL patients with antiphospholipid antibody
      with Prednisolone (40 mg/day) as soon as pregnancy was diagnosed, for at least 4 weeks
      together with low dose Aspirin (81 mg/day) until delivery, and 12 untreated patients
      respectively. They also found decreased antiphospholipid antibody titer and lower IUGR rate
      in the study group (30.8% compared to 83.3%, p<0.05). Reznikoff et al (13) reported on the
      influence of steroid therapy combined with low dose Aspirin on the live birth rate in RPL
      autoantibody negative pregnant women. In his study he found a 90.7% live birth rate among 214
      women treated with Prednisone (20 mg/day) in the first trimester only and low dose Aspirin
      (100 mg/day) for 7 months, compared with 74.6% birth rate among 63 women receiving aspirin
      alone (p<0.001). Bansal et al (14) claimed in his review that a combination of Prednisone
      with low-dose aspirin can be efficient in preventing RPL, mainly in the first trimester of
      pregnancy, especially in women with non-APAS autoimmunity. Ogasawara et al (15) reported
      about a birth of a healthy baby to a woman who experienced 10 unexplained first trimester
      miscarriages after receiving intra-uterine Prednisolone (8 mg of 2 ml of solumedrol) 2-3 days
      before ovulation and aspirin (40 mg/day) from 4 until 36 weeks of gestation. Gomaa et al (16)
      reported an ongoing pregnancy beyond 20 weeks of gestation in 70.3 % of women in the
      prednisolone treatment group and only 9.2% in the placebo group. In three different studies,
      Quenby et al have shown a positive effect of steroid therapy on reducing the number of
      uterine NK cells (from 14% before treatment to 9% after, p=0.0004) by given Prednisone (20
      mg/day, from day 1 to 21 of the menstrual cycle) to 28 women with RPL and high number of
      uterine NK cells(17). She reported about a birth of a healthy baby to a woman that suffered
      from 19 consecutive miscarriages after receiving prednisolone (20 mg/day) for 6 months prior
      to conception until 5 weeks gestation(18). In a latest study, a 60% and 40% live birth rate
      was reported in a small treatment and placebo group respectively both with no pregnancy
      complications nor serious adverse fetal outcomes, although the results weren't statistically
      significant (19).

      Three studies have shown a probable positive effect of prednisone on birth life rate but have
      reported complications. Tempefar et al (20)reported 77% and 35% live birth rates in a 52 RPL
      women group who received a combination of Prednisone (20 mg/day), Progesterone (20 mg/day)
      for the first 12 weeks, Aspirin (100 mg/day) until 38 weeks of gestation and Folic-acid (5
      mg) every second day throughout the pregnancy, and in a 52 RPL women control group
      respectively. Complications including nausea, depression, and tachycardia were observed.
      Cushing's disease and IUGR were not observed, neither a difference of mean birth weight nor
      preterm birth rate. Kumar et al (21)suggested that steroid therapy restricted to the
      preconception and early pregnancy for women with non-APAS autoimmunity may improve the
      outcome of the pregnancy. However, Kumar noted that steroid therapy during pregnancy is
      associated with a higher risk for preterm labor secondary to rupture of membranes and to the
      development of preeclampsia and gestational diabetes. Wang et al (22) who used high doses
      Prednisone (40-50 mg/day), reported on the increased risk of preterm labor and recommended
      not to used high doses prednisone for RPL women.

      Two studies didn't show improvement of steroid therapy in the outcome of pregnancy. Laskin et
      al (23) published a study on 773 women with RPL and autoantibodies (antinuclear, anti-DNA,
      antilymphocyte, anticardiolipin and lupus anticoagulant antibodies). The women were divided
      into treatment group (received high dose Prednisone 0.5-0.8 mg/kg/day + Aspirin 100 mg/day)
      and to a placebo group. No significant difference in live birth was reported between the two
      groups. However, preterm labor (62% and 12%, p<0.01), hypertension (13%&5%, p=0.05) and
      gestational diabetes (15%&5%, p=0.02) were more common in the treatment group. Empson et al
      (24) reviewed the influence of prednisone and aspirin treatment for RPL women with
      antiphospholipid antibody or lupus anticoagulant. He reported higher rates of prematurity and
      gestational diabetes in the steroid treatment group without an improvement in pregnancy
      outcome.

      To summarise for many years there is a lack of large randomized controlled trials that study
      the effect of low dose prednisone in women with RPL and thus the evidence of a probable
      efficacy of prednisone in RPL women remains limited and unclear. As the ESHRE recommended in
      2018 (2) we aim to assess the effect of such treatment in a large trial that includes
      unexplained and abnormal autoimmune profile RPL patients. we also aim to assess the side
      effects of the treatment in RPL pregnant women.
    
  