
    
      The research will be conducted in the Department of Orthopedic surgery of the Clinical
      Hospital Center Zagreb. The research will be prospective, randomized, single blinded.
      Randomization of patients will be performed before physical therapy using web site
      www.randomization.com, and the results of the randomization will be known to the physician
      who will not be directly involved in the treatment or examination of patients.

      All patients will sign informed consent before the study begins. Research has been approved
      by the Ethics Committee of Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb and Ethics committee of the School
      of Medicine, University of Zagreb.

      Inclusion criteria are: patients age 55 years and older who have knee OA according to the
      American College of Rheumatology criteria (ACR) and knee OA according to Kellgren and
      Lawrence Radiology Classification Grade 1 and 2, and who report knee pain for at least 3
      months. Exclusion criteria are: patients who had surgery on that knee, patients with a
      pacemaker, and metallic foreign body in the area of muscle stimulation, patients with
      thrombophlebitis and deep vein thrombosis, patients with skin infection, malignancy, bleeding
      disorders, patients with neurological disease, patients with inflammatory rheumatological
      disease, with congenital and acquired knee deformities, with contractures of the hips and
      ankles, with grade 3 and 4 osteoarthritis according to Kellgren and Lawrence classification,
      patients who received intraarticular knee injection in the last 3 months and patients with
      post-traumatic knee osteoarthritis and osteonecrosis.

      The investigators will record: age, sex, height, weight, body mass index, leg length and use
      of orthopedics aids. Clinical examination will be performed on the first day, day 21, after
      90 and after 180 days.

      At each examination patients will complete following questionnaires: Visually Analog Scale
      for pain (VAS), Western Ontario Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), 36 Item Short Form
      Health Survey (SF 36) and International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health
      (ICF) osteoarthritis core set.

      Quadriceps muscle strength will be measured with a Biofeedback therapy device (EMG
      Biofeedback, Myomed 632, United Kingdom, 2017) .

      Patients will be randomisen in three groups. Patients in the first group will be treated with
      individual kinesitherapy. Patients in the second group will be treated with individual
      kinesitherapy and biofeedback therapy for strengthening of the quadriceps muscle using EMG
      Biofeedback device, Myomed 632, United Kingdom, 2017.

      Patients in the third group will be treated with individual kinesitherapy together with
      electrical stimulation of the quadriceps muscle using electrostimulation device (BTL- 4000
      Smart, United Kingdom, 2017).

      The required sample size was calculated based on pain values data reported in the study by
      Choi et al. Pain was measured using VAS scale, and sample size was calculated using G Power
      software package (v3.1.9.4). With the parameter of statistical significance level (alpha) of
      0.05 and a test power (1 - beta) of 0.90, based on the data from the Choi et al work, the
      required final sample size is a total of 93 subjects and 31 subjects for each of the three
      groups.

      The investigators expect to find that kinesitherapy and biofeedback therapy are more
      efficient compared to kinesitherapy alone or and kinesitherapy and electrical stimulation in
      reducing pain, improving knee function and strengthening of the quadriceps muscle.
    
  