
    
      Childhood obesity poses a critical public health concern and chronically remains as one of
      the strongest predictors of obesity as an adult. Scientific evidence has demonstrated that
      daily physical activity (PA) is imperative in preventing the onset of obesity. The outpour of
      academic and professional interest has increased the public awareness of the risks related to
      obesity (e.g., type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancers) as well as the importance
      of PA. However, studies show that the rising prevalence of childhood obesity has not faltered
      since 1999. Many existing PA interventions show short-term impact, but have failed to
      demonstrate longer-term efficacy in sustaining the changes in PA over time-a gap this project
      aims to address.

      One important, yet commonly overlooked, limitation of existing PA interventions is the
      negative impact of extrinsic rewards, such as points, grades, and badges, which are often
      used in health promotion interventions to incentivize children for engaging with the program.
      Children become motivated to excel in obtaining the extrinsic rewards rather than learning
      the intrinsic benefits of the intervention. Consequently, these types of interventions have
      limited effects that may disappear altogether when they stop receiving extrinsic rewards.
      Another critical limitation of existing PA interventions related to the use of extrinsic
      rewards is that the focus on "beating the system" by obtaining extrinsic rewards
      decontextualizes the intervention from the child's everyday life. This is an isolating
      experience for the child, taking him or her away from existing social support (e.g., parents)
      and left to his or her devices to engage in PA, based solely on the motivation from extrinsic
      rewards.

      Guided by the frameworks of social ecological theory and self-determination theory, we
      propose a paradigm-shifting intervention through an engaging, game-like platform that
      incorporates intrinsic reward systems by harnessing the power of technology to connect people
      and devices to promote PA in children. The Virtual Fitness Buddy (VFB) Ecosystem was designed
      to encourage children to embrace PA as a lifestyle change that can be sustained over time
      rather than a means to gain points. The Ecosystem meets this goal by leveraging one of the
      most influential existing social relationships in children's lives, the parent-child
      relationship. Using consumer-grade technological devices, such as mobile phones, the
      Ecosystem allows parents to stay involved in the intervention and support their children's PA
      efforts even when they cannot be with their children. In addition, a virtual pet, designed to
      mimic human-pet relationships in the physical world, will guide children to set and meet PA
      goals and offer tailored support.

      Using technology to amplify the power of existing social relationships, children will learn
      to embrace PA as a lifestyle change while supported by their parents and the virtual pet
      within the Ecosystem. Because the intervention is embedded in the context of children's
      everyday lives, our preliminary findings demonstrated the potential of the Ecosystem to
      elicit high levels of engagement and excitement from both children and parents over a 3-day
      intervention period. The next critical question is whether the Ecosystem can maintain
      children and parents' engagement over longer periods of time, yielding sustainable changes in
      health behavior and lifestyle choices that were initiated by the Ecosystem.

      In collaboration with YMCA, 480 children and 480 parents in 24 afterschool programs will be
      randomly assigned to treatment and control groups in a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
      Afterschool programs in the treatment group will receive the Ecosystem intervention for
      3-months; afterschool programs in the control group will not experience the Ecosystem (but
      will receive the standard of care). All children will complete baseline assessments, a
      3-month posttest, and a 6-month and 12-month follow up. Parents and children will provide
      self-report data on their perceived social support, motivation, and PA self-efficacy. PA will
      be assessed with activity monitors, which children will wear throughout the project.

      Our specific aims are:

      Aim 1. Test the hypothesis that at the 3-month, 6 month, and 12-month assessments, children
      assigned to the Ecosystem will evince higher levels of moderate-to-vigorous intensity PA than
      children in the control group.

      Auxiliary Aim 1. For the treatment group only, test the engagement of parents and children
      over the 3-month intervention through tracking the usage frequency and duration of their
      interactions through the Ecosystem.

      Aim 2. Test the parent and child mechanisms of change. Specifically, we hypothesize that
      children and parents in the treatment group will report higher levels of motivation, PA
      self-efficacy, and perceived social support at the 3-month, 6 month, and 12-month follow up
      compared to control children. Moderators of change, such as the child's age and gender will
      also be analyzed.

      The Virtual Fitness Buddy Ecosystem represents a new generation of technology-mediated health
      interventions for children, which integrates fun and engaging technology into existing social
      systems, to promote sustainable lifestyle changes through the intrinsic reward of social
      support. Because the Ecosystem is a cost- and labor-effective solution that integrates
      consumer-grade technology with low barriers for continued use, it has the potential for rapid
      diffusion and widespread public health impact.
    
  