
    
      A single-center, randomized, double-blind, longitudinal study will take place over 12 months.
      Twenty-eight systemically healthy patients (i.e. absence of uncontrolled diabetes mellitus,
      cancer, HIV, bone metabolic diseases, or disorders that compromise wound healing) enrolled in
      a supportive periodontal therapy program and patients at the University of Manitoba Graduate
      Periodontics Clinic, with at least one surgically treated site with a residual pocket probing
      depth of ≥ 5mm and bleeding upon probing and having signed the informed consent will be
      accepted into the study. PPD, CAL, BOP, and PI will be evaluated at these sites. A selected
      participant will have a full mouth periodontal charting completed prior to baseline
      measurements as part of their maintenance program.

      Once selected the patient will see two clinicians: the examiner (hygienist) and operator
      (resident).

      The examiner records the data (PPD, CAL, BOP, PI) of the entire dentition including the
      selected tooth or teeth, and provides preliminary hygiene treatment; the operator delivers
      the test treatments.

      The treatment assignments are concealed to the patient and the examiner. The operator is
      unaware of previously recorded data except for pocket depth measurements and is not involved
      in the post-treatment evaluations (3,6,12 months). At 12 months, a full mouth re-evaluation
      will be completed by the examiner as part of the patient's maintenance program.

      In the first visit, the examiner records the pocket probing depth, clinical attachment level,
      presence of bleeding on probing, and plaque index at six sites on involved teeth. Thorough
      scaling and root planing is performed under local anesthesia using periodontal curettes
      (Gracey, Hu-Friedy, USA) and an ultrasonic device (Piezo, Ultradent, USA). Once complete, the
      operator takes over. The patients are then randomly assigned to test or control groups by a
      computer-generated table. The protocol may be: A, the laser is activated during treatments
      with methylene blue; B, the laser is never activated during treatments with saline solution.

      Antimicrobial photodynamic therapy is carried out in the residual pockets using the Periowave
      system (Ondine Biomedical Inc, Vancouver, Canada). The photosensitizing agent is methylene
      blue. Approximately 0.2 mL of the solution is applied over 60 seconds to each pocket with a
      blunt-ended side-port irrigator. The site is illuminated for 60 seconds to activate the agent
      using a disposable, light-diffusing tip that is introduced into the pocket via a diode laser
      (wavelength = 675 nm, 160 mW of output power). The control treatment consists of the same
      procedure, except that the photosensitizer is replaced with saline solution and the
      light-diffusing tip is kept in the pocket for 60 seconds without activating the laser. The
      patient is sent home with a home care package and oral hygiene instructions.

      The second session is scheduled after 1 week. The operator applies the photosensitizer and
      activates the laser according to protocol A or B. The examiner maintains the patients on a
      3-month hygiene schedule and reassesses the participants 3, 6, and 12 months after the
      treatment as well as reinforces oral hygiene instruction. Medical history, concomitant
      medication, and all adverse events are recorded. Clinical parameters are measured the same
      way as at baseline. All measurements will be calibrated.
    
  