
    
      Lipoatrophy is a distressing long-term complication of ART and is associated with decreased
      quality of life, an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and nonadherence to ART. The
      cause of lipoatrophy in HIV-infected individuals receiving ART is not completely understood.
      However, past research suggests that mitochondrial toxicity in subcutaneous adipose tissue
      caused by thymidine analogue nucleoside analogues may be responsible for the development of
      lipoatrophy.

      Uridine is a nucleoside that has been shown to be an effective supplement in treating
      individuals with mitochondrial toxicity. NucleomaxX is a food supplement that consists of
      mitocnol, a sugar cane extract that has a high content of nucleosides, including uridine. The
      purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of uridine supplementation in the form of
      NucleomaxX on limb fat in HIV-infected individuals receiving stable ART containing stavudine
      (d4T) or zidovudine (ZDV). In addition, this study evaluated the safety and tolerability of
      NucleomaxX.

      This study lasted for 48 weeks. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      arms, stratified by d4T or ZDV use. Arm A participants received NucleomaxX for uridine, while
      Arm B participants received a placebo for NucleomaxX. Participants in both arms received
      their assigned intervention three times per day, every other day, for the duration of the
      study. There were 8 study visits over the 48-week study duration. Blood collection and a
      physical exam occurred at all study visits, and participants completed an adherence
      assessment at most visits. Participants underwent dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scans
      (DEXA) within 14 days prior to or following the screening visit and at other selected visits.
      Specific fasting tests for glucose and lipid levels occurred at selected visits. ART was not
      provided by this study.
    
  