
    
      1. Purpose

           Neonatal neuroprotection is a new indication for magnesium. Meta-analysis of the
           available literature suggests beneficial neonatal outcomes, but the direct effects on
           maternal health have not been studied. Unwanted effects of magnesium therapy such as
           sedation and respiratory insufficiency may be potentiated by neuraxial anesthesia
           placing the mother at risk of morbidity.

        2. Hypothesis or Aim

           Magnesium causes sedation and muscle weakness, which potentiates effects of neuraxial
           anesthesia, increases respiratory insufficiency, reduces cough effectiveness and
           increases pulmonary aspiration risk. We hypothesise that compared to the control group,
           the group receiving magnesium will have a reduced Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP) by
           ≥15 cmH2O, or a 10% higher incidence of a composite sedation score ≤ 3.

        3. Justification for the study

           There is strong evidence in the medical literature to support the current guidelines and
           practice to treat parturients presenting for pre-term delivery, less than 34 weeks with
           magnesium. The presumed benefits are a reduction in the incidence and functional motor
           deficit from cerebral palsy, and possibly reduction in infant mortality. Treatment with
           magnesium represents the current accepted practice and level of care.

           Approximately 50% of these pre-term patients will require neuraxial anesthesia to enable
           cesarean section, using either intrathecal or epidural techniques. There are potential
           cumulative side effects from neuraxial anesthesia and magnesium but no studies have been
           done to examine this.

           Safety of magnesium in parturients has been demonstrated. The effects of magnesium are
           known as it is an established therapy in the management of pre-eclampsia. The
           consequences of neuraxial anesthesia are also well documented. This is a prospective
           observational study investigating the combined effects of magnesium administration and
           neuraxial anesthesia. Of particular interest are effects that may place the parturient
           at increased risk of complications, which need active assessment and management by
           anesthesiologists e.g. risks of pulmonary aspiration as a result of sedation, vomiting
           or reduced cough effectiveness.

           In addition to the effects of magnesium and neuraxial anesthesia, ventilatory mechanics
           in the parturient are further compromised by:

             -  the effects of the gravid uterus, displacing the diaphragm and altering the
                subcostal angle.

             -  supine positioning on the operating table impeding ventilation because of the
                gravitational effect on abdominal contents.

             -  the practice of "skin-to-skin" in the operating room, sitting baby on the patient's
                chest and mechanically impeding respiratory effort.

           Although we are interested in potential complications due to the use of magnesium in
           conjunction with neuraxial anesthesia, there are potential advantages of magnesium for
           the mother, especially with epidurals, including a reduction in shivering and improved
           quality of analgesia.

        4. Research Method

      This is a prospective, observational study with a comparison control group.

      Our target population is women delivering by cesarean with neuraxial anesthesia at BC Women's
      Hospital. The study group includes those women <34 weeks who are receiving magnesium for
      neonatal neuroprotection, and the control group includes those >34 weeks who are not
      receiving magnesium for neonatal neuroprotection.

      We propose to study a convenience sample over a 5-month period. In the last 3 years at BC
      Women's Hospital there have been a mean of 243 deliveries per year at less than 34 weeks and
      128 of these are by cesarean section. Over a 5-month period with an average number of
      presentations it would be theoretically possible to recruit 50 patients.

      We realistically expect to recruit 20 patients to the study group. A larger pool of patients
      is available for the control group and we will aim to recruit the number as directed by the
      power calculation.

      Sample Size and statistical analysis:

      The sample size has been chosen for the primary outcome of MEP, to determine a minimum
      difference in means of 15 cmH20, with an alpha or 0.05 and power of 0.8. The two-sample
      t-test will be used to analyse normally distributed data (e.g. MEP, MIP, FVC). Chi-squared
      tests will be used to compare categorical variables between the groups (e.g. composite
      sedation score OAA/S ≤3 or >3). If there is a significant between group difference we plan to
      undertake regression analysis to identify independently contributing effects after taking
      into account demographic factors.

      It is hoped that the study will be beneficial in increasing understanding of potential
      effects of combining magnesium and neuraxial anesthesia in the obstetric population
      presenting for pre-term cesarean section. Highlighting any potential risks and improving
      patient safety in the future. This study will to a certain extent also be hypothesis
      generating in nature.
    
  