
    
      PTSD-SUD is particularly common following combat exposure, affecting a rapidly increasing
      number of U.S. military Veterans. The co-occurrence of these disorders presents added
      challenges to the VA treatment delivery system, presently in need of effective integrated
      treatments. Veterans with PTSD-SUD experience more severe symptomatology, increased risk of
      suicidality, poorer quality of life, and poorer response to existing treatments than Veterans
      with either disorder alone. Furthermore, PTSD-SUD prevents Veterans from reintegrating into
      society and is associated with occupational and social dysfunction. These findings underscore
      the need to effectively and efficiently address comorbidity and the complex array of problems
      with which Veterans present to treatment.

      One approach is to develop interventions that target mechanisms thought to underlie multiple
      highly prevalent disorders, such as guilt related to traumatic experiences. Combat Veterans
      often report experiencing moral injury defined as perpetrating, failing to prevent, or
      witnessing acts that violate the values they live by in their civilian lives. Veterans who
      negatively appraise their actions or inaction during combat may experience guilt, a common
      posttraumatic reaction. Moral injury suggests the inability to contextualize or justify
      actions and the unsuccessful accommodation of those morally challenging experiences into
      pre-existing moral schemas, resulting in guilt and shame. Posttraumatic guilt has been
      implicated as a risk factor for the development and maintenance of several forms of
      psychopathology including PTSD, SUD, depression, and suicidality. However, to date,
      treatments for posttraumatic psychological health issues have been primarily disorder
      specific, with a focus largely on symptom reduction. Therefore, greater understanding of
      modifiable factors that influence functional impairment and PTSD-SUD is needed to enhance
      treatment efforts.

      Mindful Self Compassion (MSC) combines the skills of mindfulness and self-compassion,
      providing self-soothing skills to respond to difficult thoughts and feelings (including
      guilt) via meditation. Self-compassion (SC) emphasizes kindness towards one's self, a feeling
      of connectedness with others, and mindful awareness of distressing experiences. Furthermore,
      because SC is negatively associated with self-criticism, rumination, thought suppression,
      anxiety, and depression, and positively associated with healthy psychological functioning, it
      is well suited to addressing posttraumatic psychopathology, shame, and guilt.

      This proposal will begin to address a gap in the field's knowledge about MSC, and its role in
      the treatment of co-occurring disorders in Veterans with moral injury. The investigators will
      evaluate changes in self-compassion, post-traumatic guilt, shame, PTSD and substance use
      symptom severity. In addition to symptom reduction, the investigators will focus on
      functional outcomes (e.g., quality of life, suicidality). Participants will complete
      assessments at baseline, post-treatment, and 1-month follow-up. This project will allow us to
      1) determine the feasibility of recruitment, 2) determine the acceptability of MSC, 3)
      provide preliminary evidence of the effects of MSC, and 4) refine study procedures and make
      adaptations to MSC based upon experience gained in the pilot in preparation for a fully
      powered RCT to test the effectiveness of MSC.
    
  