
    
      Pilot, prospective, randomized study to compare the effectiveness of two techniques against
      chronic hip pain :cooled radiofrequency on sensory innervation of the hip and intra-articular
      infiltration of local anesthetic and corticoid.

      Phase of the trial. Phase IV, efficacy evaluation with respect to standard treatment.

      Conditions to study. Percentage of subjects with VAS reduction greater than 50% compared to
      baseline at three months after application of the technique in the two treatment groups.

      Longer duration of the analgesic effect (defined as a reduction of the VAS greater than 50%
      basal) at six months from the application of the technique in patients with hip pain.

      Intervention. Application of radiofrequency cooled on nerve endings of the hip. The standard
      treatment Non-surgical consists of intra-articular injection of local anesthetic and
      corticoid.

      Main and secondary objective.

      Main goal:

        -  Percentage of subjects with improvement in the two groups defined as VAS reduction
           greater than 50% with respect to the baseline after three months from the application of
           the technique.

        -  Compare the persistence of the clinical effect in terms of pain reduction (quantified by
           a reduction of 50% in the VAS scale compared to the baseline) after six months after the
           application of the Radiofrequency cooled on sensitive nerve branches of the hip compared
           to intra-articular injection of local anesthetic and corticoid.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Compare the improvement of functional capacity of patients submitted to radiofrequency
           cooled compared to those treated by intra-articular injection of local anesthetic and
           corticosteroid measured by the WOMAC and Oxford Hip score scales.

        -  Compare the duration of the clinical improvement in terms of pain reduction quantified
           by the scale VAS (analog visual scale) per year after the application of both
           techniques.

        -  To compare the improvement of the quality of life of patients subjected to
           radiofrequency cooled with respect to those treated by intra-articular injection of
           local anesthetic and corticosteroid measured by the SF 36 scale.
    
  