
    
      Golimumab is a fully human protein (antibody) which binds to tumor necrosis factor-alpha
      (TNFa). TNFa is increased in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and plays a major role
      in causing the joint pain, swelling and damage from RA. Other marketed drugs that target TNFa
      (anti-TNFa drugs) have been shown to be effective in reducing the symptoms, signs and joint
      damage of RA, but have limitations with respect to safety and ease of use. This is a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the efficacy and safety of a new
      anti-TNFa drug, golimumab, at 2 doses, injected under the skin every 4 weeks in subjects with
      active RA previously treated with at least 1 dose of a biologic anti-TNFa agent (etanercept,
      adalimumab or infliximab). Concomitant therapy with methotrexate, sulfasalazine and/or
      hydroxychloroquine is permitted if the subject has tolerated these medications for at least
      12 weeks prior to the first administration of study drug and is on a stable dose for at least
      4 weeks prior to the first administration of study agent. The study hypothesis is that
      golimumab will be a safe and effective treatment for RA in subjects with active RA previously
      treated with at least one biologic anti-TNFa agent as measured by the American College of
      Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria, the Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS28) responses and the
      change from baseline in Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), without causing unacceptable
      significant adverse effects. The ACR response criteria were designed to assess the level of
      improvement in the signs and symptoms of RA. The DAS28 responses also measure improvement in
      the signs and symptoms of RA using the joint examination and laboratory testing. The HAQ is a
      series of questions that measure a subject's impairment in physical function caused by RA.
      Patients will receive golimumab 50 mg or 100 mg or placebo injections under the skin every 4
      weeks until Week 24. After Week 24, all subjects receive golimumab 50 mg or 100 mg
      injections, and golimumab continues for all groups every 4 weeks for about 4 and a half more
      years.
    
  