
    
      The goal of this study is to further investigate the role of CI in treating unilateral
      hearing loss and associated tinnitus. Single-sided deafness (SSD) afflicts approximately
      60,000 new patients per year in the United States. The most common causes of these
      single-sided losses are sudden sensorineural hearing loss, Meniere's disease, trauma, and
      vestibular schwannoma. Patients with SSD face significant difficulty with communicating in
      the presence of background noise and in sound localization. Another significant problem for
      some SSD patients is tinnitus, which can be incapacitating and for which there are no
      therapies available that are considered to be of sufficient reliability to become a standard
      of care. Difficulty hearing in background noise and increased tinnitus can lead to
      significant frustration in social situations and contribute to increased isolation and a
      decreased quality of life. Treatment options for single sided deafness in the United States
      include contralateral routing of signals (CROS) hearing aids, bone-anchored hearing aids
      (BAHA) and use of assistive devices to improve the signal-to-noise in group situations. The
      first two devices take sound from the affected ear and transmit it to the unaffected ear. The
      last device consists of having a speaker wear a microphone and routing the signal directly to
      the patient's ear at a louder listening level. Although these devices can improve speech
      understanding in some patients, studies have shown that use of these devices does not
      ameliorate tinnitus or sound localization difficulties. Recent European studies have
      demonstrated that cochlear implantation (CI) can provide significant improvements in both
      perceived hearing ability and measured speech comprehension and localization in adult and
      pediatric patients with unilateral hearing loss. This suggests that CI may be a more
      effective option for this patient population than the CROS, BAHA or assistive devices.
    
  