
    
      South Asians, people whose ancestors originate from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, or Sri
      Lanka, are the largest and fastest growing non-white ethnic group in Canada, and are at
      particularly high risk of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and premature cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      Gestational diabetes (GDM), a type of diabetes that occurs during pregnancy, affects 3% of
      pregnancies, but 12% of pregnancies in women of South Asian descent. Untreated, gestational
      diabetes can increase the risk of macrosomia, and maternal and offspring risks of obesity and
      type 2 diabetes. In our South Asian prospective birth cohort (START), we have shown that,
      compared to white Caucasian women, pregnant South Asian women: i) have an increased risk of
      elevated blood glucose and GDM; and ii) are more likely to give birth to infants of lower
      weight but greater adiposity. Lower birth weight and more adipose infants are more likely to
      become insulin-resistant during adolescence and develop T2DM as adults. Therefore,
      interventions that optimize glycemia in pregnancy may reduce the risk of GDM as well as lower
      the risk of T2DM and atherosclerosis in mothers and their offspring in adult life.

      Diet is an important modifiable risk factor for hyperglycemia and GDM, but there is
      uncertainty about the optimal method of delivering an intervention in a South Asian
      population. Barriers to healthy eating during pregnancy for South Asian women include: i)
      changing long-held cultural diet practices; ii) difficulty adapting standard dietary advice
      to personal health beliefs; iii) navigating food choices at family gatherings; and iv)
      accommodating meal needs of others in the household.

      The study will advance the understanding of effective and acceptable dietary modifications to
      reduce gestational dysglycemia (as measured by the area under the curve of glucose) in
      pregnant South Asian women, a high-risk segment of the Canadian population. The investigators
      will evaluate the feasibility of delivering a culturally-tailored, personalized nutrition
      intervention program to high-risk South Asian women in Peel region, Ontario. The intervention
      is guided by the team's previous research in South Asian communities and pregnant women and
      grounded in qualitative work with women and their health care providers. The objectives of
      this pilot trial among pregnant women of South Asian descent are to:

        1. Evaluate the feasibility of delivering a culturally-tailored nutrition intervention
           program to pregnant South Asian women, living in Peel region, Ontario.

        2. Evaluate the effectiveness of a culturally-tailored nutrition program to improve
           gestational dysglycemia (as measured by the incremental area-under-the-curve [AUC] of
           glucose, the primary clinical outcome) and reduce gestational diabetes (secondary,
           exploratory outcome)

        3. Evaluate the effectiveness of a culturally-tailored nutrition program on infant
           anthropometrics (e.g. birth weight and length, and skinfold thickness; secondary,
           exploratory outcomes)

      The results of the feasibility, acceptability, and clinical outcome assessments of our study
      will be used to plan a future, full-scale study to assess whether a culturally-tailored
      personalized nutrition program can reduce GDM in this population.
    
  