
    
      Over 65 million people in the United States currently provide informal (i.e. unpaid) care to
      an individual with a chronic illness or disability,1 including the nearly 6 million adults
      currently living with Alzheimer's disease (AD).2 Care partners of adults with AD and related
      dementias (AD/ADRD) often experience high caregiver burden, leading to emotional distress,
      depression, problematic alcohol use, health problems, isolation, and poor quality of life.3,4
      Interventions to reduce care partner stress may reverse the negative impact of caregiver
      burden.5 The Global Impact of Dementia 2013-2050 policy brief specifically called for better
      education and skills training for care partners. Therefore, there is a critical need to
      provide evidence-based support to care partners so they can best manage their own lives and
      their care recipients' chronic health conditions.6

      Problem-Solving Training (PST) is an evidence-based metacognitive strategy training approach
      that teaches a simple, systematic method for evaluating problems, generating and selecting
      solutions, developing specific goals and action plans, and evaluating and revising plans as
      needed.7-18 Individuals learn to set achievable goals under the coaching of a therapist and
      gain self-efficacy as they begin to see that the seemingly overwhelming problems are indeed
      solvable when approached in a stepwise, rational fashion. Few care partner interventions
      include problem-solving skills training to translate knowledge into meaningful action,
      leaving care partners struggling to effectively manage their own lives and their caregiving
      responsibilities. Additionally, as of 2018 Hispanic individuals make up roughly 39.6% of the
      population of Texas,19 but most care partner intervention studies exclude Spanish-speaking
      participants. Our team has translated and culturally adapted PST specifically for
      Spanish-speaking care partners,20 presenting the opportunity to close a critical health
      disparity among care partners in Texas. PST, in both English and Spanish, could be
      incorporated across clinical settings into existing education-based care partner
      interventions to fill the current gaps in clinical practice. PST for fcare partners may also
      improve care recipient outcomes as well.

      Our long-term goal is to improve the health, well-being, and participation of care partners
      and individuals with AD/ADRD. Our multidisciplinary team has expertise in AD/ADRD and in
      delivering and evaluating PST. The investigators represent a multi-site collaborative
      leveraging the broader TARCC network. Our expertise and strong clinical and research
      environments ensure the rigor, clinical relevance, and feasibility of our proposed research.
      The investigators will conduct a multi-site randomized controlled trial with a factorial
      design of PST for care partners of adults with AD/ADRD to address the following specific
      aims:

      Aim 1: Determine the optimal number of Problem Solving Training (PST) sessions and boosters
      to improve emotional symptoms and burden in English and Spanish speaking care partners of
      adults with AD/ADRD.

      Hypothesis: Six PST sessions vs three sessions will be optimal for improving emotional
      symptoms and burden of both English and Spanish speaking care partners 6 months after
      baseline.

      Hypothesis: Monthly brief booster sessions vs no boosters will be optimal for improving
      emotional symptoms and burden of both English and Spanish speaking care partners 6 months
      after baseline.

      The investigators will compare a) care partner emotional symptom (depression) change and b)
      caregiver burden change from baseline to 6-months post-baseline, to assessed long-term
      effects of PST and booster sessions several months beyond completion of the training. The
      investigators will also measure secondary care partner outcomes, including caregiver
      self-efficacy, positive aspects of caregiving, and alcohol use. Finally, the investigators
      will assess care partners' satisfaction, confidence using the PST strategy, and engagement
      across all conditions.

      Aim 2: Identify factors associated with response to treatment.

      Hypothesis: Response to treatment will be associated with age, gender, engagement in and
      uptake of PST, working alliance, and goal attainment. To test this hypothesis, the
      investigators will assess the extent to which each of these factors predicts response to PST
      (change in outcome) using multiple linear regression.

      Establishing specific guidelines for an evidence-based, implementable problem-solving
      intervention for both English and Spanish speaking care partners will result in direct
      clinical application to improve care partner health and well-being and to improve care
      recipient health and quality of life. The investigators will explore potential mechanisms of
      change for future prospective study. This proposal directly aligns with the mission of TARCC
      to take novel and innovative approaches to increase participation of diverse and underserved
      populations, promote collaboration across TARCC institutions, and contribute to advancement
      in therapeutic interventions to improve the lives of individuals with AD and related
      dementias.

      Design. The investigators will conduct a randomized control trial of PST for care partners of
      adults with AD/ADRD to assess the effects of number of sessions (3 vs 6) and brief telephone
      booster sessions (boosters vs no boosters) on depressive symptoms (Patient Health
      Questionnaire-9) and caregiver burden (Zarit Burden Interview). The investigators will
      recruit n=180 participants (n=45 per arm) across our two enrollment sites and conduct
      assessments at baseline, end of intervention, and 6-months post-baseline. Booster sessions
      will begin 1 month after completion of PST and will occur monthly thereafter up to 6-months
      post-baseline conditions.

      Randomization and Allocation. Randomization will be stratified by language and gender, then
      will occur in blocks of 16 (i.e. 4 participants allocated to each of the 4 conditions within
      each block). The investigators will uniformly sample (i.e. equal probability) random numbers
      from a set containing four 1's, four 2's, four 3's, and four 4's to generate the
      randomization table within each block.

      Data Analysis & Sample Size Determination: The investigators will conduct Bayesian
      mixed-effect ordered logistic regression models with subject-specific random effects to
      identify the optimal intervention group for our two primary outcomes at 6-months
      post-baseline (Aim 1). The investigators will apply the same statistical analysis approach to
      secondary outcome measures. The posterior probability that receiving 6-sessions decreases the
      odds ratio of higher PHQ-9 and ZBI scores and that receiving a booster decreases the odds
      ratio of higher PHQ-9 and ZBI scores will be reported in lieu of a p-value, which is
      inexistent in the Bayesian paradigm. In accordance with the approach used to power the
      current study, a significant result for any of the three treatments will be defined as a
      posterior probability greater than 98.33% in order to achieve an overall experiment-wise
      significance level of 5%. The investigators will apply the same statistical analysis approach
      to secondary care partner outcomes (caregiver self-efficacy, positive aspects of caregiving,
      coping, and alcohol use). To identify factors associated with PST response to intervention
      (Aim 2), the investigators will conduct the following exploratory analyses. Based on the
      PHQ-9 minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for individual change of 5 points,32 The
      investigators will categorize participants into one of three response to intervention groups:
      Response group (PHQ-9 score decrease by >5 points from baseline to 6-months), No Change group
      (PHQ-9 scores are within +5 points of baseline at 6-months), and Decliner group (PHQ-9 scores
      increase by >5 points at 6-months). The investigators will examine predictors of response to
      intervention group using multinomial logistic regression. The investigators will further
      explore predictors of change in primary and secondary outcomes from baseline to 6-months
      post-intervention using multiple linear regression.

      Based on 1,000 iterations of a simulation of our pilot data (PST to improve PHQ-9 in care
      partners in a different clinical population14), the sample size necessary to detect a 30%
      decrease in the odds ratio for those who received six sessions or a 30% decrease in the odds
      ratio for those who received booster sessions with at most 5% significance level and at least
      80% power was found to be 23 per arm (4 arms) per center (2) for a total of n=184 total
      (n=203 accounting for 10% attrition).
    
  