
    
      Due to complex anatomy with delayed recovery of proximal humerus fracture patients, there is
      high need of optimal treatment planning and care delivery process improvement to achieve
      better treatment outcomes. For current study, musculoskeletal service line at AKU will
      implement mobile health application specifically for proximal humerus trauma associated
      fracture patients which is simple to use. Internationally physiotherapy specialty related
      specific exercises are applied which is bit different from current study in the context of
      specialty and application. Mostly their focus is on rehabilitation of cases like scoliosis,
      dementia etc. This is the first time that orthopaedic specialty related, trauma associated,
      proximal humerus fracture specific modules will be developed with no advance IT based
      software application due to limited resources and to adhere to the patient data
      confidentiality. The application will be simple and user-friendly.

      For current pilot trial research question is whether mobile health app. improve proximal
      humerus fracture patient treatment outcomes compared to standard care? Adhering to patient
      data confidentiality, our aim is that mobile health technology might facilitate patient to
      easily access health related teaching information other than routine care to support patient
      in their self-health care management thus leading to proximal humerus fracture patient
      treatment outcome improvement.

      As proximal humerus fracture patient upper limb complete function restoration mainly depends
      on patient rehabilitation exercises, one time teaching in clinic by surgeons or
      physiotherapist is usually not sufficient for patients to learn their home rehabilitation
      exercises in routine practice. This leads to delayed patient recovery and dis-satisfaction to
      treatment provided by health care providers. Besides standard care, administering teaching
      video teaching modules with the help of mobile technology specifically for proximal humerus
      fracture patients might improve patient complete function restoration. Thus, mobile health
      strategy possibly will assist orthopaedic clinical team to reduce patient visit time, improve
      patient clinical and functional outcomes with increase in patient satisfaction and quick
      recovery.

      Hypothesis:

      Mobile health technology positively improves clinical and functional outcomes of proximal
      humerus fracture using validated outcome scoring scales.

      Objectives:

        1. Primary objective:

             1. To improve adult proximal humerus fracture patient's clinical and functional
                outcomes using validated outcome scoring scales resulting in timely recovery within
                four months post procedure with resumption of approximately 80% of patient upper
                limb function with the help of patient self-health care capacity using mobile
                health app.

             2. To compare patient clinical and functional outcomes by validated scoring scales
                between using mobile health app versus standard care.

        2. Secondary Objective: To increase patient and doctor satisfaction rate in perspective
           with treatment provision usefully by digital technology application and health
           information sharing in health care settings.

      Methods:

      Number of participants:

      The minimum sample size that investigator will require is 60 with 30 in intervention arm and
      30 in control arm.

      Study design: Patient-centered, open labelled, parallel (1:1), pilot randomized controlled
      trial. (Intervention group receive proximal humerus fracture care with mobile health shared
      rehabilitation teaching video instructions and control group will receive routine care for
      proximal humerus fracture as recommended by the treating surgeons).

      Study Duration: 24 months

      Study procedures: Study procedures will comply with all necessary ethical, Institutional and
      legal requirements.

        1. In first step of the study, written informed consent will be obtained from designated
           orthopaedic residents/surgeon prior to video production. Proximal humerus rehabilitation
           exercises video will be prepared by orthopaedic resident or surgeon under observation of
           participating surgeon's expertise in which step wise rehabilitation exercises will be
           demonstrated exclusively for patient's teaching.

        2. Patient eligibility criteria: Patients of 18 to 58 years of age with trauma associated
           proximal humerus fractures, presented at Orthopaedic inpatient and outpatient units, AKU
           who or their attendants are willing to follow the rehabilitation instructions via mobile
           application at home until completion of study follow up visits and agree to participate
           in very small survey questionnaire in the end of study will be selected. Patients who in
           special circumstances requiring special care and handling by expert health care
           providers, patient not willing to exercise at home without physiotherapist support or
           participate in survey questionnaire and patients who does not have facility of classic
           blue tooth connectivity for video download will be excluded.

        3. Written informed consent will be administered by designated person as per good clinical
           practice guideline and obtained from the study subjects within the time of initial
           hospital arrival to follow-up within 21days post procedure.

        4. Randomization: After obtaining written informed consent, on the same day, each eligible
           patient will be randomized into intervention or control group by randomly generated
           treatment allocation, sealed envelope technique will be used.

             1. Intervention group: Classic Blue tooth technology will be utilized for
                interoperable solution of teaching information sharing from doctor to patient. The
                end users will be enrolled trauma associated proximal humerus fracture patients
                whether treated surgically or conservatively. The video will be divided into 3
                modules depending on proximal fracture type. Each module will reflect the necessary
                steps of exercises routinely taught by treating surgeons at clinics during
                subsequent follow-up visits. The rehabilitation video module (as per fracture type)
                will be transferred immediately at first post-procedure patient follow-up. For
                assessing patient compliance, it is routine care practice by orthopaedic surgeons
                to clinically judge patients for exercise adherence.

             2. Control group: Routine care will be provided to control group and as per routine.

        5. Patient follow-ups and Data Collection: Patients will be followed at subsequent visits
           after treatment. The patient will be followed at 6±1 weeks, 3 months ±2 weeks and 6±1
           months. Data will be collected on Case report form by assigned person. Clinical and
           functional outcomes will be assessed by assigned person using Quick DASH and Oxford
           shoulder score.

        6. In order to reduce bias, researchers will be trained on data collection form prior to
           data collection. In case of lost to follow-up, patients will be contacted by telephone
           to gather necessary information.

        7. Patient satisfaction questionnaire: At last follow-up, a small questionnaire by research
           team will be administered by assigned person to intervention group only about impact of
           digital technology application on their health improvement and care outcomes.

        8. Doctor satisfaction questionnaire: A small questionnaire by research team will be
           administered to assess treating surgeon satisfaction rate for digital technology
           application impact on intervention group patients' care and outcomes.

        9. The research study does not seem to have any potential health hazard. Complying with all
           regulatory standards and as per International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical
           Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) Good Clinical
           Practice (GCP) guidelines, study subjects will be provided optimum care at earliest.

       10. As per Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and GCP definitions and recommendations for
           Serious/Adverse event (SAE/AE), any patient who experience SAE/AE, will receive good
           clinical care at earliest and all relevant reporting bodies will be notified. Designated
           research team member will be responsible to notify the SAE and AE timely to the
           Principal Investigator and prepare report with complete event details. Principal
           Investigator is responsible for sending reports to the reporting bodies (Ethical Review
           Committee, Sponsor etc.) as required, reviewing reports of adverse events (AEs) and
           serious adverse events (SAEs) that are submitted by designated research team member,
           identify safety concerns quickly and address in the report appropriately

       11. Study Close-out: Study close-out process will be of two-month duration. Study progress
           report and all study closing steps will be carried out during this time with manuscript
           writing and study report submission.

      Sampling Method: Non-probability, consecutive sampling

      Data management Data management, randomization and the statistical analysis will be carried
      out at the Department of Surgery. Data entry will be conducted electronically and analyzed on
      SPSS version 19.0. Fifteen percent of the data will be double checked/validated by the
      Principal Investigator. Subject data confidentiality will be maintained by assigning subject
      ID, data entry by assigned person only on password protected system and keeping hard copies
      in lock and key. After study completion, data will be archived and retained for maximum years
      as recommended by Institutional and regulatory requirements.

      Statistical Consideration:

      The Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 19.0 will be used to analyze data.
      Quantitative variables will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation and qualitative
      variables as frequencies (percentages). The efficacy in intervention group on the basis of
      successful clinical and functional outcome achievement and the safety in intervention group
      on the basis of reported AEs/SAEs will be assessed by intention to treat analysis (ITT). The
      p-values for Group comparisons of clinical and functional categorical outcomes will be
      generated by chi-square test or Fisher Exact value of less than 0.05 will be considered as
      statistically significant with a confidence interval of 95%.

      To patient and doctor satisfaction scores will be analyzed using regression analysis. For
      Assessment of outcomes at 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months Investigator will use repeated
      measure ANOVA and generalized estimating equation (GEE). Multiple regression will be used to
      assess the association between multiple covariates and numeric outcome.

      Device Safety:

      No specific harm has been demonstrated by limited use of classic blue tooth technology up to
      date. Still if any adverse event is encountered like headache due to video based learning,
      increasing pain and/or numbness at the affected anatomical site, worsening range of motion
      etc., will be reported at the same time to the Institutional and other regulatory authorities
      as required and recommended by the Sponsor using telephone and e-mail. SAEs will be reported
      within 24 hours of knowing the event via telephone and e-mail. The completed forms will be
      submitted in time as recommended by the Sponsor otherwise within 10 days of knowing the
      event.

      Withdrawals:

      If patients would like to withdraw from the study due to any reason, he/she may stop
      participating in the research at any time without losing any of his/her patient rights. On
      the other hand, if in view of Principal Investigator, the subject is non-compliant and
      non-cooperative, he/she has right to withdraw the subject from the research study.
    
  