
    
      TKT029 is an open label multi-center study to assess the safety of enzyme replacement therapy
      with Replagal (agalsidase alfa) in children with Fabry disease, who have completed 6 months
      of agalsidase alfa therapy in study TKT023 (Cohort 1) or who are treatment-naïve (Cohort 2)
      and meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria of this study. The study will consist of every
      other week treatment with Replagal for 52 weeks, with periodic reassessments by Shire HGT for
      continuation of the study beyond 52 weeks. A decision on the part of the study sponsor to
      terminate the study may be made at any time.

      In Cohort 1, safety and clinical measurement assessments performed during Week 25 or 26 of
      Study TKT023 served as the baseline assessments for TKT029. Patients in Cohort 1 began
      treatment with Replagal manufactured using a roller bottle process (Replagal RB); this
      portion of treatment is denoted as Cohort 1, Phase 1. Safety evaluation visits for Cohort 1,
      Phase 1 were to be performed at Weeks 13, 25, 55, and every 26 weeks thereafter until the
      patient discontinued from the study or transitioned to treatment with Replagal manufactured
      using a bioreactor process (Replagal AF). The transition to Replagal AF marked the restart of
      the study clock and was denoted as Cohort 1, Phase 2. Safety evaluation visits for Cohort 1,
      Phase 2 will be performed at Weeks 1, 13, 25, 55, and every 26 weeks thereafter until the
      patient discontinues from or the sponsor terminates the study.

      Patients in Cohort 2 will receive treatment with Replagal AF only; therefore there is only 1
      study phase for these patients. Screening assessments performed at Week -1 will serve as the
      baseline assessments for this study. Safety evaluation visits for Cohort 2 will be performed
      at Weeks 13, 25, 37, 55 and every 26 weeks thereafter until the patients discontinues from or
      the sponsor terminates the study.

      The final study visit for both cohorts will follow 30 days after the study study drug
      infusion, at which time a final safety evaluation will be performed. Patients who complete
      the study will be interviewed by telephone 30 days after their last study infusion for
      resolution of any outstanding adverse events (AEs) or concomitant medication changes. Any
      patient who withdraws early from the study will have a final study visit 30 days after the
      last study drug infusion, at which time a final safety evaluation will be performed.
    
  