
    
      A tracheostomy is an artificial airway inserted into the trachea (windpipe) through the front
      of the neck, usually required for prolonged artificial ventilation in the critically ill.
      Between 10-15% of the 250,000 patients admitted annually to UK Intensive Care Units (ICUs)
      require temporary tracheostomy, with an additional 5,000 tracheostomies performed during
      surgery. The tubes have a cuff/balloon which seals the trachea when inflated, allowing lung
      ventilation. The flow of gas into and out of the patient's lungs does not flow through the
      upper airways (nose and mouth), bypassing the larynx (voice box) and preventing speech. Our
      research found the biggest problem with tracheostomies from the patient's perspective is
      losing the ability to speak. If the muscles of the larynx and throat are not used, they
      quickly become weak, meaning that coughing, swallowing and talking can take longer to
      recover. These problems cause anger, frustration, fear and low mood and lead to significantly
      longer hospital stays, impacting ICU and hospital bed availability.

      Patients with a weak cough or swallow cannot clear secretions from the throat, which may
      enter the lungs (aspiration). The inflated cuff reduces aspiration and most ICU-specific
      tubes have an extra suction-port for secretion removal. However, additional gas can be
      directed via the suction-port, through the vocal cords and out via the upper airways,
      allowing vocalisation. The MHRA confirmed these tubes can be used for 'above cuff voicing'
      (ACV) in line with their CE marking.

      Our proposed research advances healthcare technologies by developing a new clinically
      validated prototype medical device with the potential to significantly increase patient
      benefit for a defined and expanding area of clinical need. Our collaborative project combines
      our clinical experience and understanding of the needs of tracheostomy patients and their
      families with the design and engineering excellence of our University and SME partners. Our
      team is supported by individual and institutional research expertise and together with our
      patient partners, we can deliver an advanced prototype device with a clear pathway towards
      adoption and commercialisation, attractive to follow-on funders and investors.
    
  