
    
      The American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists (AAGL) and Accreditation Council of
      Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) have endeavored to implement structure and standardization
      for the fellowship in minimally invasive gynecologic surgical programs (FMIGS) and obstetric
      and gynecology residency programs respectively. Educational objectives are explicitly
      delineated. Though the fellowship and residency educational objectives are well rounded, and
      include the development of skills to become leaders and educators in the field of minimally
      invasive gynecologic surgery (MIGS) and general obstetrics and gynecology, one of the main
      objective of the fellowship and residency training is the attainment of surgical skill. This
      is ensured by a requirement for a breadth of surgical exposure including vaginal surgery,
      hysteroscopy, traditional laparoscopy, management of surgical complications, minimally
      invasive hysterectomy, urogynecologic procedures, gastrointestinal surgery, urinary tract
      surgery, reproductive surgery, and the surgical management of common gynecologic conditions
      such as endometriosis. Minimum case requirements have been implemented to provide guidance
      for FMIGS and residency programs. In addition, trainees are required to log surgical cases
      and this information is utilized for FMIGS and residency program site inspections as well as
      for feedback of surgical competency. Despite standardization efforts by the AAGL and ACGME,
      the FMIGS and obstetric and gynecology residency curriculums are still in evolution. There is
      likely still great variation in surgical exposure between programs. In addition, though
      regular feedback is a requirement of training programs, the process is likely unstructured
      and subjective; based on case logs, self-assessments, and feedback by faculty surgeons. There
      is thus a critical need to develop a standardized, objective, timely, and actionable feedback
      methodology to facilitate program oversight and ensure FMIGS fellows and obstetrics and
      gynecology residents are achieving surgical competency throughout their training. In the
      absence of such structured feedback models, it will remain difficult to optimize FMIGS
      fellowship and obstetrics and gynecology resident training, and provide objective
      measurements of the impact of such training on surgical performance and patient outcomes. .

      The long-term goal of this study is to assist in developing methods for surgical assessment
      that facilitate program oversight, allow fellows, residents, and program directors to
      identify specific skill sets in need of improvement, monitor progress in skill acquisition,
      and clearly and objectively document achievement of milestones throughout training. The
      study's overall objective is to determine how consistent structured feedback using crowd
      sourcing impacts time to complete a task as well as surgical performance as measured by GOALS
      and GEARS scores. The central hypothesis is that fellows and residents who receive consistent
      structured feedback over a sustained period of time will have shorter task times, overall
      improved performance, and greater satisfaction than fellows and residents receiving
      traditional feedback. The rationale for this work is that it will provide focus and
      supportive data for large-scale studies of surgical skill acquisition and development.

      This study seeks to establish the effect of regular structured feedback on surgical
      performance using crowd sourced video assessments with GOALS and GEARS through a randomized
      controlled trial. The study hypothesizes regular structured assessment will lead to a greater
      measurable improvement in performance, as defined by change and GOALS and GEARS scores, than
      will traditional feedback methods as well as time to complete a specific procedure.
    
  