
    
      Antidepressants are thought to operate by changing the way patients process emotional
      information. After a single dose of citalopram or fluoxetine healthy volunteers have been
      found to display an increased recognition of happy facial expressions and a reduced
      recognition of sad faces, in the absence of changes in mood. Studies using depressed
      participants have produced similar results. However, there has been comparatively little
      research on changes in emotional processing biases about the self following antidepressant
      administration. Sense of self has been proposed as fundamental for mental health, with
      self-schemas acting as a focus through which valence and reward influenced perception, memory
      and decision-making. Antidepressants may increase learning of positive information about the
      self, potentially remediating negative self-schema and subsequently reducing depression
      symptoms.

      In this study, the investigators aim to examine whether acute administration of citalopram is
      associated with an increase in positive emotional learning biases about the self. Using a
      parallel-group double-blind design, participants will be randomised to receive either an
      acute dose of citalopram or placebo. Participants will then complete a number of widely used
      computer-based cognitive tasks measuring emotional processing biases. Identifying early
      changes in cognition and behaviour following antidepressant treatment will increase our
      knowledge of how antidepressants operate, and provide putative targets to identify early
      response to antidepressants.

      This study has also been registered on OSF:
      https://osf.io/nhjvs/?view_only=b39c49bddfd543b99b627dc992e49b45

      Starting from the 8th November 2019 an additional task (the Oxford Cognition Stress Task
      (OCST)) was included in the test battery. This task has been developed by the
      Psychopharmacology and Emotion Research Laboratory (PERL), Department of Psychiatry,
      University of Oxford. This is an acute psychosocial stress induction paradigm, comprised of
      computerised cognitive tasks with an induced failure component. An algorithm varies task
      timing/difficulty to be just beyond participants' ability, accompanied by aversive feedback.
      The OCST induces mild, transient increases in stress and arousal, as indexed by heart rate,
      skin conductance, salivary cortisol and self-reported subjective state measures. Data for
      this task will be collected, analysed and published by PERL and will not be included in any
      publications relating to the previous registration for this study. The OCST task has been
      included at the end of the test battery and is therefore not expected to influence data
      relating to any self-report measures or tasks outlined in the previous registration

      This section of the study has been registered separately on ClinicalTrials.gov (titled
      'Citalopram and Stress Reactivity') to reflect the separate research questions and study team
      involvement.
    
  