
    
      Methodology: After a written informed consent obtained, women who are fitting the inclusion
      criteria will be randomly allocated using sealed, coded, opaque and sequentially numbered
      envelopes containing computer generated random numbers into either the study group or the
      control group. For the study group the enrolled women will receive 50 microgram misoprostol
      vaginally within 60 minutes before CS. For the control group mothers enrolled will receive
      nothing.

      Observation and data collection: Cardiotocographic monitoring will be undertaken after
      maternal misoprostol administration to detect any evidence of uterine hyperstimulation and
      fetal distress.

      Ritodrine IV will be used as a tocolytic agent in case of uterine tachysystole. 100 mg of
      ritodrine will be added to 500 ml of 0.5% dextrose, the solution will be administered as
      following:

      5 drops / minute in the 1st 10 minutes. 10 drops / minute in the next 10 minutes then 15
      drops / minute . The clinician should adjust the infusion rate so that the pulse rate doesn't
      exceed 120b/min and lung bases are free of crepitations.

      The surgical and anesthetic teams will be in a state of complete readiness for the ECS from
      the time of maternal misoprostol administration after enrollment. Details on maternal
      fluid-electrolyte status during ECS will be recorded as maternal fluid overload is reported
      to be associated with respiratory distress in the newborn. (SinghiS,Chookang E;1984) blood
      loss during and 1 hour after the operation will be estimated.

      Maternal data: Patient name, hospital number, age, parity, gestational age, any medical
      disorder and indication of CS.

      Neonatal observations: delivery room care details will be noted, neonatal heart rate,
      respiratory rate, and signs of respiratory distress- for example, grunting, chest wall
      retractions, nasal flaring- will be recorded hourly in the postnatal ward for eight hours and
      once only at 24 hours of age after delivery. Management of a neonate with respiratory
      distress (defined as respiratory rate at rest.60/min and/or signs of respiratory distress)
      will be left to the neonatal team. Severity of illness, provisional and final diagnosis, and
      outcome (death/discharge home/transfer to other hospital) will be recorded if any neonate
      would be admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit for respiratory distress.
    
  