
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) through dietary change has considerable
      potential for a beneficial impact on public health. On a population basis, moderation of both
      lipid profiles and blood pressure can be accomplished readily with a prudent diet.
      Nevertheless, individual response to dietary impact on CVD risk factors varies widely,
      presumably as a result of genetic differences. In particular, Blacks who constitute a
      subpopulation with documented increased risk of morbidity and mortality from CVD would
      disproportionately benefit from interventions designed to maximize the impact of dietary
      change tailored to individual genetic makeup. Therefore, study of the influence of diet on
      CVD risk factors, along with enhanced understanding of the genetic components involved, would
      greatly potentiate chronic disease interventions.

      The study is conducted in response to a Request for Applications issued in October, 2001 on
      the Interaction of Genes and the Environment in Shaping Risk Factors for Heart, Lung, Blood,
      and Sleep Disorders.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Two-generational family lines will be identified in Blacks with elevated low density
      lipoprotein-C (LDLC) in probands. The population will be fed a controlled diet contrasting an
      established heart healthy regimen with a typical American one. Concomitant rigorous genetic,
      anthropometric, and behavioral evaluation will provide data with which to analyze individual
      differences in response to consistent dietary intake. In Specific Aim 1, Black,
      two-generational, families will be recruited and provided interventional diets designed to
      reduce (or not) LDL-C and blood pressure. In Specific Aim 2, non-genetic predictors of CVD
      risk factor response will be identified through extensive assessments of baseline behavioral
      characteristics, anthropometric features, and metabolic factors. In Specific Aim 3, the
      underlying genetic factors that predispose to response (or the lack of) to dietary
      interventions will be identified through the examination of polymorphisms in candidate genes
      and the identification of susceptibility loci by linkage analyses. In Specific Aim 4,
      interactions between diet, CVD risk factor response and genetic factors will be dissected
      through measures of potential mediating metabolic pathways.
    
  