
    
      Patients are being asked to take part in this clinical research study because they have BRAF-
      or NRAS-mutated metastatic melanoma. If they participate they will receive the
      investigational drug nivolumab in combination with dabrafenib and/or trametinib based on
      their medical diagnosis, BRAF V600 test results and/or NRAS-mutated status.

      The research study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the two drugs nivolumab and
      dabrafenib or nivolumab and trametinib. Once this is evaluated, then additional subjects will
      be enrolled for treatment with the triplicate (all 3 drugs) of nivolumab, dabrafenib and
      trametinib together.

      A treatment cycle will be 28 days, coinciding with the administration of nivolumab. The DLT
      evaluation period will be restricted to cycle 1, although toxicities in subsequent cycles
      will be closely evaluated. In trametinib-containing arms, a loading dose will be given on
      days 1 and 2 of cycle 1 to allow steady state concentrations to be achieved within one week
      of administration.

      In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse event(s), treatment may continue for 3
      years or until one of the following criteria applies:

        -  Disease progression

        -  Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s)

        -  Patient decides to withdraw from the study

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator

      Patients will be considered evaluable for toxicity if they receive 1 complete cycle of
      therapy, or if they experience dose limiting toxicities (DLTs). Definition of DLTs include:

        -  Any Grade 2 drug-related uveitis or eye pain or blurred vision that does not respond to
           topical therapy and does not improve to Grade 1 severity within the re-treatment period
           OR requires systemic treatment

        -  Any Grade 3 non-skin, drug-related adverse event lasting > 7 days, with the following
           exceptions for drug-related laboratory abnormalities, uveitis, pneumonitis,
           bronchospasm, diarrhea, colitis, neurologic adverse event, hypersensitivity reactions,
           and infusion reactions

        -  Grade 3 drug-related uveitis, pneumonitis, bronchospasm, diarrhea, colitis, neurologic
           adverse event, hypersensitivity reaction, or infusion reaction of any duration requires
           discontinuation

        -  Grade 3 drug-related laboratory abnormalities do not require treatment discontinuation
           except the following: Grade 3 drug-related thrombocytopenia > 7 days or associated with
           bleeding requires discontinuation; Any drug-related liver function test (LFT)
           abnormality that meets the following criteria require discontinuation - AST or ALT > 8 x
           ULN; Total bilirubin > 5 x ULN; Concurrent AST or ALT > 3 x ULN and total bilirubin > 2
           x ULN;

        -  Any Grade 4 drug-related adverse event or laboratory abnormality, except for the
           following events which do not require discontinuation:

             -  Isolated Grade 4 amylase or lipase abnormalities that are not associated with
                symptoms or clinical manifestations of pancreatitis and decrease to < Grade 4
                within 1 week of onset.

             -  Isolated Grade 4 electrolyte imbalances/abnormalities that are not associated with
                clinical sequelae and are corrected with supplementation/appropriate management
                within 72 hours of their onset

        -  Any dosing interruption lasting > 6 weeks with the following exceptions:

             -  Dosing interruptions to allow for prolonged steroid tapers to manage drug-related
                adverse events are allowed. Prior to re-initiating treatment in a subject with a
                dosing interruption lasting > 6 weeks, the Investigator must be consulted. Tumor
                assessments should continue as per protocol even if dosing is interrupted

             -  Dosing interruptions > 6 weeks that occur for non-drug-related reasons may be
                allowed if approved by the Investigator. Prior to re-initiating treatment in a
                subject with a dosing interruption lasting > 6 weeks, the Investigator must be
                consulted. Tumor assessments should continue as per protocol even if dosing is
                interrupted Any adverse event, laboratory abnormality, or intercurrent illness
                which, in the judgment of the Investigator, presents a substantial clinical risk to
                the subject with continued nivolumab dosing.

      Patients will be followed for 2 years after removal from study or until death, whichever
      occurs first, through standard of care visits or by medical records review. Patients removed
      from study for unacceptable adverse event(s) will be followed until resolution or
      stabilization of the adverse event.
    
  