
    
      The objective of this research program is to evaluate and compare children with a chronic
      gastrointestinal and/or respiratory condition and age and gender matched HC. The primary
      objectives include analysing the intestinal and respiratory microbiomes (using an integrated
      "omics" approach) and dietary intake using validated, food frequency quetsionnaires. The
      secondary objectives include evaluating:

        1. Known inflammatory biomarkers.

        2. Symptomatology and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) using validated measures.

        3. Phenotypic and clinical information.

        4. Sociodemographic factors Additional secondary objectives include correlating within
           children with the same condition: (i) dietary intake with the intestinal microbiome;
           (ii) dietary intake with the respiratory microbiome; and (iii) the intestinal and
           respiratory microbiomes.

      The investigators hypothesise that:

      (i) Children with chronic gastrointestinal and/or respiratory conditions will have altered
      intestinal and respiratory microbiomes compared to healthy children, and (ii) Diet plays a
      key role in influencing the intestinal and respiratory microbiomes and this may impact on
      clinical outcomes, biomarkers of disease, and health-related quality of life.

      To our knowledge, this program will enable the first series of studies comparing the
      intestinal and respiratory microbiomes and diet in children with chronic gastrointestinal
      and/or respiratory conditions. Initial results will be hypothesis-generating and used to
      direct future studies tailored to a specific focus or line of inquiry. Additionally, studies
      from this research program have potential for direct translation into clinical care as diet
      is a highly modifiable factor.

      Study design. The EARTH program provides a framework for a series of prospective,
      longitudinal, controlled, observational studies, with each individual study comparing
      children with a chronic gastrointestinal and/or respiratory condition to HC. A single healthy
      control group will be used for comparison against all conditions. The standardised
      methodological approach will also allow for comparisons between different health conditions.

      Procedures.

      Each participant will be assessed on three occasions over a 12-month period; at study entry,
      6- and 12-month follow-up. At each time-point, the following will be collected:

        -  A stool sample;

        -  An oropharyngeal swab or sputum sample (a sputum sample will be obtained in children
           able to expectorate and an oropharyngeal swab will be collected in children unable to
           expectorate);

        -  Dietary intake measured using the Australian Child and Adolescent Eating Survey (ACAES)
           (2 to 18 years) or 24-hour food recall (0 up to 2 years);

        -  A secure, password-protected online survey comprising:

           i. PedsQL Infant Scales (0-2yr) & Gastrointestinal Symptoms Module (2-18yr),41-43
           tailored to age; ii. Rome IV Questionnaire (0 to 18 years); iii. Spence Children's
           Anxiety Scale (3 to 18 years); iv. Short Mood and Feelings Questionnaires (6 to 18
           years); v. Clinical and biochemical results obtained through routine care and
           hospitalisations (if available); vi. Sociodemographic factors (baseline survey only);

        -  Anthropometrics: height, weight and BMI z-scores.
    
  