
    
      Up to 40% of HCC patients have normal AFP. Moreover, AFP can also be elevated in patients
      with cirrhosis or exacerbation of chronic hepatitis. Prospective studies evaluating the value
      of AFP in HCC surveillance have reported sensitivities of 39-64%, specificity of 76-91% and
      positive predictive values of 9 -32% 9-11.

      Recently, a small handful of biomarkers were identified in the blood of 49 HCC patients by
      SELDI / MS proteomic analysis of their blood with specificity and sensitivity both at 90% 12,
      13. These were truncated complement C3a, albumin, B2 microglobulin, and histidine-rich
      glycoprotein. In addition, insulin growth factor (IGF) and its binding protein have been
      shown to be novel biomarkers of HCC 14-17. A larger prospective study is necessary to
      validate these findings.

      Other investigators have also used Surface-enhanced laser desorption / ionization
      time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI) to study proteomics in HCC. Most of the studies
      included small numbers of patients and did not include independent test set or report on
      reproducibility most of the time. Thus, controversies continue on both the technology of
      SELDI and validation of the findings. Nevertheless, Ward et al reported that Kappa and Lumda
      immunoglobulin light chains were elevated by an average pf 50% in the serum of HCC patients
      (p < 0.001, sensitivity 94%, specificity 86%) with Hepatitis C related cirrhosis 18.
      Schwegler et al reported that SELDI-TOF MS profiling of serum can distinguish chronic
      Hepatitis C from HCV- related HCC with a sensitivity of 61% and a specificity of 76%.
      Sensitivity and specificity can be improved with the addition of AFP, des-gamma
      carboxyprothrombin, and GP73 19. Other reports also indicated potential marker of heat-shock
      protein 27 20 and complement C3a 21. However, all studies lack prospective and longitudinal
      follow-up with multiple serum samples from same patient. Our trial is designed to test the
      changes of proteomic overtime to identify the earliest possible biomarkers for HCC.
    
  