
    
      Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, and 80% of global mortality
      due to cardiovascular diseases occurs in low- and middle-income countries. In low income
      countries, lack of coordination between different levels of the health system threatens the
      ability to provide the care necessary to control hypertension and prevent cardiovascular
      disease related morbidity. Strong referral networks have improved health outcomes for chronic
      disease in a variety of settings. Health information technology and peer-based support are
      two strategies that have improved care coordination and clinical outcomes. However, their
      effectiveness in strengthening referral networks to improve blood pressure control and reduce
      cardiovascular disease risk in low-resource settings is unknown.

      The Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH) partners with the Kenya Ministry
      of Health to provide care for non-communicable chronic diseases (NCDs), including
      hypertension at all levels of the health system. The Kenya Ministry of Health Sector Referral
      Strategy 2014-2018 calls for improving the referral system at every level of the health
      system. AMPATH has piloted both health information technology and peer support for NCDs, and
      both strategies are feasible in this setting. However, the impact of integrating Health
      information technology and peer support to strengthen referral networks for hypertension
      control is unknown.

      The proposal's objective is to utilise the PRECEDE-PROCEED framework to conduct
      trans-disciplinary, translational implementation research focused on strengthening referral
      networks for hypertension control. The central hypothesis is "Health Information Technology
      integrated with peer support will be effective and cost-effective in strengthening referral
      networks, improving blood pressure control, and reducing cardiovascular risk among
      hypertensive patients in western Kenya." The investigators hypothesise that Health
      information technology(HIT) and peer support(PS) will synergistically address barriers to
      hypertension control at the patient, provider and health system levels. The investigators
      further hypothesise that changes in referral network characteristics may mediate the impact
      of the intervention on the primary outcome, and that baseline referral net-work
      characteristics may moderate the impact of the intervention. To test these hypotheses and
      achieve the overall objective, STRENGTHS has the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Conduct a baseline needs and contextual assessment for implementing and integrating
      HIT and PS to strengthen referral networks for hypertension control, using a mixed-methods
      approach, including: observational process mapping and gap assessment; baseline referral
      network analysis; and qualitative methods to identify facilitators, barriers, contextual
      factors, and readiness for change.

      Sub-Aim 1.1: Use data from the aim 1 to develop a contextually and culturally appropriate
      intervention to strengthen referral networks for hypertension control using a participatory,
      iterative design process. Conduct pilot acceptability and feasibility testing of the
      intervention.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the effectiveness of HIT and PS for hypertension control by conducting a
      two-arm cluster randomized trial comparing: 1) usual care vs. 2) referral networks
      strengthened with an integrated HIT-PS intervention. The primary outcome will be one-year
      change in systolic blood pressure and a key secondary outcome will be cardiovascular risk
      reduction.

      Sub-Aim 2.1: Conduct mediation analysis to evaluate the influence of changes in referral
      network characteristics on intervention outcomes, and a moderation analysis to evaluate the
      influence of baseline referral net-work characteristics on the effectiveness of the
      intervention.

      Sub-Aim 2.2: Conduct a process evaluation using the Saunders framework, evaluating key
      implementation measures related to fidelity, dose delivered, dose received, recruitment,
      reach, and context.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness of the intervention, in terms of costs per
      unit decrease in SBP, per percent change in CVD risk score, and per disability-adjusted life
      year (DALY) saved.

      This research project will add to the existing knowledge base on innovative and scalable
      strategies for strengthening referral networks to improve control of NCDs in lower-MICs. If
      proven to be effective, it has the potential to be a scalable model for other low-resource
      settings globally.
    
  