
    
      During the last decade public and private sector organisations, under the leadership of the
      Roll Back Malaria (RBM) Initiative, have recognised the need to work together to bring
      complementary expertise to the task of identifying and developing vector control tools
      appropriate to humanitarian crises. Insecticide Treated Polyethylene Sheeting (ITPS), is one
      such tool emerging from this process and is being produced commercially. ITPS is based on the
      standard polyethylene sheeting that is issued routinely as temporary shelter for people
      affected by emergencies. During manufacture the pyrethroid insecticide, deltamethrin, is
      extruded with the polyethylene into three-ply laminated sheets, comprising an inner
      low-density laminate and two, outer high-density laminates. The insecticide release
      characteristics enable the deltamethrin to diffuse slowly to the outer surfaces and to become
      available for pick-up by any insect that lands on the surface. Consequently ITPS has dual
      purpose: to provide shelter but with vector-control potential. Deployment and erection of
      ITPS is done in the same way as standard tarpaulin shelters.

      Until now evaluation of ITPS has been limited to small scale entomological testing in
      scientifically controlled environment 'entomological platforms' in Asian and 'experimental
      huts' in rural African settings (Refer to Citation Section). Before any novel control tool
      can go forward for recommendation by the WHO, or be used routinely in humanitarian crises,
      clear demonstration of impact on malaria morbidity in emergency refugee settings is
      essential. A Phase III field evaluation was therefore conducted to evaluate the impact of
      ITPS on malaria incidence in young children in an area of intense transmission. A unique
      feature of this trial was its setting - a true emergency - in two newly built refugee camps
      for Liberian refugees displaced to Sierra Leone. The findings offer insight into the
      effectiveness of ITPS when used in a scenario for which it was purposefully designed.
    
  