
    
      Investigators will start the participants' examination with colposcopic evaluation using
      current equipment as determined by standard of care. But, if cervical biopsies are indicated,
      before performing biopsies, for research purposes only - investigators will:

        -  Apply a substance called Proflavine 0.01% to participants' cervix

        -  Investigators will re-evaluate participants' cervix with the new equipment being
           tested:The High- Resolution Microendoscope

        -  After completing this re-evaluation, investigators will continue with the standard of
           care protocol and will perform participants' cervical biopsies if indicated.

      The entire re-evaluation with the new equipment should add less than 10 minutes to the
      standard examination.

      When a woman is found to have an abnormal PAP smear, depending on the findings and clinical
      history, most women will need to be further evaluated with a colposcope in order to
      understand the reason for the abnormal PAP and determine the best treatment. This is called
      colposcopic examination and it is the standard of care. This procedure is performed in the
      clinic, patient is positioned on the examining table the same way she is positioned for a
      Papanicolaou (Pap) smear, a speculum is placed inside the vaginal canal, and certain
      substances are applied to the cervix in order to identify cervical lesions. These substances
      might include acetic acid and/or Lugol's iodine solution. The application of these substances
      helps to delineate the abnormal cervical areas that might need to be biopsied. For the
      purpose of this research study, before obtaining the biopsies, a second evaluation will be
      performed using the equipment that is being studied (High- Resolution Microendoscope) and
      using a different substance that will be applied to the cervix. This substance is called
      Proflavine 0.01%. . This second evaluation should not take more than 10 minutes. After
      completing this second evaluation, participants' clinical examination and clinical visit
      should continue as routine.

      The anticipated total number of subjects involved in the study will be 150 women. All these
      anticipated participating women would be from The University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB),
      Su Clinica and UT Health Science Center (UT-HSC) Mobile Van. The length of time for
      participation is 1 year. However, during the participants' year of enrollment she might have
      only one examination, during one of her visits,using the research equipment.
    
  