
    
      To address the issues involved in treatment participation by substance-abusing parolees, the
      CJ-DATS Transitional Case Management (TCM) study proposes to test a parole re-entry model
      that consists of (1) completion by the inmate of a strengths and goals assessment as part of
      discharge planning, (2) a telephone case conference call that includes the inmate and
      significant members of the inmate's aftercare plan (including the parole officer), and (3)
      strengths case management (for 12 weeks) in the community to promote treatment participation
      and support the client's access to needed services.

      More specifically, the multi-site study will evaluate the effects of a strengths
      case-management intervention on community-based treatment/service admission, retention, and
      utilization among inmates released from supervised treatment programs. If the intervention is
      successful, its wider adoption would increase the likelihood that inmates enter and remain in
      community services.

      The specific aims of this multi-site study are to:

        1. Increase the likelihood that offenders leaving prison (or other supervised setting) with
           a referral to community aftercare program services enroll in treatment.

        2. Increase the amount of time that such offenders participate in community treatment.

        3. Assist clients to get the services that they need during the first 12 weeks of return to
           the community.

        4. As a result of the above, reduce relapse and reoffending during and following treatment.

        5. Achieve the above results at a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio.

        6. Encourage closer collaboration between the treatment and criminal justice systems.

      Study participants (200 at each site, 25% of will be women) will be recruited in prison (or
      other confined setting) from inmates who have a referral to community treatment. After
      informed consent and a baseline interview, they will be randomly assigned to one of two
      conditions: (1) the Transitional Case Management condition, and (2) the Standard Referral
      condition (i.e., usual transition/re-entry procedures used by the facility, including a
      referral to community treatment).

      Individual-level outcomes will include (1) treatment admission and participation (based on
      data collected from programs), (2) drug use, criminal activity, and psychosocial functioning
      (based on telephone interviews conducted 3 months after the end of the intervention) and (3)
      recidivism (based on records collected 12 months after the end of the intervention). The
      study will also assess the impact of the intervention on organizational and system factors
      (based on information from the case manager, treatment staff, and criminal justice staff) and
      the cost effectiveness of the intervention.
    
  