
    
      All consecutive patients with de-novo ARF requiring NIV treatment while they will be admitted
      to the Emergency Department at Gemelli's Hospital, Rome-Italy will be included into the
      present study.

      The present protocol will be approved by the local Ethics Committee and informed consent will
      be obtained by the all study participants or their next of kin.

      All the patients will be ventilated in the ED over a maximum of 48 hours, by using 2 types of
      different ventilators (Evita XL, Drager or Infinity C500, Drager).

      In all patients NIV will be delivered through either a facial mask with an inflatable soft
      cushion seal (Gibeck, Upplands, Sweden; Vitalsigns, Towota, NJ, USA) or to a clear,
      latex-free helmet (CaStar, Starmed, Mirandola, Italy), according to the clinical decision.

      Pressure support ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) will be used with
      all interfaces. Pressure support ventilation will be started at 10 cmH2O and increased with
      progressive stepwise increments of 2-3 cmH2O, to obtain an exhaled tidal volume of 6 mL/kg, a
      respiratory rate (RR) < 25 breaths/min, patient comfort and disappearance of both accessory
      muscle activity and/or paradoxical abdominal motion. PEEP will be increased with stepwise
      increments of 2-3 cmH2O up to 12 cmH2O to ensure peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) of ≥90%
      with the lowest possible FiO2. When the helmet will be used, part of the volume delivered to
      the system will be used to distend the helmet without reaching the patient. PEEP levels will
      be increased with stepwise increments of 2-3 cmH2O up to 15-18 cmH2O to ensure peripheral
      oxygen saturation (SpO2) of ≥90% with the lowest possible FiO2 during NIV delivered through
      the helmet. Ventilator settings will be then adjusted according to SpO2 and measurements of
      arterial blood gases. The flow trigger will be set at 3 L/s, checking out the absence of
      auto-triggering phenomena.

      All study group will be managed according to the standard of care with respect of medical
      management of ARF (i.e, antibiotic, antiviral, or antifungal agents; bronchodilators;
      diuretics; frequent respiratory treatments and chest physiotherapy), timing of medical
      interventions (i.e placement of central and arterial catheters and frequency of blood
      withdrawals, and cultures) and other aspects of emergency support (fluid administration,
      correction of electrolytes abnormalities, nutrition).

      All the patients will be kept with the head of the bed at 30-45 degrees.

      Criteria for intubation and NIV discontinuation Pre-determined criteria for immediate ETI
      will include the inability to maintain a PaO2 /FIO2 > 140 during NIV, the onset of seizures
      or coma (Glasgow coma score < 8), hemodynamic instability (systolic blood pressure < 80 mmHg
      despite adequate fluid resuscitation and/or electrocardiographic signs of ischemia or
      arrhythmias), intolerance of the interface, inability to manage copious secretions, inability
      to alleviate dyspnea, or the need for an emergency surgical procedure. After intubation, all
      patients will be ventilated with the same ventilation protocol, according to the
      low-tidal-volume protective ventilatory strategy.

      Criteria for NIV weaning NIV will be maintained over the next 48 hours until oxygenation and
      clinical status will improve. NIV will be progressively reduced in accordance with the degree
      of clinical improvement and discontinued if the patient will be able to maintain a
      respiratory rate < than 30 breaths/min and a PaO2 > 75 mmHg with a FiO2 of 0.5 without
      ventilatory support.

      Definitions and Measurements The Simplified Acute Physiologic Score (SAPS II) will be
      calculated on admission to the study.

      For all study group, the duration of mechanical ventilation and the ED stay, as well as the
      hospital outcome will be registered.

      During the first 12 hours from the enrollment into the study, the arterial blood gas levels
      will be determined at baseline, at 1 hour, at 4 and 12 hours. Following this period, the
      parameters will be measured at 12 hour intervals until the 96th hour from the patient
      admission and/or his discharge.

      Improvement in gas exchange will be defined as the ability to increase PaO2/FiO2 above 200 or
      an increase in this ratio of more than 100 from baseline.

      Early NIV success will be defined as the improvement in clinical status and gas exchange
      within 1 hour of treatment.

      NIV success will be defined as the improvement in clinical status and gas exchange within the
      first 48 hours of treatment.

      Sustained NIV success will be defined as the ability to maintain the defined improvement in
      clinical status and gas exchange over the next 48 hours after the end of the time needed to
      define NIV success.

      NIV failure will be defined as the need of ETI at any point of the study period and/or
      failure to reach an improvement in clinical status and gas exchange within 48 hours.

      Patients will be monitored for the development of infections or other complications. Sepsis,
      severe sepsis, and septic shock will be defined according to recent consensus guidelines.
      Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) will be defined according to the Berlin
      definition.

      Diaphragm thickness (DT) will be measured using a 7-10 MHz linear ultrasound probe set to B
      mode (Vividier, General Electrics). Both the right and left diaphragm will be imaged at the
      apposition point of the diaphragm and the rib cage on the midaxillary line, between the 8th
      and the 10th intercostal spaces. DT will be measured at either the end-expiration or the
      end-inspiration. The percent change in DT between end-expiration and end-inspiration (ΔDT%)
      will be calculated as [(DTend-inspiration-DTend-expiration/DTend-expiration)×100]. The ΔDT%
      for each patient will represent the mean of three to five breaths. During the first 12 hours
      from the enrollment into the study, the DTF measurements will be determined at baseline, at 1
      hour, at 4 and 12 hours. Following this period, the measurements will be performed at 12 hour
      intervals until the 96th hour from the patient admission and/or his discharge.

      Training the ultrasound operator to identify the diaphragm and measure its thickness will
      take from three to five sessions.

      Measurements will be performed by 2 different and appropriately trained operators who are
      routinely involved in the management of the patients.
    
  