
    
      Current studies show that Vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE) have become increasingly
      widespread throughout Germany in recent years, especially E. faecium (VREf). Healthy
      individuals can come into contact with VREf in various ways, for example via the food chain,
      contaminated drinking water or animal contacts. A possibly caused low-grade colonisation of
      the gastrointestinal tract with VREf (so-called low-level colonisation) can remain undetected
      during hospital admission using routine screening methods. The AEGON study, based on the use
      of state-of-the-art molecular diagnostics and comprehensive clinical data collection, will
      provide a detailed analysis of the factors involved in the rapid spread of VREf. In addition,
      diagnostic detection limits of common screening methods are determined by the use of
      additional diagnostics such as enrichment culture or molecular VREf detection.

      The study is a German multicenter, prospective observational study and consists of two parts,
      which are carried out at all participating study sites and include two different patient
      cohorts. Part 1 focuses on the collection and analysis of rectal swabs from newly admitted
      VRE-negative patients at high risk of nosocomial VREf acquisition. Moreover, patients
      included into this part of the study will undergo in-depth documentation of clinical data if
      an antibiotic therapy is administered. Initiated antibiotic therapies will then be assessed
      by an AMS board. In Part 2, environmental investigations will be performed in newly occupied
      single rooms of previously known VREf-positive patients. In addition, rectal swabs will be
      collected and data on antibiotic exposure of these patients will be documented in order to
      correlate the VRE contamination burden of surfaces with the intestinal VREf-load and
      antibiotic exposure. The AEGON study, based on the use of state-of-the-art molecular
      diagnostics and comprehensive clinical data collection, will provide a detailed analysis of
      the factors involved in the rapid spread of VREf. In addition, diagnostic detection limits of
      common screening methods are determined by the use of additional diagnostics such as
      enrichment culture or molecular VREf detection.
    
  