
    
      Decades of investigation demonstrate that hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a common complication
      of cirrhosis characterized by impaired cognition, develops as a consequence of intestinal
      microbial products reaching the brain. Recent investigation has found that cirrhotic
      patients, especially those who have developed HE, have intestinal dysbiosis compared to
      normal controls. Several plausible mechanisms explain how intestinal dysbiosis could lead to
      HE. There is limited prior literature on the efficacy of FMT in cirrhosis. The largest
      documented study of 10 cirrhotic patients receiving a single FMT enema found no significant
      change in microbiome diversity as assessed by 16S rRNA sequencing. The investigators
      hypothesize that aggressive manipulation of the microbial composition with fecal microbiota
      transplant (FMT) will improve neurological function in patients with a history of cirrhosis
      and HE. The investigators additionally hypothesize that five oral FMT capsule administrations
      from a previously efficacious stool donor will significantly change the intestinal microbiome
      composition of a cirrhotic patient. The study will consist of a 10-patient open-label pilot
      study to identify efficacious stool donors, defined as donors who precipitate the largest
      improvement in recipient neurological function and microbiome composition. The two most
      efficacious pilot study stool donors will be selected to donate stool for the randomized
      controlled trial (RCT). The 20-patient RCT will investigate the effect of FMT on neurological
      outcomes in patients with cirrhosis and a history of HE. Subjects will be randomized to
      receive 5 doses of oral FMT capsules or placebo capsules over 21 days. Cognitive testing and
      stool collections will occur at 4 time points, to assess for changes in neurological function
      and microbiome composition. The primary outcome is change in neurological function after FMT.
      The main secondary outcome is change in microbiome composition after FMT. This study could
      provide valuable information about the ability of FMT to improve intestinal dysbiosis in
      cirrhosis and treat HE.
    
  