
    
      Prostate brachytherapy is a popular treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer. In
      properly selected patients, it is highly effective with biochemical (PSA) disease free
      survival rates of 85-95% at 5-10 years. However, the technique is currently limited by the
      inability to localize the cancer within the prostate. The multifocal nature of prostate
      cancer is well established. Because of the inability to know where within the prostate the
      cancer is located, radiation must be delivered throughout the gland. Although this blind
      approach leads to good results, it is clear that there are regions of the prostate and
      surrounding tissue that are overexposed to radiation while others are underexposed relative
      to their true need based on their tumor burden and their proximity to the tumor areas.
      Multiple studies have shown significant correlation between MRI abnormalities and radical
      prostatectomy specimens for determining size and location of cancer foci. MRI images have
      already begun to be incorporated into diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for prostate
      cancer on an experimental basis by other investigators. The images have been fused with real
      time TRUS to successfully perform targeted biopsies. In this study, we propose to use MRI
      images in the pre-treatment planning process to identify the tumors within the prostate prior
      to the brachytherapy and use these images to direct the dosimetry planning. The primary goal
      of this study is to decrease the chronic toxicities as assessed by the Common Toxicity
      Criteria Version 4.0 by decreasing the integral dose to the regions of the prostate which do
      not have tumor. A secondary goal is to increase the dose to the tumor(s) and demonstrate this
      ability while maintaining the urethral and other normal tissue doses. We also wish to perform
      dosimetric comparisons of the normal tissues and the tumor(s) when this technique is used
      compared to what would have been done if the patient had received a traditional implant.
      Finally, we propose to perform a prostate MRI followed by a biopsy to evaluate for
      persistent/recurrent disease at 2 years after treatment.
    
  