
    
      Aim: To determine whether the addition of audio-visual presentations to standard physician
      interaction improves patient comprehension as it relates to the information provided during
      the informed consent process in patients undergoing hysterectomy.

      Design: This is a randomized controlled trial comparing standard physician interaction
      (control arm) to standard physician interaction plus audio-visual presentation (experimental
      arm) during the informed consent process for patients undergoing hysterectomy to determine
      the effectiveness of audio-visual presentations on patient comprehension. All subjects will
      undergo knowledge questionnaires at four separate time points - prior to their preoperative
      appointment, immediately after their preoperative appointment, day of surgery, and at the
      six-week follow-up visit. The control group will be consented in the standard fashion with
      face-to-face interaction with their surgeon. The intervention group will watch a 10-minute
      scripted video explaining the procedure, risks, benefits, expectations, and long term
      complications that relate to hysterectomies before face-to-face interaction with the surgeon.
      Patients in both arms will then sign the same standard pre-surgical informed consent form
      before undergoing the procedure. All interactions with the physicians (control and
      experimental) will be audiotaped to assess the number of patient questions, the time spent
      with each patient, and the quality of subject material discussed in the control group.
      Subjects will also receive satisfaction questionnaires after the preoperative visit.

      Setting: Research will take place in the gynecology clinic and surgical suites of San Antonio
      Military Medical Center.

      Subjects: Approximately 120 subjects will be recruited from the San Antonio Military Medical
      Center gynecology clinic (50 in each arm). Eligible subjects include all patients scheduled
      for hysterectomy with or without salpingo-oophorectomy for benign indications, civilian and
      military, female only, older than 18yo, English-speaking, with intact hearing and vision, and
      able to provide consent without representation.

      Measures: In this study, patient literacy will be determined using the REALM score (Rapid
      Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine). Patient knowledge questionnaires were created by the
      investigators of the study. Satisfaction will be measured by a validated questionnaire
      (CSQ-8). Primary objectives will be addressed through analysis of subjects' difference scores
      on comprehension assessments at each of four time points. Secondary objectives including
      patient satisfaction, time spent by physician in face-to-face interaction, questions asked by
      the patients, and quality of physician counseling (inclusion of key items in control arm)
      will also be analyzed between groups.
    
  