
    
      The aim of this randomized control trial is to examine effectiveness of individually tailored
      web- and mobile-based Acceptance- and Commitment Therapy interventions to promote
      adolescents' well-being and life-control and subsequently support their successful transition
      from basic education to upper secondary education. Our additional aim is to examine to what
      extent the effectiveness of the intervention varies according to intervention intensity and
      according to risk for school failure. The five-week structured intervention is delivered
      using the novel web-and mobile-based program Youth COMPASS following the principles of the
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT). The Internet context is assumed to be particularly
      motivating for youth who enjoy spending time online using different social media.
      Internet-based interventions have several advantages; they can include more information and
      treatment components than traditionally delivered treatments and that intervention programs
      are accessible at any time and at any place. Another unique aspect of the Youth COMPASS is
      the fact that it is individually-tailored. Each participant have an individually assigned
      online coach who provides support and encouragement, reminds about Youth COMPASS, sends
      individualized feedback, and recommends different exercises. The study hypothetizes that the
      Youth COMPASS is more effective than school counseling as usual. More specifically, the Youth
      COMPASS is expected to be more effective when it is combined with face-to-face support than
      when support and feedback are provided only via the Internet. Also, the Youth COMPASS with no
      face-to-face support (online only) is expected to be more effective than receiving only
      regular school counseling. Finally, the Youth COMPASS is expected to be more effective for
      students at risk for school failure than for students without risk for school failure,
      especially when at risk-adolescents receive more intensive support (i.e., both online and
      face-to-face support). The participants of the effectiveness study of the Youth COMPASS are
      selected from the participants of the broader longitudinal STAIRWAY (TIKAPUU in Finnish) -
      From Primary School to Secondary School study, which follows a community sample of Finnish
      adolescents (n~850) across critical educational transitions. The overall aim of the STAIRWAY
      project is to broaden our understanding of the individual- and environment-related factors
      that promote learning, well-being and successful educational transitions.
    
  