
    
      Detailed Description: Sleep-related respiratory disorders are a common disease in the general
      population. Untreated sleep apnea is associated with an increased risk of accidents, an
      increased risk of perioperative complications and various cardiovascular diseases such as
      arterial hypertension, coronary heart disease or stroke. Sleep apnea is often undetected. As
      part of the diagnosis of sleep apnea, screening is usually carried out to assess the
      probability of pre-testing before a sleep medical examination by means of anamnesis,
      examination and recording of risk factors and comorbidities. Questionnaires play a decisive
      role here. The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) or the STOP BANG questionnaires are often used
      for this purpose. ESS asks about the probability of falling asleep in different situations.
      With STOP BANG, the points daytime tiredness, snoring, breathing stops and various risk
      factors such as age, sex, neck circumference, high blood pressure and overweight are asked.
      The quality of the questionnaire used to assess the risk of sleep apnea is of crucial
      importance, as it is usually the basis for the decision whether or not to perform further
      sleep medical diagnostics. To date, there is no established, easy-to-use method for measuring
      daytime sleepiness during the day. However, it can be assumed that the degree of daytime
      sleepiness can predict the presence of sleep apnea. In a proof-of-concept study, the
      psychometric determination of daytime sleepiness in a time series on one day in patients with
      mainly sleep apnea will be measured.

      The following questions should be answered:

        1. Does daytime sleepiness in patients with sleep apnea measured by a scale-based,
           psychometric time-series test show one or more characteristic patterns over the day?

        2. Is there a relation between the degree of the scale based psychometric time series test
           for daytime sleepiness and the severity of sleep apnea?

        3. Is the test quality of the scale based psychometric time series test for predicting
           sleep apnea better than the established Epworth Sleepiness Scale or STOP BANG
           questionnaires.

      The quantification of daytime sleepiness can potentially be of crucial importance both for
      diagnostic procedures and for the assessment of the use of therapeutic measures.
    
  