
    
      The investigators previously showed that brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and
      N-terminal-pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP), measures of ventricular stretch, are associated with death
      and cardiovascular (CV) outcomes in chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 1-3 patients, and the
      investigators' preliminary pilot results suggest that these natriuretic peptides may
      correlate with objective measures of excess extracellular volume (ECV) and with symptoms
      common in CKD. The overarching objective is to determine if initiation of diuretic treatment
      or increase in dose is associated with changes in BNP and NT-pro-BNP, patient-reported
      symptom burden, and short-term hemodynamic parameters in patients with CKD stages 1-3 and
      elevated blood pressure, and whether these changes correlate with changes in ECV. The central
      hypothesis is that the change in ECV after starting or increasing diuretics in Veterans with
      stages 1-3 CKD is associated with changes in 1) natriuretic peptides, 2) patient-level
      factors, and 3) CV physiology.

      The investigators will compare the changes in natriuretic peptides, symptoms, and CV
      parameters with the change in ECV after diuretic initiation or dose increase. The primary aim
      is to determine if initiation of diuretic treatment or increase in diuretic dose is
      associated with changes in natriuretic peptides. Secondary aims are to determine the effect
      of diuretic change on patient-reported symptom burden, and CV physiology.

      This clinical trial will include 46 outpatients with CKD stages 1-3 and blood pressure
      >140/90 mmHg. At the first visit, I will initiate or increase the dose of a thiazide or loop
      diuretic. Study measures other than echocardiogram will be repeated 4 weeks after the
      intervention to determine changes in these parameters. ECV will be measured by whole-body
      multifrequency bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS), which is a validated, non-invasive, painless
      measure of ECV. Plasma BNP and NT-pro-BNP will be measured, and patient-reported fatigue,
      depression, and quality of life will be quantified using validated questionnaires.
      Hemodynamic parameters include blood pressure, pulse pressure, total peripheral resistance
      index (TPRI), and cardiac index measured by Non-Invasive Cardiac Output Monitoring. A
      transthoracic echocardiogram will measure left ventricular mass index, valvular disease, and
      diastolic dysfunction.

      Variables will be compared within participants between baseline and Visit 2 using paired
      Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests or paired Student's t tests, depending on variable distributions.
      Correlations between change in ECV/total body weight and all continuous outcome measures will
      be analyzed using Spearman or Pearson correlations, applying appropriate transformations.
      Linear regression analysis will control for clinically relevant variables. The relationship
      between ECV/total body weight and natriuretic peptides from both visits will be evaluated
      using a mixed effects model to account for the change in these measures between baseline and
      Visit 2.

      This study is minimal risk to human subjects. Participants may benefit from improved control
      of their blood pressure. The knowledge to be gained may also benefit others in the future.
    
  