
    
      Background The scientific evidence indicates that upper limb motor recovery may be enhanced
      with the appropriate dose of afferent stimulation normally arising from functional
      activities. Even if the appropriate dose was known, people with severe paresis or paralysis
      would not be able to participate in functional training. For these people "mobilization and
      tactile stimulation" (MTS) therapy might enhance: upper limb recovery, and, changes in brain
      regions that can influence motor output.

      Questions In stroke patients with paralysis or severe paresis which dose of MTS therapy a)
      produces the least adverse events; b) has the most beneficial effect on voluntary muscle
      contraction and functional ability. This study will also address: c) whether the magnitude of
      sensory/motor cortex activation prior to MTS can predict response to MTS; and, d) whether
      changes in sensory and/or motor cortex activation correlate with improvement.

      Subjects (n=80) from two clinical centres with an anterior cerebral circulation stroke 8 to
      84 days before recruitment, paresis or severe paralysis and no clinically important pain
      affecting the upper arm or shoulder after stroke.

      Methods After baseline measures (Day 1) subjects will be randomised to a) no extra therapy;
      or one of three doses of MTS therapy for 14 consecutive working days, b) 30 minutes; c) 60
      minutes; or, d) 120 minutes. All subjects will receive the conventional therapy normally
      provided within each centre. On Day 16, outcome measures will be made. The experimental
      intervention, MTS therapy will be individualised for each subject from a standardised
      schedule of techniques within treatment categories including: passive movements, massage;
      specific sensory input; and, functional movement. The measurement battery will be: a)
      efficacy, Motricity Index Arm Section and the Action Research Arm Test; b) adverse events,
      presence of upper limb pain and decrease in Motricity Index score; and c) Functional MRI
      (London subjects), T1 weighted anatomical images and T2* weighted MRI transverse echo-planar
      images undertaking these studies with both sensory and motor paradigms where feasible.

      Analysis Analysis for efficacy and adverse events will be conducted using the Chi-squared
      test for trend or linear regression as appropriate. The results will be combined to determine
      the most appropriate dose of MTS. Imaging data will be processed using Statistical Parametric
      Mapping and then analysed statistically using a least mean squares fit of the model to the
      data to determine regions of significant activation for each session.
    
  