
    
      Background

      The clinical syndrome of coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory
      2 virus (SARS-CoV-2) first began in Wuhan China in December 2019 and subsequently spread
      globally at an exponential rate. The disease was officially classified by the World Health
      Organization as a pandemic on March 11, 2020. The first death from COVID-19 was reported in
      the United States on February 28, 2020.

      In general, pregnancy is a state of relative immunosuppression, and alterations in immunology
      and physiology during pregnancy increase the risks of significant respiratory complications
      and associated obstetrical complications from severe illness. To date, data to guide
      understanding of the impact of COVID-19 on pregnancy is relatively limited. With any viral
      illness in pregnancy, there is potential for maternal-fetal transmission. As of now, there
      have been very few reported cases of suspected vertical transmission. Moreover, there have
      been few cases of neonatal transmission, even in patients acutely ill with COVID-19 at the
      time of delivery. However, a recent case report highlighted a 19 week pregnancy loss in a
      COVID-19 positive patient where placenta pathology showed presence of COVID-19 by PCR,
      although fetal samples were negative.

      As the United States begins to expand testing from viral to antibody testing, opportunity
      exists to determine if maternal antibodies are present in neonates. If present, these
      antibodies may confer protection for neonates born to infected mothers. During the course of
      any infection, IgM antibodies are formed with subsequent development of IgG antibodies.
      Regardless of source, maternal IgM antibodies do not readily cross the placenta barrier,
      while maternal IgG antibodies easily cross the placenta during pregnancy. Fetuses are capable
      of initiating an IgM response to infection in utero. Cord blood serves as a non-invasive
      source of neonatal blood that can be easily obtained at delivery and allows assessment of the
      neonate.

      Hypothesis

      We hypothesize that cord blood collected from COVID-19 positive women will show presence of
      IgG antibodies against COVID-19 which may confer protection for the infant in the neonatal
      period.

      Objective

      To collect: 1. maternal blood samples for COVID-19 IgG antibodies on admission to labor and
      delivery; 2. cord blood samples for COVID-19 IgG antibodies at the time of delivery; 3.
      placenta pathology.

      Study Type:

      Prospective cohort study of pregnant COVID-19 positive patients at delivery admission or at
      any point during the pregnancy.

      Study Methods:

      Eligible patients will be invited to participate in the study during pregnancy or on
      admission to labor and delivery. Eligible patients will have had a positive COVID-19 PCR test
      at some time during pregnancy or on the delivery admission. Informed consent will be obtained
      by admitting physician from patients who agree to participate. A maternal blood sample will
      be obtained with routine admission labs by nursing staff. This sample will be sent for
      immunoassay for qualitative assessment for COVID-19 IgG antibodies. C-reactive protein will
      also be measured as this is an indicator of severe disease. At delivery, cord blood and
      placenta samples will be obtained as per routine collection methods by the delivery
      physician. Cord blood will be sent for the same analysis as the maternal blood sample. The
      placenta will be sent to pathology. Results will be obtained through the patient's medical
      record. Data will be collected into a Redcap database by research personnel. Neonatal data
      will be obtained from the neonate's medical record and entered into the Redcap database by
      research personnel. Any publications resulting from this study will use de-identified patient
      data.

      The benefit of this study will be contribution to the limited data that exists around
      COVID-19 infection and pregnancy.

      Data Analysis

      Statistical analysis for this study will include descriptive analysis and quantitative
      statistics of findings.
    
  