
    
      Study Groups If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be enrolled
      in a study group (Arm) based on the type of disease you have and/or when you joined this
      study. Up to 15 groups of up to 6 participants per group will be enrolled in Phase I of the
      study, and up to 20 participants will be enrolled in Phase II. All will take part at MD
      Anderson.

      If you are enrolled in Phase I Arms A, B, C, D or E, the dose and frequency of ONC201 alone
      or in combination with LDAC you receive will depend on when you join the study. The first
      group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of ONC201. If no intolerable side
      effects are seen, the next group of participants will receive a higher dose than the group
      before them. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of ONC201 is found. The dose
      you receive may be too low to have an effect on your disease, or so high that it causes bad
      side effects.

      If you are enrolled in Phase II, you will receive ONC201 alone or in combination with LDAC at
      the highest dose level that was tolerated by participants in the Phase I portion of the
      study.

      Study Drug Administration:

      In Arms A, B, C, and D, each study drug cycle is 21 days. If you are enrolled in Arm E or in
      the Phase 2 study, each cycle will be 28 days.

      You will take ONC201 capsules by mouth as directed by your doctor 2 hours before or after a
      meal. If you vomit after taking ONC201, you should not retake the dose. Your doctor will tell
      you how many capsules to take and how often to take them (either 1 or 2 times every week,
      depending on what group you are assigned to). You must not crush or chew the capsules or
      dissolve them in liquid.

      LDAC will be injected under the skin on Days 3-12 of each 4 week cycle. You or your caregiver
      will be taught how to inject the LDAC.

      You will be given a study drug diary to write down any missed doses. You will give your study
      drug diary to the study doctor at each clinic visit.

      Your dose may be increased or decreased if you have any side effects, if you respond to the
      study drug, or if the doctor thinks that the next higher dose level is safe.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including vital signs, weight, and discussion about any
           other medications you are taking.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have 1 EKG before your dose of study drug and then 3 more times over the next 2
           hours after the first dose.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for PK testing 5 times over the next 24 hours
           after the dose of study drug.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for PD testing before your dose of study drug.

      For Arm D, during Cycle 1 and Cycle 2, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for PK
      testing at pre-dose, and at 30 minutes (± 15 minutes), 2 hours (± 30 minutes), 4 hours (± 30
      minutes), and 6 hours (± 30 minutes) after you receive ONC201 on Day 1 and Day 2.

      For Arm E, during Cycle 1, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for PK testing at
      pre-dose, and 30 minutes (± 15 minutes), 2 hours (± 30 minutes), 4 hours (± 30 minutes), and
      6 hours (± 30 minutes) after you receive ONC201 on Days 1, 2, 3, 12, 22 and 23.

      On Days 2-4 of Cycle 1:

        -  On Day 2 only, you will have an EKG.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for PK and/or PD testing.

      On Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1:

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have an EKG, vital signs, and discussion about any other medications you are
           taking.

        -  On Day 8 only, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK and PD testing. On Day 22
           of Cycle 1 (Arm E only)

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and
           beyond

        -  You will have a physical exam, including vital signs and a discussion of any other
           medications you are taking.

        -  You will have an EKG before your dose of study drug.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK and PD testing.

        -  On Cycle 2 only, you will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy for PD testing.

      On Day 21 of Cycle 3, and then any time the doctor thinks it is needed after that, you will
      have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy for cytogenetic, biomarker, and PD testing. Biomarkers are
      found in the blood/tissue and may be related to your reaction to the study drug.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      About 1 month after your last dose of study drug:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including vital signs and a discussion of any other
           medications you are taking.

        -  You will have an EKG.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK and PD
           testing.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check
           for any genetic mutations.

      This is an investigational study. ONC201 is not FDA-approved or commercially available. It is
      currently being used for research purposes only. The study doctor can explain how the study
      drug is designed to work.

      Up to 120 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  