
    
      The long-term goal of this research is to improve patient-centered outcomes in patients with
      coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is the leading cause of death in the world. Exercise-based
      cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs decrease mortality and improve quality of life in
      patients with CHD. Published guidelines recommend exercise-based CR following hospitalization
      for myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, or percutaneous coronary
      revascularization, and referral to CR is one of nine performance measures established by the
      American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology for patients with CHD.

      Despite these compelling benefits, CR programs are vastly underutilized, with less than a
      third of eligible patients participating. The largest barrier to patient participation is
      that CR must be provided in a physician's office or hospital setting to qualify for
      reimbursement. For this reason, virtually all existing CR programs require that the patient
      travel to a CR center 3 times per week for 12 to 36 weeks. Unfortunately, many Americans live
      too far from a CR center to enroll, and even when nearby programs are available, many
      patients do not have the time, flexibility, transportation, social support, and/or financial
      resources to attend.

      One promising solution to the problem of CR under-utilization is greater implementation of
      home-based CR. Both home and center-based CR programs have equal benefits on cardiovascular
      risk factors and quality of life. However, similar efficacy does not necessarily translate
      into similar effectiveness. If patients are more likely to participate in home- vs.
      center-based therapy, then greater participation could lead to greater clinical
      effectiveness. We are therefore conducting a quasi-experimental, controlled trial at two VA
      medical centers to determine the comparative effectiveness of referral to home- vs.
      center-based CR in patients with CHD.

      Aim 1: Determine whether automatic referral to home- vs. center-based CR increases patient
      participation in CR after hospitalization for myocardial infarction or coronary
      revascularization.

      Aim 2: Among patients who choose to participate in CR, compare the effectiveness of home- vs.
      centerbased CR on six-minute walk distance, quality of life, and healthcare expenditures.

      Aim 3: Determine whether the effects of home vs. center-based CR differ by age, gender, race,
      ethnicity, employment, socioeconomic status, social support, comorbid conditions, or patient
      preference.

      Results from this study will (a) help policy makers determine the effect of covering home CR
      on healthcare expenditures in patients with CHD; (b) help providers understand the potential
      benefits and harms of home- vs. center-based CR; and (c) help patients answer questions like,
      "Given my personal circumstances and preferences, which of these options will improve the
      outcomes most important to me.
    
  