
    
      The purpose of this mechanistic pilot study is to determine whether existing NIRS equipment,
      used within its intended CE marked purpose measuring tissue oxygenation, can reliably
      determine blood flow in established kidney transplants.

      Objectives

        1. To compare NIRS to the current gold standard measure of kidney transplant perfusion,
           Doppler ultrasound, in established kidney transplants in children

        2. To determine the practicality of using NIRS to measure perfusion in children with
           established kidney transplants

      Outcomes Primary Outcome • Correlation of NIRs perfusion data with Doppler ultrasound
      perfusion parameters assessed using a validated scale.

      Secondary outcomes

      • Quality of NIRS data obtained (assessed by proportion of valid readings vs lost readings)

      Study Design For participating patients undergoing routine clinical outpatient renal
      transplant ultrasound examinations, NIRS data will be recorded on the same day. Ultrasound
      examinations will be undertaken by an experienced member of the radiology team following a
      standard protocol. NIRS data will be recorded by a member of the study team.

      The ultrasound operator will perform doppler ultrasound assessment of graft parenchymal
      perfusion, and mark on the skin positions of the transplant upper, inter and lower poles. The
      ultrasound assessment will include a measurement of the distance from skin to the
      corticomedullary junction of the upper, inter and lower poles of the kidney transplant. NIRS
      data will then be recorded for 2 minutes with two NIRS sensors placed over the transplant mid
      and lower poles as per markings from ultrasound.

      Data Collection NIRS data will be stored electronically on a password protected NHS computer
      and identified via an individual study number.

      Oximetry readings will be exported to a password protected NHS computer for analysis.
      Continuous sampling data will be transformed to area under the curve (AUC) for time periods
      of 15 seconds, 30 seconds, 1 minute, 5 minutes and 10 minutes.

      Ultrasound Doppler perfusion data will be recorded on data collection sheets labelled with
      the participant's study number. Data recorded will include

        1. Resistive index

        2. Global assessment of graft perfusion as per validated scale outlined below

        3. Doppler waveform characteristics

        4. Transplant parenchymal abnormalities

      Renal allograft Doppler perfusion scale:

      Score Doppler ultrasound assessment 0 Unidentifiable vessels

        1. Few vessels in the vicinity of the hilum

        2. Hilar and interlobar vessels in most of the renal parenchyma

        3. Renal vessels identifiable until the arcuate arteries in the entire field of view

      Data Protection Data will be collected and retained in accordance with the Data Protection
      Act 1998.

      For identification purposes, patients' study numbers, name and hospital numbers will be
      stored on a single password protected NHS computer in a password protected database.

      Storage of records Study documents (paper and electronic) will be retained in a secure
      location during and after the trial has finished. All source documents will be retained for a
      period of five years following the end of the study. Where trial related information is
      documented in the medical records - those records will be identified by a 'Do not destroy
      before dd/mm/yyyy' label where date is five years after the last patient last visit.

      Statistical analysis

      NIRS perfusion data at the time of each Doppler ultrasound will be interrogated. Continuous
      sampling data will be transformed to area under the curve (AUC) for time periods of 15
      seconds, 30 seconds, 1 minute, 5 minutes and 10 minutes.

      NIRS AUC data will be compared to Doppler ultrasound perfusion data using Spearman's
      correlation. Accounting for the repeated measurements within patients, mixed effects logistic
      regression analysis will be conducted and reciever operating characteristic curves will be
      determined for each NIRS AUC interval (i.e. 15 sec, 30 sec, 1,5 and 10 min), using the
      dichotomous Doppler ultrasound outcome as the gold standard. NIRs AUC data for perfused and
      non-perfused allograft poles will be compared using mixed effects regression analysis.
      Distributional assumptions will be investigated and where appropriate suitable
      transformations will be used.
    
  