
    
      In the past decades, the incidence of breast cancer in humans has continued to rise, posing a
      huge threat to the lives and health of patients worldwide. According to statistics released
      by the American Cancer Society: In 2019, there were more than 271,000 new cases of breast
      cancer and about 42260 deaths in the United States. As a highly heterogeneous disease, breast
      cancer can be based on estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and human epidermal
      growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) and antigen Ki-67 is divided into several subtypes. TNBC is
      one of the subtypes of breast cancer, which is characterized by the lack of protein
      expression of ER, PR and HER-2. Clinically, TNBC is a very aggressive subtype of breast
      cancer, accounting for about 12% to 17% of all breast cancers. Due to its aggressiveness and
      lack of drug targets, compared with other subtypes of breast cancer, TNBC patients have a
      shorter overall survival (OS) and the median OS of metastatic TNBC is only 8-15 months.
      Chemotherapy is still the main systemic treatment for TNBC, but drug resistance develops
      rapidly and is poorly tolerated. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop new treatment
      strategies for these patients.

      The clinical and molecular heterogeneity of TNBC is now well understood. Gene expression
      analysis showed that immune markers, androgen receptors, mesenchymal phenotypes, stem cell
      markers and basic markers are all related to TNBC subtypes .With reference to previous
      studies, according to the results of transcriptomics research, and based on transcriptome
      data, China's "Fudan Classification" divides TNBC into 4 subtypes: (1) luminal androgen
      receptor (LAR), (2) Immunomodulatory (IM), (3) basal-like and immune-suppressed (BLIS) and
      (4) mesenchymal-like (MES). Possible therapeutic targets or biomarkers have been identified
      for each subtype.

      To date, neoadjuvant chemotherapy has played an important role in the treatment of locally
      advanced TNBC patients. Through neoadjuvant chemotherapy, tumor shrinkage and stage reduction
      can improve the surgical radical cure rate and breast conserving rate. Postoperative pCR rate
      is of great significance in predicting the prognosis of patients, and those who achieve pCR
      tend to have better prognosis. A meta-analysis of 52 studies showed that the availability of
      PCR for neoadjuvant therapy in TNBC patients was significantly associated with event-free
      survival (EFS), with a 5-year EFS of 90% in the PCR group and only 57% in tumor survivors
      (HR=0.18). The prognosis of non-PCR or drug-resistant patients is relatively poor, and in
      order to reduce the recurrence and metastasis rate and improve the prognosis, intensive
      chemotherapy is often needed. Currently, there is no standard treatment regimen for TNBC.
      Previous studies have shown that the pCR rate of traditional anthracyclines followed by
      sequenzine therapy for TNBC can reach 25%-40%, but there are still nearly 20% patients with
      recent recurrence. Therefore, the optimization of TNBC treatment regimen is still a hot spot
      and difficulty in current clinical studies.

      In recent years, platinum drugs have attracted more and more attention in the neoadjuvant
      therapy of TNBC due to their ability to significantly improve pCR rate. Carboplatin can kill
      cancer cells by destroying their DNA. Currently, it has become an important neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy drug in the treatment of TNBC. Studies have shown that adding the DNA damage
      agent carboplatin to the neoadjuvant regimen can improve the pCR rate of TNBC. In 2020, the
      latest studies showed that carboplatin combined with albumin paclitaxel showed good
      anti-tumor activity and a high PCR rate of 48%.

      In addition, antiangiogenic therapy has been considered as a potential therapeutic strategy
      for patients with TNBC. In 2008, bevacizumab was approved by the US Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for significantly increasing patients' PFS in combination with
      chemotherapy. Mesylate path is for our country to develop a new type of oral small molecule
      anti angiogenesis inhibitors, mainly through highly selective inhibition of vascular
      endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR - 2) the activity of tyrosine kinase, blocking
      vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor signal transduction pathways, thus
      potent inhibition of tumor angiogenesis, play a role of anti-tumor. In addition, preclinical
      studies have shown that anti-angiogenic therapy can improve the sensitivity of anti-PD-1
      /PD-L1 therapy by increasing PD-L1 expression and CD8+ T cell infiltration in the tumor
      microenvironment. Therefore, anti-angiogenic therapy may enhance the response to PD-1/PD-L1
      blockade and improve survival.

      Currently, blocking of programmed death protein 1(PD-1) and programmed death ligand 1(PD-L1)
      is an attractive treatment option for TNBC, since stromal infiltrating lymphocytes (TILS) and
      PD-L1 are associated with favorable outcomes for TNBC. Impassion130 showed that first-line
      treatment with albumin paclitaxel combined with atzumab (anti-PD-L1 antibody) increased PFS
      by 2.2 months in patients with PD-L1 positive advanced TNBC, and increased OS by 7 months
      compared with placebo plus albumin paclitaxel. Therefore, the combination of chemotherapy and
      immunotherapy was proved to be effective. Meanwhile, in 2020, Impassion031 and Keynote-522
      published the results of two classic studies: the pCR rate after immunotherapy combined with
      chemotherapy neoadjuvant therapy reached 58% and 64.8%, respectively, further confirming the
      high efficacy of immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy.

      TNBC as one of a kind of high heterogeneity of breast cancer subtypes, its aggressive is
      strong, postoperative recurrence occurred more transfer, lack of effective treatment of
      molecular therapeutic targets, endocrine therapy and its ehrs resistance - 2 treatment often
      invalid, therefore, compared with other subtypes of breast cancer, TNBC after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy to pCR has more significant prognostic value. Currently, there is no standard
      treatment for TNBC except traditional anthracycline and taxane chemotherapy regimens.
      Therefore, it is critical to optimize the neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens for TNBC to
      increase the pCR rate and improve the long-term prognosis of patients.

      So far, 6 clinical trials of apatinib combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy for TNBC have
      been registered in China. However, there are no relevant reports on immunotherapy and
      antiangiogenesis therapy combined with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant treatment of TNBC at
      home and abroad. Based on the results of previous classic studies and preclinical studies,
      the researchers initiated this clinical study to clarify the efficacy and safety of
      sintilimab and apatinib combined with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant treatment of TNBC, in
      order to provide treatment for TNBC patients Strategy.
    
  