
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of 2 different schedules of lapatinib ditosylate
           when administered with vinorelbine ditartrate in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of each of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Examine tissue and blood specimens from these patients to investigate potential
           predictors of response.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of lapatinib ditosylate and vinorelbine ditartrate in
           patients treated at the MTD.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I study comprising 2 separate, sequential dose-escalation studies of
      lapatinib ditosylate. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Group A (daily dosing): Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days
           1-28 and vinorelbine ditartrate IV on days 1, 8, and 15.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lapatinib ditosylate until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during course 1. At least 6
      patients are treated at the MTD. Once the MTD of lapatinib has been determined, patients may
      be accrued to group B or to a separate pharmacokinetics cohort in group A.

        -  Pharmacokinetics (PK) cohort*: Patients in the PK cohort receive vinorelbine ditartrate
           IV as in group A and oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily at the MTD on days 3-28
           (course 1 only) and on days 1-28 in all subsequent courses. Patients undergo PK sampling
           during course 1.

      NOTE: *Accrual to group B and to the PK cohort of group A may occur simultaneously.

        -  Group B (intermittent dosing): Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily at
           the MTD on days 2-5, 9-12, and 16-25 and vinorelbine ditartrate IV, on days 1, 8, and
           15.

      In both groups and in the PK cohort, treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have completed 6
      courses of combined therapy may receive additional courses with lapatinib ditosylate alone.

      Patients undergo blood collection and buccal brushings periodically for pharmacokinetic and
      biomarker correlative studies. Archival tumor tissue is also evaluated for biomarkers,
      including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and HER-2/neu expression levels, EGFR
      polymorphisms and gene mutations (including RAS), levels of cellular proliferation and
      apoptosis, and RAS mutations by immunohistochemistry, mutation analysis, TUNEL assay, and
      polymerase chain reaction.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  