
    
      Objectives: To meet a VA-wide need for early diagnosis of mild traumatic brain injuries (TBI)
      in returning soldiers, in April 2007 VA established policy and procedures for screening and
      evaluation of possible TBI in OEF and OIF veterans. Although the screening process has been
      in effect for over a year, the validity, reliability, false positive rates, and false
      negative rates of the TBI Clinical Reminder are unknown. The purpose of this research is to
      develop a gold standard and then assess the validity/reliability of the TBI Clinical Reminder
      screen. Specific short-term objectives for this study include:

        1. Operationalize a gold standard for TBI identification, using a national panel of
           experts.

        2. Identify patient characteristics and levels of Polytrauma care that predict a delay in
           or failure to complete the TBI Clinical Reminder screen

        3. Using the gold standard, evaluate the validity (sensitivity and specificity) and
           reliability of the current TBI Clinical Reminder Screen.

        4. Identify approaches to improve the TBI Clinical Reminder screening protocol, including
           screening instrument and process.

      Research Design: Methodologies for this study include both prospective and retrospective
      approaches. Experts will convene in Tampa to operationalize a gold standard for TBI
      identification (Objective 1). Retrospective, population-based cohort analyses of extant
      databases will provide insight into current practices and findings to address Objective 2.
      The gold standard developed in Objective1 will be implemented with a small time-limited
      prospective cohort so that psychometric analysis of the TBI screen can be conducted
      (Objective 3). Findings from these analyses will help identify potential improvement in the
      TBI Screening process to address Objective 4.

      Collaboration: This study is responsive to the RFP (#410127, TBI Screen, 8/7/2008). The Tampa
      HSR&D REAP is partnering with investigators at the Boston VAMC; Tampa investigators are
      taking the lead on the psychometric evaluation of the TBI screen, while Boston investigators
      will use the same cohort to evaluate the Second Level TBI Evaluation. Researchers from both
      sites are co-investigators on each of the proposals to enhance collaboration and linkage of
      findings.

      Anticipated Impact: Traumatic brain injury (TBI), and particularly mild TBI, is said to be
      the "signature injury" of the current conflicts. These injuries are currently a focus of
      post-deployment assessment and treatment within the VA and are likely to continue to be the
      focus of treatment for many years to come. To ensure that OEF/OIF veterans with TBI are
      identified and treated, the VA TBI Clinical Reminder was instituted in the form of a
      four-item screening tool for use in VA. While the VA-TBI screening reminder rolled out on
      April 2, 2007, the utility and psychometric properties of this screening are unknown. The
      proposed project will address these gaps by operationalizing a gold standard for TBI
      identification and then using that gold standard to evaluate the reliability and validity of
      the current TBI screen. By completing this project, we propose to identify specific
      improvements to the TBI protocol instrument and screening process.
    
  