
    
      The rise in the incidence of end stage renal disease (ESRD) is both a national and
      international concern. Renal transplantation is currently the best available treatment for
      established renal failure as it not only offers freedom from dialysis but improves survival,
      provides better quality of life and is more cost effective.1 Unfortunately there is a
      widening discrepancy between the incidence of ESRD and the number of available organs for
      transplantation. The number of organs available from these donors has never been sufficient
      for all of the patients on the transplant waiting lists. Over the past decade, donation after
      cardiac death (DCD) has gained popularity as a method to increase the number of organs
      available for transplantation. As expected, our attempts at maximizing usable organs for
      transplant with DCD kidneys comes at a price with a higher risk of delayed graft function
      (DGF) and graft loss compared to kidneys from standard criteria donors.2 Given that the DCD
      group is inherently plagued by longer warm ischemic times and labile cardiovascular
      physiology at the time of the donor operation, up to 30% of recipients of DCD kidneys lose
      their renal grafts within 5 years and up to 50% in 10 years.3,4 This results in up to 25% of
      those patients going back onto renal replacement therapies and then becoming relisted for
      transplantation. If current trends continue, the deficit in organ allocation is expected to
      rise over the next 20 years due to projected global incidences of obesity, diabetes and
      hypertension5, which will lead to an increased use of organs procured from increasingly
      marginal donors to keep up with the demand.

      Ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) is a complex biological process involving cell death,
      microcirculatory compromise, altered transcription, inflammation and immune activation.
      Modulation of IRI particularly in DCD organs (characterized by prolonged warm ischemia
      followed by periods of long hypothermic storage), could impact both short and long term
      patient and graft outcomes. Importantly, IRI affects all donor kidneys, but the effect
      appears to be greatest in the DCD cohort. Indeed, significant efforts have been applied in
      the experimental and pre-clinical setting to develop strategies to ameliorate the negative
      effects of IRI.

      However, there is currently no active pharmacological agent used during transplantation to
      reduce the impact of IRI. Efforts to curb IRI during transplantation have involved either
      pulsatile (machine perfusion) or static storage of donor kidneys in various preservation
      solutions at hypothermic (4ºC) conditions during the peri-transplant period. Hypothermia
      slows cellular metabolism and subsequent ATP depletion during the ischemic period, while
      organ preservation solutions contain a myriad of electrolytes and other solutes which help to
      maintain osmotic conditions, scavenge free radicals and stimulate cellular metabolism upon
      reperfusion. University of Wisconsin (UW) solution is the most commonly used preservation
      solutions that has been shown to be the most effective at decreasing the risk of DGF
      following renal transplantation.6 H2S has long been known for its unsavory "rotten eggs"
      smell and toxic effects at high concentrations. However, it has been later discovered that
      H2S is also produced endogenously in mammalian cells mainly via the metabolism of L-cysteine
      by two cytosolic enzymes, cystathionine ß-synthase (CBS) and cystathionine -lyase (CSE) and
      one mitochondrial enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3-MST).

      Various H2S donation strategies have been developed and tested in vitro and in vivo. The two
      most often used salts NaHS and Na2S, are among the simplest sources of H2S. They dissociate
      very rapidly at physiological pH to generate H2S. The resulting bolus of instantly generated
      H2S does not mimic the endogenous, constitutive enzymatic synthesis of small amounts of
      H2S.7-9 Another possibility is the use of sodium thiosulphate (Na2S2O3, STS), a major
      metabolite of H2S, commercially available compound and typically available as the
      pentahydrate, Na2S2O3·5H2O. It also has functions as a preservative in table salt (less than
      0.1 %) and alcoholic beverages (less than 0.0005 %). While these amounts are very small, they
      indicate that the general population is consuming STS (Sodium thiosulfate) on a regular basis
      and increasing the dose may have important therapeutic applications, especially in ESRD and
      chronic kidney disease patients.

      In clinical studies, STS has been used in the treatment of some rare medical conditions
      including calciphylaxis in hemodialysis patients with end-stage kidney disease10,11.
      Moreover, short term therapeutic use of STS has been proven safe12. STS is also proposed to
      be an antioxidant10 and HC-approved for use in cyanide poisoning13,14or cisplatin toxicity15.
      Furthermore, vasodilating properties of STS itself have been described16. However, the effect
      of STS on the protection of kidney injury and renal graft function post transplantation has
      not been described clearly. We hypothesize that supplementation of preservation solutions
      with STS will inhibit IRI injury, improve renal function and graft survival in kidney
      transplant recipients and that this effect will be heightened in recipients receiving kidneys
      obtained from DCD donors.
    
  