
    
      Cardionat is a structural analogue of gamma-butyrobetaine - a substance that is in every cell
      of the human body.

      Under extra strain conditions cardionat restores the balance between oxygen delivery to the
      cell and cellular oxygen demand. Cardionat clears the intracellular accumulation of toxic
      metabolic products, protecting them from damage; also it has a general tonic effect. As a
      result of its use of the body acquires the ability to withstand stress and to quickly restore
      energy reserves. Because of these properties cardionat used to treat a variety of disorders
      of the cardiovascular system, disorders of blood supply to the brain, as well as to improve
      physical and mental performance. Synthesis of gamma-butyrobetaine, which has vasodilating
      properties, is highly increased as a result of reducing the concentration of carnitine.

      In the case of acute ischemic myocardial injury cardionat slows the formation of necrotic
      areas, shortens the rehabilitation period.

      In heart failure it increases myocardial contractility, increases exercise tolerance, reduces
      the frequency of angina attacks. In acute and chronic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders it
      improves blood circulation in the ischemic areas; it promotes blood redistribution increasing
      supply of the ischemic areas. It is effective in the case of vascular and dystrophic
      pathology of the ocular fundus. The drug eliminates functional disturbances of the nervous
      system in patients with chronic alcoholism during abstinence syndrome.

      Pharmacokinetics After oral administration, the drug is rapidly absorbed. Bioavailability is
      78%. The maximum plasma concentration is reached 1-2 hours after oral ingestion. The drug is
      metabolized in the body with the formation of two major metabolites, which are excreted by
      the kidneys. The half-life after oral intake is dose-dependent, and is usually 3 to 6 hours.

      Indications for use:

      As a part of combination treatment of coronary heart disease (angina, myocardial infarction),
      congestive heart failure and dyshormonal cardiomyopathy, as well as part of combination
      treatment of acute and chronic cerebrovascular disorders (stroke and cerebrovascular
      insufficiency).

      Reduced working capacity; physical stress, including physical stress in athletes.

      Abstinence syndrome in chronic alcohol abusers (in combination with specific alcohol abuse
      therapy).

      In this study, volunteers will receive study medication in the form of oral capsules 250 mg.

      The study drug will be applied as follows:

        -  Group 1: intake of study medication capsules orally at a dose of 1 g per day for 3 weeks
           - 14 volunteers (7 males and 7 females);

        -  Group 2: intake of study medication capsules at a dose of 2 g per day for 3 weeks - 14
           volunteers (7 males and 7 females).

      Study results will be published in "Drug Testing and Analysis" journal
    
  