
    
      This is a Phase 1 single center, dose-escalation study designed to evaluate the safety and
      immunogenicity of live, replication competent recombinant Adenovirus type 4-H5N1 Influenza
      Vietnam 1194 Hemagglutinin (HA) (Ad4-H5-Vtn). Determining the optimal route and dose for this
      recombinant platform will greatly accelerate investigations of this vector as an influenza
      vaccine and an HIV vaccine platform.

      The primary goal of this study is to evaluate safety of ascending dosages of the Ad4-H5-Vtn
      vaccine following intranasal administration. A dosage will be selected to further evaluate
      the humoral, cellular, and mucosal immune responses against both the vector and the inserted
      gene. The Ad4-H5-Vtn will be initiated at 103 viral particles (vp). Once safety is
      established at the initial dose, a second round of testing will begin at the next ten-fold
      higher dose. The Ad4-H5-Vtn vaccine will be assessed in three participants at each dosage
      level. The maximum viral dose administered will be 108 vp.

      In addition to clinical and laboratory monitoring of safety, the principal assessments will
      be shedding of the Ad4-H5-Vtn virus in rectal, cervicovaginal, throat, and nasal swabs, and
      assessment of the antibody (mucosal and systemic) response to the HA and to the Ad4 virus.
      Participants will remain in the NIH Special Clinical Studies Unit until they have 2
      consecutive negative nasal washes or 7 days have elapsed since vaccination, whichever occurs
      first; they may remain on the unit longer if medically necessary. When safety has been
      confirmed in all 3 participants at a given dosage level, the next higher dose group is
      enrolled. If one grade 3 or greater toxicity (or pre-specified grade 2 toxicity, see Section
      3.4) at least possibly related to the vaccine is observed, the group will be expanded at that
      dose. If a second at least possibly related grade 3 or greater toxicity (or pre-specified
      Grade 2 toxicity, see Section 3.4) is observed, the dose will be reduced one level and the
      group will be expanded. Up to 25 Ad4-seronegative individuals will be enrolled at the maximum
      tolerated dose to fully evaluate safety and immunogenicity in the protocol.

      All participants will be followed for 28 days following immunization, and again at 8 and 26
      weeks to evaluate any long-term toxicity and persistence of immunity. All subjects will be
      offered to receive a booster vaccine at the 26-week visit and be seen for follow-up visits 4
      and 8 weeks following booster immunization with an additional telephone follow-up 6 months
      after boosting. Household and intimate contacts will also be enrolled and monitored for
      Adenovirus and HAI antibodies following Ad4-H5-Vtn administration only; household and
      intimate contacts will not be enrolled or monitored during the boost portion of the study.

      We will conduct an expansion H5N1 boost phase of this study, in which all vaccinees from the
      initial phase of the study will be offered re-enrollment to receive a booster vaccination
      with an FDA-approved H5N1 inactivated monovalent influenza vaccine. We will offer enrollment
      in the expansion phase to all participants who received the Ad4-H5-Vtn vaccine in the initial
      phase, regardless of whether they also received the recombinant hemagglutinin influenza H5
      vaccine boost. We will also enroll individuals who have never received an H5 influenza
      vaccine as controls. Participants will receive a single vaccination with the H5N1 vaccine and
      be seen for follow-up visits 4 and 8 weeks later for immunogenicity evaluations.
    
  