
    
      Notalgia paresthetica is a common sensory neuropathy, affecting mainly the interscapular area
      especially the T2-T6 dermatomes. The characteristic symptom is pruritus on the upper back. It
      is occasionally accompanied by pain, paresthesia, hyperesthesia and a well circumscribed
      hyperpigmentation of the affected area. The correlation of notalgia paresthetica localization
      with corresponding degenerative changes in the spine suggest that spinal nerve impingement
      may be a contributing cause. Topical treatments such as corticosteroids, menthol, capsaicine
      and pramoxine are usually not very effective. Patients are very affected in their daily
      activities by this chronic condition and usually disappointed by the current available
      treatments.

      A recent publication reports success in treating 2 patients with notalgia paresthetica with
      botulinum toxin A. In both cases a complete response for pruritus was noted. The major
      limitations of this publication are the small number of cases (two) and the fact that there
      was no control. The mechanism of action of botulinum toxin A in nostalgia paresthetica has
      not been investigated.

      However the beneficial effects of botulinum toxin A on other diseases causing pruritus and
      pain has previously been reported. Botulinum toxin A has been shown to prevent the release of
      substance P, a well known mediator involved in pain and itch, and this may explain its
      efficacy in pruritic diseases. This proposal plans to study the efficacy and safety of
      botulinum toxin A (Xeomin) for the treatment of notalgia paresthetica in a randomized placebo
      controlled trial. Botulinum toxin A prevents the release of neuromediators such as
      acetylcholine. Botulinum toxin A has been used for many years to treat various disorders
      including blepharospasm, spasmodic torticollis, post stroke spasticity of the upper limbs,
      strabismus, palmar and axillary hyperhidrosis and wrinkles. This study will use Xeomin, a
      purified botulinum clostridium neurotoxin A that has recently been approved by Health Canada.
      Xeomin is currently approved for the treatment of blepharospasm, spasmodic torticollis and
      post stroke spasticity of the upper limbs.

      A recent publication reported success in treating two patients with notalgia paresthetica
      with botulinum toxin A. In both cases a complete response of pruritus was noted. One patient
      was still symptom free after 18 months while the other patient had a mild resurgence of
      pruritus at 18 months. The major limitations of this publication are the small number of
      cases (two) and the fact that there was no control. The current proposal plans to study the
      efficacy and safety of botulinum toxin A for the treatment of notalgia paresthetica in a
      randomized placebo controlled trial. In this study Xeomin will be reconstituted and used
      according to the approved Canadian Product Monograph.
    
  