
    
      Some patients require large doses of opioids to control postoperative pain, which can result
      in a prolonged period of poor pain control, and potentially increased side effects associated
      with large morphine doses. This may be due to insufficient morphine dose to that individual
      or acute tolerance ( 1 ). Ketamine is not just an anaesthetic agent but at lower doses is
      known to provide efficacious analgesia ( 2, 3 ). Ketamine has been shown to have a marked
      analgesic effect on high intensity nociceptive stimuli ( 4 ) as exhibited in postoperative
      pain. When given for opioid analgesia resistant cancer pain in bolus doses at two different
      concentrations it has been shown to be effective and have a morphine-sparing effect, without
      undue complications ( 5 ).

      Ketamine has been suggested to work pre-emptively and also by many other routes other than
      intravenously ( 6 - 9 ) .

      Previous studies have compared morphine with morphine and ketamine administered as PCA or
      intramuscularly ( 10 - 12 ) in postoperative patients with varying effects. Javery et al. (
      11 ) showed that pain scores were lower in patients who received ketamine but Reeves et al.
      in a later but similar study showed no significant difference ( 13 ).

      The authors have noted that in the postoperative situation with morphine resistant pain, a
      bolus dose of ketamine not only leads to a marked decline in pain but it also remains
      efficacious for several hours. This prolonged effect was also noted in opioid resistant
      cancer pain ( 5 ). This indeed may have relevance to the prevention of onset of chronic post
      surgical pain ( 14 ) and earlier discharge from the Post Anaesthetic Care Unit.

      Morphine and ketamine are not without side effects. Respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting
      and vivid dreams, being well documented will hence be a secondary endpoint. A quality of
      recovery score will also be measured ( 15 ) and four hours postoperatively.

      This study is designed to compare a morphine regimen in the form of a standard Post
      Anaesthetic Care Unit pain protocol with a bolus dose of ketamine to be implemented if the
      pain protocol has been inadequate. Any patient in pain, despite two doses of morphine will be
      included. Thereafter the patients will be randomised to receive either a further solution of
      ketamine or continuation of the morphine protocol. This randomised, double-blinded, trial
      will be based in the Post Anaesthetic Care Unit under close anaesthetic and nursing staff
      supervision.
    
  