
    
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is a transitional stage before converting from normal aging
      to dementia. Older adults with MCI are 10 times more likely to develop dementia than
      cognitively intact older adults. Thus, strategies that could deter the conversion from MCI to
      dementia will have significant impact on public health.

      There is growing interest in non-pharmacological approaches that could potentially slow down
      cognitive decline in late life. One such approach is the use of exercise to improve cognitive
      function. There is substantial evidence that exercise has benefits for cognitive function in
      elderly persons. Evidence on the benefits of exercise for cognition (either cognitive
      improvement or reduced cognitive decline) has been demonstrated through epidemiological
      studies, meta-analytical studies, and randomized controlled trials.

      Although exercise training holds promise for delaying the onset and slowing down the
      progression of cognitive impairment among elderly persons, most studies utilized aerobic-base
      exercise with relatively high intensity. High intensity aerobic exercise may not be practical
      for older people because they are likely to have physical limitations and/or co-morbid
      diseases.Thus, the effects of other forms of exercise particularly those that are less
      intense and well suited to elderly conditions should be examined. The moderating factors
      linking exercise training and cognitive improvement is yet to be further investigated.

      Tai Chi, a form of mind-body exercise, is a popular exercise among elderly. Although Tai Chi
      is considered as an aerobic exercise, the focus of this exercise in elders is not on
      cardiovascular fitness. It is characterized by slow, gentle motion and emphasized the
      conscious control of body movements. Several cognitive components including attention and
      mindfulness engage with physical movements during Tai Chi exercise. Thus, it is expected that
      Tai Chi exercise would have great benefit on cognition. Most research on Tai Chi has been
      done in the area of balance and falls. Studies examining the effects of Tai Chi exercise on
      cognitive function are sparse especially in the population of mild cognitive impairment.
    
  