
    
      COVID-19 induced by SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with multiple organ failure. The
      result, especially in older populations with underlying conditions, is a devastating cytokine
      storm. While a vaccine or effective therapies are being developed, low-cost, simple solutions
      are needed, especially in developing countries. This trial harnesses the power of supplements
      that are considered safe but which offer the following possibilities of reducing the burden
      of COVID-19 complications:

      Vitamin D has been hypothesized to be important in the regulation of the inflammatory
      cytokine response, i.e. the cytokine storm, and reducing associated complications.

      Vitamin C may help reduce the cytokine storm and supports the immune system. Although IV
      Vitamin C offers the possibility of injecting the bloodstream with much higher doses, we aim
      to develop a low-cost, over-the-counter protocol that can be implemented at scale.

      Vitamin B Complex has been proposed as a non-pharmacological addition to the standard of care
      treatments for COVID-19. Vitamin B reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, helps improve
      respiratory function, reduces hypercoagulability, and promotes endothelial structural
      integrity.

      Resolvins - a type of SPM (specialized pro-resolving lipid autacoid mediators) are
      hypothesized to prevent cytokine storms. These SPMs are derived from Omega-3s.

      Elemental Zinc is hypothesized to inhibit the replication of viruses. While there are a
      number of other trials that have been registered, which integrate the use of nutritional
      supplements, no other trial is testing the synergistic effects of Omega 3s, Vitamins D, C, B,
      and Zinc using a factorial design in low-income Latin American context.

      The trial utilizes an innovative and cost- efficient approach leveraging the existing
      infrastructure of the hospital system in San Luis Potosí province of Mexico. We aim to enroll
      ~1,800 adults who have recently tested positive for SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes
      COVID-19, and arrived at hospital or clinic within 5 days of symptom onset. These ~1,800
      adult women and men age 18 or older will be enrolled and randomized into the NUTROVID Treat
      trial's 2x2x2 arms, in which 50% of the population will have a chance to receive any
      combination of the 3 supplement formulations, and the other 50% will receive the respective
      placebos. Those who test negative will be randomized into the NUTROVID-Prevent.
    
  