
    
      Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG), a purely restrictive procedure, has become recently
      one of the most popular bariatric surgical procedures in this decade because its surgical
      technique is simple but outcomes in regards to weight loss and co-morbidities improvement are
      excellent comparable to other procedures. Nevertheless, this procedure carries one potential
      drawback namely "gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The impact on GERD following LSG are
      inconsistent . Additionally, the recent literature can be divided into two categories: those
      that support an increase in GERD prevalence after LSG and those that demonstrate a decrease
      in GERD prevalence after LSG. Postoperatively, one of the proposed mechanisms for either
      increased or decreased GERD prevalence is gastric emptying time. Delayed gastric emptying
      time can contribute to increase intra-gastric volume and pressure resulting in an increase in
      prevalence of GERD after surgery. On the other hand, accelerated gastric emptying time can
      cause decrease in GERD prevalence because of decrease in stomach volume and interorgan
      pressure after operation. In addition, LSG creates a vertical gastrectomy which results in a
      narrow and tubular shape of stomach. The line of resection starts at 3-6 cm. from pylorus
      (antrum) toward to the angle of His. The gastric antrum plays a major role in gastric
      emptying, particularly for solids. Hence, depending upon the starting point of gastric sleeve
      resection in each center, this can result in difference of the remaining gastric antrum which
      may affect gastric emptying time after this procedure. The investigators hypothesize that a
      larger amount of gastric antrum will result in accelerated gastric emptying time which leads
      to less GERD prevalence. On the contrary, the less the remaining gastric antrum would result
      in delayed gastric emptying which contribute to more GERD prevalence. The investigators plan
      on identifying the prevalence of GERD in the patients who undergo LSG comparing those who
      have the sleeve beginning either 3 cm. or 6 cm. from pylorus. We will utilize 24 hour
      esophageal pH monitoring, esophageal manometry, upper gastrointestinal scintigraphy and
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy at preoperatively, 3 and 6 month postoperatively. Ultimately, this
      study will help further clarify the most proper starting resected point of LSG (3 versus 6
      cm. from pylorus) which results in the least GERD prevalence after surgery.
    
  