
    
      Subjects and methods:

      All women diagnosed to have hyperprolactinemia as diagnosed by one laboratory (lab of the
      Woman's Health University Hospital).

      Research Design:

      Prospective study (randomized controlled trial) .

      Setting:

      This study will be conducted at the out patient clinic of the Woman's Health University
      Hospital, Assiut University.

      Sample size: convenience sample started from April 2019 to April 2020 or reaching 100 cases,
      50 in each arm.

      Tools of the study:

      Tool (1) Structured interviewing questionnaire include

        1. Women's personal data will include: Name, age, residence, educational level, occupation,
           duration of marriage,Number of phone.

        2. Medical history will include: the history of diabetes, hypertension, renal disease,
           cardiac disease, hepatic disease, and any other diagnosed medical disease. 8

        3. Menstrual history will include: Age of menarche, Duration, Interval, and rhythm.

        4. Infertility history will include: years of infertility, type of infertility, cause of
           it.

        5. Obstetric history will include: number of gravidity, number of parity, number of
           abortion, No of living children, time since last delivery or abortion.

        6. Medication history.

      Tool (2) Health education including:

        -  Life style: Habits what to do. What not do.

        -  Diet to eat to reduce prolactine level:

        -  Diet to avoid to increase prolactine level .

        -  Acts to avoid during sex practice.

      Tool (3): follow up (first visit after month with measurement of serum prolactin level
      again).

      Procedure

      Administrative phase:

        -  An official permission will be obtained from the manager of Women health hospital after
           explaining the purpose of the study.

        -  The study will be conducted at the out patient clinical Unit of Women health hospital
           and will include convenient sample of Women undergoing treatment using Cabergoline 0.5
           mg twice weekly for one month.

        -  the investigator will apply the randomized selection of the participant as the
           following: give the participant an envelope contains two choice of (A or B ). labeled
           papers then according to her choice she will engaged in the group: Group A will be take
           medications for hyperprolactinemia with nurse health education. and 9 group B will be
           will be take medications for hyperprolactinemia without nurse health education.

      Pilot study

      A pilot study will be carried out on 10% of the study sample to test the clarity of the study
      tool. The sample of pilot study will be excluded from the total sample if any modification
      done on the tools. The necessary modifications will be done if needed.

      Ethical considerations:

        1. Research proposal will be approved from Ethical Committee in the Faculty of Nursing

        2. There is no risk for study subject during application of the research.

        3. The study will follow common ethical principles in clinical research.

        4. Written consent will be obtained from patient or guidance that is willing to participate
           in the study.

        5. confidentiality and anonymity will be assured.

        6. study subjects have the right to refuse to participate and/or withdraw from the study
           without any rational any time

        7. study subject privacy will be considered during collection of data.

      Statistical analysis

      Data entry and statistical analysis will be done using the statistical package for social
      science program (SPSS. version 22). Qualitative variables will be presented as number and
      percentage. Quantitative variables will be presented as mean +SD. Comparison between
      qualitative variables will be done by using chi-square. Comparison between quantitative
      variables will be done by using student t-test.
    
  