
    
      In recent years, there has been an emphasis on assessing the patient's pain when the patient
      presents to emergency departments. The Joint Commission mandates that all patients who
      present with pain must have a pain assessment performed and addressed early in their care.
      Most emergency departments are using a self-reported assessment of pain using a 1-10 scale of
      pain. This self-reported level of pain is used to determine appropriate treatment. The Joint
      Commission has only dealt with somatic pain and has not addressed psychological pain.

      Psychological pain is described as the introspective experience of negative emotions such as
      anger, despair, fear, grief, shame, guilt, hopelessness, loneliness and loss. The assessment
      of psychological pain has been used to describe patients with depression and suicidal
      symptoms.

      Some in the field of emergency psychiatry believe patients who are agitated are exhibiting
      psychological pain, which some argue is no different than somatic pain. However, the
      principle of somatic pain assessment and treatment has never been applied to the assessment
      and treatment of psychological pain. Addressing a patient's level of agitation could be used
      to reduce their agitation and thereby, reduce their psychological pain.

      Psychiatric patients frequently present to emergency departments (ED) across the country.
      Many of these patients are agitated, necessitating treatment for their agitation in the ED.
      Agitation is thought to be one way a patient expresses psychological pain. If one could
      assess and treat a patient's agitation, one may be able to reduce psychological pain.

      Patients may exhibit various levels of agitation from mild to severe. Patients may progress
      from one level to the next or stay in one level. Moderate and severely agitated patients are
      difficult to evaluate and usually need treatment for their agitation. Some of these patients
      may become violent and injure themselves, staff or others. It is essential to identify
      patients who might be in the mild to moderate stage in order to prevent progression to severe
      agitation. This identification can provide a mechanism to determine who needs immediate
      treatment in the ED.

      The treatment for these agitated patients frequently includes physical restraint, chemical
      treatment and seclusion. In a review of 13 published studies of adults in a patient
      psychiatric setting, a range of 1.9% to 66% patients had a need for seclusion and restraint.
      Another study found an average of 2 restraints on 17% of patients in an acute medical unit.
      In psychiatric emergency rooms, the percent of patients restrained (20-25%) was significantly
      higher than in an inpatient facility (7-20%) [8-11]. It was found 25.2% of teaching hospitals
      restrained at least one patient per day. An average of 3.7% of all ED patients needed
      restraint and seclusion, or restraint alone.

      Although not frequently used in the emergency setting, there are many tools used to
      assessment agitation in the acute care setting including Brief Agitation Tool, Positive and
      Negative Syndrome Scale-Excited Component, Agitation Calmness Evaluation Scale, Richard
      Agitation Sedation Scale, Overt Agitation Severity Scale, and Agitation Behavior Scale.

      Only one of these tools, Brief Agitation Tool, has been used to obtain a self-reported
      measure of agitation. However, this tool has been used only on students and outpatients; not
      in the emergency setting. Also, the tool was used to correlate agitation to suicidal
      symptoms.

      Tools to measure a patient's psychological pain are limited. These include the Psychological
      Pain Assessment Scale and the Psychological Pain Assessment. These tools have been used in
      the study of depression and suicidal symptoms. It has not been evaluated on ED patients
      presenting with agitation.

      The purpose of this study is to apply the same principle of assessing somatic pain to
      psychological pain using the level of agitation as a surrogate marker. This study will
      compare a self-rated agitation scale to the other measures of agitation (Brief Agitation
      Tool, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale-Excited Component, and Agitation Behavior Scale).
      An analysis of the data will provide information concerning the accuracy of a
      self-administered scale in assessing agitation. The secondary purpose will to determine the
      correlation of a measure of psychological pain (Psychological Pain Assessment) to level of
      agitation.

      Study Significance The significance of this study is to determine if patients can communicate
      the level of psychological pain using the level of agitation as a surrogate marker. If a
      self-assessment of a patient's level of agitation can be determined early their care in the
      emergency setting, a proactive active approach to treatment can occur. Proactive agitation
      treatment has the potential of reducing a patient's agitation and increasing their level of
      comfort. This early intervention can reduce the progression of agitation and the risk of
      injury to patients, families and staff.

      Hypothesis The study null hypothesis is that the self-rated agitation scale will not have a
      significant level of correlation with the other measures of agitation. The secondary null
      hypothesis is that there is no difference between the level of agitation and the level of
      psychological pain.

      Methods The study is a prospective enrollment with use of medical records & convenience
      sample of patients who present to the ED with a psychiatric complaint to determine their
      level of agitation and psychological pain. This study will be performed in a community, inner
      city teaching hospital ED with 55,000 visits per year. The city's police department has
      designated the hospital as the referral site for psychiatric patients in the southwest side
      of the city.

      All patients will be evaluated by the emergency physician to provide medical clearance. The
      behavioral health service begins their psychiatric evaluation of the patient simultaneously
      with the medical clearance process. The behavioral health evaluation will determine the need
      for psychiatric admission together with the emergency service.

      The emergency service is responsible for the evaluation and treatment of a patients'
      agitation. A treatment protocol with a scale of agitation is used to guide the physician into
      whether to restrain or medicate a patient as well as the type and dosage of medication.

      A convenience sample of patients who present with psychiatric complaints to the emergency
      department when a research fellow from the Department of Emergency Medicine is available will
      be enrolled in the study.

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

      Patients can be enrolled in the study only if they meet all of the following criteria:

        1. Presenting with a psychiatric complaint.

        2. Male or female patients at least 18 years of age.

        3. Patients must be emergency department patients during the study.

        4. Each patient, or a patient's legal representative (as allowed by local law), must
           understand the nature of the study and must agree to study enrollment.

        5. English speaking.

        6. Consenting

      Patients will be excluded from the study for any of the following reasons:

        1. Unstable patients

        2. Patients who have delirium or dementia will be excluded because of its complicated
           medical rather than psychiatric etiologies.

        3. Prisoners

        4. Pediatric patients The research fellow will obtain consent from the patient or their
           surrogate and ensure that the patient meets all study inclusion and no exclusion
           criteria. The researcher will provide a brief overview of the study to the patient to
           obtain verbal consent.

      Information will be collected on a data collection sheet that will include basic demographic
      information on the patient: age, gender, diagnosis, current medication, restraint usage, time
      restraints were applied and type, dose and time medication is administered. A research fellow
      will complete the data collection sheet and input the data of enrolled patients into a
      database. The statistician will perform an analysis of the data looking for statistical
      significance of the data to the posed questions. Once all data is collected, any identifying
      information on the patient will be destroyed to ensure patient confidentiality.

      The research fellow will be responsible for completing an agitation checklist on each patient
      enrolled in the study. The patients' psychiatric diagnosis will be noted from the psychiatric
      service.

      The patients were evaluated for their level of agitation at arrival and every 30 minutes for
      2 hours. We will use four tests of agitation: Brief Agitation Tool, Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale-Excited Component, Agitation Behavior Scale, and the Psychological Pain
      Assessment Scale.The independent variables will be diagnosis, number of restraints
      administered (if any), time intervals every 30 minutes of each test, type of medication
      administered ( if any), and time to non-agitated state level on each scale. The dependent
      variables would be the assessing psychic pain using the level of agitation as a surrogate
      marker.

      The data will be inputted into a Statistical Program for Social Science program for analysis.
      Group differences between cases and levels of agitation will be examined by two-tailed
      t-tests and analysis of variance. Analysis of variance and its derivatives will be used to
      determine what, if any, differences exist between the patient's agitation and psychological
      pain scale assessments at 30 minute intervals up to the two hour mark. Because the relation
      between the predictor and outcome variables is not presumed to be a linear function, the
      measure of association between the outcome of interest and the predictor variable is
      represented by an odds ratio instead of a multiplicative factor. Comparisons of odds ratio
      between predictor variables help determine the factors of greatest importance, while their
      confidence intervals will indicate their statistical significance. This will determine the
      probability of which test will accurately predict the lowering levels of agitation at timed
      intervals as compared to each other and to the dependent variable. Additionally, it can
      predict any correlations to the independent variables which may influence the outcomes such
      as gender, age and diagnosis.
    
  