
    
      -  The selected patients will be informed of the nature of the research work and informed
           consent will be obtained then randomized in equal proportions between control group flat
           magnetic attachment design and study group dome magnetic attachment design technique

        -  Radiographic examination included a preoperative digital panoramic radiograph with 1:1
           magnification for each patient as a primary survey to obtain an approximation of the
           available bone height and detect the presence of remaining roots and localized pathosis.

        -  All patients will receive complete denture before implant installation .Constructed as
           the following

        -  Primary impression to construct diagnostic cast and special tray .

        -  Secondary impression with selective pressure impression technique to have master caste
           and occlusion block

        -  Face bow transfer and centric relation record will be utilized to mount the master cast
           on semi adjuctable articulator ,then setting the teeth and trying the denture in patient
           mouth.

        -  Processing of acrylic and lab remounting ,then delivery of the denture.

        -  The complete denture will be duplication to be used as a guide to fabricate the
           radiographic stent after placement radio opaque marker in two lower canines then send
           patient to perform CBCT and these duplicate denture use as surgical template to place
           two implant.

        -  CBCT machine: planmeca / CBCT soft ware : blue sky / FOV: single arch mandible /voxel
           size :400 Mm ( KV:90 / MA: 8 / S:11,997)

        -  The CBCT examination where performed in radiology department / collage of dentistry
           /cairo university

        -  serial follow up CBCT not need

        -  Patients were randomly divided in to two groups by using computerized software ; the
           first group received flat magnetic attachment design while the second group received
           dome magnetic attachment design e. All surgeries were performed by the same
           prosthodontic.

        -  All surgical procedures were performed under strict aseptic conditions, all patients
           received infiltration local anesthesia (Articaine 4% 1:100 000 epinephrine).

        -  A crestal incision is made using No. 15 c blade extending over the crest of anterior
           mandible and a full mucoperiosteum flaps elevated to provide access to the alveolar
           ridge for implant installed.

        -  Full sequential drilling under copious saline irrigation will be made as indicated by
           the company guide lines. insertion of two implant in each group by the contra angle
           handpiece with special adaptor.(control and study groups)

        -  The flap will then be closed using interrupted 4/0 resorbable sutures.

        -  We connect magnetic attachment(flat,dome) for each groups on complete denture by pick up
           procedure at day of implant installation.

        -  Relief space from the denture for the magnetic attachment will be made and a rubber dam
           will be used to closed the under cute under the magnetic attachment. pickup material
           will be added in the relief area to connect the housing to the denture intra orally.

        -  Implant stability will be measured for both groups using smart peg /osstell at the day
           of implant installation and after 2,4,8,12 weeks.

        -  Patient satisfaction measure in 2 weak and after 12 weak by Denture satisfaction
           questionnaire
    
  