
    
      Pulmonary function testing is the most widely used tool for the diagnosis, severity
      assessment, management, risk factor categorization and follow-up of individuals with chronic
      lung disease. Africa has a high burden of infectious respiratory diseases which include
      tuberculosis and human immunodeficiency virus-related lung disease.Coupled with this is an
      increasing burden of non-communicable respiratory diseases; which include chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, emphysema, bronchiectasis and asthma [1,2]. The management of these
      colliding epidemics requires correct diagnosis and management in order to ensure adequate
      resource allocation and avoidance of unnecessary costs.

      A proviso to the use of lung function testing is the determination of "normal" values; which
      are determined for age, gender, height and ethnicity for the relevant population [3]. These
      "normal' values should also take into account the normal lung function decline associated and
      the aging process. It is well recognised that the comparison of an individual patients'
      results to an ethnically inappropriate population may lead to the under or -over diagnosis of
      disease, inappropriate treatments and result in increased burden on individuals, their
      families and the healthcare system [4-6]. There are numerous published reference equations,
      but the recently published Global Lung Initiative multi-ethnic reference equations published
      in 2012(GLI2012) collated the largest spirometry data set from individuals aged 2.5 to 95
      years [7]. The innovation in GLI2012 was that it allowed for the smooth transitioning of data
      from childhood adulthood using sophisticated statistical modelling.

      The investigators have previously collated data in phase 1 of this study using the GLI
      methodology on published African spirometry data from 26 594 individuals, and found a wide
      variation in predicted z-scores when fitting the African data to GLI2012, with a fairly good
      match between the black African males and African-Americans [15]. This dataset was skewed as
      due to the large number of African males and with a disproportionally larger contribution of
      data from North Africa and therefore requires confirmation. The investigators therefore
      propose to conduct a prospective well-designed study to include a representative sample of
      both adults and children (4000); to verify the validity of the retrospective pilot data, in a
      South African population.
    
  