
    
      This proposed early feasibility, investigator-initiated study is led by Dr. Pablo A. Celnik,
      M.D. at Johns Hopkins Medicine (JHM). The Bidirectional Cortical Neuroprosthetic System
      (BiCNS) consists of modified versions of 510(k) cleared NeuroPort Electrode Array Systems
      (Blackrock Microsystems, Inc., Salt Lake City, UT) as well as a neurostimulator module
      (CereStim R96) for long term neural recording and intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) of
      the brain. The BiCNS is termed bidirectional because it permits both the recording of
      information from the brain for controlling an end effector device, as well as enabling
      information regarding that end effector to be returned to the brain in the form of ICMS. "End
      effector" in this sense is used to mean a physical or virtual device designed to interact
      with its (physical or virtual) environment. Electrode arrays will be implanted in the brain
      in pairs, with a pair comprising a recording array and a stimulating array. A total of six
      NeuroPort arrays, consisting of three array pairs, will be implanted in each study
      participant. Each pair will consist of an array implanted in primary motor cortex (M1) for
      recording and an array implanted in primary sensory cortex (S1) for stimulation and/or
      recording; both arrays in each pair will be connected to a single percutaneous pedestal as an
      external interface. In each participant, two such array pairs will be implanted in the
      hand/arm area of M1 and S1 in the dominant brain hemisphere (e.g., the left hemisphere for a
      right-handed individual). A third pair will be implanted in the hand/arm area of M1 and S1 in
      non-dominant hemisphere (e.g. right hemisphere for a right handed-individual). The recording
      arrays implanted in M1 are the NeuroPort microelectrode arrays with platinum (Pt) tips
      (K070272), whereas the ICMS arrays implanted in S1 are NeuroPort microelectrode arrays with
      Sputtered Iridium-Oxide Film (SIROF) tips (K110010). The study has Investigational Device
      Exemption (IDE) approval from FDA to implant these devices for 52 weeks (plus/minus 2 weeks).
    
  