
    
      Rationale: There are valid concerns that resuscitation in burns shock is inadequate. A
      tendency to over resuscitate patients seem to exist. Current guidelines were developed 35
      years ago and clinical burn resuscitation has not advanced significantly, despite ongoing
      research. The main goal of resuscitation is achieving organ perfusion and tissue oxygenation.
      Inadequate fluid resuscitation of severe acute burns may result in hypovolemic shock and
      death. Excessive fluid resuscitation may result in fluid overload, lung edema,
      intra-abdominal hypertension, abdominal compartment syndrome and burn depth conversion with
      increased requirement for escharotomies, fasciotomies and skin grafting. Monitoring of
      adequacy of resuscitation in burns patients has always been guided by systemic hemodynamic
      variables (macro circulation) like blood pressure, heart rate, stroke volume and urinary
      output, being urine output the major indicator of successful resuscitation. Whether these end
      points are successful in achieving adequate perfusion and oxygen transport to the tissues is
      unknown and relies on the assumption that there is a hemodynamic coherence between the macro
      and microcirculation whereby improving the macro circulation causes a parallel improvement in
      the microcirculation Objective: The main objective of our study is to focus on the efficacy
      of standard fluid resuscitation in promoting tissue perfusion.

      Study design: Single-center, prospective, observational clinical study in the Maasstad
      Hospital.

      Study population: All adult patients who are admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with severe
      burns over 15%TBSA and resuscitated with the standard resuscitation protocol will be
      included.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Measurement of sublingual microcirculation with vessel
      density and flow parameters. Also skin perfusion maps (Laser Speckle Imaging) will be
      recorded. Blood and urine samples will also be used for measuring glycocalyx shedding
      products.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Microcirculation assessment and laser speckle imaging are non-invasive procedures, and there
      are negligible risks. Blood tests will be used for measuring glycocalyx shedding products,
      this is an invasive procedure which may increase the risk of contamination, patient
      discomfort and in some extreme cases blood sample collection may be a burden on patient
      haemoglobin levels which is prone to decrease in critical patients. Assessment is essential
      for determining whether action is required to change our existing resuscitation regime for
      critically ill burned patients. If the results show that the current resuscitation regime is
      suboptimal, then motivation for changing the existing practice can lead to improved clinical
      care and a reduction in over- or under resuscitation in the ICU environment with its
      potential harmful effects.

      The risks associated with participation can be considered negligible and the burden can be
      considered minimal in this observational study. The patients taking part in this study will
      have no direct benefit.
    
  