
    
      This prospective audit was performed over a 7-month period (August - March 2018). A quality
      improvement team, consisting of two clinical research fellows and a consultant cardiothoracic
      surgeon, reviewed all the cancellations. The research is reported in line with the Standards
      for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence (SQUIRE) guidelines.

      Adult patients undergoing elective and urgent cardiac surgery were included in our study.
      Those who underwent emergency or non-cardiac procedures and patients under the age of 18 were
      excluded. Patients were identified on a weekly basis from theatre registers and printed
      operating lists. Same day surgery cancellations were defined as any postponement of patients'
      operation once listed for surgery.

      Electronic hospital records were reviewed, and the following information was recorded for all
      patients: demographics; scheduled surgery date; euroSCORE II and its components; admission
      type (elective/urgent in-house/transfer patient); date of pre-operative anaesthetic review.
      Additionally, reasons for cancellation, timing of cancellation (pre-operative/during
      anaesthesia/intraoperative) and outcomes were recorded. Outcomes included: time from
      cancellation to performed operation; hospital stay post-cancellation and mortality. Patients
      were divided into cancelled (C) and non-cancelled (NC) groups for analysis.

      The reasons for cancellation were categorized into: lack of ITU beds and nurses; patient
      medically unfit; scheduling error; patient-related issues; emergency intervened; procedure no
      longer needed; lack of perfusionist; incomplete investigations; surgeon unavailable; transfer
      issue; theatre staff shortage; electrical system failure; new intra-operative TOE findings.
      Patient-related issues included failure to stop medication and treatment refusal. Scheduling
      errors included overrunning cases, overbooking of the operating room, late operation start
      and IT errors.

      The investigators further assessed the impact of cancellations on patient satisfaction and
      wellbeing. Patients completed a questionnaire by telephone at 3 months after discharge to
      allow time to reflect. Questionnaire data assessed adherence to Association of Anaesthetists
      of Great Britain and Ireland Theatre Efficiency guidance, including healthcare professional
      informing patients; time offered for explanation; patient understanding and satisfaction as
      well as perception of being kept nil by mouth (NBM) longer than necessary. (Figure 1) This
      questionnaire has previously been used by Wasim et al. to assess patient experience following
      cancelled orthopaedic surgery. A pilot study was conducted to trial the its' validity.

      All data was entered into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Statistical analysis consisted of
      determination of the mean and range for continuous data and percentage quantification for the
      categorical data. Statistical significance was established using chi-squared test and
      two-sided unpaired student t-test with p values <0.05 considered significant. The study was
      approved by the St Bartholomew's Trust Ethics and Quality Improvement Committee. As this was
      a quality improvement project and information collected did not include personal identifiers,
      individual consents were not required.
    
  