
    
      The standard treatment practice for black dental stain is dental prophylaxis, however this is
      often harmful to the enamel surface and can result in tooth sensitivity. In this study we aim
      to explore the application of antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) for the treatment of
      adult black dental stain. aPDT has demonstrated positive results in the treatment of
      periodontitis.

      Patients received an oral examination and the extent of black stain was scored (score 1,
      pigmented spots or incomplete lines parallel to the gingival margin, score 2: solid lines
      pigmented, readily observable and limited to the cervical third of the tooth surface, score
      3: pigmentation extending beyond the cervical third). The patients' oral cavity was
      photographed in sextants, along with a complete picture of the jaw (lingual plane) and the
      maxillary arch (palatal plane). For bacterial analysis, 1mg of black plaque was collected by
      scraping with a plastic scaler from buccal tooth surfaces taking care to avoid unnecessary
      removal of enamel hydroxyapatite. The first dental prophylaxis was performed to remove the
      black stain.

      Patients were reviewed monthly and in each visit, were photographed as previously described,
      and the level of pigmentation scored according to the mentioned criteria. The monthly visits
      were continued until the black stain score returned to the initial value. The period between
      the first and the last appointment was noted. At this point, each volunteer received dental
      prophylaxis once again, followed by the application of aPDT. Antimicrobial photodynamic
      therapy was applied to 31 orally healthy volunteers with black stained teeth, using the GLO
      home whitening device (GLO™ Science LLC, New York, USA) in 2 cycles of 8 minutes. Outcome
      variables were area, color and time taken to reappearance of black stain following dental
      prophylaxis with and without antimicrobial photodynamic therapy. Differences in bacterial
      composition of black stain (specifically Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Tannerella
      forsythia and Porphyromonas gingivalis) were analyzed DNA extracted from plaque samples.
      Following the application of aPDT, patients were reviewed monthly until the black stain score
      returned to the initial value.
    
  