
    
      This study plans to enroll participants in two groups:

        -  GROUP 1: Participants with hematologic malignancies or solid tumors.

             -  Participants who agree to take part in this research study will have stool samples
                collected at diagnosis (baseline sample) and each month thereafter for 12 months
                from the time of enrollment. Stool samples will be screened for different types of
                microbes that may be present. For participants who develop diarrhea during these 12
                months, three additional stool samples will be collected on Day 0, Day 7 and Day
                14; two blood samples and mid-turbinate nasal swab will be collected as well on Day
                0 and Day 7 of the first observed diarrheal episode to screen for additional
                microbes that may be the cause of the diarrhea.

        -  GROUP 2: Participants who are hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) patients.

             -  Participants who agree to take part in this research study will have stool samples
                collected within one week prior to conditional chemotherapy (baseline sample) and
                weekly thereafter for a total of 16 weeks (pre- and early post-engraftment
                periods), followed by monthly for 8 months. Stool samples will be screened for
                different types of microbes that may be present. For participants who develop
                diarrhea, three additional stool samples will be collected on Day 0, Day 7 and Day
                14; two blood samples and mid-turbinate nasal swab will be collected as well on Day
                0 and Day 7 of the first observed diarrheal episode to screen for additional
                microbes that may be the cause of the diarrhea. For GROUP 2 participants, two
                diarrheal episodes will be studied per patient: the first diarrheal episode during
                the pre-engraftment period, and the first diarrheal episode during the
                post-engraftment period.

      Participants with a change in cancer treatment plan enrolled on study: Group 1 participants
      who experience a change in their cancer treatment plan necessitating an allogeneic stem cell
      transplant will be taken off study for group 1 and offered the opportunity to consent to
      group 2 Participants who chooses to then enroll on group 2 will complete the 12-month study
      requirements as defined in the protocol for group 2 participants.

      General health information from participant medical records and other health-related
      information about symptoms will also be obtained at the time of collection of the samples.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To assess the prevalence of microbial pathogens in the stool of pediatric oncology
           patients with diarrheal illness.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To describe the clinical course, symptomatology, morbidity and mortality associated with
           diarrheal diseases in pediatric oncology patients at St. Jude Children's Research
           Hospital.

        -  Evaluate the performance of the multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the
           diagnosis of infectious diarrhea in comparison to the standard of care methods.
    
  