
    
      Adolescence is often characterized as a particularly difficult time for children. Though
      adolescents begin to desire independence from their parents, parents still play an integral
      role in prevention of health-risk behaviors in their children. In fact, the quality of the
      parent-child relationship continues to serve as a determining factor of whether or not an
      adolescent will engage in harmful behaviors. Often times, this may lead to the practice of
      risky and harmful behaviors, such as, poor diet, substance use, unprotected sex, and reckless
      driving. The quality of the parent-child relationship continues to serve as a determining
      factor of whether or not an adolescent will engage in harmful behaviors. For instance, weekly
      parent-child discussions have also been identified as one of the strongest factors in
      influencing healthier food choices in adolescents. It is important to increase understanding
      of parent views about discussions of health risk behaviors with their children, in order to
      guide efforts to develop health communication strategies aimed at promoting parent and child
      discussion of these behaviors. In turn, this may lead to a decrease in youth engaging in
      health-risk behaviors.

      This study explores parental views about discussing health risk behaviors with their children
      and then tests the effects of a discussion tool on parents conversations with their children
      about unhealthy eating, marijuana use, and sedentary behavior. Participants will include
      parents living in the United States who have children ages 10 to 17 years old. The study will
      consist of a baseline survey, and then a follow-up survey four weeks later. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to one of three discussion tool conditions that include marijuana use,
      unhealthy eating, or sedentary behavior. One month later, participants will be invited to
      complete a follow-up survey that will measure discussion behavior, followed by items from the
      initial survey. Following the survey completion, participants will read a brief explanation
      of the study and receive links to websites of national health organizations with information
      about unhealthy eating and marijuana use.
    
  