
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory allergic disease of airway involving many cells and various
      media. Airway inflammation causes various symptoms of airway hypersensitivity, including
      repeated wheezing, dyspnea, and tightness in the chest. An estimated 300 million people
      worldwide suffer from asthma, and in South Korea, an estimated asthma prevalence rate for
      adults is approximately 5% [1]. For more effective management of asthma, Global Initiative
      for Asthma (GINA) guideline[2] and Korean Asthma Management Guideline for Adults [1] suggests
      that for patients who cannot have asthma symptoms under control with ICS (Inhaled
      Corticosteroid) alone, concomitant treatment of ICS/LABA is more effective than dose increase
      of ICS, and therefore recommends ICS combined with Long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) products.
      Common ICS/LABA products that are available in the Korea market including dry power inhaler
      (DPI) and pressured metered dose inhaler (pMDI).

      It is known that small airway significantly contributes to total airway resistance, so the
      inflammation of the small airways could lead to the poor asthma control observed since small
      airways are not directly reached by inhaler's particles [3,4]. Fluticasone/formoterol
      (Flutiform®) shows a high fine particle fraction (FPF) of about 40% for both the ICS and the
      LABA components regardless the inhalation flow rate[5]. FPF of Fluticasone/formoterol is
      significantly higher than other ICS/LABA combinations. It is expected that small particles of
      fluticason/formoterol could reach to the large/small airways easier than other ICS/LABA
      combinations even if these ICS/LABAs shows a similar efficacy for asthma treatment. However
      Asthma patients can struggle to use their pMDI inhalers correctly due to the need to properly
      co-ordinate the press and inhale, which can worsen their asthma and lead to exacerbations.

      Flutiform K-haler is the first breath-actuated inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) long-acting
      β2-agonist (LABA) combination aerosol inhaler for adults and adolescents. The flutiform
      k-haler has been designed with patients in mind, requiring only a gentle inhalation to
      trigger the dose release, with the aim to help patients reduce critical errors and improve
      long-term outcomes.

      Therefore, It is expected that Flutiform K-haler prevents exacerbation and improves symptom
      of Asthma. Especially it will be beneficial to patients who did not response to existing
      ICS/LABA DPI in Korea. This study is planned to examine the efficacy and safety of Flutiform
      K-haler in patients who are not adequately controlled by previous mid-dose ICS/LABA DPI
      treatment.
    
  