
    
      Early postoperative pain is the major cause that may restric physical activity of the
      patients and delay in returning work. Newer non-steroid analgesic drugs (NSAD) can be helpful
      in overcoming this problem, especially in pre-emptive use. In this prospective randomized
      placebo controlled double blinded study we aimed to determine whether lornoxicam, as a NSAD,
      or paracetamol is more effective in providing pre-emptive analgesia for patients undergo
      elective unilateral inguinal hernai repair under general anesthesia. 60 patients above the
      age of 18, ASA score of I to III will be assigned into 3 groups. All the patients will be
      operated under general anesthesia. Recurrent hernia cases, pregnant or lactated women,
      patients allergic to the two drugs, patients with documented gastric disorders or bleeding
      disorder or under anticoagulent therapy will be excluded.

      Group designs:

      Group I: 100 ml intravenous saline infusion as placebo 30 minitues before the surgery.

      Group II: 8 mg intravenous lornoxicam infusion in 100 ml saline 30 minitues before the
      surgery.

      Group III: 1 g intravenous paracetamol infusion in 100 ml saline 30 minitues before the
      surgery.

      All patients will receive patient controlled intravenous analgesia with morphine for 24 hours
      postoperatively.

      Postoperative pain levels will be determined by VAS (visual analog scale) and morphine
      consumption will be recorded.

      Patients will be prescribed with oral paracetamol (300 mg) plus codein (15 mg)at discharge at
      the end first 24 hours.

      Patients will be asked to record daily consumption of given analgesic, pain response to
      physical activity by using Likert scale, and VAS scores daily.

      The first follow-up examination will take place on day-7. The patients will be asked to keep
      recording the same parameters until the second hospital visit at 4th week.

      On the follow-up examination at 4th week quality of life will be determined by SF-36 form.

      The results will be analyzed using SPSS for Windows software.
    
  