
    
      The SDH complex is involved in mitochondrial Krebs cycle and defects in the succinate
      dehydrogenase (SDH) complex have identified, as previously mentioned, in KIT/PDGFR WT. This
      complex, SDH, has 4 subunits (A-D) and SDH-A or SDH-B are involved in oxidization succinate
      to fumarate. Therefore, loss of function owing to mutational inactivation leads to the
      cytoplasmic accumulation of succinate which downregulates prolyl hydroxylase. This enzyme has
      a negative regulator role of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF1α) since promotes its
      proteasomal degradation. Increased levels of HIF1α can enter the nucleus and activate the
      transcription of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFR)24. In fact, the VEGFR expression
      is higher in KIT/PDGFR WT than in KIT mutant GISTs25.

      Approximately 50% of KIT/PDGFR WT show high expression of insulin-like growth factor 1
      receptor (IGFR1). This expression may correlate also with the loss of SDH due to IGF
      autocrine loop26. IGFR signals through both MAPK and PI3K-AKT pathways. As previously
      mentioned, Regorafenib is able to block MAPK signaling pathway at different levels.
      Interestingly, early interstitial Cajal cell (ICC) progenitors have a phenotype of
      KITlowCD44+CD34+IGFR+ while committed lineage of progenitors have KIThighCD44+CD34-IGFR-.
      Unlike mature or more committed lineage of ICCs, the KITlowCD44+CD34+IGFR+ display resistance
      to Imatinib in spite of kit signaling pathway activation. Thus Regorafenib could gain
      advantage over Imatinib for treating KIT/PDGFR WT27,28.

      On the other hand, other subsets within of KIT/PDGFR WT as B-RAF mutants or NF1-associated
      GIST could also be sensitive to Regorafenib. In this later subset, protein expression of
      phospho-MAPK was seen in 92% of cases in a series of 25 patients29.

      Theoretically Regorafenib could also act blocking STAT3, which is activated by RET
      proto-oncogen, through RET inhibition. STAT3 is implicated as downstream pathway signal in
      GIST30.

      Taken together, the previous data suggests Regorafenib could play a relevant role as upfront
      treatment of metastatic or unresectable locally advanced KIT/PDGFR WT GIST.

      Subjects will receive 160mg (4 tablets) of regorafenib once a day every day for 3 weeks of
      every 4 week cycle (i.e., 3 weeks on, 1 week off). The study drug will be orally
      administered.

      Doses of study drug may be delayed or reduced in case of clinically significant hematologic
      and other toxicities. Toxicities will be graded using the CTCAE v 4.03. The modifications of
      regorafenib are detailed in the protocol for general event, Hand Foot Skin Reaction,
      Hypertension and drug-related liver function test abnormalities.
    
  