
    
      Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) is an inherited condition that occurs in 1 in 33,000 births;
      affecting hearing, balance, dizziness and vision primarily related to tumours (schwannomas)
      in the inner ear or other tumours which develop within the central nervous system. Neuropathy
      may also be an issue for people with NF2.

      The complications of NF2 can lead to varied difficulties with activities of daily living and
      may impair quality of life. More recently, new pharmacological treatments for NF2 are being
      trialed which may have the potential to dramatically influence quality of life for people
      with NF2. Currently, evaluation of treatment effect in NF2 is based on a clinician's
      neurological assessment and imaging. However, imaging results do not always correlate with
      clinical and reported functional changes of the individual. Therefore, evaluating the effect
      of interventions or treatment should include the evaluation of a person's function using
      standardised outcome measures. The findings from this study will improve the care of people
      with NF2 by ensuring that we are able to measure functional changes in a person with NF2 with
      greater confidence, meaning that we can start, continue or cease treatments based on the
      holistic picture of an individual.

      The world confederation of physiotherapists (WCPT) stipulates that standardised outcome
      measures (SOM) are used to provide a quantitative measure of capability, and to evaluate the
      impact of treatment on function. There are a wide range of SOM's that evaluate function so a
      SOM is chosen by the clinician based on the patient's presenting functional difficulty and
      the scientific credibility of the SOM. Scientific credibility (robustness) is based on
      scientific properties of the SOM i.e. how stable the SOM is (reliability) and whether it
      assesses what it is intending to assess (validity). It is important to evaluate each SOM
      within the target population as variability within that condition, strongly influences the
      SOM's reliability and validity (de Vel 2011).

      At present, functional SOM's have limited scientific and subsequent clinical credibility when
      used in people with NF2 because their scientific properties have not yet been evaluated
      within this patient group which means that if they are used clinically or within research,
      there is an inherent element of doubt when interpreting the SOM's results. The objective of
      this research team is to create a core set of functional SOM's which have undergone rigorous
      scientific evaluation so that they can be used in the future for clinical practice and for
      research purposes in adults with NF2.

      This study primarily aims to evaluate three commonly used SOM's for reliability in adults
      with NF2 (over 16 years of age). The measures chosen for evaluation are the nine hole peg
      test, the four square step test and the modified clinical test of sensory integration and
      balance (mCTSIB). Interrater reliability (the test result remains the same when reviewed by
      different people) and intrarater reliability (the test result remains stable when reviewed
      twice by the same tester) will be evaluated. From this data, we will be able to calculate the
      standard error of measurement an additional important scientific characteristics of SOM
      evaluation. A secondary objective is to correlate SOM objective markers with a subjective
      disease specific quality of life measure (NFTI-QOL) and self-reported falls rate and near
      misses. We will also collect data on dynamic visual acuity in this patient group.
    
  