
    
      Approximately 12,000 children are diagnosed with cancer in the United States each year and
      the majority of these children will experience moderate to severe pain and disabling symptoms
      such as fatigue and nausea during the course of their illness. Survivors of childhood cancer
      are also at high-risk for long-term chronic pain. Unfortunately, the World Health
      Organization (WHO) indicates that current efforts to manage pain in pediatric oncology
      patients are seriously inadequate. Reasons for under treatment of pain and symptoms in
      children diagnosed with cancer are complex and are likely related to deficits in the process
      of assessment and management as well as lack of timely access to pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological interventions. Management of pain in this population is also compounded
      by the fact that increasing numbers of children currently receive chemotherapy on an
      outpatient basis due to advances in healthcare and changes in the medical-economical
      environment.

      To date, interventions targeting pain and symptom management in the home setting of children
      suffering from cancer are seriously lacking. To address this significant gap, the candidate
      is proposing significant training in pediatric cancer pain and symptom management and an
      innovative two-phase research strategy. The first phase of research will focus on the
      development and formative evaluation of an innovative handheld electronic program (Pain
      Buddy) that provides remote monitoring of pain and symptoms and delivery of cognitive and
      behavioral skills training to children undergoing treatment for cancer. The second phase of
      this application involves evaluation of the efficacy of the program using a randomized
      controlled trial design. Pain Buddy will allow for collection of "real time" pain and symptom
      data that will be transmitted immediately and monitored remotely by the oncology treatment
      team. Remote symptom monitoring in real time will provide an opportunity for timely
      implementation of appropriate interventions, thereby introducing the potential to decrease
      pain and symptoms and improve quality of life. Pain Buddy will also deliver psychosocial
      skills training, teaching cognitive and behavioral strategies to manage pain and
      symptom-related distress. The skills training will target coping and self-efficacy in
      children without the need for face-to-face intervention which is not feasible in the majority
      of settings. Symptom monitoring and skills training will further increase patient engagement
      in their own health care, which is a main goal of the Institute of Medicine and many other
      organizations. The objectives outlined above will be accomplished by the following specific
      aims:

      PHASE I: Development and Formative Evaluation Specific Aim 1: Through collaboration with the
      California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2), develop and
      examine the usability of a cognitive and behavioral skills training intervention (Pain Buddy)
      delivered via electronic, handheld technology in conjunction with a validated pain and
      symptom assessment protocol (Jacob, E.) that will allow for monitoring of and response to
      pain and symptoms of pediatric oncology patients in real time.

      Hypothesis 1. Children and their parents will demonstrate the ability to use Pain Buddy on
      the electronic device and will rate high levels of acceptability, usability and satisfaction
      on beta testing.

      PHASE II: Randomized Controlled Trial of Pain Buddy Specific Aim 2: Using a randomized
      controlled trial design, we will examine the efficacy of Pain Buddy in managing pain and
      symptoms in children suffering from cancer.

      Hypothesis 2. Children enrolled in the Pain Buddy group will report lower symptom-related
      distress as measured by the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (MSAS), compared to children in
      the monitoring group (primary outcome).

      Hypothesis 3. Children in the Pain Buddy group will evidence lower pain severity and higher
      quality of life compared with children in the monitoring group (secondary outcomes).

      Hypothesis 4. Children and nurses will demonstrate high rates of compliance (85% or greater)
      with Pain Buddy (secondary outcome).

      The long-term goals of this research are to develop a usable, engaging electronic
      decision-support pain and symptom management intervention for children receiving outpatient
      chemotherapy using Smartphone technology and to examine the efficacy of the electronic
      decision-support intervention on children's pain and quality of life. These long-term goals
      will be accomplished through assessment of the data collected from patients, parents and
      physicians using the ambulatory monitoring protocol.

      PHASE III: Multi-Site Randomized Controlled Trial of Pain Buddy

      Primary Aim: Determine if Pain Buddy is more effective than attention control in reducing
      pain severity among children ages 8-18 years old undergoing outpatient cancer treatment.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. Examine the impact of Pain Buddy on symptom-related distress, health-related quality of
           life, functional status, and satisfaction with treatment experience.

        2. Determine whether baseline characteristics of children (emotional functioning) and
           parents (stress, attitudes regarding analgesic use for children) moderate the effect of
           Pain Buddy on pain severity.
    
  