
    
      Study Design

      The study has a mixed methods design. The mixed methods approach allows the utilisation both
      quantitative and qualitative approaches to gain a greater level of detail than either one
      methodology would allow for individually, and for the results to support a firmer conclusion
      if the differing methodologies corroborate each other.

      Protocol

      The Learning Disability Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service (LD-CAMHS) service in NHS
      Lothian (National Health Service board located in Scotland) and schools for children with
      special educational needs in the City of Edinburgh Council area will be invited to
      participate in the study. Senior education staff (Headteachers or Deputy Headteachers) and
      LD-CAMHS clinicians will be asked to identify potential participants based on the study
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. They will then be asked to provide potential participants
      with the participant information sheet and discuss this with them, inviting potential
      participants to ask any questions that they may have. LD-CAMHS clinicians and education staff
      are suitable for this role as they are likely to be aware of children's diagnoses and whether
      the family have reported that their child presents with challenging behaviour, or aware of
      education staff's role and length of their remaining contract. Examples and a definition of
      challenging behaviour will be provided as a general guide to support the identification of
      participants. Interested potential participants will be given a minimum of 24 hours to
      consider whether they want to participate.

      If interested in taking part, participants will be asked to complete and return a contact
      details form to their LD-CAMHS clinician or to senior education staff. The research team will
      contact the clinicians and senior education staff at agreed time intervals (e.g. once a week)
      to see if there are forms to be collected. In the contact details form, participants will be
      asked to indicate what time of day suits them best to be contacted. Participants will then
      receive a telephone call from the researcher to answer any questions they may have and to
      discuss their availability to attend the ACT and PBS group (e.g. would during or after school
      hours be preferable, are there certain days of the week that would suit them best, would
      location be a barrier).

      Groups will aim to have 10 participants, with the expectation that some participants will
      choose to drop out of the study at this point, probably reducing the group size to
      approximately 6 to 8 participants. Participants will be allocated to attend a group based on
      their participant number, whether they are education staff or a parent, their location and
      availability. Participants will be sent a letter advising of the dates and location of their
      allocated group sessions and focus group. Should participants contact the researcher to
      advise that they cannot attend on these dates, they will be re-allocated to an alternative
      group if possible.

      The ACT and PBS group will take place in a community setting such as an appropriate room in a
      school or in an NHS building. Participants will complete the study consent form with the
      study researchers on an individual basis before the first group session begins. This will
      provide a further opportunity for participants to ask any questions that they may have, and
      for the study researchers to ensure that participants are fully informed about the study and
      that they are making an informed decision to participate. Participants will then complete a
      battery of measures at the beginning of the first group session, at the end of the third
      group session and at the beginning of the focus group, which will take place six weeks after
      the last group session. Should a participant choose not to take part in the focus group, they
      will be sent a copy of the questionnaires by post and asked to return them by post via a
      returns envelope provided, or to their LD-CAMHS clinician or school.

      The group workshop will run for three mornings, afternoons or evenings over three consecutive
      weeks (e.g. three Friday mornings). The sessions will last for approximately three to three
      and a half hours, with a break and refreshments in between. The group sessions will include
      taking part in exercises such as mindfulness, having group discussions, learning about new
      ways of managing difficult thoughts and feelings, and learning about new ways of supporting
      challenging behaviours in a positive way. Participants can decide not to take part in a
      component of the group should they prefer not to. Education staff and parents will attend
      separate groups. The group sessions will be facilitated by the study researchers, namely, a
      Trainee Clinical Psychologist and Clinical Psychologist who have both completed relevant ACT
      and PBS teaching and training and have experience in working with these psychological
      interventions.

      The focus group will take place approximately six weeks later and will take approximately one
      hour in a similar setting as the therapy group. The group will be facilitated by a researcher
      who did not facilitate the participants' therapy group, to increase the likelihood that they
      will feel able to discuss the group freely. This researcher may be a LD-CAMHS clinician. The
      group will be audio-recorded with an NHS Lothian encrypted and password protected audio
      recorder, to allow for the group discussion to be transcribed and analysed. Participants who
      do not attend one or more of the group sessions will be welcome to attend the remaining
      sessions if they so wish but will be excluded from any relevant analyses. Participants may
      take part in the focus group if they have attended at least one group session.

      Number of Participants

        -  The investigators will aim to recruit approximately 40 participants to the study (10
           participants allocated to four groups).

        -  Number of sites involved: The investigators anticipate that there will be 8 (LD-CAMHS
           and up to 7 schools for children with special educational needs).

        -  Length of recruitment period: Estimated at approximately six to eight months.

      Sample Size Calculation

      Power calculations were performed utilising G-Power 3.1. The statistical analysis was set to
      be a with a within-between interaction, with two groups and three measurement points. The
      alpha level was set to 0.05 and power to 0.80, as per convention. The effect size previously
      reported for psychological distress in a similar study was medium to large. To be
      conservative, the power calculation for this study was performed with a medium effect size
      (f=0.25), which suggested a total sample size of 28 participants. Therefore, this study will
      aim to have four groups with ten participants each. This would mean recruiting 40
      participants, with the expectation that 12 would be lost to attrition.

      Proposed Analyses

      The mean, standard deviation and range of the demographic variables and dependent variables
      will be reported. The percentage of missing data across the measures will also be reported.

      Regarding quantitative data, the statistical analysis will be completed using SPSS software.
      Data will be explored to ensure that test assumptions are met. Each dependent variable will
      then be analysed with repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVA) with a within-between
      interaction, with significant effects further evaluated appropriately.

      Regarding qualitative data, the focus group interview transcripts will be analysed with
      thematic analysis.

      Management of Missing Data

      Should the level of missing data be minimal (<5%), the data will be assumed to be missing at
      random and a suitable method of imputation (most likely multiple imputation due to the small
      sample size) will be used to manage this appropriately. Should a higher level of missing data
      occur, the missing data will be analysed to examine whether it is missing at random or not. A
      suitable method of imputation will then be used.

      Adverse Events

      Should multiple participants present with high levels of persistent distress that appear to
      be related to participating in the group, this will be reviewed by the Chief investigator and
      researchers.
    
  