
    
      Background:

      The left ventricle (LV) ejects blood with a wringing motion, where the LV apex rotates
      counterclockwise and the base rotates in clockwise directions respectively. Rapid untwisting
      and recoil of LV during isovolumic relaxation and early diastole releases energy stored in
      ejection for LV suction and rapid early diastolic restoration. The LV geometry and its
      rotational mechanics also give rise to intracavitary blood flow rotation resulting into LV
      intracavitary vortex ring formation. LV torsion and vortex ring formation confer
      morphodynamic advantages that gain importance as blood flow velocities, heart rate and rates
      of change of momentum increase with exertion for improving LV efficiency. We have recently
      characterized the significance of LV twist mechanics and vortex ring formation in human
      hearts using novel high resolution speckle and contrast particle tracking echocardiography.
      Although data on a favorable effect of nebivolol on exercise capacity and LV diastolic
      filling exists, the changes in left ventricular (LV) rotational mechanics and blood flow
      vortex ring formation that may explain the potential hemodynamic benefits seen with nebivolol
      have not been previously characterized.

      Aims:

      In patients with hypertension and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (LVDD) treatment
      with nebivolol for 6 months improves exercise time by enhancing:

        1. LV deformation, torsion and untwisting mechanics

        2. LA-to-LV blood flow transport and characteristics of intra-cavitary vortex formation

        3. LA reservoir and booster pump function and LA-LV interaction during the conduit phase

      Hypotheses:

      Treatment with nebivolol in subjects with hypertension and LVDD improves exercise time by
      improving LV deformation and diastolic filling. As diastole shortens with the tachycardia
      associated with exercise, the contribution of untwist becomes relatively more important to LV
      suction and filling. Nebivolol improves LV diastolic filling primarily by enhancing LV
      untwisting and the rheological efficiency of blood flow transport through vortex formation in
      early diastole.

      Significance:

      Patients with LVDD are asymptomatic at rest and often but become markedly symptomatic with
      exertion. This pilot study will provide data for the first time for correlating the
      improvement in exercise capacity seen with the use of nebivolol with the changes in LV
      relaxation, torsional mechanics, LV vortex formation and LA-LV transport functions. The
      preliminary data will be essential for understanding the underlying pathophysiological
      mechanisms through which nebivolol improves exercise hemodynamics besides providing data for
      development of subsequent larger randomized multicentric trials.
    
  