
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of escalating the dose of topotecan when administered with
           filgrastim (G-CSF) and radiotherapy, in terms of increasing the topotecan dose 25-50%
           above the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined in a prior phase I study, in young
           patients with newly diagnosed malignant intrinsic pontine brain stem glioma. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects of topotecan in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the 1-year event-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           this regimen (at the MTD of topotecan determined in phase I). (Phase II)

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of topotecan followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes followed by radiotherapy once
           daily, 5 days a week for 6-7 weeks. During chemoradiotherapy, patients also receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously daily, if needed, until blood counts recover.
           Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 out of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive topotecan (at the MTD determined in phase I ), G-CSF, and
           radiotherapy as in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 2 weeks, every 3 months for
      1.5 years, every 6 months for 1.5 years, and then annually until disease relapse.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-72 patients (3-12 for phase I and 60 for phase II) will be
      accrued for this study within approximately 3 years.
    
  