
    
      In light of research supporting early first episode psychosis (FEP) intervention models as
      well as the efficacy of video gaming to engage young people with FEP in treatment, the
      connection between the two needs to be explored. A gaming tool for first-episode psychosis
      has the potential to improve patient care; and, decrease stigma associated with
      schizophrenia.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that Phase 1 of this study will demonstrate that the videogame
      is comprehensible, engaging and easy to maneuver. The investigators hypothesize that the
      results from the pilot study will suggest that this technologically innovative tool has
      potential to enhance positive outcomes of research-tested interventions, such as OnTrackNY,
      for individuals with FEP.

      Approach:

      Our team will develop a prototype game (OnTrack>The Game) in which users play the role of a
      person who has experienced FEP and move through animated role-playing scenarios, learning
      practical tips for engaging in care, playing mini-games to develop self- advocacy skills, and
      seeing stories of hope and recovery (brief video vignettes). The game is designed in an
      engaging comic book style in which the player is presented with realistic situations designed
      to promote engagement and the development of trusting relationships.

      Following development of the prototype, the investigators will conduct a pilot study to
      develop preliminary data to determine feasibility of a large-scale Phase 2 effectiveness
      study. This pilot study aims to demonstrate proof of concept for OnTrack>The Game. The
      investigators will recruit a sample of patients/consumers (n=25) from OnTrackNY sites that
      offer services for those experiencing their first psychotic episode. Quantitative data will
      be collected through baseline and follow up surveys that utilize instruments to measure
      knowledge and attitudes about recovery, perceptions of stigma, feelings of empowerment and
      sense of hopefulness. The investigators will also conduct semi-structured interviews with a
      subset of participants to explore engagement in treatment and attitudes toward the game.
    
  