
    
      Background Over the last decade, increasing use of oral anticoagulants to prevent
      cardioembolic ischaemic stroke due to atrial fibrillation (AF) in an ageing population has
      led to a five-fold increase in the incidence of anticoagulant-related intracranial
      haemorrhage (ICH) - a rare but unpredictable and catastrophic complication. Cerebral
      microbleeds (CMBs) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may predict ICH risk, as may genetic
      polymorphisms influencing brain small-vessel integrity or anticoagulation stability.

      Aims To establish the value of CMBs and genetic factors in predicting symptomatic ICH
      following best practice oral anticoagulation to prevent recurrent ischaemic stroke due to AF.

      Methods CROMIS-2: Study I (AF) - Prospective, multicentre, inception cohort study in 1425
      patients with ischaemic stroke due to AF started on best practice oral anticoagulation.
      Patients will have genetic testing and standardized MRI including Gradient recalled Echo
      (GRE) at baseline, with follow-up by postal questionnaire (and clinical assessment or medical
      records surveillance after suspected events), and where possible there will be an in person
      clinical assessment at 2 years. The investigators will compare the rate of symptomatic ICH
      between CMB and CMB-free patients and test for associations with plausible candidate genes.
      The investigators aim to develop and validate a risk model to predict symptomatic ICH
      following best practice oral anticoagulation to prevent recurrent ischaemic stroke due to AF.

      CROMIS-2: Study II (ICH) - An observational study of ICH investigating genetic, clinical and
      radiological risk factors associated with anticoagulant-related ICH. The investigators will
      recruit patients admitted to participating centres with ICH (with a target of at least 300
      anticoagulant-related ICH cases) and collect DNA to increase the power of the genetic
      studies. The investigators will collect clinical and imaging data from these ICH cases to
      investigate risk factors associated with anticoagulant-related ICH compared to non
      anticoagulant-related ICH.

      Expected outcomes A successful predictive model for ICH risk after best practice oral
      anticoagulation for AF will help to determine whether genetic or CMB screening should be used
      in clinical practice and future trials. New genetic, clinical and radiological risk factors
      associated with anticoagulant-related ICH will be identified.
    
  