
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE To test whether MSGs lead to increased retention of HIV-exposed infants in
      PMTCT programmes

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To assess whether MSGs lead to increased retention of mothers in postnatal HIV follow-up
           care

        2. To assess whether male participation in PMTCT activities is increased at clinics with
           MSGs

        3. To assess whether selected maternal and infant health indicators are improved in
           HIV-positive mothers and their exposed infants at facilities with MSGs, viz. (1)
           Antenatal attendance; (2) Delivery in facilities; (3) Infant immunisation uptake; (4)
           Infant feeding methods and nutrition status; (5) Infant nevirapine prophylaxis; (6)
           Infant co-trimoxazole prophylaxis; (7) Infant HIV testing; and (8) Family planning
           uptake

      MOTHER SUPPORT GROUP INTERVENTION MSGs were designed following formative research. A
      non-governmental organisation established MSGs by recruiting HIV+ mothers and volunteer
      coordinators (MSGCs) prior to commencing enrolment. MSGCs were HIV-positive mothers who were
      trained in MSG establishment and maintenance, retention activities and data collection. MSGs
      meet each two weeks with the MSGC or health worker facilitating an information session using
      a curriculum of eight PMTCT-related topics. MSGCs send standard message reminders to members,
      contact non-attending members by phone and inform health workers (HWs) to assist retention.
      HWs conduct retention actions of non-attending patients in PMTCT programmes.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND RANDOMISATION We excluded from the study low-volume facilities that recorded
      booking fewer than 10 HIV-positive antenatal mothers per annum. We randomly selected
      facilities in the two study districts to either of the study arms. Based on estimated infant
      retention rates for control and intervention arms, we calculated the minimum sample size of
      10 HIV-positive mothers to be enrolled at each health facility.

      DATA COLLECTION, ANALYSIS AND QUALITY ASSURANCE The study utilizes the existing health
      information system (e.g. antenatal care (ANC) Register, Exposed Infant Follow-Up Register,
      Anti-retroviral treatment (ART) Register), supplemented by EPAZ study-related data collection
      and patient tracking systems. Study staff will work with clinic- and district-level staff to
      improve and collect routine and study-specific data. Data will be entered, coded, cleaned and
      locked before analyses are made. Data will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. A
      mobile team of well-trained quality assurance and control study staff will be deployed
      throughout the data collection period to ensure quality of the intervention and of data
      generated and collected at each study site. A pre-specified proportion of patient visit
      records will be reviewed from each site.
    
  