
    
      Hand osteoarthritis is a frequent condition in the middle-aged and elderly population with a
      prevalence of up to 76%. After the distal interphalangeal joints, the trapeziometacarpal
      joints are the most affected joints of the hand. Symptoms such as pain, stiffness, deformity,
      loss of grip strength, as well as reduction of joint mobility, are affecting the overall hand
      function and patients' quality of life. Numerous studies have evaluated different surgical
      and conservative interventions for treating patients with trapeziometacarpal osteoarthritis
      (TMC OA) with both interventions found to be effective in reducing pain and increasing
      function. To date, there is only little evidence about the characteristics and outcomes of
      patients who receive a conservative or a surgical treatment for TMC OA. The analysis should
      focus on which factors contribute to either a conservative or a surgical treatment, and if
      these patients differ regarding personal or health-related factors. Furthermore, no data
      about the economic consequences of a resection interposition suspension arthroplasty are
      available which highlights the need for a financial analysis of this procedure with respect
      to the benefit for the patient and cost bearers.

      Besides objective parameters, such as strength and range of motion, the evaluation of patient
      satisfaction as well as the fulfilment of preoperative expectation is becoming increasingly
      important as outcome measures. However, there is no standardized instrument available for
      measuring satisfaction, expectations and their fulfillment for TMC OA patients.

      For measuring outcomes of OA, a core set for outcome measures for OA trials (hip, knee, hand)
      was developed at the OMERACT III conference. It comprised of the assessment of pain, physical
      function, patients' global condition and joint imaging. Furthermore, the evaluation of
      quality of life is recommended, but the specific items of this core set for TMC OA patients
      still remain to be defined.

      The main objective of the study is the evaluation of the outcomes following treatment for TMC
      OA using a set of variables covering all OMERACT categories as well as the dimensions of the
      International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Secondary aims are
      the analysis of the determinants of patient satisfaction with the treatment result, the
      evaluation of the psychometric properties of the Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHQ),
      which has not yet been established in TMC OA patients, as well as the economic impact
      associated with TMC OA.

      In order to achieve these objectives, a prospective cohort study including patients with TMC
      OA will be conducted, regardless of if they will have surgery or not. A total of 100
      surgically treated patients will be analysed during a one-year inclusion period and all
      conservatively treated patients will also be analysed during the same time. Follow up
      examinations will take place at 3, 6 and 12 months for all patients using a standardized set
      of objective as well as subjective outcome measurements including the MHQ.
    
  