
    
      One of the main difficulties in managing diabetes is that each affected individual requires
      personally tailored combination of diet, exercise, and medication to effectively control
      their blood sugar. Rather than strictly following a doctor's prescription, individuals need
      to carefully examine their lifestyle choices and their impact on their health. Independent
      learning, experimentation and problem solving become of great importance. However, they can
      be challenging for individuals with diabetes. In this project, the investigators will refine
      and evaluate a novel intervention for diabetes self-management that uses computational
      analysis of self-monitoring data to help individuals with type 2 diabetes identify what daily
      activities, including consumption of meals, physical activity, and sleep, have impact on
      blood glucose levels, and suggest modifications to these daily activities to improve blood
      glucose levels.

      Growing evidence highlights significant differences in glycemic function and cultural,
      social, and economical circumstances of individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) that impact
      their self-management. Precision medicine strives to personalize medical treatment to an
      individual's genetic makeup, computationally discovered clinical phenotypes and lifestyle.
      Studies showed the benefits of tailoring not only medical treatment, but also behavioral
      interventions. Yet, currently, personalization of self-management in T2DM requires each
      individual to engage in discovery, reflection, and problem-solving-critical but cognitively
      demanding activities-or to rely on their healthcare providers. Both of these may present
      considerable barriers to individuals from medically under-served low income communities.
      Mobile health (mHealth) solutions in T2DM bring promise of reaching wider populations in need
      of self-management; however, few such solutions provide assistance with personalizing
      self-management behaviors. Ongoing efforts on personalizing behavioral interventions outside
      of T2DM focus on tailoring behavior modification techniques to individuals' psycho-social
      characteristics, such as self-efficacy ), and tailoring delivery of intervention to
      individuals' context rather than on personalizing self-management strategies.

      The ongoing focus of this research is on developing informatics interventions for diabetes
      self-management, with a specific focus on discovery with self-monitoring data and on
      problem-solving for improving glycemic control. In the proposed research the investigators
      introduce T2.coach, an mHealth intervention that uses computational analysis of
      self-monitoring data to identify behavioral patterns associated with poor glycemic control
      and formulate personalized behavioral goals for changing problematic behaviors. This study
      will evaluate T2.coach's efficacy in a two-arm RCT with stratified randomization conducted
      with Clinical Directors Network (CDN), a well-recognized primary care practice-based research
      network (PBRN) of Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs), and Agency for Healthcare
      Research and Quality (AHRQ)-designated Center of Excellence (P30) for Practice-based Research
      and Learning.
    
  