
    
      This is a two arm, double blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the use of a
      single dose ciprofloxacin prior to shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) to placebo. The multicenter
      trial will be conducted with a pragmatic emphasis including both high volume and low volume
      sites internationally.

      Eligibility criteria include patients older than 18 years presenting for SWL who do not meet
      one of the pre-defined exclusion criteria (outlined below).

      Eligible patients will provide written informed consent. Patients will undergo central
      randomization, which will be accessed by phone or internet. Un-blinding will occur only once
      statistical analysis is complete.

      Patients will undergo SWL using standard procedures at the participating center. Participants
      will asked to provide a pre-procedure study questionnaire, a modified International Prostate
      Symptom Score (IPSS) questionnaire and a urine sample for analysis prior to SWL and
      follow-up. Follow-up questionnaires and a requisition for urine culture will be provided in a
      pre-stamped, self-addressed envelope along with instructions to return both culture and
      questionnaires to their participating center at 7-14 days post-SWL. If the follow-up
      questionnaire has not been received by post-operative day 10 patients will receive a reminder
      phone call. A second envelope will be sent containing a requisition for urine culture and
      follow-up questionnaire when necessary.

      Alternatively, if a 2 week follow-up is conducted at the participating site then data-forms
      can be completed and collected at that time. In the event that a urine culture was not
      submitted 7 days post-operatively, one can be collected up to 14 days post-op. Additional
      clinical parameters such as presence of double J, stone characteristics and renal
      insufficiency will be recorded at the time of SWL by the dedicated research staff at the
      participating center. Data acquisition and occurrence of outcomes will be monitored
      continuously with scheduled audits.

      Primary and secondary outcomes are outlined below.

      The power calculation for this protocol was performed using Stata v.10.1 (StataCorp, College
      Station, TX). The investigators used the American Urological Association Best Practice
      Statement on antibiotic prophylaxis to estimate a 60% relative risk reduction with treatment
      arm. Therefore to achieve a power of 90% with a significance level of p<0.05, 661 patients
      will need to be recruited in each arm for a total of 1,322 patients. Accounting for 10% loss
      to follow-up, the total required will be 1454, or approximately 1500 patients. Assuming that
      25% of patients screened will either refuse to be randomized or will meet one of the
      pre-defined exclusion criteria, a minimum of 2000 patients will need to be screened in order
      to randomize 1500 patients.
    
  