
    
      Treatment: Methylation is a change that occurs to Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that has an
      effect on gene usage in human cells. Abnormal methylation is very common in leukemias.
      Decitabine is a new drug that blocks DNA methylation.

      Before treatment starts, a physical exam, blood tests (between 4-6 tablespoons), and a bone
      marrow study will be done. To collect a bone marrow sample, an area of the hip or chest bone
      is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large
      needle. Women able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      When this study began, participants were randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one
      of 3 treatment groups. The assignment to one of the 3 schedules was adjusted according to how
      well patients respond to treatment. About 17 patients were assigned to each group for the
      first 50 patients.

      Participants in the first group received decitabine intravenously (IV--through a needle in
      their vein) over one hour, once a day, for 10 days. Treatment was given every 4 to 8 weeks
      depending on how well their blood counts recovered. Participants in the second group received
      decitabine as an IV infusion over one hour, once a day, for 5 days. Treatment was given every
      4 to 8 weeks. Participants who received decitabine by vein got the same total dose per
      course. Participants in the third group received decitabine by subcutaneous (SQ) injections
      (injections given under the skin) twice a day for 5 days. As in the first and second group,
      treatment was given every 4 to 8 weeks.

      After 65 patients were enrolled on this study, it was decided that the 5-day IV schedule was
      the best of the 3 schedules. The study will now continue with all new patients receiving the
      5 -day IV decitabine treatment. If you are now enrolling on the study, you will be placed in
      this treatment group, instead of being randomly assigned to a treatment group.

      Participants who are already on study and who are receiving the 5-day SQ schedule or the
      10-day IV schedule, will be given the option to change to the 5-day IV schedule at the start
      of their next course of study drug treatment, since this is considered the new "standard"
      schedule on this particular study.

      If you choose to take part in this study and begin receiving the study treatment described
      above, your response to treatment will be checked after completing 8 weeks of therapy. If the
      response to treatment is good, treatment with decitabine will continue. Decitabine treatment
      may be continued for up to 24 courses, or as long as it is judged best to control the
      leukemia.

      During this study, you will need to visit your doctor for a physical exam and vital signs.
      The frequency of doctor visits will vary depending on your physical condition, but will be
      required at least once a month.

      Blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done about every week during the first 6-8 weeks of
      treatment, then every 1 to 2 weeks for the length of the study. The blood samples will be
      used for routine lab tests. Periodic bone marrow samples will also be taken to check cells
      related to the disease before, during, and after completion of this study.

      Patients will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is not yet Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved.Up to 133 participants will be treated in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  