
    
      Background:

      In light of the importance of pain and widespread interest in patient-centeredness, the
      Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has been emphasizing and successfully making pain and its
      management a routine feature of the health record and a focus of care. Awareness of pain and
      efforts to improve pain management rest on the VA's '5th Vital Sign' - a policy and practice
      of nursing staff routinely screening for 'pain now' at every health encounter using a 0-10
      Numeric Rating Scale (NRS).

      The team's previous research on VA's '5th Vital Sign' informs the specific design of this
      Effective Screening for Pain (ESP) study as well as the proposed research products.

      Alternatives to the current pain screening approach may improve the sensitivity and
      specificity of screening for chronic pain. These alternatives include the nurse administered
      NRS with a one week look back period and a three item scale (PEG) incorporating intensity and
      emotional and physical interference.

      The investigators plan to evaluate alternatives to the VA's current '5th Vital Sign' for pain
      screening, focusing on simple, feasible measures that can be used cross-sectionally for pain
      screening. In the setting of a primary care clinic, the investigators plan to
      cross-sectionally evaluate three arms - a tablet based DVPRS, a tablet computer-based NRS one
      week, and a tablet computer-based PEG. All arms will be compared with the nurse administered
      pain now.

      Objectives:

      1) Qualitatively evaluate Veteran and multidisciplinary provider perspectives on pain
      screening and the use of the NRS vs. the PEG items, clinician-assessed vs. patient-reported
      pain 2a) Quantitatively assess, in a 3-arm randomized controlled primary care clinical
      team-based trial using tablets, the feasibility and completion rates, validity, and
      variability of pain information obtained comparing: Tablet-based vs. nurse-documented pain
      (e.g., 5th vital sign by tablet vs. clinician assessed) and the rate and severity of pain
      detected in tablet-based 'NRS one week' (Arm 1), tablet-based PEG (Arm 2), and DVPRS (Arm 3).
      Also pain, self-reported disability.

      2b) Informed by Aims 1 and 2a, qualitatively evaluate provider perspectives on different pain
      reports to facilitate better pain management.

      Methods:

      The investigators are conducting a two phase mixed method study that will build on prior work
      to develop and test enhanced pain screening approaches for primary care and Patient Aligned
      Care Teams (PACTs). In the first (development) phase of the study, the investigators will
      conduct semi-structured qualitative interviews and focus groups with primary care clinicians,
      other primary care team members including non-provider staff, and primary care Veteran
      patients, to understand what patient-reported pain assessment data are most useful for
      clinical decision-making and how this pain information can best be integrated into primary
      care team processes, including the role of informatics to optimize primary care pain
      management and link pain screening to management. This will inform the development of the
      enhanced pain screening approaches used in the Aim 2 randomized controlled trial (RCT). The
      investigators will also submit the enhanced tablet-based pain screening approaches to
      usability testing by the University of California Office of Information Technology.

      The second (testing) phase of the study will include a multisite RCT to test the final
      enhanced pain screening approaches (Arm 1 PEG; Arm 2 NRS 'pain now', Arm 3 DVPRS) compared
      with the NRS one week (all Arms), on patient and primary care clinician outcomes. The
      investigators will assess whether the approaches improve detection of pain-related
      impairment, and also the feasibility, acceptability, and provider and patient experience with
      enhanced screening.

      Status:

      The investigators have completed data collection, coding, and analyses for all Aims. They
      have presented some findings as conference posters and presentations and published several
      manuscripts.

      Findings from Aim 1 were used to guide the development of a tablet-based pain screening
      survey that the investigators tested in Aim 2a as a randomized control trial. The
      investigators have have completed data collection, and are currently analyzing results.
    
  