
    
      Prior to randomization, potential participants underwent a standardized history and
      examination of the cervical spine and upper quarter. We collected demographic information
      that included each patient's age; gender; medication use; imaging results; and the location,
      nature, and duration of symptoms. Self-report measures included the NDI and VAS pain scales.
      Physical exam measures included cervical range of motion measurements with a gravity
      inclinometer, passive accessory motion testing to assess cervical spine segmental mobility
      and pain provocation, an upper quarter neurological screening, and special tests commonly
      used to identify cervical impairments.

      Participants meeting all inclusion criteria were randomized into one of two treatment groups:
      1) manual physical therapy and exercise (MTE) or 2) minimal intervention (MI).

      Patients in the MTE group received manual physical therapy interventions specifically
      targeted to impairments identified during the physical examination. Physical therapists chose
      manual interventions consisting of thrust and non-thrust joint manipulation/mobilization,
      muscle energy, and soft-tissue mobilization/stretching techniques that are commonly
      referenced and used in clinical practice. We provided all patients in the MTE group with a
      standard home exercise program of cervical retraction, deep neck flexor strengthening, and
      cervical rotation range of motion exercises.

      Patients in the MI group received a basic treatment plan consistent with general practitioner
      care. We provided all patients with a basic regimen of postural advice, encouragement to
      maintain neck motion and daily activity levels, cervical rotation range of motion exercise,
      and instructions to continue any prescribed medication use. Minimalist physical therapy
      treatments consisted of sub-therapeutic pulsed (10%) ultrasound at 0.1w/cm2 for 10 minutes
      applied to the cervical spine and cervical rotation range of motion exercises. We provided
      these treatments to maintain the patients' expectations for physical therapy treatment and
      subsequent improvement, and to standardize the therapist-patient interaction time

      The intervention period lasted 3 weeks with both groups receiving treatment twice weekly for
      up to 6 sessions. We standardized treatment time for both groups by using a one-hour initial
      evaluation and treatment session and thirty-minute follow-up treatment sessions. Patients did
      not have to complete all six visits if their symptoms had fully resolved. The treating
      therapist instructed and supervised all exercises to ensure proper patient technique and
      understanding.

      We collected outcome measure data at baseline and at the patient's 3-week, 6-week and 1-year
      follow-ups. All outcome measures were collected by physical therapists that were blinded to
      treatment group allocation.
    
  