
    
      The incretinomimetics and the inhibitors of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) are new treatments
      for diabetes. The incretinomimetics are analogs of Glucagon Like Peptide 1 (GLP-1), secreted
      from endocrine L-cells of the colon and terminal ileum peptide. Serum GLP-1 increase rapidly
      after a meal. But its degradation is also fast. It acts on the hypothalamus by reducing
      appetite and food intake, on the stomach by delaying gastric emptying and the level of beta
      islet cells by inducing the synthesis and secretion of insulin (1). The incretinomimetics
      currently marketed in Belgium (March 2014) are exenatide (Byetta ®), liraglutide (Victoza ®),
      lixisenatide (Lyxumia ®) and very soon (April 2014) extended-release exenatide (Bydureon ®).
      The DPP-4 prevent the degradation of GLP-1. The DPP-4 currently marketed (March 2014) are
      sitagliptin (Januvia ®), vildagliptin (Galvus ®), saxagliptin (Onglyza ®) and (Trajenta ®)
      linagliptin.

      In diabetic patients, these treatments allow a significant reduction in fasting plasma
      glucose and postprandial, with a low risk of hypoglycemia and no weight gain (and sometimes
      weight loss) (2).

      Their place in the management of type 2 diabetes is considered or in combination with
      metformin, when diabetes is inadequately controlled despite maximal dose of the latter, or
      when patients are intolerant to metformin.

      A study to evaluate the safety of 'incretinomimetics therapy "showed an increase in
      pancreatic weight of 40% (3). Indeed, in a cohort of 34 pancreatic organ donors from brain
      death, 20 patients were diabetic and 8 as incretin mimetics for over 1 year. An increase in
      pancreatic mass on average 40% was observed compared to diabetic patients without this
      treatment.

      This study also demonstrated an increase in the mass of beta cells without restoring insulin
      function. The advanced for this mass increase without a significant increase of cell size is
      a hypothesis decreased apoptosis of beta cells.

      Furthermore there is also an increase in the mass of cells producing α intraductulaire cell
      proliferation. This would be responsible for the onset of pancreatitis but also the
      appearance of endocrine microadenomas. The same study (3) also observed an increase in cell
      proliferation in the exocrine compartment of the pancreas (ductal and acinar cells) induced
      by incretinomimetic and an increased frequency of lesions potentially pre-cancerous PanIN 1
      and 2 with this treatment.

      Another study (4) by the same group of researchers showed that GLP-1 induced ductal cell
      growth in rats treated with high-dose exenatide for 12 weeks. It could therefore, by ductal
      obstruction induce pancreatitis.

      All of these studies therefore warns about these new treatments potentially inducers of
      different pancreatic lesions.

      The aim of our study is to provide a better understanding of the pathophysiological
      mechanisms of increased volume and / or pancreatic exocrine secretion when exposed to certain
      treatment of type 2 diabetes.
    
  