
    
      This study is a prospective single arm open label intervention study over 12 weeks using the
      DHFS with participants initiating or continuing HIV PrEP. The study intervention has an
      initiation (Phase 1), persistence (Phase 2) and follow-up period up to 96 weeks. In phase 1
      participants will use the DHFS with close follow-up incorporating visits with directly
      observed ingestions. In Phase 2 the participants utilize the DHFS in their natural setting
      with sporadic study visits until 12 weeks. Eligible HIV seronegative participants will
      receive an ingestible sensor enabled oral antiretroviral (IS-ARV) of TDF/FTC (Truvada®). The
      study will be conducted at the UCSD AVRC. Participants will be recruited from UCSD AVRC, UCSD
      Owen Clinic, related or affiliated UCSD primary care programs or community primary care
      clinics. Following the 12 week intervention participants will undergo HIV testing and
      continuation on HIV PrEP and followed for up to 96 weeks. The primary outcome will be an
      accurate measure of adherence i.e. the number of doses of selected IS-ARVs ingested, as
      captured by the DHFS, over the number of doses prescribed, adjusted for positive detection
      accuracy (PDA), defined as the percentage of detected sensors that have been administered
      under direct observation.The investigators will also assess the acceptability and feasibility
      of longitudinal monitoring in real time of the ingestion rate utilizing the DHFS. In addition
      the investigators will evaluate the ability of the DHFS to identify participants whose
      longitudinal medication taking and timing patterns in the first 12 weeks of ARV treatment
      puts them at risk for HIV infection as far out as 96 weeks from start of treatment.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) Substudy

      • To obtain TDF/FTC serum levels data comparing co-encapsulated IS-Truvada formulation to
      native Truvada® as supplemental information to dissolution studies.

      A subset of 12 participants prescribed IS-Truvada®:(tenofovir disoproxil
      fumarate/emtiritabine) for PrEP will be enrolled in a PK sub-study to provide supplementary
      data to dissolution studies conducted by Gilead Sciences on the co-encapsulated IS-Truvada
      formulation. On Day 14 of treatment, when drug concentrations are expected to be close to
      steady state, sub-study participants will have a PK profile for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine
      obtained over a single dosing interval (at time 0 (pre-dose Ctrough), 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24
      hours). Participants will be seen at the AVRC in a fasting state prior to taking their dose
      of IS-Truvada® and will remain fasting for 2 hours after the observed ingestion. The time and
      date of the previous doses of IS-Truvada® will be recorded by and available from the DHFS
      prior to initiating the PK procedures. The following day, Day 15, the participant will return
      to the AVRC in a fasting state. The 24 hour plasma sample will be drawn. Participants will
      then receive an observed dose of native Truvada. Participants will remain fasting for 2 hours
      after the observed ingestion and will have plasma samples drawn at 2, and 4 hours after
      ingestion.

      Samples will be analyzed for tenofovir and emtricitabine drug concentration levels either
      individually or in batches at the central specialized laboratory.
    
  