
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is a non-progressive, movement-limiting loss of permanent motor function,
      posture and movement disturbance in the developing brain due to lesion or injury that occurs
      during the intrauterine period or in the first months of life. Secondary medical problems
      such as epilepsy, mental retardation, behavior disorder, swallowing problems and
      musculoskeletal disorders may be seen in these patients. Neuroanatomical problems in the
      muscles associated with the mouth and speech, and the presence of central pathologies, are
      important problems in patients with cerebral palsy. Monitoring the communication level of
      these patients is very important for determining treatment protocols and monitoring their
      effectiveness. Difficulties in communication significantly affect the rate and level of
      recovery in patients with cerebral palsy. There are many different scales to analyze
      communication level and problems in children with cerebral palsy. The most commonly used ones
      are the Communication Function Classification System (CFCS) and the Functional Communication
      Classification System (FCCS). By examining the communication level in 5 categories in both
      scales, it helps to monitor the communicative development of the child and also provides a
      common language among clinicians. They are defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) and
      focus on the levels of activity and participation defined in the international classification
      of function, disability and health.

      The aim of this study was to evaluate the communication level in children over 2 years of age
      with cerebral palsy. In addition, the relationship between communication skills and general
      functional levels and demographic characteristics will be investigated. In this way, both the
      general communication level of this patient group and the possible factors affecting this
      skill will be analyzed. Thus, these relationships and measurements can be utilized in
      determining treatment and rehabilitation protocols.
    
  