
    
      Damage to the ACL is a common injury that usually requires surgical reconstruction to restore
      function and prevent progression of post-traumatic osteoarthritis. However, the
      reconstruction procedure frequently causes degenerative changes to the knee joint over time.
      The amount of tension applied to the ACL during reconstruction may indirectly affect the
      possible onset of arthritis over time. High tension would result in less joint motion during
      the initial healing stages, which may make the onset of arthritis less likely. On the other
      hand, high tension would result in increased compressive forces between the joint surfaces,
      which could lead to arthritis. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of initial
      graft tension set during ACL reconstruction surgery on joint cartilage and the development of
      knee arthritis over at least a 15-year period.

      Participants will include candidates for ACL reconstruction surgery using patellar tendon
      grafts. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups:

        -  Low tension (Group 1) participants will receive low-tension treatment with initial graft
           tension set so that the anterior-posterior (A-P) displacement of the reconstructed knee
           is equal to that of the uninjured knee.

        -  High-tension (Group 2) participants will receive high-tension treatment with initial
           graft tension set to reduce A-P displacement by 2 millimeters relative to that of the
           uninjured knee.

      Participants will enroll in this 15-year study 1 to 6 weeks prior to ACL surgery. There will
      be two preoperative study visits: one will include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and the
      other will include a knee evaluation, dynamic function testing, and questionnaires.
      Postoperative visits occurred immediately following surgery and at 6, 12, 36, 60, 84, 120,
      144 and 180 months following surgery. Strength testing, functional testing, x-rays,
      questionnaires, and a knee exam will occur at most postoperative visits. MRIs will occur at
      some postoperative visits. An additional group of participants with no evidence of knee
      injury will serve as a control. The control group will attend all study visits except for the
      12-month visit. All participants may be followed for up to 15 years.
    
  