
    
      The development of molecular targeted therapies (i.e., oral tyrosine kinase inhibitors
      [TKIs]) to treat chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is one of the great triumphs of modern
      oncology and one of the spearheads of personalized medicine. Since their introduction in
      2001, the number of people living with CML has doubled, a trend that is expected to continue.

      This study (i.e., LEONIDAS) is set up to generate evidence-based data and produce information
      that will advance scientific knowledge, clinical practice and health services management to
      facilitate clinical decision-making in CML.

      In an effort to further promote patient-centered care for CML a patient advocacy
      organization, that is the: CML Advocates Network, is involved in this project with key
      representatives who will be in the advisory board team. The CML Advocates Network, hosted by
      the patient-run, non-profit Leukemia Patient Advocates Foundation is a worldwide network of
      82 non-profit organizations from 63 countries supporting patients with CML and their
      relatives.

      Rationale and Significance Some ten years ago, the treatment of CML was relatively
      straightforward as all patients received imatinib as first-line treatment and for those who
      failed imatinib, the only available proven alternative was allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation. Nowadays, with three effective drugs (i.e., imatinib, nilotinib and
      dasatinib), that can be used frontline in newly diagnosed chronic phase (CP) CML patients,
      treatment decision-making for individual patients in daily clinical practice has thus rapidly
      grown in complexity. Moreover, a new tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), bosutinib, has been
      recently approved for as second-line treatment and undergoing clinical trials are assessing
      its efficacy as frontline strategy in CML.

      To further complicate the scenario, is the fact that despite nilotinib and dasatinib have
      been shown to have higher rates of cytogenetic and molecular responses (compared to
      imatinib), none of these three drugs is dramatically better than the others. To illustrate,
      only slightly differences exist in terms of progression-free survival for nilotinib and no
      differences for overall survival at 24 and/or 36 months amongst imatinib, dasatinib and
      nilotinib.

      Nevertheless, physician-reported toxicity data suggests these drugs have different toxicity
      profiles, with imatinib inducing a higher proportion of low-grade side effects than second
      generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) (i.e. nilotinib and dasatinib).

      While a wealth of biomedical and laboratory data exists on clinical efficacy of these three
      drugs, the impact of these from the patients' perspective, in terms of Quality of Life (QoL)
      and symptom burden, has been poorly investigated. No data exists on QoL of patients treated
      with nilotinib or dasatinib and it is not known if these drugs provide better QoL outcomes
      over imatinib when used as first line therapy. Such information would be critical in the
      current CML arena to make more informed treatment decisions. This is a significant gap in our
      knowledge with respect to the modern management of CML, also because, as long-term continuous
      exposure to the tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) is necessary, even low grade side effects
      can heavily impact on patients' QoL.

      Thus, the objective of this study is to investigate if differences exist (and in which areas
      and of what magnitude) in QoL and symptoms of patients with CML being treated with first line
      therapy with dasatinib versus those receiving first line therapy with imatinib, as well as
      characterizing medication-taking behavior associated with imatinib or dasatinib.
    
  