
    
      Six participants will be recruited in two groups of three participants. Each group will
      comprise three participants who receive the same 16-week intervention (B) and 5-week follow
      up (maintenance), but have different lengths of the baseline period (A). The participants
      will be randomly allocated to one of the two groups, then subsequently randomly allocated to
      a baseline of either 5, 8 or 11 weeks. All participants will begin the baseline phase during
      the same week. Concurrent enrolment will minimize environmental influences and enhance
      internal validity (Kazdin, 2011). Experimental control is demonstrated by using the staggered
      multiple-baseline design across the participants, which controls for threats to internal
      validity (e.g., history, maturation) (Kazdin, 2011). The added feature of randomisation
      strengthens the scientific rigor of the study (Kratochwill and Levin, 2010). The design also
      allows for three demonstrations of the experimental effect (i.e., increased PA following the
      introduction of the intervention, but not before), and replication in a second group of
      participants (Kazdin, 2011).

      During the baseline data collection period (A) participants will be encouraged to undertake
      their usual behaviour. Target behaviour measures (eg primary outcome measures) will be
      collected weekly during the baseline phase. Individual variability is addressed by repeated
      measurement of the target behaviour, and specifically, five data collection points within
      each phase is recommended to effectively evaluate a SCED intervention (Kratochwill et al.,
      2013).

      The 16-week intervention period (B) comprises 12 one-hour intervention sessions (described
      below). An Accredited Exercise Physiologist (AEP) with experience in exercise prescription
      for individuals with a disability and behaviour change strategies associated with increasing
      PA will deliver the intervention. During the intervention period, the target behaviour
      measures will be collected fortnightly.

      The intervention phase will be followed by a 5-week follow up phase where participants will
      have no contact with the AEP and target behaviour measures will be collected weekly. The
      maintenance component allows the target behavior to be monitored after the completion of the
      intervention, with the expectation that the target behavior will not revert to baseline
      levels after the intervention completion (Tate et al., 2015).

      Generalisation measures (eg secondary outcome measures) will be collected at the commencement
      and finish of the baseline data collection period (which coincides with the intervention
      start point), at the end of the intervention period (which coincides with the commencement of
      the maintenance period), and at the end of the maintenance period; totalling 4 sampling
      points throughout the study duration.
    
  