
    
      NASA and NSBRI are making considerable investment in a bedrest study being conducted at the
      Cleveland Clinic Foundation under the directorship of Peter Cavanaugh, primarily to assess
      the impact of exercise on prevention of osteoporosis in a twelve-week bedrest study to
      simulate microgravity. This provides an outstanding opportunity for synergistic add-on
      studies to combine the resources of the bone team of NSBRI with those of the Cardiovascular
      Alterations and Smart Medicine by conducting a series of detailed echocardiographic and
      computed tomographic examinations of the heart in these patients. These studies will serve to
      advance a number of the specific aims of a grant currently held by James D. Thomas from NSBRI
      concerning both the primary effects of microgravity on the heart and its reversal with
      exercise as well as the ability to prove out new echocardiographic methods for measuring the
      cardiac response to exercise. Finally, they will provide an excellent opportunity to prove
      out methodologies being developed for remote delivery of healthcare by image fusion from
      free-flight studies to in-flight echoes.

      We will to pursue the following specific aims with this synergistic study:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the impact of bedrest on cardiac atrophy, stiffening of the left
      ventricular diastolic pressure volume curve, and exercise tolerance and ventricular mechanics
      and demonstrate at least partial prevention of these changes with the proposed exercise
      prescription.

      Specific Aim 2: To demonstrate the ability of novel echocardiographic indices of ventricular
      function (strain, torsion, IVPG) to predict functional capacity and response to exercise.

      Specific Aim 3: To test whether pre-bedrest MRI examinations could be co-registered with
      bedrest 3D echocardiographic exams to track atrophy and altered cardiac anatomy. The ability
      of detailed 3D ground examinations to be compared precisely with in-flight 3D echos is a key
      goal of autonomous medical care system for expedition class missions.

      Proposed Protocol (summary):

      Pre-bedrest (within 1-3 weeks prior):

        1. Resting two and three-dimensional echocardiogram.

        2. Maximal supine bicycle test with echocardiographic assessment of wall motion, tissue
           strain, tissue torsion, and intraventricular pressure gradients (IVPG) by color M-mode
           flow propagation. In addition to the peak exercise assessment, we will also focus on the
           submaximal level (heart rate ~100).

        3. MRI examination of the heart for LV volume and mass and subsequent cross registration
           with echocardiogram.

      Six weeks of bedrest:

        1. Resting two and three-dimensional echo exam.

        2. Low-level supine bicycle exercise echo (HR no greater than 100) with torsion, strain,
           and IVPG assessment.

      Twelve weeks of bedrest:

        1. Resting two and three-dimensional echo.

        2. Maximal supine bicycle test with echocardiographic assessment of wall motion, tissue
           strain, tissue torsion, and IVPG.

        3. MRI examination of the heart.

      As part of the overall bedrest protocol (IRB 6504), patients will be randomized either to
      complete bedrest with negative tilt vs. those who will undergo daily horizontal treadmill
      exercise to replace the calcaneus impact measured pre-bedrest in the same subjects. This
      provides an excellent opportunity for assessing the impact of this degree in type of exercise
      on the cardiovascular system.

      The specific aims of this synergistic study will be answered as follows:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the impact of bedrest on cardiac atrophy, stiffening of the left
      ventricular diastolic pressure volume curve, and exercise tolerance and ventricular mechanics
      and demonstrate at least partial prevention of these changes with the proposed exercise
      prescription.

      LV mass will be measured by MRI pre- and post-bedrest and by 3D echo at bedrest stages.
      Two-way linear regression will be used to determine change over time in LV mass and to
      compare the response to exercise. Similarly, exercise capacity will be analyzed. Among the LV
      mechanics parameters that will be available for analysis at all 3 data acquisition points
      are: (resting) LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volume, left atrial volume, transmitral E
      and A waves and E-wave deceleration time, Doppler tissue annular E, A, and S waves, radial,
      circumferential, and longitudinal strain at the midventricular level, LV torsion and peak
      untwisting rate, and color M-mode IVPG. These same parameters will also be available for
      analysis during low-level (HR 100) bicycle exercise.

      Specific Aim 2: To demonstrate the ability of novel echocardiographic indices of ventricular
      function at rest (strain, torsion, IVPG) to predict functional capacity and response to
      exercise.

      Strain, torsion, and IVPG will be assessed at all stages and correlated with changes in
      cardiac atrophy parameters (LV mass and volumes).

      Specific Aim 3: To test whether pre/post bedrest MRI examinations can be co-registered with
      bedrest 3D echocardiographic exams to track atrophy and altered cardiac anatomy. The ability
      of detailed 3D ground examinations to be compared precisely with in-flight 3D echos is a key
      goal of autonomous medical care system for expedition class missions.
    
  