
    
      The study we will include (98) pregnant women attending for cesarean delivery in the Kasr
      Elaini hospital (faculty of medicine - Cairo university).After signing informed written
      consent, all participants will be subjected to: Full medical history(including full obstetric
      history and current pregnancy history and the 1st day of last menstrual period), thorough
      clinical examination (general and full obstetric examination), obstetric ultrasonography (to
      confirm gestational age and the eligibility of the current pregnancy to participate in the
      study) and preoperative laboratory tests (including prothrombin time, prothrombin
      concentration, complete blood count, and liver and kidney function tests).

      Group allocation: On the day of the cesarean delivery, participants will be randomly assigned
      in a 1:1 ratio into two groups; group A (Rectal misoprostol) and group B (Intrauterine
      misoprostol). Randomization will be performed using computer-generated random numbers and
      only the participants will be masked to the group allocation.

      Group A (Rectal misoprostol - n=49) will receive 400 microgram misoprostol rectally
      preoperatively with urinary catheter insertion while group B (Intrauterine misoprostol n=49)
      will receive 400 microgram misoprostol (cytotec, Pfizer, G.D. Searle LLC) inserted
      intrauterine (200 microgram at each cornu) intraoperatively following the delivery of the
      placenta.

      Following the delivery of the baby, patients in both groups will receive an intravenous bolus
      of 5 IU oxytocin (Syntocinon, Novartis, Basel, Switzerland) and 20 IU oxytocin in 500 mL
      lactated Ringer's solution (infused at a rate of 125 mL/h).

      All cesarean sections will be done under spinal anesthesia by the following operative steps:
      pfannenstiel incision, transverse lower uterine segment incision, immediate cord clamping (<
      30 seconds) and the placenta will be removed by controlled cord traction after its
      spontaneous separation, closure of uterus in 2 layers, closure of anterior abdominal wall in
      anatomical manner (adequate hemostasis will be ensured in all operative steps).

      The number and the difference of weight of operative towels (before and after CS) and amount
      of blood in suction unit will be recorded.

      The estimated blood loss for each patient will be measured and data of both groups will be
      compared.

      In group A, the time interval between rectal misoprostol insertion and fetal delivery will be
      recorded together with the neonatal outcome (APGAR at 1 and 5 minutes, NICU admission and
      neonatal death).

      Fluid monitoring will be performed through rate of infusion and urine output. A complete
      blood count test will be performed 12 hours after delivery.

      All patients will be followed up for 24 hours following the delivery as regard occurrence of
      primary postpartum hemorrhage, the need for blood transfusion, misoprostol-related side
      effects in the first 6 hours (i.e. shivering, pyrexia more than 38 degree Centigrate,
      headache, nausea, vomiting with or without the need for anti-emetic drugs).
    
  