
    
      It is intended that the specific detection and individualized approach to neuromuscular
      deficiencies will decrease the prevalence of injuries and accidents and therefore, the
      performance of training basketball players will be improved. The purpose of this study was to
      evaluate and detect federated youth basketball players' (under 12 years until under 17 years)
      neuromuscular deficits in mobility, stability and landing technique in static and dynamic
      situations similar to simulate the most important actions of basketball demands.

      This cross-sectional study was conducted from October 2018 to May 2019. A total of 778
      basketball players were selected for the present study. In order to evaluate this specific
      tests and trials will be carried out on different teams from various clubs in the categories
      from under 12 years (U12) to under 17 (U17), both male and female. The evaluations will
      consist of a static physical measures and a dynamic one. These will be conducted throughout
      the season. Inclusion criteria were: age > 12 years and <18 years at testing, and to be
      actively competing during the study. Subjects were excluded if they had suffered any injury
      in lower limbs before the screening; presented any injury (overuse or acute) at the time of
      testing or if they suffered any oncological, psychological and/or psychiatric illnesses, or
      if they did not attend on the day of the assessment. The main outcomes were ankle joint
      dorsiflexion was analyzed with Weight-bearing Dorsiflexion Test; monopodial ankle stability
      was analyzed with Single Leg Balance Test. Dynamic lower extremity valgus was analyzed with
      Single Leg Squat Test, Modified Tuck Jump Test, Single Leg Squat Test and Hurdle Step Test
      were used to evaluate also Lumbopelvic stability and dynamic postural control. Neuromuscular
      deficits during continuous tuck jumps, landing technique flaws and Plyometric Technique were
      analyzed with Modified Tuck Jump Test. All these tests are scientifically validated for this
      purpose. All players were familiar with the procedures of all test before. Testing was
      performed in the same day, in the same order, at the same time of the day (18:00-20:00).
    
  