
    
      Incidence of non-hospital cardio-respiratory arrest (ACR) in France is around 40 000 cases
      per year, with mortality remaining very high, with 75% of patients dying before arrival in
      hospital. This disease is associated with a high morbidity since today the investigator find
      less than 5% survival at 1 year with a favorable neurological outcome.

      The recommendations of ILCOR 2015 underline in this case the importance of implementing
      therapeutic measures in the extra-hospital step. Indeed, the survival of ACR patients will
      depend mainly on the alert delay at the UAS center, the immediate implementation of
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) maneuvers and the early delivery of external electric
      shock.

      The investigators know some validated predictive factors for recovery of spontaneous cardiac
      activity (RACS) such as age, no flow (time between ACR and onset of CPR), type of initial
      electrical activity (FV, TVSP), or the value of CO2 expired.

      However, the use of these prognostic criteria in the conduct of CPR maneuvering is in
      practice limited.

      Today, none of these prognostic factors allow us to adapt the cardiopulmonary resuscitation
      maneuvers to the different clinical situations, and it is recognized that a CPR must be
      carried out for 30 minutes in all cases.

      On the basis of these data, it seemed important to investigate other predictive factors for
      RACS, which would remain simple to implement, and allow case-by-case customization the
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

      Lactate is now a well-known prognostic biological marker used in many pathological conditions
      such as shock states or the severe traumatized patient. Some data have also demonstrated the
      prognostic value of lactate on morbidity and mortality after ACR after resumption of
      spontaneous cardiac activity. Unfortunately, all of these studies were carried out
      intra-hospital. To date, no prospective study has demonstrated the prognostic value of a
      lactate assay as soon as the pre-hospital medical team arrives and during pre-hospital
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

      An experimental study published in the American Journal of Emergency Medicine in 1985,
      however, suggests that early evaluation of lactate in the course of cardiac arrest may be a
      valuable prognostic factor. Indeed, in this study on canine cardiac arrest experimental
      model, Donna et al found that the lactate concentration would reliably predict the no-flow
      describing an linear increase of lactate as a function of the no-flow duration. If these
      results can be extrapolated to humans, lactate measurement from the arrival of the
      pre-hospital medical team could provide an estimate of the no-flow period and therefore a
      reliable and easily reproducible predictive factor for RACS .

      In addition, improvements in biomedical equipment allow us to perform lactate assays directly
      at the patient's bedside, with reliable results in just 13 seconds.

      The hypothesis of our study is that the evaluation of the initial lactate in the early
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation could be a prognostic factor of RACS.

      For this purpose, the investigators propose to carry out a prospective, open, multicenter
      intervention study in different SMURs in the PACA region, in France.
    
  