
    
      Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a prevalent, chronic musculoskeletal pain disorder. Despite
      extensive study, researchers do not understand well the etiology and pathophysiologic
      mechanisms of FMS, and have not shown any treatment to be universally effective. We propose
      that FMS is a complex disorder involving multiple factors, both physical and
      psychosocial-behavioral.

      In our previous research, we demonstrated that FMS patients are heterogeneous in the
      psychosocial-behavioral axis and can be classified into three distinct subgroups on the basis
      of their psychosocial adaptation to symptoms. In this study we will extend our previous
      research and attempt to match treatments to patients' psychosocial-behavioral
      characteristics. Specifically, we will test the efficacy of uniquely tailored treatment for
      each psychosocial subgroup.

      We will treat three groups of FMS patients with one of three treatment protocols involving
      standard physical therapy and varying psychological treatments. A total of 312 FMS patients
      will undergo six half-day interdisciplinary treatment sessions consisting of psychological
      treatments and physical therapy emphasizing aerobic conditioning, pacing, and body mechanics.
      All protocols include a standardized physical therapy and either cognitive-behavioral pain
      management therapy, interpersonal skill training, or supportive counseling.

      In addition to the treatment outcome study, we will prospectively assess various symptoms of
      FMS in the patients' natural habitats to better understand covariations of FMS symptoms.
      Patients will do repeated daily monitoring using a palm-top computer (ecological momentary
      assessment), which will permit us to evaluate process ratings compared to retrospective
      reports.

      Overall, the results of these studies should establish the benefit of matching treatments to
      patient characteristics and enhance our understanding of the roles of
      cognitive-affective-behavioral adaptation by people with FMS.
    
  