
    
      Recurrent transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a consolidated procedure for the
      treatment of depression, with several meta-analyzes demonstrating its efficacy. The
      theta-burst stimulation (TBS) method is a modification of the usual rTMS protocol. As a new
      protocol, there are still few studies evaluating its efficacy in treatment of major
      depression, although a recently published meta-analysis has pointed to benefits of this
      therapeutic modality. To date, there are no studies published with this method for the
      treatment of geriatric depression. This study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of theta-burst rTMS in the treatment of
      major depressive disorder in the elderly, randomizing 108 subjects to the experimental (TBS)
      and comparative (sham) groups. The coil will be positioned in the dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex, with intermittent TBS (iTBS, stimulatory) mode on the left and continuous TBS (cTBS,
      inhibitory) on the right. Stimulation protocol consists of 1800 pulses on each brain
      hemisphere, totaling a ten minutes session. There will be 20 consecutive sessions, one a day,
      except on weekends and holidays. The cycle of continuous intervention will last approximately
      four weeks, after which applications with the same technique will be performed at the end of
      weeks 6, 8 and 12. Clinical outcome measures will be obtained on eight occasions: treatment
      baseline, and after 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 weeks of onset. The main clinical outcome will be
      measured using the Hamilton Depression Scale (HDRS), comparing baseline scores with those
      obtained after 6 weeks of treatment. As secondary endpoints, we will use the Global Clinical
      Impression Scale (CGI), the CIRS (Cumulative Illness Rating Scale), the Geriatric Depression
      Scale (GDS), the intermediate scores obtained on the HDRS scale, the Positive and Negative
      Affect Scale (PANAS), the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and variations
      in serum BDNF concentrations; all these evaluation tools have validated versions in
      Portuguese. As tolerability and safety parameters, the incidence of adverse events and the
      occurrence of manic/hypomanic symptoms will be evaluated by the Young Mania Scale (YMRS). TBS
      stimulation will be evaluated in terms of safety, tolerability and effectiveness for the
      treatment of major depression in the elderly, possibly becoming another therapeutic option
      useful for patients with poor response or contraindications to the use of antidepressants.
    
  