
    
      All patients will receive 2x10^6 cells/kg on days 1 and day 7 (if needed). The study will be
      divided in 2 phases. In the first phase, 10 patients will be included and randomized to 2
      groups (5 Treatment arm; 5 Control Arm) and receive 2 x10^6 cells/kg MSCs on days 1 and 7 in
      addition to standard care. Thereafter, the trial committee will meet and evaluate all
      collected safety and efficacy information to decide about crossover of Control arm to
      treatment arm if patient deteriorates clinically while in Control arm. Then, 10 new subjects
      will be included in the study and treated according to protocol.

      Preparation of MSCs doses MSCs will be isolated from bone marrow harvested cells. About 50ml
      bone marrow will be collected from iliac crest using aseptic technique in syringes primed
      with anticoagulant. The collected sample will be diluted with Phosphate Buffer Saline (PBS)
      and MSCs will be separated using density gradient centrifugation. After resuspension the
      cells will be seeded at a fixed concentration of 100,000 cells/cm2 in specially designed
      flasks and incubated at 37oC in 5% carbondioxide (CO2). Medium will be changed after every
      third day till harvesting of MSCs from the flasks. Once confluent (approximately day 20) the
      cells will be harvested with sterile techniques using Trypsin- Ethylenediaminetetraacetic
      acid ( EDTA ) solution. The prepared cells can either be stored in 50ml cryogenic vials for
      future use or infused immediately.

      Patient Selection and MSCs demand Patient for MSCs and Control arm will be selected by
      multidisciplinary team (MDT) comprising Critical Care Specialist, Pulmonologist, Infectious
      Disease Specialist, Clinical Hematologist.

        1. Demand for MSCs will be initiated on pre-designated forms , signed by Critical care
           Specialist Clearly indicating indication of MSCs.

        2. Request form will be sent Stem Cell Lab.

        3. Incharge stem Cell Lab will authorize issuance of the MSCs dose.

        4. Stem Cell Lab will issue the dose Administration of MSCs

      1. Experimental arm: Frozen MSCs will be resuspended in 100ml normal saline for immediate use
      and given intravenously. The patients should be pre-medicated to avoid allergic reactions to
      third party MSCs. Each patient in Experimental arm will be given 2 x 106 cells/kg will be
      administered on day 1,7 in addition to supportive care 2. Control Arm: Will be Continued on
      supportive care

      Proposed usage:

      Because of the very limited availability of MSCs, their usage has to be rationalized by MDT
      comprising of pulmonologist, critical care specialist and clinical haematologist and
      Infectious disease specialist.There is not enough evidence to put forth therapeutic
      recommendations however, treatment decisions can be made on case to case basis after MDT.
    
  