
    
      Childhood malnutrition is presently a leading cause of underfive morbidity and mortality
      globally. The impact of the condition is most severe in the first 1000 days of life with
      resultant impairment in physical, neurologic, immunologic and metabolic development.

      Undernutrition, the commoner form of childhood malnutrition, is usually classified as
      underweight (weight-for-age Z score < -2), stunting (height-for-age Z score <-2), wasting
      (weight-for-height Z score < -2) or edematous malnutrition (kwashiorkor) in relation to the
      World Health Organization standard reference values for age and sex. It is further
      sub-classified into severe acute malnutrition (SAM) wherein z score is <-3 and moderate acute
      malnutrition (MAM) wherein z score is between -2 and -3.(1) MAM accounts for about 70.0% of
      all malnutrition-related childhood deaths.

      Children with MAM are currently managed using community-based approach. This approach entails
      early detection and treatment of children with MAM in the community, timely referral to
      inpatient care for those that progress to SAM or develop complications, and subsequent follow
      up in the community at discharge. MAM is usually managed by nutrition education of the
      caregivers on preparation of nutritious, palatable and culturally acceptable food from
      locally available food stuffs like banana porridge or corn gruel fortified with legume
      (mashed groundnut or soya bean), crayfish, palm oil, powdered milk and vegetables. The second
      strategy is by Ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTFs). (2) The main drawback of the RUTFs is
      that they are usually provided by external donor agencies and as such, not always available
      in settings where childhood malnutrition is endemic. Children treated with RUTFs are
      therefore at risk of progressing to SAM or dying when the formulations are no longer
      available. There is currently no consensus on the appropriate nutritional formulation for
      community-based management of MAM in children in endemic regions. It is therefore imperative
      to evaluate the effect of readily available formulations that are comparable to the RUTFs in
      community-based management of childhood MAM in endemic regions. (3) The standardized
      milk-based formulation (SMBF), the standardized non milk-based formulation (SNMBF) and the
      hospital-based formulation (HBF) are examples of formulations that are readily available in
      the country. The SMBF consists of maize and is rich in methionine, the SNMBF consists of
      maize and soybeans, and is rich in methionine and lysine while the HBF consist of a
      combination of maize, milk and soybeans. The nutrient composition of the above-mentioned
      formulations is similar to that of the RUTFs, making them suitable for community-based
      management of MAM. However, no clinical trial has so far been conducted to evaluate their
      effect in managing underfive children with MAM. The cost effectiveness of the various
      formulations will also be assessed.
    
  