
    
      This is a prospective randomized clinical trial. Patients with SLE (ACR criteria, 1997)
      treated at Rheumatology Division out-patient clinic of a university hospital were enrolled. A
      sample of 80 patients was assessed at the beginning of the study (baseline) and will be
      re-evaluated after 20 weeks (final) by clinical and psychological scales. Patients were
      randomized by computer program and divided into experimental group (EG) and control group
      (CG). Patients of both groups continued their medical treatment at the clinic. EG will be
      treated with BGPP for 20 sessions once a week for 20 consecutive weeks in small groups. The
      control group will be on a waiting list until the end of the study and will be treated
      subsequently.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Female gender

        -  Four or more ACR criteria for classification of SLE

        -  Age above 18 years

        -  Follow-up at the clinic for at least 6 months

      Exclusion criteria :

        -  Illiterate patients

        -  Mental or physical comorbidities that compromise their participation

      Evaluation:

      The following scales (adapted and validated for Portuguese Language) were being applied for a
      blinded evaluator to assess patients at baseline and after 20 weeks:

        -  Systemic Lupus International Disease Activity - SLEDAI Bombardier,1992);

        -  Systemic Symptom Checklist (SSC)(Freire, 2008);

        -  Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Quality of Life - SLEQOL (Freire, 2008);

        -  Coping strategies inventory of Folkman and Lazarus (Savoia,1996).

        -  Hospital Anxiety and Depression (Botega, 1995);

        -  Vital events scale of Holmes and Rahe (1967) (Savoia, 1995) and

      Comparisons inter and intra groups were being analyzed using the Q square test for
      categorical variables and Student's t test, Mann-Whitney, Wilcoxon or ANOVA for quantitative
      variables. P values <0.05 will be considered as significant.
    
  