
    
      Obtain and analyze in-vivo EEG data in participants ages 50-65 showing early onset
      symptomology of MCI for the purpose of guiding patient management and developing intervention
      methods for improving overall health outcomes for this segment of the population. Both
      healthy and symptomatic groups will be populated by participants with previous PET
      amyloid-beta (Aβ) imaging scans. Incorporate WAVi brain scan technology which has proven
      effective in assessing cases of mTBI.

      Quantitative electroencephalograph (qEEG) is a non-invasive assessment which records
      multi-channel EEG event-related potentials (ERPs) and a comprehensive multi-dimensional
      analysis of such recordings by advanced algorithms aimed at understanding and visualizing the
      network complexity of brain function. Our goal is to compare assessments from both
      symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals to further develop differential diagnoses in the
      early-most stages of preclinical AD. Expounding upon an investigative technique that has
      shown promise in identifying region-specific abnormalities in concussed patients not only
      allows us to take advantage of an existing framework which provides a clear and elegant
      topographical output but also establishes a repeatable metric for quantifying MCI related
      dysfunction. Abiding by the measures within the existing framework contributes to a more
      standardized neurodiagnostic approach for dementia-related pathologies and supports
      continuity of care.

      Ultimately this neurophysiological assessment will shed new light on the progression of
      cognitive impairment and the response of developing therapeutic interventions for a variety
      of neurologic, psychiatric and behavioral conditions. The WAVi system uses algorithms and
      sets of signal processing and pattern recognition techniques to seek and map activated neural
      pathways in task-related data points with respect to time, location, amplitude, and
      frequency. By projecting the individual data points into clusters, they reveal
      three-dimensional images of brain network activation patterns which represent high resolution
      functional neural pathways. These brain network patterns and scores can aid clinicians with
      profiling of brain functionality in comparison to the reference brain network model to assess
      similarity to normal brain functioning. Measuring alterations in functionality and/or
      dysfunctionality can potentially assist treatment courses following changes in disease
      progression. When combined with data supplied from information from self-reported and
      observed cognitive and behavior patterns clarity arises with respect to brain processes and
      determination of the medical condition.

      For this investigation we will evaluate the ability of qEEG P300 and P50 waveform amplitudes
      and auditory response times to differentiate healthy aging individuals from those developing
      MCI characteristics. WAVi recording in the awake-responding state is an ideal low-cost and
      non-invasive methodology with a high temporal resolution (milliseconds) that provides an
      optimal investigational tool for the emerging features of brain pathophysiology. These
      procedures are well-tolerated by patients, unaffected by task difficulty and are widely
      available to all subpopulations, even those traditionally underrepresented in clinical study.
      Additionally, they can be repeated over time without habituation effects.

      Aim 1 determines individual baseline qEEG P300/P50 amplitudes and auditory response times in
      a population of healthy participants ages 50-65 without a history of dementia that have
      previously received PET scan imaging. Assess the population mean, median and variability. If
      possible, a subset will be retested at a standard interval to determine test-retest
      reliability for this instrument.

      Aim 2 evaluates the ability of qEEG P300 amplitudes and auditory response times to
      discriminate between aged participants with MCI/preclinical AD symptoms and healthy
      participants of similar age.

      Aim 3 evaluates the ability of qEEG P50 amplitudes to discriminate between aged participants
      with MCI/preclinical AD symptoms and healthy participants of similar age.

      Aim 4 confirms the efficacy of qEEG/amyloid plaque loading correlation with previous PET scan
      imaging data.
    
  