
    
      Boston Medical Center's Specialty Pharmacy Adherence Program (B-SPAP) will focus on improving
      adherence and persistence through the implementation of a high-touch program. In order to be
      eligible for the program, patients must be initiated on oral chemotherapy or targeted therapy
      with a life expectancy >6 months. All patients will be administered a Patient Activation
      Measure (PAM) 13 survey prior to consultation. Patients eligible for our program will receive
      a 30-60 minute pharmacist consultation prior to initiation of treatment. The pharmacy
      consultation includes, but is not limited to the dissemination of medical information
      utilizing a standardized counseling checklist, supplying of patient education materials,
      pharmacist-led interventions, and/or the use of other materials or devices that may improve
      patient adherence. All counseling checklists and monitoring will be standardized and approved
      by a multidisciplinary oncology team. At week 1, 2, and 4, patients will be contacted by the
      pharmacist for an assessment of treatment goals; monthly contacts will continue thereafter by
      either a specialty pharmacist or certified pharmacy technician. Scheduled follow up visits
      with the consulting pharmacist will be made at months 3, 6 and 12. Prior to the scheduled
      pharmacist consultation, patients will be administered the PAM 13 survey. Patients with a
      treatment gap >37 days will be referred to the consulting pharmacist for follow up. The
      consulting pharmacist will attempt to contact the patient via telephone for an assessment of
      adherence and adverse drug-related events. If patients experience a treatment gap >45, then
      the patient will be contacted and scheduled for a pharmacist consultation, additionally, the
      prescribing provider will be notified. All consultations and interventions will be documented
      in the hospital's electronic medical record system, EPIC®.
    
  