
    
      Despite advances in detection and treatment of coronary artery disease, and numerous
      campaigns to promote healthier lifestyles, ischaemic heart disease (IHD) remains very common
      worldwide but particularly in the West of Scotland. Following a heart attack, the main
      pumping chamber - the left ventricle (LV) - will be significantly damaged in around 40% of
      patients to the extent that it fails to pump as effectively as before. Despite current
      medical treatment, this failing LV slowly but continuously deteriorates with time (this is
      known as LV remodelling), which can lead to "heart failure".

      Eplerenone, a hormone blocker (aldosterone antagonist), has been shown to reduce death rates
      and improve symptoms in patients with acute heart attacks - or myocardial infarctions (MI)-
      who additionally have impaired LV function and heart failure (or diabetes). The researchers
      assume that eplerenone may exert some of these beneficial effects by preventing or reducing
      this LV remodelling process.

      Cardiac MRI provides very accurate assessment of LV function, such that small numbers of
      patients only are required to detect differences in LV function over time when comparing one
      group against another. The researchers are therefore comparing sequential cardiac MRI
      appearances and measurements in patients with acute MI and LV impairment at baseline (within
      2 weeks of the acute MI), 3 months and 6 months. After the first MRI scan, patients are
      assigned to eplerenone or placebo in addition to usual secondary preventive therapy
      (double-blinded), which continues for 6 months, after which each patient's involvement in the
      trial is finished.

      As eplerenone has been shown to benefit those with acute MI plus LV impairment and heart
      failure (or diabetes), such patients cannot ethically be put into a trial in which they may
      potentially be placed in a placebo group. For this reason, a slightly different cohort of
      patients are being used - acute MI with LV impairment but without clinical heart failure or
      diabetes.
    
  