
    
      First, patients with Meije Duo ™sizes 1 or 2, who had surgery from 2007 to 2014, will be
      preselected on medical records.

      The information notice will be sent to them by post. A period of reflection will be respected
      before contacting the patient to answer their questions concerning the research and its
      progress and obtain their oral consent to participate in the study.

      After obtaining consent, investigators will enter the retrospective data collected in the
      medical and prospective file collected during this call.

      Patients with at least one of the following criteria: weight> 60 kg and / or long neck /
      varus and / or DEVANE score ≥ 4, will be selected to have a hip X-ray which will be specially
      scheduled for the study.

      This examination will tell us about the state of the prosthesis and of the underlying bone
      (broken stem, loosening of the implant, bone fracture, dislocation, border, etc.

      It can be performed in our radiology department of the Diaconesses Croix Saint Simon hospital
      group or in another radiological center chosen by the patient if the latter cannot come to
      our hospital. In this case, a prescription for a hip X-ray will be sent to him by post to his
      current address as well as an information letter intended for the radiology office.

      The patients who will be included in the study are implanted with Meije Duo ™ 1 and 2 between
      2007 to 2014 and will all have a minimum follow-up of 4 years from the date of implantation.
      The maximum number of rupture complications is observed between the fourth and the eleventh
      year after fitting the prosthesis. All participants will therefore have a minimum of
      hindsight required for the evaluation of stem breaks. All of our patients will be contacted
      by telephone during the study period in chronological order of their previous management for
      obtaining consent, prospective data and for scheduling the hip radiography according to the
      criteria mentioned above.
    
  