
    
      Insulin resistance (IR) is consistently found in patients with type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and
      pathophysiologically links T1DM with atherosclerotic disease. IR and nascent atherosclerosis,
      as characterized by endothelial dysfunction, are present early in T1DM. Although
      atherosclerosis leads to cardiovascular disease (CVD)-the predominant cause of death in
      T1DM-the early cardiometabolic processes driving atherosclerosis are not currently
      well-characterized. My overarching hypothesis is that IR and endothelial dysfunction in T1DM
      are, in part, iatrogenic, occurring as a function of nonphysiologic insulin delivery.

      Previous research shows IR in T1DM is closely related to iatrogenic hyperinsulinemia.
      Iatrogenic hyperinsulinemia in T1DM results from injecting insulin into subcutaneous tissue
      rather than delivering insulin more physiologically into the hepatic portal vein.
      Hyperinsulinemia, per se, is closely linked with IR and independently predicts CVD in
      diabetic and nondiabetic populations. Thus, peripheral insulin delivery brings about
      unintended adverse cardiometabolic consequences in T1DM. The investigators propose a
      practical intervention to diminish iatrogenic hyperinsulinemia and thereby mitigate CVD risk.
      The investigators hypothesize that a reduction in iatrogenic hyperinsulinemia brought about
      by a low carbohydrate diet (LCD) will independently correlate with improved insulin
      sensitivity (Aim 1) and endothelial function (Aim 2).

      In this pilot study, the investigators will mechanistically dissect the contribution of
      iatrogenic hyperinsulinemia to IR and endothelial dysfunction in 8 adults with T1DM using a
      crossover study of LCD vs. standard carbohydrate diet (SCD) to experimentally modify
      hyperinsulinemia. The investigators will quantify insulin sensitivity using hyperinsulinemic,
      euglycemic clamps and measure endothelium-dependent flow mediated vasodilation using
      high-resolution ultrasound.
    
  