
    
      This 1-day, manualized clinical intervention includes a parent group and an adolescent group
      that run simultaneously, but separately. This program will be offered 4 times per calendar
      year. The program is 6-hours long and was run at an urban, Midwest children's hospital on a
      weekend day to maximize accessibility for families. Each group will include between 8 and 12
      adolescents (ages 11-17 years) and 15-21 parents. The groups will be staffed by two PhD-level
      psychologists (one for the parent and one for the adolescent group), a psychology
      postdoctoral fellow, and nurse practitioner, one or two trained study assistants (e.g.,
      psychology interns, nurse coordinator) who provide support, but not intervention content.

      The adolescent program includes motivational interviewing, psychoeducation, and structured
      activities that emphasize the link between pain, negative cognitions (i.e., catastrophizing),
      avoidance behaviors, and mood. About one third of the day is devoted to in vivo practice of
      relaxation-based skills including diaphragmatic breathing, guided imagery, pain-reduction
      visualization, and biofeedback. Additionally, adolescents participate in several hands-on
      activities designed to enhance mind-body regulation including mindfulness practice (eating
      mindfully), art therapy, and aromatherapy. Adolescents complete interactive workbooks
      throughout the program; at the end of the day, each adolescent works one-on-one with staff to
      create a written and personalized pain management plan emphasizing the adaptive coping
      strategies each adolescent preferred during the day. Adolescents were additionally provided
      with a pain management tool kit inclusive of recorded relaxation exercises, a biofeedback
      card, and other small tools to enhance their pain management regimen.

      The parent program includes psychoeducation regarding pain in the context of adolescent
      development, didactic and vignette-based practice of an adaptive parent communication
      response style (i.e., reflective listening), and concrete tools for setting up behavior plans
      to scaffold an adolescent's return to function for school, sleep, daily activities, and
      exercise. All parents are provided with a take-home workbook inclusive of neuroscience and
      psychoeducational materials as well as a list of resources to further solidify the
      information they learned.

      In addition there will be peer support for parents and adolescents in this program. During
      the 1 day intervention families and youth will be encouraged to share discussions regarding
      their health journeys. A guest speaker will be invited to both groups sharing their
      experiences and journey of utilizing psychologically based interventions to assist with
      reducing pain and stress and associated disability. These speakers have not received training
      for this portion.
    
  