
    
      iTRAP is an open-label, multi-centre, dose escalation study of ADI PEG20 in combination with
      atezolizumab, pemetrexed and carboplatin in patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC (stage
      IIIB/IV). Patients will initially receive 4 cycles of ADI PEG20 in combination with
      atezolizumab, pemetrexed and carboplatin unless there is documented disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicities. On completion of 4 cycles and in the absence of disease progression
      requiring other therapeutic interventions, patients may receive additional cycles of ADI
      PEG20 and/or atezolizumab and/or pemetrexed for up to a maximum of 2 years at the discretion
      of the treating physician.

      Dose escalation will occur using a 3 + 3 design. The trial will start at dose level 1, which
      represents 100% of the recommended dose of carboplatin (AUC5) and pemetrexed (500mg/m2) when
      given as a combination, 100% of the atezolizumab recommended dose (1200mg) and 50% of the
      recommended single agent dose of ADI PEG20 (18mg/m2). ADI PEG20 doses will be increased
      according to pre-planned dose escalations.

      If the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached with the first 6 patients, up to an additional
      6 patients will be enrolled at the MTD. The MTD is defined as the dose level below that at
      which 2/3 or ≥3/6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT).

      The maximum administered dose (MAD) may also equal the MTD if dose escalation is stopped
      before two DLTs are observed at a given dose level due to the expectation that higher dose
      levels would be too toxic to administer to patients or the maximum planned dose level has
      been achieved.

      The MTD will be determined following review of all the relevant toxicity data by the Safety
      Review Committee (SRC).

      If dose level 1 equals the MAD then dose level -1 may be investigated with a 50% reduction in
      ADI PEG20 (9mg/m2) along with atezolizumab 1200mg, carboplatin AUC5, and pemetrexed 500mg/m2.
    
  