
    
      The devices using EEG are commonly used for measuring the depth of consciousness during
      anesthesia. However, the existing devices are largely dependent on the biphasic analysis of
      1-channel EEG signals, and thus do not provide proper information for anesthetic depth.

      Recent study reported that the complexity or diversity of communication between the brain
      regions is related to the level of consciousness. In particular, during anesthesia, the phase
      synchronization (phase shift) between EEG signals at the front of the brain increases,
      indicating a reduction in communication diversity and a close relationship with loss of
      consciousness. Therefore, to predict the depth of sleep, a technique for precisely
      quantifying the complexity of inter-domain communication in the frontal brain is needed.
      Recently, PLEM™ (Inbody co., ltd, Republic of Korea), developed using the phase lag entropy
      (PLE), is a 4-channel EEG monitoring device that measures the entropy of the phase difference
      pattern between two channels of prefrontal and frontal brain. In addition, PLEM™ is able to
      observe changes in band power of EEG (Gamma, Beta, Alpha, Theta, and Delta waves). As the
      depth of anesthesia increases, the amplitude and frequency of EEG decreases. Generally, Beta
      waves (13-30 Hz) are seen in awake conscious patients and Alpha waves (8-12 Hz) are seen in
      patients resting with eyes closed. And Theta waves (4-7 Hz) and Delta waves (0-3 Hz) can be
      present in a patient who is sleeping or anesthetized.

      The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy for anesthetic depth monitoring of
      PLEM™ monitor during propofol anesthesia. The primary outcome of this study was to
      investigate the changes of PLE value and band power of EEG (Gamma, Beta, Alpha, Theta, Delta
      waves) on the PLEM™ monitor while varying the depth of anesthesia using propofol target
      controlled infusion (TCI) during anesthetic induction. The secondary outcomes of this study
      were to investigate whether the muscle relaxant affects the PLE value, and to compare the PLE
      values with BIS (bispectral index) (Aspect medical system, USA) that was the most widely used
      to measure the depth of anesthesia.
    
  