
    
      It has been documented that de Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is involved on the
      physiopathology of this disease.

      The VEGF is a glucoprotein that regulates the angiogenesis and the vasculogenesis, it's
      presence is crucial on the growth and development of several tissues around the organism.

      Nowadays the treatment of type 1 ROP it si focus on the disminution of the intravitreal VEGF
      after the intravitreal application of drugs like Bevacizumab and Ranibizumab.

      However these drugs can pass through the hematorretinal barrier in to the blood stream where
      they can also decrease the systemic levels of VEGF.

      We still don't know the long term effects of the intravitreal application of these drugs on
      premature babies, but there is the concern.

      The objective of this study is to compare the serum VEGF concentrations after intravitreal
      application of Bevacizumab (0.500mg/0.02mL) versus Ranibizumab (0.25 mg/0.025mL) for the
      treatment of type 1 ROP.

      HYPOTESIS: The serum VEGF concentrations after the intravitreal application of Bevacizumab
      will be smaller than the serum VEGF concentrations after the intravitreal application of
      Ranibizumab.

      METHODOLOGY: Safety ECCA. Inclusion criteria, premature newborns who fulfill the criteria for
      type 1 ROP according to the ET-ROP classification.

      The investigators will identify the patients that can be included The principal investigator
      will take a blood sample of 500 microliters and then the patients would receive intravitreal
      treatment assigned randomly (Bevacizumab 0.5mg/0.02mL or Ranibizumab 0.25mg/0.25 mL).

      The principal investigator will take new blood samples a day, 2 weeks and 8 weeks after the
      application of the intravitreal treatment, these samples will be frozen to further analysis.

      The analysis will be performed by ELISA kits.

      The investigators are going to describe the results of the ELISA for the blood samples, and
      then make a comparison between both groups.
    
  