
    
      The variables of the study, including demographic characteristics, risk factors, complete
      drug history, nosocomial infection and other in-hospital events, hemorrhagic complications,
      duration of hospitalization,door to needle time, symptom to needle time, clinical and imaging
      characteristics of resent stroke, laboratory data including fasting blood glucose, lipid
      profile (total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL, HDL), hematology markers (CBC diff, HGB,
      platelet), coagulation markers (PT, PTT, INR), liver function test (ALT, AST, ALP, Bill) and
      renal function test (BUN, Cr, Cr cl) were collected. All patients underwent a brain computed
      tomography scan early on the admission and after 24 hours. Cardiological evaluation including
      Electrocardiogram and echocardiography performed for all patients. Carotid and
      vertebrobasillar assessed by Doppler ultrasound or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA).

      Stroke severity estimated by using modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and National Institutes of
      Health Stroke Scale(NIHSS) scores on the first day of admission and at discharge by a
      neurology resident. Then patient evaluate every 3 months until 12 m for fallow up and in each
      visit vital sign, patient clinical status, any event, Barthel index was recorded.

      Safety endpoints of this study were any adverse events clinically relevant to alteplase,
      specially hemorrhagic complications.

      All patients who met all inclusion and exclusion criteria treated with 0.9 mg/kg recombinant
      tissue plasminogen activator (Actilyse, Boehringer Industry, Germany) up to maximum of 90 mg,
      10% of which was injected as a blous dose and remainder infused over an hour.

      Primary outcome of this study was alteplase effect in reduce morbidity rate defined by NIHSS
      and mRS score reduction and rate of functional independence at 3,6 and 12 months Barthel
      index in fallow up. Minimal clinically important difference defined as reduce NIHSS score at
      least 25% or MRS score 2 point at discharge day in comparison to admission day. In fallow up
      evaluations Barthel index 85-100 was considered favorable outcome. Binary outcomes included
      independence compared with disability or death.

      Secondary outcome was rtPA therapy safety that assessed by fatal intra cranial hemorrhage.
      Also, mortality rate, intracranial hemorrhage rate, any hemorrhagic event rate and any
      adverse event rate assessed.
    
  