
    
      The rising antimicrobial resistance has led to more than 33,000 deaths in Europe in 2015.
      Among them, extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (ESBL-E) are the
      most frequent in Europe and carbapenems are recommended as a first line treatment by the
      guidelines despite the fact they are last-resource agents. Nevertheless, the overuse of
      carbapenems triggered the emergence of carbapenems-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE).
      Alternatives to carbapenems are needed to treat ESBL-E infections efficiently without
      selecting CRE. One strategy described during the last few years is to guide the empirical
      antimicrobial therapy upon the fecal carriage of ESBL-E. In fact, ESBL-E fecal carriers are
      more often colonised in the lungs with ESBL-E and have more subsequent ESBL-E infections than
      non-carriers. However, the positive predictive value of ESBL-E fecal carriage for subsequent
      ESBL-E is only of 40% despite a negative predictive value of almost 100%. Besides, a
      before-after cohort study with and without ESBL-E fecal carriage screening exhibited a
      decrease of carbapenems consumption without any clinical harm. Several studies compared
      carbapenems vs alternatives after ESBL-E documentation and did not find any clinical harm
      either but carbapenems were almost always used before documentation. At the best of our
      knowledge, no study prospectively investigated an alternative to carbapenems for the
      empirical antimicrobial therapy (before documentation) of ventilator-associated pneumonia
      despite those encouraging data. This study aims to assess the relevance of
      piperacillin-tazobactam as the empirical antimicrobial therapy in case of a
      ventilator-associated pneumonia among ESBL-E fecal carriers. The treatment will be then
      adapted according to the susceptibility profile. The follow-up of the patients will last
      until 28 days after their inclusion and until their discharge from intensive care unit if it
      occurs later. Bacterial susceptibility to the antimicrobial treatment and clinical outcomes
      will be recorded.
    
  