
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE:

      Detail: The backflow of gastric contents into the esophagus occurs in healthy people to a
      limited extent.[1] When the refluxed material transcends the upper esophageal sphincter and
      enters the laryngopharynx on a chronic basis, it is termed laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR).
      LPR typically manifests as dysphonia, globus sensation, chronic cough, and throat irritation.
      Recent studies suggest that untreated LPR may be a cause of lingual tonsil hypertrophy (LTH),
      [2,3] which itself has been implicated as a contributing factor in obstructive sleep
      apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS).[4-6] Lingual tonsil tissue (LTT) is present to a variable
      degree in most individuals and tends to regress with age. Although standardized parameters
      for defining LTH have yet to be established, a recent study by Friedman et al [7]
      demonstrated that on average subjects with LPR, OSAHS, or both diseases had significantly
      thicker LTT on CT imaging than patients without either disease. Del Gaudio and coworkers [2]
      identified a trend between increasing severity of LTH and the frequency of reflux events,
      while Mamede et al [3] found a positive correlation between reflux symptoms and the degree of
      LTH.

      LTH in the setting of LPR is thought to result from the edema and inflammation brought about
      by chronic exposure of the tissues to the refluxed acid. The resulting thickened and inflamed
      LTT may narrow the retrolingual airway, increasing the likelihood of airway obstruction and
      apneic events. Theoretically, increases in negative intrathoracic pressure secondary to the
      obstruction may, in turn, facilitate further LPR.

      While the treatment of reflux has been shown to decrease indices of OSAHS severity in some
      patients, [8-10] a direct causal relationship between LPR and OSAHS has not been proven.
      Similarly, more evidence is necessary to elucidate the exact relationship between LPR and
      LTH. No study to date has investigated whether treatment of LPR reduces LTH. The
      investigators hypothesize that adequate treatment of LPR using a PPI in patients with LTH
      will result in a significant reduction in LTT thickness as well as improvement in OSAHS
      symptoms, if present. The proposed study is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial to
      determine whether control of LPR reduces LTH and, as a corollary, improves OSAHS symptoms.
      Control of LPR will be determined by 24-hour oropharyngeal pH monitoring [11], and LTH will
      be measured on CT. While the length of time required for LTH regression to occur is not
      currently known, Reichel et al have found that 3 months of PPI therapy are typically
      necessary before improvement in LPR is seen. [12] Similarly, a study by Park et al showed a
      significantly greater rate of improvement or resolution of LPR symptoms when treatment with a
      PPI was for longer than 2 months. [13] PRELIMINARY STUDIES Preliminary Studies: In a previous
      study, the investigators utilized axial and sagittal CT images of the tongue base to measure
      LTT in patients with LPR, OSAHS, both conditions, or neither disease. The investigators found
      that patients with LPR, OSAHS, or LPR+OSAHS had significantly thicker LTT than patients
      without LPR or OSAHS. This study was presented at the 2009 Annual Meeting of the American
      Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery and was published in the April 2010 issue of
      the journal Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS:

      Overview: Prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled study at a tertiary,
      university-affiliated medical center.

      Sample size: In order to achieve a power of 0.95, a sample size of 40 subjects per group (80
      total) was determined based on an a priori power analysis. The sample size stated in the
      original concept was an estimate and was not determined statistically.

      Procedures: The study protocol begins after a patient has been diagnosed with
      laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) on the basis of routine history, physical exam, and diagnostic
      studies including 24-hour oropharyngeal pH monitoring with the Dx-pH Monitoring System
      (Restech, San Diego, California). Prospective candidates for the study will be asked to
      undergo CT imaging of the tongue base. Those who are subsequently diagnosed with lingual
      tonsil hypertrophy (LTH), as determined by mean lingual tonsil tissue (LTT) thickness greater
      than 3.0 mm on axial and sagittal views, will be eligible for enrollment, providing they meet
      the additional inclusion criteria listed above. The enrollment period is expected to last 12
      months, and the total duration of the study is expected to be 18 months.

      Once an eligible patient has agreed to participate in the study and provided informed
      consent, s/he will be randomly assigned to the experimental or control group according to a
      1:1 ratio. Patients as well as the practitioner administering treatment will be blinded to
      patient group assignments. Patients in the experimental group will be started on a 3-month
      regimen of once daily oral dexlansoprazole 60 mg. Patients in the control group will receive
      a placebo once daily by mouth for the same length of time. Following completion of the
      3-month treatment regimen, patients from both groups will undergo repeat 24-hour
      oropharyngeal pH testing and CT of the tongue base. Endoscopic findings of LPR will also be
      recorded before, monthly during treatment and after treatment using the Reflux Finding Score
      (RFS). A 3-month treatment period was chosen based on previous studies, which have shown
      failure of symptom resolution after shorter lengths of time. Once enrolled, patients will be
      seen in clinic approximately every four weeks. Treatment with cimetidine 200 mg PO BID will
      be offered as a rescue medication to patients of either group whose LPR symptoms worsen
      during the study. Once started, cimetidine, as well as study drug (dexlansoprazole or
      placebo) will be continued for the duration of the study. At study conclusion, all patients
      will be re-evaluated for continued treatment, based on the effectiveness of dexlansoprazole
      (after unblinding) and need for rescue medication (dexlansoprazole and placebo). If
      cimetidine fails to offer relief, the subject will be withdrawn from the study and other
      treatment options will be offered.

      The Calgary Sleep Apnea Quality of Life Index (CSAQLI), visual analog scale for snoring
      (VAS), and Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) will be used as subjective outcome metrics. These
      questionnaires are validated tools for assessing symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea
      syndrome (OSAHS) and associated quality of life. The Reflux Symptom Index (RSI), a validated
      instrument for assessing reflux symptoms, will also be administered along with the other
      questionnaires both prior to initiating therapy and again at the end of the 3-month period.

      Data analysis and Interpretation:

      Statistical analysis will focus on determining whether lingual tonsil tissue size differs
      before and after therapy. Mean lingual tonsil tissue size will be calculated along with
      standard deviation and student t test will be used to determine statistical significance.

      Analysis will also examine the mean change in four subjective metrics, (1) Calgary Sleep
      Apnea Quality of Life Index, (2) Visual Analog Scale of snoring, (3) Epworth Sleepiness
      scale, and (4) Reflux Symptom Index. Again, means and standard deviations will be calculated
      and student t test will be used to assess statistical significance.
    
  