
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.Early
      diagnosis improves the prognosis. Protein induced by vitamin K antagonist-II (PIVKA-II), also
      known as des-γ-carboxyprothrombin (DCP) or acarboxy prothrombin, is an abnormal form of
      prothrombin induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist-II. The study is intended to evaluate
      the diagnostic efficiency of Protein Induced by Vitamin K Absence or antagonist-II(PIVKA-II).
      PIVKA-II as an effective tumor marker for hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC) has been widely used
      in the western countries where most cases are hepatitis C virus(HCV) related.However, the
      majority of HCCs in China are HBV related. Despite the extensive application of PIVKA-II in
      some hospitals from China, the diagnostic efficiency including
      sensitivity,specificity,positive predictive value and negative predictive value still needs
      more clinical data to evaluate. The research purposes list as follows：1.Determination of
      diagnostic Cut-off value 2.Evaluation of diagnostic efficiency of PIVKA-II 3.Evaluation of
      the combination of PIVKA-II and other tumor markers for HCC. This study is an international
      multicenter study joined by several hospitals in China,Singapore,Thailand and Vietnam.
      Participants including healthy control,HCC,metastatic liver cancer,HBV and liver cirrhosis
      are consecutively recruited into the cohort. All the serum samples are collected before any
      treatments and will be tested in single center in order to decrease bias. Serum samples were
      tested for PIVKA-II,Alpha-fetoprotein(AFP)，alpha-fetoprotein L3 and biochemical indexes
      including ALT,AST,GGT,AFU,etc. The diagnosis of HCC was based on histopathology. All HCC
      diagnoses were confirmed at the time of analysis.The Student's t-test (or Mann-Whitney test)
      was used to compare continuous variables, and the chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test)
      was used for categorical variables. A receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve was used
      to assess the performance characteristic of PIVKA-II,AFP,AFP-L3 measurement.
    
  