
    
      Metabolic syndrome, a cluster of multiple metabolic disturbances, including central obesity,
      dyslipidemia, hypertension, and hyperglycemia, is associated with 2-5-fold heightened risks
      of CVD and T2D. Compelling evidence showed that lifestyle intervention is one of effective
      approaches for preventing and controlling cardiometabolic diseases. However, there were
      considerably variations among different interventions and different persons. With widely
      available smartphone and APP-connected wearable devises, it is possible to provide programmed
      nutrition and lifestyle education to help participants achieve intervention targets, and
      closely monitor compliance. However, few studies investigated the efficacy of lifestyle
      interventions with programmed smartphone and APP-connected wearable devises in MetS
      management. Moreover, since present disease-based diagnoses and biomarkers may not adequately
      define health status, the concept of "re-redefining health" has attracted growing attention.
      The phenotypic flexibility and "PhenFlex test" are one of approaches to measure individuals'
      adaptive capacity to maintain hemostatic condition after having a standardized challenge
      drinker. To date, the PFT has been studied among 10,000 subjects in western countries and few
      studies, if any, have conducted in Chinese who have different genetic background and dietary
      patterns. It remains to be established whether and to what extent that the PFT-based
      hemostatic index system can precisely evaluate the metabolic health in Chinese.

      In the current trial, approximate 1200 subjects with MetS risks will be randomly assigned to
      one of three smartphone-based lifestyle intervention arms: 1) Routine education; 2)
      Programmed-smartphone intervention; and 3) Programmed-smartphone plus dietitian intervention.
      The intervention duration will be 6-month and then have 2-year follow-up. During starting and
      end of 6-month intervention, we will include PFT during the physical examination hold in the
      Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital. All the subjects will be given a standardized challenge drinker
      (75g glucose, 60 fat and 20g protein). Fasting and multiple postprandial time points samples
      (blood, t=0,1,3h) and urine and feces will be collected to measure clinical and omics markers
      like metabolomics, gut microbiota and SNPs. Finally, the homeostasis index will be built to
      estimate improvement of individual metabolic health after the intervention. In conclusion,
      this study will provide scientific evidence and novel insights about the effectiveness of new
      intervention strategies and precise diagnostic and assessment system for cardiometabolic
      management.
    
  