
    
      PTSD is a well-recognized debilitating mental health condition associated with previous
      trauma exposure. It is part of the DSM-5 Trauma and Stressor related disorders category.
      Treatments for PTSD normally involve a multi-disciplinary approach. First-line treatments
      include psychotherapy and serotonergic reuptake inhibitors. Many patients fail
      pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. Unilateral stellate ganglion block performed favorably for
      treatment of PTSD in a recent RCT, based upon an expectation that the cervical sympathetic
      system is neuropathically upregulated in PTSD. However, side effects may include generalized
      seizures, hypotension, spinal block, and recurrent laryngeal or phrenic nerve block, and it
      can be performed only unilaterally due to the risk of laryngeal paralysis.

      Perineural injection of peripheral nerves, plexi, or sympathetic ganglia with dextrose 5% in
      water (D5W), has performed well in the treatment of neuropathic upregulation in chronic pain
      patients. No lidocaine is required, which allows for avoidance of lidocaine toxicity risk,
      and because of that, bilateral procedures are feasible, if indicated. Bilateral
      hydrodissection of the cervical plexus (injection into the superficial cervical space) is
      gentle, safe, and easily performed with ultrasound guidance. Anesthetic injected in that
      space spreads readily into the deep cervical space, which includes the stellate ganglia.
      Empirical observations by the primary investigator in over 200 consecutive procedures in
      patients with neck or head pain who also had anxiety, brain fog, or depressive symptoms, and
      some of whom had formal diagnoses of PTSD, revealed frequent comments of prompt reduction of
      their symptoms. A cumulative benefit has been observed, as well. The effects of BHDCP with
      D5W as a stand-alone treatment for PTSD has not been formally evaluated. The objective of
      this study is to determine the immediate post-injection effects of BHDCP with D5W on anxiety
      and cognitive clarity, and longer-term effects on the PCL-5 scale for measurement of PTSD
      severity. The primary hypotheses are that BHDCP with D5W will outperform control treatment in
      both anxiety reduction and PCL-5 score improvement.
    
  