
    
      Background:

      Mismanaged use of multiple medications is one of the greatest risks for healthcare-related
      harm in the elderly and puts major pressure on current healthcare systems [1,2]. Identifying
      effective interventions to optimise treatment benefit and minimise harm is an international
      public health priority [3]. Comprehensive medication review, a structured and critical
      examination of an individual patient's medications in relation to the patient's conditions,
      aims to accomplish these goals [4]. A recently published Cochrane meta-analysis examined
      whether medication reviews lead to improvement in health outcomes of hospitalised adult
      patients compared with standard care [5]. Ten randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were
      eventually used for analysis. The authors stated that they "found no evidence that medication
      review reduces mortality or hospital readmissions, although we did find evidence that
      medication review may reduce emergency department contacts."[5] A beneficial or detrimental
      effect on mortality or hospital admissions could be ruled out because estimates were
      uncertain and follow-up was short. The authors stated that there is a strong need for RCTs of
      high quality with at least one year follow-up and which are randomised at a cluster level to
      minimise contamination bias [5]. In addition, a cluster randomised crossover design in which
      each cluster serves as its own control would increase statistical power [6].

      One of the included RCTs in this meta-analysis was conducted by our research group at Uppsala
      University Hospital in 2005-2006 [7]. We demonstrated in this study that patients, aged 80
      years or older, who received a comprehensive medication review including follow-up after
      hospital discharge, performed by ward based clinical pharmacist, had 16% fewer hospital
      revisits in the following year. The costs of hospital based care were approximately €200
      lower per patient in the intervention group compared to the control group after the
      intervention costs had been included. The study was conducted on two internal medicine wards
      with 400 enrolled patients, all 80 years or older, which limits the generalisability of its
      results.

      Today, ten years after our previous RCT, several counties in Sweden have employed clinical
      pharmacists who perform medication reviews in hospital settings. However, their way of
      working has changed over time. For this reason it is important to identify the activities
      that generate the greatest benefits to the patients, which can be done by performing a
      pragmatic clinical trial, specifically designed to show the real-world effects of such
      interventions [8]. Therefore we propose this pragmatic cluster-randomised, three-treatment,
      crossover trial to study the effects of multidisciplinary medication reviews with active
      follow-up after hospital discharge on elderly patients' healthcare utilisation, compared with
      solely hospital based reviews and usual care. This large study will generate more robust
      results and high external validity, with the potential to show effects on hard outcomes such
      as healthcare utilisation. A similar study has, to our knowledge, not been undertaken
      anywhere else in the world.

      Aim:

      To study the effects of hospital-initiated comprehensive medication reviews, including active
      follow-up, on elderly patients' healthcare utilisation compared to 1) usual care and 2)
      solely hospital based reviews.

      Primary objectives:

        1. The first primary objective is to test the hypothesis that the incidence of unplanned
           hospital visits (admissions plus visits to the emergency department) among elderly
           patients during a one year follow-up is lower, if they receive a comprehensive
           medication review with active follow-up after discharge, than if they receive usual
           care.

        2. The second primary objective is to test the hypothesis that a comprehensive medication
           review with active follow-up after discharge reduces the incidence of unplanned hospital
           visits more than only a medication review during hospital stay compared to usual care.

      Methods:

      This study protocol has been developed by using the applicable recommendations of the SPIRIT
      2013 Guidance for protocols of clinical trials, the Consort 2010 extension to cluster
      randomised trials and the Consort 2010 extension to randomized trials of non-pharmacologic
      treatment [9-11]. The full study protocol is attached to this trial registration.

      Setting and clusters:

      The study will be conducted in three counties in Sweden: Västmanland, Uppsala and Gävleborg.
      Within these counties there will be four hospitals taking part in the study: Uppsala
      University Hospital and the hospitals of Västerås, Enköping and Gävle. At these hospitals
      clinical pharmacy, including the performance of medication reviews, is an established
      practice or is planned to be implemented prior to the study. The intervention components of
      the study will be performed by the existing workforce at two wards within each hospital. The
      wards differ in terms of medical specialty: geriatric, internal medicine and stroke. All
      wards are staffed with a multidisciplinary team consisting of physicians, nurses and clinical
      pharmacists. The pharmacists have either followed a full-time one year post-graduate
      programme in clinical pharmacy, in which the performance of medication reviews plays a
      central role, or have followed undergraduate courses in clinical pharmacy and advanced
      pharmacotherapy. Next to that, all pharmacists have at least six months working experience
      with performing medication reviews in a multidisciplinary team. To assess clinical skill
      performance related to medication reviews, all pharmacists participated in an objective
      structured clinical examination (OSCE), prior to the start of the study. All pharmacists have
      also participated in a training day with patient case discussions, to assure common practice
      across all study sites. Other members of the ward team did not receive additional training.

      In total eight wards will be included, with each ward acting as a cluster. The study will be
      carried out as far as possible identically at the eight wards.
    
  