
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Solicit stakeholder feedback on expected system functions, perceived usefulness and
      impacts, and potential adoption barriers via 10 focus groups. (Human Subjects [HS], Phase I)
      II. Develop the software prototype using an iterative user-centered design process and
      leverage the technical design and components from an existing clinic-based biopsychosocial
      screening tool and an existing patient portal solution as well as the patient education
      contents from City of Hope (COH). (Phase I) III. Conduct two usability tests with 24 subjects
      each to evaluate the usability, usefulness, and acceptability of the prototype system
      developed in Aim 2. (HS, Phase I) IV. Conduct a 50-subject pilot evaluation study to
      demonstrate the feasibility of our technical solution and our Phase II randomized controlled
      trial protocol design. (HS, Phase I) V. Enhance the software system to add more
      administrative/customization features and to expand the education contents to cover more
      cancer types and treatment options. (Phase II) VI. Conduct a 2-year 516-subject randomized
      control trial to test the effectiveness hypothesis. (HS, Phase II)

      OUTLINE:

      FOCUS GROUPS: Ten, 90-minute focus group sessions are conducted, composed of patients;
      caregivers, friends, and family members; cancer treatment professionals; supportive care
      professionals and community support professionals. Sessions address what functions
      participants expect to see in the program, what benefits are expected, and any expected
      barriers for using the program.

      USABILITY EVALUATION (DESIGN-ORIENTED & METRIC-ORIENTED): Patients, caregivers, and clinical
      care/support professionals in each type of evaluation undergo a 60-minute one-on-one session
      in which they are assigned tasks to complete using the system, and an observer records how
      the tasks are completed. Participants are also requested to talk aloud while performing the
      task. Participants in the metric-oriented evaluation respond to usability and usefulness
      questionnaires.

      PILOT STUDY & RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIAL: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (INTERVENTION GROUP): Patients are encouraged to use the PatientCareAnywhere program at
      least once weekly either in the clinic or at home. Patients receive reminder emails after 1
      week of inactivity. If patients indicate they are experiencing moderate to severe symptoms,
      an alert message is sent to at least 1 member of the patient's support team along with a list
      of expected response times.

      ARM II (CONTROL GROUP): Patients receive usual care, including a one-time use of
      SupportScreen, a touchscreen questionnaire system that identifies patient issues before
      appointments, at the clinic during the first treatment consultation after diagnosis.
      Consultation, printed education materials, and specialist referrals may be generated based on
      SupportScreen responses.
    
  