
    
      Globally, the mortality after any infection in cirrhosis patients is very high. The
      cumulative mortality in patients with infections was 43.5% (11,987 patients) where as the
      mortality rate without infection was 13.6% (2317 patients). Over the years, variceal bleeding
      causing death in cirrhosis has declined substantially but there has been no improvement in
      infection causing mortality over several decades. It adversely affects clinical outcomes
      including survival, quality of life, development of other complications.

      Radiological image analysis is currently used to diagnose sarcopenia in cirrhosis. The
      European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People and Wilson D et al, recommend using the
      presence of both low muscle mass and low muscle function (strength or performance) for the
      diagnosis of sarcopenia.

      Cirrhosis is believed to be a state of anabolic resistance and standard replacement of
      nutrients are generally ineffective.

      Patients with cirrhosis frequently show protein and energy deficiency. Protein deficiency
      leads to hypoalbuminemia, inducing ascites and edema, whereas energy deficiency decreases fat
      and muscle mass and causes muscle weakness, decreasing the quality of life of patients with
      cirrhosis. Moreover, in patients with advanced chronic liver disease, Branched Chain Amino
      acids concentrations are low, whereas the concentrations of aromatic amino acids such as
      phenylalanine and tyrosine are high, conditions that may be closely associated with hepatic
      encephalopathy and the prognosis of these patients. The survival rate of patients with
      sarcopenia liver cirrhosis has been found to be significantly lower than that of
      non-sarcopenia cirrhotic patients. Long-term Branched Chain Amino acids supplementation
      significantly raises the survival rate in sarcopenia liver cirrhosis but not in
      non-sarcopenia liver cirrhosis showed that sarcopenia was associated with mortality in
      patients undergoing Live Donor Liver Transplantation, and perioperative nutritional therapy
      significantly improved overall survival in patients with sarcopenia.

      It has been reported that the longer the duration on a waiting list for liver
      transplantation, the more sarcopenia the patient has become, even though their Model for
      End-stage Liver Disease scores stay the same. Patients in an advanced state of sarcopenia are
      confronted by their vulnerability to infection, and ultimately their imminent death. Patients
      with sarcopenia tended to have postoperative complications, especially infectious
      complications. Studies differ on the effect of of Sarcopenia on post transplant mortality.
      Montano-Loza et al reported that patients with "extreme" sarcopenia exhibited significantly
      worse prognosis. Nevertheless, patients with severe sarcopenia must have worse prognoses
      because of the vulnerability to infectious problems.

      The main immunosuppressants used in liver transplant recipients are calcineurin inhibitors.
      Although liver transplant recipients usually gain weight after transplantation, that gain is
      mainly caused by the accumulation of fat, while skeletal muscle mass rather decreases. The
      state of sarcopenia rather worsen after liver transplantation. reported that sarcopenia
      continued to be a risk factor for mortality even in patients who managed to survive their
      early post transplant periods. Because sarcopenia continues, or rather worsens in some
      recipients, after liver transplantation, their vulnerability to infections, frailty syndrome
      in general, caused by sarcopenia should be seriously cautioned in addition to the problems
      relating to immunosuppressants.

      With regard to nutritional intervention for sarcopenia, Branched Chain Amino acids
      supplementation is vital because Branched Chain Amino acids are an essential amino acid
      substrate for protein synthesis and energy generation in skeletal muscles. Branched Chain
      Amino acids are a group of three essential amino acids comprising valine, leucine and
      isoleucine; these account for 35% of the essential amino acids in skeletal muscle proteins.
      In patients with liver cirrhosis, Branched Chain Amino acids is not only a substrate of
      protein synthesis and ammonia detoxification, but is also a source of energy for the skeletal
      muscles.

      Therefore, the consumption of Branched Chain Amino acids by skeletal muscle is accelerated in
      Liver Cirrhosis, leading to muscle protein breakdown, and resulting in sarcopenia As an
      effect on cirrhotic patients, Branched Chain Amino acids supplementation has been
      demonstrated to improve Protein Energy Malnutrition, raise serum albumin levels, and
      subsequently improve quality of life and prognosis The possible effect of Branched Chain
      Amino acids on sarcopenia is that leucine primarily activates the mammalian target of
      rapamycin signaling pathway involved in muscle protein synthesis, and additionally stimulates
      the pancreatic β cells to release insulin, which has an anabolic effect in skeletal muscle.

      The present study demonstrated that Branched Chain Amino acids supplementation significantly
      improves the prognosis of sarcopenia liver cirrhosis, but its direct effect on sarcopenia
      itself remains unknown.

      Several clinical trials have suggested that Branched Chain Amino acids supplementation
      improves the prognosis of cirrhotic patients. For example, a multicenter randomized trial
      from Italy showed that oral Branched Chain Amino acids supplementation in patients with
      advanced cirrhosis prevented progressive hepatic failure and improved surrogate markers and
      perceived health status.

      The standard of care for nutrition in patients with liver cirrhosis are as follows -
      Nutritional recommendations target the optimal supply of adequate substrates related to
      requirements linked to energy, protein, carbohydrates, lipids, vitamins and minerals.

      Based on these basic observations, patients with advanced chronic liver disease have been
      treated clinically with Branched Chain Amino acids-rich medicines, with positive effects.

      Branched Chain Amino acids will complement frequent feeding with late evening snacks in
      reversing muscle loss in cirrhosis. The diet combined with resistance exercises shall
      increase skeletal muscle mass.

      Clinical and laboratory Assessment Complete medical record regarding the cirrhosis, its
      aetiology, complications and co-morbidities will be noted. Liver Function test, Renal
      function test, Prothrombin time/international normalized ratio will be recorded. The severity
      of cirrhosis will be assessed using the Child- Pugh score and the Model of End Stage Liver
      Disease score.

      Testing- Assessment of sarcopenia

      Patients will participate in the following 4 procedures to measure sarcopenia:

        1. L3 Skeletal Muscle Index Skeletal muscle area derived from a single slice CT has become
           more easily reproducible, and reduces the radiation exposure required to only 2.6
           millisieverts. Measuring cross-sectional muscle area at either the level of the third
           (L3) or fourth (L4) lumbar vertebrae has been shown to correlate well with total body
           muscle mass (r = 0.71). When adjusted for patient height to take stature into account it
           is referred to as skeletal muscle index. Skeletal muscle index will be calculated from
           Slice-O-matic software, version 5 (Tomovision), Montreal, QC, Canada). Skeletal muscle
           index has been shown to be of higher accuracy in the diagnosis of sarcopenia in
           cirrhosis than anthropometry or dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scanning and is
           now the most commonly employed method in studies investigating sarcopenia in cirrhosis.
           Diagnostic criteria have been extrapolated from Western cirrhosis populations. Multiple
           studies in cirrhosis, which have employed this definition, have produced clinically
           meaningful results and it is increasingly accepted as the most appropriate definition of
           sarcopenia when using cross-sectional imaging.

        2. Muscle strength:It is assessed by grip strength and measured using a Jamar dynamometer.
           The summary of measures are as follow.

           Posture Subject seated Arm position Shoulders adducted and neutrally rotated, elbow
           flexed at 90°, forearm in neutral Wrist position Wrist between 0 and 30° of dorsiflexion

        3. The participant will be allowed to perform one test trial. After this, three trials
           followed and the best score was used for analysis. Handgrip strength will be expressed
           in kilogram's (Kg). Three trials for each hand will be carried out and the highest value
           for diagnosing sarcopenia.

      3. Muscle Performance [Gait Speed Test (4-metre)]:

      The test can be performed with any patient able to walk 4 meters using the instructions
      below:

        1. Instruct the patient to walk at their normal pace. Patients may use an assistive device,
           if needed.

        2. Ask the patient to walk down a hallway through a 1-metre zone for acceleration, a
           central 4-metre "testing" zone, and a 1-metre zone for deceleration (the patient should
           not start to slow down before the 4-metre mark).

        3. Start the timer with the first footfall after the 0-metre line of the testing zone

        4. Stop the timer with the first footfall after the 4-metre line of the testing zone

      SCORING: Gait speed of longer than 5 seconds to walk 4 meters (<0.8 m/s) suggests an
      increased risk of poor muscle performance.

      4. Muscle Performance-The chair stand test is a physical performance test used to assess
      lower-extremity function. A 5 repetition test is a measure of strength; a 10 repetition test
      is a measure of strength and endurance. Equipment/Set Up Use a standard chair with arms and
      with a seat height of approximately 17 inches for all assessments, regardless of the height
      of the subject. Place the back of the chair against a wall to prevent movement during the
      test. Procedure Instruct and demonstrate the following protocol before asking the subject to
      perform the test:

        -  Sit as far back as possible in the chair seat. Keep feet firmly planted on the floor
           approximately hip width apart and the back of lower legs away from the chair. Keep knees
           bent at a 90-degree angle with arms crossed over the chest. (An individual of average or
           taller height will be able to sit with their upper back against the back of the chair.
           Individuals of shorter than average height will not be able to touch the chair back
           while maintaining proper position and are not required to touch the chair back during
           testing).

        -  Stand up one time and sit down, returning completely to the correct starting position.

        -  Indicate that any chair stands done with improper technique, e.g. not standing all the
           way up, not sitting all the way back, lifting feet off the floor, etc. will not be
           counted.

        -  Allow the participant the opportunity to try one chair stand to be sure when they stand
           up the back of their legs are not touching the chair.

        -  Instruct the subject that the timed assessment will begin on the command, "Ready, Set,
           Go" and that they are to stand up and sit back down 5 times as quickly and safely as
           possible. At the command "Ready, Set, Go" the tester begins timing by starting the
           stopwatch.

        -  Count each chair stand out loud when the subject is in the standing position. Provide
           continuous verbal encouragement during the test.

        -  At the tenth repetition click the stopwatch off while participant is in the standing
           position.

        -  Conduct two trials, separated by three minutes. If subjects are unable to stand up one
           time without assistance than they can use their hands to assist them in rising and
           returning to the seated position while following all other procedures as described
           above. Make sure to note that hands were used when recording the assessment data.

      Normative value of Sarcopenia indices and association of Sarcopenia indices and mortality in
      child C cirrhosis patients will be also calculated.

      Follow up Three months after randomization, data will be collected on the 4 objective indices
      of sarcopenia, as outlined above.In addition, event free survival, number of
      hospitalisations, combined liver events (variceal bleeds, ascites , Hepato-renal syndrome,
      Overt Hepatic encephalopathy, Septic complications - Pneumonias, Urinary Tract Infection,
      spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, skin infections and septic shock) and Quality of Life
      (assessed using SF 36 questionnaire) will also be recorded.

      Monitoring for Adverse Events:

      Branched Chain Amino acids did not increase the risk of serious adverse events, but was
      associated with nausea and diarrhoea. Any adverse event will be recorded specifying the time
      of onset, the duration, the severity and the relationship to the test medication.

      Sample size: The primary objective is to show the superiority of Branched Chain Amino acids
      (experimental arm) versus placebo to improve both the muscle mass and muscle strength
      (co-primary endpoint) after 3 month of treatment in patients with sarcopeniacirrhosis (Child
      C) treated with standard nutrition and exercises. The co-primary endpoint is the 3-month
      change in CT Skeletal muscle index and Hand Grip Strength (i.e difference between the
      baseline and 3 month values). The study success will be only declared if both primary
      endpoints are statistically significant in favor of the experimental arm at two-sided
      significant level of 0.05. The sample size will determined as the maximum value of the sample
      sizes separately calculated for each endpoint with a 90% power for each comparison
      (considering independence between the two primary outcome as conservative approach) in order
      to guarantee a power of 0.80 to show the treatment efficacy on both primary outcomes. As
      analyzing the changes or values at 3 months are equivalent since the primary analysis will be
      adjusted for baseline values,Investigator determined the sample size using the 3-month values
      for each primary endpoints obtained in a study carried out in our center. In control arm,
      Investigator expect a mean CT Skeletal muscle index of 45.4±5.9 at 3-months and Mean Hand
      Grip Strength of 33.7+9. Compared to placebo Investigator expect that Branched Chain Amino
      acids will be associated with an increasing in 10% in mean value of CT Skeletal muscle index
      (i.e. an absolute mean difference of 4.5) and with an increasing in 20% in mean value of Hand
      Grip Strength (i.e. an absolute mean difference of 6.7). With a two-sided test (alpha=5%,
      power=90%), 38 patients per arm will be required to detect the effect size on CT Skeletal
      muscle index (assuming a standard deviation of 5.9) and 45 per arm to detect the effect size
      on Hand Grip Strength (assuming a standard deviation of 9.6). Thus, a total of 90 patients
      will be required. To account for an anticipated attrition rate of 20%, a total of 114
      patients will be included and randomized.

      Statistical Analysis Plan Statistical analyses will be independently performed by the
      Biostatistics Department of University of Lille under the responsibility of Professor Alain
      Duhamel. Data will be analyzed using the SAS software (SAS Institute Inc, Cary, NC, USA) and
      all statistical tests will be performed with a 2-tailed alpha risk of 0.05. A detailed
      statistical analysis plan will be written and finalized prior to the database lock.

      All analyses will be performed for all randomized patients based on their original group of
      randomization, regardless of the treatment they actually received, study eligibility, or
      compliance post randomization, according to the intention-to-treat principle. Nis planned
      Baseline characteristics will be described for each arm. Quantitative variables will be
      expressed as mean (standard deviation), median (interquartile range) and range. Qualitative
      variables will be expressed as frequencies and percentages. Normality of distribution will be
      assessed graphically and using the Shapiro-Wilk test.

      Co-Primary outcome The change in CT Skeletal muscle index and Hand Grip Strength from
      baseline to 3 months will be estimated and compared between the 2 arms using the constrained
      longitudinal data analysis model that was proposed by Liang and Zeger. The constrained
      longitudinal data analysis model will be used for its potential advantages compared to a
      conventional longitudinal analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model. In the constrained
      longitudinal data analysis, both the baseline and post baseline values are modeled as
      dependent variables using a linear mixed model (an unstructured covariance pattern model),
      and the true baseline means are constrained to be the same for the 2 treatment arms. Hence,
      the constrained longitudinal data analysis provides an adjustment for observed baseline
      differences in estimating treatment effects, using all available baseline and post-baseline
      values. The mean between-group difference (with a 95% confidence interval(CI)) in the 3-month
      change in CT Skeletal muscle index and Hand Grip Strength (BCAA vs. placebo) will be
      estimated as an effect size with the time-by-group interaction. If normality of the model
      residuals is not satisfied, nonparametric analysis will be used; absolute changes between
      baseline and 3-month visits will be calculated and compared between the 2 arms using a
      non-parametric analysis of covariance that is adjusted for baseline values. The efficacy of
      Branched chain amino acids will be declared only if the comparison in both primary outcome is
      significant at p<0.05 (two-sided test).

      Missing values in CT Skeletal muscle index and Hand Grip Strength measures will be handled
      with a multiple imputation procedure. Missing data will be imputed under the missing at
      random assumption (whatever the reason for missing data) by using regression switching
      approach (a chained equation with m=20 imputations), with the predictive mean matching method
      for continuous variables, and logistic regression models (binary, ordinal or polynomial) for
      categorical variables. The imputation procedure will be performed using main baseline
      characteristics and allocated arm. Treatment effect estimates that are obtained from multiple
      imputed data sets will be combined using Rubin's rules. Sensitivity analyses will be
      conducted on the observed data (case-complete analysis) and in per-protocol population. The
      per-protocol population will include all randomised patients who remain eligible for the
      study and will be 80% compliant to the allocated treatment. Any patients who will withdraw
      from the trial or treatment or who will not receive the allocated treatment will be excluded
      for per-protocol population.

      Secondary outcomes The same strategy employed to analyze the co-primary outcome will be used
      to compare the 3-month change in muscle performance (Measured by change in Chair Stand and
      Gait Velocity) and the 3-month change in SF 36 - patient-reported outcome.

      3-month event-free survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method treating death or
      complications of cirrhosis as a combined events. The treatment effect will be estimated by
      calculating Hazard ratio (HR) and its 95% CI by using a Cox proportional hazards regression
      model including centers as random effect (frailty model). The proportional hazards assumption
      will be assessed by plotting the scaled Schoenfeld residuals of treatment effect against the
      rank of survival time.

      Adverse events will be analyzed using descriptive analysis.
    
  