
    
      This study uses the IL-1 receptor antagonist anakinra to treat children and adults with
      Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), also known as chronic infantile
      neurological, cutaneous and arthropathy (CINCA) syndrome. NOMID/CINCA syndrome is a rare
      genetic systemic auto-inflammatory disease that is characterized by a triad of symptoms,
      including a persistent urticaria-like skin rash, an arthropathy associated with patellar and
      epiphyseal osseous overgrowth, and neurological manifestations, including chronic aseptic
      meningitis, optic disc edema, high frequency hearing loss, and mental retardation.
      Spontaneous genetic mutations in the NACHT domain of CIAS1, a gene located on chromosome 1
      have been recently identified in about half of the patients with NOMID/CINCA syndrome. CIAS1
      encodes a protein, cryopyrin that is associated with up-regulation of IL-1 production in
      vitro, which has formed the rationale to target the IL-1 pathway in children with NOMID.
      During an up to 3- week enrollment period before initiating therapy, we will collect
      self/parent reported daily diary data and serological samples on up to 3 occasions one week
      apart, to determine baseline disease activity. These data may be gathered by collaborating
      centers. At the end of the observation period, patients will be admitted to the NIH for a
      standardized clinical evaluation and initiation of treatment with anakinra administered at 1
      mg/kg/day by regular daily subcutaneous injections. If patients do not fulfill improvement
      criteria at 1 month, the dose will be escalated between 0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day increments to
      obtain inflammatory remission. An initial withdrawal study in a subset of 11 patients was
      performed. The clinical improvement at 3-4 months and the change in serum amyloid A levels
      (SAA) (a sensitive inflammatory marker) from before treatment to 3-4 months post treatment,
      and drug safety are the primary clinical outcomes of this study. To assess long-term safety
      and efficacy, all patients will be observed during an open ended extension phase of the
      study. Clinical and laboratory parameters will be used to assess safety and efficacy
      throughout the trial. All patients will be seen every 6 months and annually (as calculated
      from initiation of anakinra treatment) to further evaluate safety and long term outcomes.
      During the open ended extension phase of the study, patients who have residual clinical or
      laboratory evidence of active inflammation may have their dose increased between 0.5 and 1
      mg/kg/day increments to a maximum dose of 10 mg/kg/per day to achieve clinical remission. In
      addition, since no data on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of anakinra in pediatric patients is
      available with doses exceeding 2 mg/kg/day, we plan to determine the PK of anakinra with each
      dose escalation.
    
  