
    
      Background and Significance

        1. The challenge:

           Prostate cancer is a major worldwide health problem and is the most frequently diagnosed
           malignancy in men today. In the United States prostate cancer is the most common
           malignancy found in men accounting for more than 29% of all diagnosed cancer and
           approximately 13% of all cancer deaths. Nearly one in six men will be diagnosed with the
           disease at some time in their lives. In 2003 alone, an estimated 221,000 men in the
           United States were diagnosed with prostate cancer. In 1999, 37,000 deaths were
           attributed to prostate cancer in the United States, and in 2003 more than 28,000 died of
           the disease. Hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) is one of the most aggressive
           cancers. It is the second ranking cause of cancer-related deaths. Patients with
           localized disease have the option of radiation therapy or radical prostatectomy as
           definitive treatment modalities for curing the disease. However the cancer recurs in its
           metastatic form in 20-30% of these patients. In addition, approximately 10 % of patients
           diagnosed with the disease already have distant metastases, making localized therapy
           irrelevant. The primary treatment for the advanced state of prostate cancer is androgen
           deprivation therapy, to inhibit the testosterone production that facilitates prostate
           tumor growth. Androgen deprivation therapy is administered either by surgical castration
           or by medications that block testosterone production. While this treatment is effective
           in 85%-95% of patients, the response time lasts approximately for 12 -24 months, after
           which the cancer progresses to its androgen-insensitive stage. The androgen independent
           prostate cancer cells progress to metastatic disease. Limited treatment options exist
           for the hormone refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) patient, and median survival time
           rarely exceeds one year.

           Once androgen independence has occurred, conventional chemotherapy for the treatment of
           metastatic cancer has shown limited activity in patients in addition to causing toxic
           side effects. While new chemotherapeutic regimens and hormonal agents are being tested,
           the survival and quality of life of these HRPC patients remains low.

        2. The innovation:

      We propose to treat progressing HRPC patients with a novel combination of 1st line of hormone
      therapy (GnRH analogues) with the non-toxic dietary supplement fermented wheat germ nutriment
      (FWGE). This suggestion is based on preclinical data showing activity of the regimen in
      prostate cancer cell lines and in animal models. Furthermore, there are previous reports
      regarding other diseases such as colon cancer, where the addition of a new treatment to a
      therapy which had previously failed, improved patient survival, quality of life and the
      clinical parameters.

      The characteristics of Fermented wheat germ extract (FWGE) Fermented wheat germ extract with
      a standardized complex mixture of molecules is termed FWGE. The product is manufactured under
      GMP conditions, and is available as a water-soluble granulate, which administered orally.

      The compound is approved as a medical food for cancer patients. It has been recently
      classified in the US as GRAS (Generally Recognized as Safe), and is used for complementing
      the standard anticancer treatments.

      The molecular targets of FWGE include poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, transketolase (TK), ribonucleotide reductase (RNR)
      and, intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) 1. By activating the caspase-3 downstream
      proteases, FWGE treatment results in cleavage of PARP thus, preventing DNA repair in cancer
      cells.

      FWGE treatment decreases major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) in cancer cells.
      MHC-I down regulation in cancer cells leads to an increased natural killer (NK) cells'
      activity. NK cells are considered as the first line of anticancer immune defense.

      TK is the key enzyme of the reductive pentose cycle. In cancer cells this cycle is
      responsible for supplying these cells' increased need for ribose molecules necessary for
      synthesis the sugar chains of the nucleic acids. RNR enzymes, which are strongly inhibited by
      FWGE, catalyze the synthesis of the DNA components.

      It has been known that a tumor can not grow bigger than 2 mm in diameter except if it is able
      to synthesize its own blood vessels (angiogenesis process). The blood vessels in tumors lack
      the protein ICAM-1, which is responsible for facilitating the transfer of anticancer immune
      cells (e. g. macrophages) via the vessels' walls into the tumor. FWGE treatment increases the
      synthesis of ICAM-1.

      In addition, FWGE has a wide therapeutic window: In order to observe any toxicity (effects on
      normal cells), more than 50 times higher dosage of FWGE than the recommended one for therapy
      is needed. This very positive toxicity profile gives a wide therapeutic window for the
      applicability of this product.

      Recently, it has also been shown that FWGE is a strong but, non-selective inhibitor of the
      cyclooxygenases 1 and 2 thus, this preparation has an anti-inflammatory activity.

      The preparation has also been shown to induce apoptosis in gastric carcinoma cells.

      Advantages of FWGE:

        -  The FWGE preparation is non-toxic and safe. This serves as a major consideration in its
           selection for the treatment of advanced cancer patients who suffer from low performance
           status and consequently have a poor quality of life.

        -  FWGE is orally administrated.

        -  The FWGE preparation exhibits a wide variety of mode of actions, in a wide range of
           malignant tumors.

        -  The product is able to increase the natural immune responses, while decreasing the
           systemic inflammation often present in the patients.

        -  It is anticipated that FWGE, by complementing therapeutic efficacy of the standard
           hormonal anticancer treatments, could suppress disease progression, thus prolonging
           patients' survival and improving quality of life parameters.
    
  