
    
      Stroke leads to profound cardiovascular deconditioning and secondary abnormalities in paretic
      skeletal muscle that worsen cardiovascular health. Conventional rehabilitation focuses on
      restoration of daily function, without an adequate exercise stimulus to address
      deconditioning or the muscle abnormalities that may propagate insulin resistance (IR) to
      worsen risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and recurrent stroke. By the time individuals
      reach chronic stroke (>6 months), we report hemiparetic body composition abnormalities
      including paretic leg muscular atrophy, increased intramuscular area fat, and a major shift
      to fast myosin heavy chain (MHC). All of these factors promote IR, which has been linked to
      reduced muscle protein synthesis in aging that may be reversible with exercise. We also find
      elevated tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) in paretic leg muscle, suggesting that
      inflammation may affect protein synthesis and breakdown, similar to sarcopenia in aging. Yet,
      no prior studies have considered stroke as a catabolic syndrome modifiable by early exercise
      to improve muscle and cardiometabolic health.

      Aim #1. Paretic (P) and non-paretic (NP) leg mixed muscle protein synthesis and breakdown in
      the fed and fasted state, TNFα expression, thigh muscle volume and strength.

      Hypothesis 1: Paretic leg has reduced muscle protein synthesis and increased breakdown
      compared to non-paretic leg; TEXT will increase mixed muscle protein synthesis and reduce
      breakdown to increase muscle volume and strength by the mechanism(s) of reducing inflammation
      in the paretic leg, compared to controls.

      Aim # 2. Glucose tolerance, fitness, and muscle phenotype. Hypothesis 2: TEXT will improve
      fitness levels, insulin and glucose response to oral glucose challenge, and increase paretic
      leg slow twitch (slow MHC) muscle molecular phenotype.

      This randomized study investigates the hypothesis that in African-Jamaican adults with recent
      hemiparetic stroke, 6 months of TEXT across the sub-acute and into the chronic phase of
      stroke will improve paretic leg muscle and cardiometabolic health, compared to controls
      receiving best medical care.

      Phase 1 consists of recruitment and screening of individuals with mild to moderate
      hemiparetic stroke from UWI Accident and Emergency Room and Neurology Stroke Clinics. Phase
      2: Subjects with hemiparetic gait ≤ 8 weeks post-stroke who are not wheelchair bound or bed
      are approached for informed consent, medical, neurologic, blood tests, and treadmill (TM)
      exercise tests to determine study eligibility. Phase 3 baseline testing includes measures of
      fitness, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), body composition, bilateral vastus lateralis
      muscle biopsies, stable isotope measures of protein synthesis and breakdown. Phase 4:
      Eligible subjects are randomized to 6 months 3x/week TEXT or control group with best medical
      care alone that includes American Stroke Association (ASA) physical activity guideline
      recommendations for walking 4x/week. Randomization is stratified based on glucose tolerance
      (normal vs. abnormal) and gait deficit severity. Subjects have limited 3 month testing of
      fitness levels (VO2 peak), body composition, fasting glucose and insulin levels to document
      the natural history (controls) and temporal profile of exercise-mediated adaptations (TEXT)
      as they transition from the sub-acute into chronic phase of stroke. Phase 5 is 6-month
      post-intervention testing.
    
  