
    
      Research Question: Does the use of a new assessment tool box (Electronic Impedance Tomography
      (EIT), Lung Clearance Index (LCI), Impulse Oscillation System (IOS)) give results that are
      more sensitive to change for the effect of an airway clearance technique (ACT) (the Active
      Cycle of Breathing Techniques (ACBT)) while having low variability and good repeatability in
      stable adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) than the traditional gold standard outcome
      measures of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and sputum wet weight?

      Hypothesis: The use of a new outcome assessment tool box will allow more sensitive
      information about the effects of ACTs in stable adult patients with CF than the current gold
      standard measures.

      This is a randomised controlled cross-over trial involving adult cystic fibrosis (CF)
      patients from the Royal Brompton Hospital, London. Participants will be their own controls.
      Each participant will attend the research facility for two visits. Prior to starting the
      study assessment session participants will be questioned to ensure they are in a stable state
      of their disease (characterised by symptoms and having had no treatment changes for 28 days
      prior to the visit). All participants will continue with the timing and prescribed dosing of
      all inhaled medications as directed prior to the study. Subjects will be their own controls.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned to the order that they perform the study sessions. Visit A
      will involve a period of rest for up to 60 minutes in-between assessments; Visit B will
      involve a session of airway clearance (ACT) utilising the Active Cycle of Breathing
      Techniques (ACBT) supervised by a specialist physiotherapist in adult CF. The ACT session
      will last for thirty minutes minimum, to 60 minutes maximum until a consensus is reached
      between participant and physiotherapist that the participant's chest is clear.

      Subjects will perform the OM tests of impulse oscillation system (IOS), lung clearance index
      (LCI), and spirometry, then either rest (visit A) or perform a supervised ACBT session (visit
      B) using electronic impedance tomography (EIT) during the session. IOS, LCI and spirometry
      will be repeated immediately after the session. Sputum will be collected throughout the ACT
      or rest sessions and for 30 minutes after each of these sessions is completed. Questionnaires
      asking patient views on the OMs will be given for completion after the last OM test is
      completed on each study visit.

      There are no planned follow up measurements for participants in this study design.

      All usual medications will be permitted for this study. Attention will be paid to mucoactive
      drugs (Pulmozyme®, Mannitol®, Hypertonic saline) to ensure the same frequency and dosing of
      inhalations for both study visits.

      Data will be analysed in 3 groups based upon disease severity. Analysis will be based upon
      differences in outcome measures and in-between study days.
    
  