
    
      HIV infected children are at high risk for invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) caused by the
      bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae. Chemoprophylaxis has been used in children with certain
      diseases for the prevention of IPD, but drug resistance may develop with this prevention
      strategy. In contrast, a vaccine to prevent IPD would have fewer negative implications on
      future treatment options than chemoprophylaxis. This study will evaluate the safety of and
      immune response to PncCV in South African HIV infected and uninfected children. This study
      will also evaluate the safety of and immune response to HibCV in these children.

      This study will last 5.5 years. There will be 5 groups in this study. Group 1 will be HIV
      uninfected infants born to HIV uninfected mothers. Group 2 will be HIV infected infants in
      CDC Disease Category 1 who were randomly assigned to the delayed therapy arm (Arm 1) of CIPRA
      SA-Project 2. Group 3 will be HIV infected infants in CDC Disease Category 1 who were
      randomly assigned to the first early therapy arm (Arm 2) of CIPRA SA-Project 2. Group 4 will
      be HIV infected infants in CDC Disease Category 2 or 3 who were randomly assigned to the
      second early therapy arm (Arm 3) of CIPRA SA-Project 2. Group 5 will be HIV uninfected
      infants born to HIV infected mothers; Group 5 infants will undergo repeat HIV testing at 4 to
      8 months of age, 9 to 11 months of age, and approximately 18 months of age.

      There will be 13 study visits; medical history assessment, a physical examination, and blood
      collection will occur at each visit. At each of 3 study visits before age 24 weeks, all
      participants will receive an injection of PncCV and an injection of routine pediatric
      vaccines, including HibCV. Previously vaccinated HIV infected participants will only receive
      those vaccines they need to complete the South African series of routine pediatric
      vaccinations. Within each group, participants will be randomly assigned to receive a booster
      shot of either PncCV or HibCV between 64 and 76 weeks of age. Participants will also receive
      two measles vaccinations between 38 and 76 weeks of age. Parents or guardians will be asked
      to complete a diary card after each vaccination and report any adverse effects occurring
      within the 72 hours post-vaccination.
    
  