
    
      Peripheral vascular occlusive disease is a progressive and often debilitating form of
      atherosclerosis affecting the vessels of the upper and lower extremities. Patients typically
      present with complaints of pain in the involved extremity (claudication), others present with
      numbness, heaviness, or fatigue in the affected limb. With regards to the progression of the
      disease, up to 10% of patients with intermittent claudication may progress to limb loss over
      the course of 5 years. Past studies indicated that 2/3 of the patients' symptoms remained
      stable. Most recent studies, however, suggest that the natural history results in more
      disabling symptoms.

      These patients can be evaluated with non-invasive studies including Ankle-Brachial Indices
      (ABI) or arterial duplex to assess the arterial flow. If stenosis or total occlusion is
      identified, an invasive study (angiogram) may be necessary. From these studies we are able to
      determine if the patient is a candidate for either a traditional surgical procedure (bypass)
      or a percutaneous treatment, similar to the angiogram.

      The superficial femoral artery (SFA) has been the region most difficult to treat and maintain
      patency. Stenosis and/or occlusion often can occur by 6 months. Results of balloon
      angioplasty and stenting in the femoropopliteal segment have been for the most part variable
      and often with poor results. The SFA and popliteal arteries are extremely difficult to treat
      because the diffuse nature of disease, high degree of recoil, amplified reactivity, large
      number of occlusions, calcification, and the impact of inflow and run-off.

      Angioplasty alone, is limited by a high frequency of dissection, significant recoil, and
      unacceptably high restenosis rates. While stenting has made an acute impact on dissection and
      recoil, restenosis rates have only modestly improved over time. More aggressive stent
      utilization has created other problems; in-stent restenosis, occlusion and stent-strut
      fracture.

      Now, percutaneous revascularization has become an option for many patients due to a minimal
      invasive nature. Various other modalities have been used most recently to treat the
      femoropopliteal region, including the cool laser, atherectomy, cryoplasty and endoluminal
      grafts in an attempt to obtain a long-lasting result. At present, few studies compare the use
      of other devices different from stents in this anatomical location.

      Randomization is done before the intervention by opening a sealed envelope containing the
      type of procedure. All procedures will be done under systemic heparinization using 3 to 5K ui
      of IV heparin. All cases will be approached percutaneously from the contralateral CFA to
      prevent that the access site interfere with patency outcome (i.e., antegrade approach). The
      use of stents as adjunctive Rx in laser, atherectomy, balloon angioplasty and cryoplasty
      cases will be a sole decision of the interventionist. PTA and stent will be the control
      group. To maintain uniformity, the stent to be used during the entire series will be the
      Guidant "Absolute" stent. The laser probe to be used in the study, is the 2.0, 2.2, or 2.5 mm
      (0.35 compatible) concentric catheter - Spectranetics. The endoluminal graft for the series
      is the Viabahn - W.L. Gore. The use of closure devices in the access site, will be decision
      of the interventionist. All patients should be treated post-op with Plavix 75 mg orally for
      three months starting the day of the intervention.

      All subjects will be evaluated pre-procedure, 2 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months. Subject follow-up
      at 2 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months will include Bilateral ABIs, Arterial Duplex, and a Complete
      Physical Exam/Clinical Symptoms (presence of pulses).
    
  