
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate (CR) of cladribine in combination with idarubicin
      and cytarabine (araC) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), high risk (HR)
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), or myeloid blast phase of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of cladribine in combination with idarubicin
      and araC in patients with AML, HR MDS, or myeloid blast phase of CML.

      II. To assess overall survival (OS) and event free survival (EFS) of patients treated with
      cladribine, idarubicin, and araC (cytarabine).

      III. To assess the duration of response to the combination in patients with AML, HR MDS, or
      myeloid blast phase of CML.

      IV. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination in patients with AML, HR MDS,
      or myeloid blast phase of CML.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study and describe the relationship between pretreatment patient/disease
      characteristics (including AML-associated molecular abnormalities) and outcome.

      II. To identify molecular biomarkers predictive of response to therapy. III. To study and
      describe the relationship between patient/disease characteristics, use of intrathecal
      prophylaxis, and incidence of leptomeningeal disease.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive cladribine intravenously (IV) and cytarabine IV over 1-2 hours on
      days 1-5 and idarubicin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-3. Patients with untreated AML and
      MDS also receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 2-8. AML patients with known FLT3-ITD or FLT3
      kinase domain mutations may receive midostaurin PO twice daily (BID) on days 6-19 or
      gilteritinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive cladribine IV and cytarabine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3
      and idarubicin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-2. Patients with untreated AML and MDS also
      receive venetoclax PO on days 2-8. AML patients with known FLT3-ITD or FLT3 kinase domain
      mutations may receive midostaurin PO BID on days 6-19 or gilteritinib PO QD. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.
    
  