
    
      A post-market, single-center, prospective, randomized, single-blinded study.

      Each subject serves as her/his own control. The procedures chosen are bilateral, and each
      subject will have one side of the surgical site treated with MIST Therapy and the other side
      left untreated except for the surgeon's usual postoperative care protocol.

      Study objectives: Comparison between MIST-treated side versus the contralateral untreated
      side on the reduction in swelling, bruising, firmness, pain, and wound healing complications;
      the potential improvements in scarring; and the improvements in patient satisfaction.

      Subject recruitment: A total of 30 subjects will be enrolled into the study. The MIST-treated
      side will be randomly assigned. The assigned MIST-treated side will be known to the subject
      and assistant providing MIST Therapy, but will not be known to the Investigator/assessor.

      Protocol and procedures: Subjects will be followed until 12 weeks post-surgery. The side
      assigned for MIST Therapy treatment will be treated weekly, beginning 2-3 days post-surgery,
      and continuing until 3 weeks post-surgery. A baseline evaluation will include demographic
      data, medical and surgical history, smoking history, laboratory tests, and digital
      photography of each side of the wound.

      Subjects will be assessed at the following timepoints post-surgery: Days 2,7,14, 21, 28, 42
      and 84.

      The following procedures and assessments will be obtained at specific timepoints:

        -  MIST Therapy treatments to the assigned wound side (Days 2, 7, 14, 21)

        -  Digital photographs (Baseline, Days 14, 21, 42, 84)

        -  Bruising assessment (Days 7 and 14)

        -  Pain assessment (Days 7 and 14)

        -  Swelling assessment (Days 7 and 14)

        -  Firmness assessment (Days 21 and 42)

        -  Scar assessment (Days 21 and 84)

        -  Subject satisfaction (Day 84)

        -  Concomitant treatments including use of moisturizers, scar creams and compression
           garments(all timepoints)

        -  Wound healing complication assessment (all timepoints)

        -  Adverse event assessment (all timepoints following informed consent)
    
  