
    
      Angiotensin II (AngII), the main effector peptide of the rennin-angiotensin system (RAS), is
      implicated in the development of vascular, cardiac, and renal pathologies. Several lines of
      evidence have suggested that AngII can impair insulin sensitivity.Angiotensin type-1 receptor
      (AT1R) blockers (ARBs) have been recognized recently as regulators of glucose and lipid
      metabolism in adipocytes and adipose tissue. Recent clinical trials suggest that blockade of
      the RAS, either by inhibiting the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) or by blocking AT1R,
      may substantially lower the risk for type 2 diabetes. In the Heart Outcomes Prevention
      Evaluation (HOPE) trial, there was 34% reduction in relative risk for the development of type
      2 diabetes. Similarly, in the Intervention For Endpoint Reduction in Hypertension study
      (LIFE), the incidence of type 2 diabetes was reduced by 25% in the losartan group compared
      with other antihypertensive therapies. Previous study demonstrated that AT1R blockade
      improved insulin sensitivity in animal models of insulin resistance. The underlying mechanism
      of the insulin sensitizing and anti-diabetic effect of ARBs is incompletely clear.

      The nuclear hormone receptor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor- (PPAR-γ) plays an
      important role in the regulation of insulin sensitivity. Several studies have shown the ARBs
      telmisartan and irbesartan potently induces PPAR-γ activity, promoting PPAR-γ-dependent
      differentiation in adipocytes. However, not all ARBs own PPAR-γ activating properties. In
      vitro studies have shown that significant differences among PPAR-γ activating ARBs are likely
      caused by their physicochemical properties, and high lipophilicity is required to obtain
      sufficiently high penetration rates to bind to intracellular PPAR-γ. Losartan at high
      concentrations could activate PPAR-γ and behaved like partial PPAR-γ agonists. Nevertheless
      the results of losartan on insulin sensitivity remain controversial.

      To elucidate the underlying effects of losartan on insulin sensitivity, we investigated the
      effects of losartan on insulin sensitivity and secretion in patients with type 2 diabetes and
      nephropathy.
    
  