
    
      The study is a randomised feasibility study.

      The patients participating in the study will be randomised 1:1 in two groups. The
      randomisation will be stratified by three status epilepticus (SE) aetiologies a) previous
      epilepsy b) acute central nervous system insult c) cryptogenic/ unknown.

      The standard medical care group (Control group) will receive sequential portable
      electroencephalograms (EEGs), performed according to the clinical demand. The treatment group
      (cEEG group) will have cEEG, which will continue until 24 hours after cessation of clinical
      and electrical seizure activity. The patients will be treated by the same medical team of
      neurologists or neurointensivists, according to the same guidelines.

      Clinical data will be collected from observation of in-patient medical records. The
      information will include demographics i.e. age, gender and ethnicity group, information about
      previous medical history and specifically previous history of epilepsy. The investigators
      will record the type of epilepsy, the type of previous seizures, their frequency, previous
      admissions due to SE and current and previously used antiepileptic drugs. These data can be
      obtained either by the patient or the next of kin and if the patient is followed up in the
      local epilepsy service, the required data may be obtained from the medical records.

      Regarding the acute presentation of status epilepticus, data will be collected regarding the
      date and the time of diagnosis of SE, the date of seizure onset, the level of consciousness
      on presentation, the type of seizures during SE (i.e. focal motor, generalised motor, absence
      etc) and SE aetiology, if available. If the SE is diagnosed by EEG as non-convulsive, the
      date of the diagnosis will be recorded. The types of seizures during the course of SE will be
      recorded, as well as the antiepileptic drugs and sedation used, including the doses. The SE
      severity score (STESS) will be calculated early during the patient admission to ICU. The date
      that the patient was fit for discharge from ICU will be obtained, as well as the date of
      discharge from hospital. It is noted that the date the patient is fit for discharge from ICU
      is not always the same as the actual date of ICU discharge. The data will also include
      in-hospital and 30-days mortality, the time until seizure control and the reported hospital
      acquired complications and specifically healthcare-associated infections, pressure injuries,
      falls resulting in fractures or injuries, respiratory complications, venous thromboembolism
      and medication complications. The quality of life index will be assessed with the health
      questionnaire introduced by EuroQol Group (version EQ-5D-5L), at 0, 3 ,6 and 12 months post
      discharge and/ or the Quality of Life in Epilepsy questionnaire (QOLIE), which will be mailed
      to the patients. If the patient is not able to provide this information in writing, these
      data will be collected with brief telephone interview.

      The observational data will be collected by the research nurse and will be transferred to the
      case report form (CRF). The specific information, regarding the seizure types and the seizure
      aetiology, will require input from the medical team and specifically the neurologist, the
      neurointensivist and the clinical neurophysiologist. The information gather will be reviewed
      and supervised by the Principal Investigator (PI).

      The data regarding the hospital costs for each patient will be collected after the patient's
      discharge and will be based on the specific coding of all medical, diagnostic and therapeutic
      interventions registered for each patient, taking into account the additional time required
      for assessing cEEG data. The clinical neurophysiologist and the physiologist will log their
      clinical activity time required for reviewing the cEEG recordings.

      The data will be transferred to CRF and the length of ICU and in-hospital stay and the
      quality of life measures will be compared between groups in order to identify differences in
      the final outcome between the control and the cEEG groups. Similarly, the costs for
      management of the two patient groups will be compared.

      The calculation of the sample size for the larger study will be performed after the
      collection of 40 cases.
    
  