
    
      Miscarriage is the most common outcome of pregnancy. Vaginal bleeding complicates up to 25%
      of all pregnancies, and this clinical sign is associated with an increased risk of
      spontaneous abortion (also known as miscarriage) and other adverse pregnancy outcomes, such
      as spontaneous preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of the membranes, pre-eclampsia and
      intrauterine growth restriction. Despite the importance of vaginal bleeding in clinical
      obstetrics, there is inadequate understanding about the mechanisms leading to vaginal
      bleeding, and of tests to predict pregnancy outcome in the majority of cases.

      A common finding in patients with first trimester vaginal bleeding is subchorionic
      hemorrhage, which is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage, preterm delivery,
      preterm premature rupture of membranes, stillbirth, and placental abruption. Previous
      attempts to characterize subchorionic hemorrhage have used two-dimensional ultrasound, which
      is not well-suited for accurate measurement of the volume irregular hematomas. It is not
      surprising that there has been debate about the significance of subchorionic hemorrhage,
      especially in asymptomatic women undergoing prenatal ultrasound examination for other reasons
      in which an intrauterine hematoma is found. Three-dimensional ultrasonography has the
      potential to improve the characterization of volume and location of intrauterine hematomas.
      This information may be of value in predicting pregnancy outcome.

      The Perinatology Research Branch proposes that first trimester bleeding is one of the great
      obstetrical syndromes; conditions characterized by a collection of signs and symptoms (in
      this case vaginal bleeding and cramping), with multiple etiologies. We propose that first
      trimester bleeding may be the result of a hemostatic disorder of the prenatal endometrium
      (deciduas), caused by pathologic factors including (1) genetic disorders such as chromosomal
      abnormalities which often is the result in miscarriage in the first trimester of pregnancy;
      (2) congenital or acquired hemostatic abnormalities due to thrombophilic mutations; (3)
      abnormal endocrine processes which may lead to dysregulation of endometrial events required
      for successful pregnancy; (4) abnormal immunological responses in the maternal/embryo/fetal
      interface. These abnormalities, which could have clinical significance, cannot be
      investigated with ultrasound. This protocol describes a comprehensive and systematic study of
      women who present with bleeding during the first trimester of pregnancy, to improve
      understanding of the relationship between the location and the size of hematomas (with
      three-dimensional ultrasounds) and the other factors that may determine the subsequent
      development of adverse pregnancy outcome.

      The Branch will execute this protocol by establishing a first-trimester clinic to study
      patients who present with this common complication of pregnancy. First trimester bleeding is
      a common and important complication of pregnancy which has been a neglected area of
      investigation by private and public agencies. We intend to address what has been an orphan
      area of clinical research.
    
  