
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage II adenocarcinoma of the prostate
           treated with high- vs standard-dose three-dimensional conformal or intensity-modulated
           radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the freedom from prostate-specific antigen failure, disease-specific survival,
           local progression, and distant metastases in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the probability of tumor control and normal tissue complications in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of grade 2 or greater genitourinary and gastrointestinal acute and
           late toxicity in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life, including sexual function, of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Correlate histopathologic or tumor-specific cytogenetic or chromosomal markers with
           cancer control outcomes in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      Gleason score and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level (Gleason score 2-6, PSA ≥10 mg/mL but
      < 20 ng/mL vs Gleason score 7, PSA < 15 ng/mL) and radiation modality (three-dimensional
      conformal radiotherapy [3D-CRT] vs intensity-modulated radiotherapy [IMRT]). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard-dose 3D-CRT or IMRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 7.8
           weeks (39 treatment days).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo high-dose 3D-CRT or IMRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 8.8
           weeks (44 treatment days).

      Quality of life (QOL) is assessed initially at baseline. After completion of radiotherapy,
      QOL is assessed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 4 years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,520 patients (760 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    
  