
    
      The main objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of usual case management
      plus motivational interviewing (MI), provided by trained Norwegian Labour and Welfare
      Administration (NAV) case-workers, and usual case management plus a Stratified Vocational
      Advice Intervention (SVAI), including principles of MI and vocational advice provided by
      trained physiotherapists, compared to usual case management alone on return to work among
      people on sick leave due to a musculoskeletal disorder. A multi-arm randomised controlled
      trial (RCT) will be conducted in order to respond to the following specific research
      questions:

      RQ 1a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management
      alone in reducing sickness absence days at 6 months follow-up among individuals who have been
      on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 1b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management
      alone in reducing sickness absence days at 6 months follow-up among individuals who have been
      on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 2a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management
      alone in reducing sickness absence days at 12 months follow-up among individuals who have
      been on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 2b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management
      alone in reducing sickness absence days at 12 months follow-up among individuals who have
      been on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 3a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management
      alone in time until sustained RTW during 12 months follow-up among individuals who have been
      on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 3b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management
      alone in time until sustained RTW during 12 months of follow-up among individuals who have
      been on sick leave for >7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

      RQ 4a Is there a difference in the proportions of participants who receive sick leave
      benefits each month during 12 months of follow-up between usual case management plus MI
      compared to usual case management alone?

      RQ 4b Is there a difference in the proportion of individuals who receive sick leave benefits
      each month during 12 months of follow-up between usual case management plus SVAI compared to
      usual case management alone?

      RQ 5a Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 6
      months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who
      receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone?

      RQ 5b Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 6
      months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who
      receive usual case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone?

      RQ 6a Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 12
      months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who
      receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone?

      RQ 6b Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 12
      months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who
      receive usual case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone?

      RQ 7a Is there a difference in musculoskeletal health during 12 months of follow up between
      individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who receive usual case management
      plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management alone?

      RQ 7b Is there a difference in musculoskeletal health during 12 months of follow up between
      individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who receive usual case management
      plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management alone?

      The following hypotheses will be tested:

      H 1a There is no difference in number of sickness absence days between participants who
      receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone at 6 months follow-up.

      H 1b There is no difference in number of sickness absence days between participants who
      receive usual case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone at 6 months follow-up.

      H 2a There is no difference in number of sickness absence days between participants who
      receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone at 12 months follow-up.

      H 2b There is no difference in number of sickness absence days between participants who
      receive usual case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone at 12 months follow-up.

      H 3a There is no difference in time until first sustained RTW between participants who
      receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone during 12 months follow-up.

      H 3b There is no difference in time until first sustained RTW between participants who
      receive usual case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management
      alone during 12 months of follow-up.

      H 4a There is no difference in the proportions of participants who receive sick leave
      benefits each month between usual case management plus MI compared to usual case management
      alone during 12 months of follow-up.

      H 4b There is no difference in the proportions of individuals receiving sick leave benefits
      each month between usual case management plus SVAI compared to usual case management alone
      during 12 months of follow-up.

      H 5a There is no difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit between
      usual case management plus MI compared to usual case management alone during 6 months of
      follow up.

      H 5b There is no difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit between
      usual case management plus SVAI compared to usual case management alone during 6 months of
      follow up.

      H 6a There is no difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit between
      usual case management plus MI compared to usual case management alone during 12 months of
      follow up.

      H 6b There is no difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit between
      usual case management plus SVAI compared to usual case management alone during 12 months of
      follow up.

      H 7a There is no difference in musculoskeletal health between participants who receive usual
      case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management alone during 12
      months of follow-up.

      H 7b There is no difference in musculoskeletal health between participants who receive usual
      case management plus SVAI compared to those who receive usual case management alone during 12
      months of follow-up.

      A multi-arm RCT with a full-scale health economic evaluation and mediator analysis will be
      conducted. In order to avoid contextual contamination effect only NAV offices in which the
      employees have not received any previous MI training will be included. All eligible
      participants will be asked to participate.

      The head NAV office in Oslo will provide weely lists of persons meeting the eligibility
      criteria. We will contact eligible people by phone and give information about the study.
      Elibible persons who are interested will then receive a link to the informed consent and the
      baseline questionnaire.

      MI intervention: In addition to usual case management, the MI group will receive 2
      motivational interviews provided by a NAV case-worker. The case-workers will be educated and
      mentored throughout the study period. The first MI will be face-to-face, while the second may
      by phone, but preferable face-to-face.The interviews will be given in week 8/9 of the sick
      leave period, and then again after approximately 2 weeks.

      SVAI intervention: In addition to usual case management, the SVAI group will be followed up
      by trained physical therapists. This group will be stratified into risk groups for long term
      sick leave; an "at risk group" and a "high risk group". The at risk group will receive 1-2
      phone calls with emphasis on identifying obstacles for return to work, and solutions for
      resolving these obstacles. The high risk group will be followed up 3-4 times. The first
      follow-up is by phone, the remaining follow-ups can be either by phone or face to face
      meetings and can include a workplace visit. The SVAI intervention will end before week 26 of
      the participants' sick leave period.

      Usual case management: The Norwegian welfare state has a system for following up people on
      sick leave, including a follow-up plan developed by the worker and the employer by week 4 of
      the sick leave period, a dialogue meeting between the worker and the employer by week 7, and
      a second dialogue Meeting including a NAV caseworker, by week 26.

      The study flow:

      Baseline recruitment will occur by week 8 of the sick leave period. The two interventions
      will start immediately after randomization and baseline assessments. The questionnaires will
      be sent electronic through a secure system from University of Oslo at baseline, and after 3,
      6, 9, and 12 months.

      A pilot study will be conducted prior to start of the RCT to test the study protocol
      including the recruitment procedure, the randomisation procedure, the information flow
      between researchers, physical therapists, NAV case workers and study participants, and the
      interventions (MI and SVAI). The pilot study will end by the first 100 included participants
      (August 31. 2019). The participants in the pilot study will be included in the RCT as long as
      the protocol will not be changed with respect to the scientific method and research questions
      (internal pilot study).

      A fidelity study of the MI and SVAI interventions will be conducted to measure how well the
      trained personnel is using the methods and interventions as intended. For the MI arm, a
      developed instrument (Motivational Interviewing Treatment Integrity Coding Manual 4.2.1) will
      be used to score the feasibility from audio recordings of all NAV case-workers who do the MI
      intervention. For the SVAI intervention, feasibility will be measured by both audiotaping and
      from the telephone script/journal that the SVAI physiotherapists fill out during the talk
      with the study participant. The investigators plan to do 20-25 audiotapes of the 5 SVAI
      physiotherapists.
    
  