
    
      This is a controlled, randomized, double blind, (double--dummy) study to evaluate the
      analgesic efficacy of sucrose. The study staff will evaluate all inborn newborns admitted to
      the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) with a Gestational Age (GA) ≤36+6 weeks; the newborns
      will be immediately screened for eligibility based upon the pre--defined study
      inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Then, the parents will be informed about the study and the written informed consent form will
      be signed. Those eligible will be randomized into the study through computer generated
      randomization list.

      The population of the study consists of premature infants undergoing blood sampling. It is
      estimated that approximately 144 premature neonates (72 per group either heel prick or
      venepuncture) will be included in the randomized study.

      All eligible neonates whose parents have agreed to participate in the study by signing the
      informed consent form will be randomized as soon as they are admitted to the NICU.

      This study will be conducted in 3 phases:

        -  Pre--randomization The following items will be obtained: Maternal history including the
           mother's medical and pregnancy history, prenatal care status; Antenatal analgesics and
           sedative drugs given to the mother; Estimated GA, birth weight and length. All the data
           have to be noted on the Case Report Form (CRF);

        -  Study phase: Premature neonates undergoing blood samples through skin breaking
           procedures, meeting inclusion criteria, will be randomized as soon as the doctor
           decision to drown the blood is made, to either sucrose 24% 0,3 mL if ≤ 1000 g or 0,5 mL
           if > 1000 g two minutes before the skin breaking procedure or sucrose 24% 0,3 mL if ≤
           1000 g or 0,5 mL if > 1000 g two minutes before and during the skin breaking procedure,
           according to a computer generated randomization list. A trained operator (a nurse or a
           doctor) will perform heel pricks using an automatic lance (Tenderfoot® micro--preemie
           for infants < 1000 g and Tenderfoot preemie for infants > 1000 grams) and venipuncture
           using a butterfly needle 23--25 gauge. Any skin breaking procedure, either heel prick or
           venipuncture, for each patient will be noted down;; patients will be video--recorded
           during blood sampling to allow at least two operators to evaluate the analgesic efficacy
           of the intervention by algometric measurements. In a subgroup of patients skin
           conductance will also be measured.

      Algometric measurements: The pain evaluation will be done visualizing the video of the
      procedure. Two different evaluators independently will assign the pain score with:

        1. Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP) at 30 and 60 seconds after the skin puncture

        2. Face, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability (FLACC) scale at 30 seconds

        3. Indirect Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) at 30 seconds for inter--rater agreement. One week
           later the same evaluators will assign again the pain scores for the intra--rater
           agreement.

      Instrumental PAIN examinations: Pain Monitor is an instrument that measures SC. It detects
      hand or foot skin conductance gradient, which is directly related to the painful stimuli. The
      sympathetic nervous system releases acetylcholine that acts on muscarine receptors inducing a
      sweating and SC increase in response to painful stimuli. Pain monitor is simple to use: tree
      electrodes positioned on neonate foot sole are connected to the central system. Pain monitor
      immediately and continuously reacts to stimuli without being influenced neither by
      hemodynamic variability nor by neuromuscular blocks. The measurement its represented on a
      compatible computer monitor through a graphic function with SC values expressed in
      microsiemens on the ordinate axis and time on the abscissa axis. Stressful and painful
      stimuli related SC variability is represented by peaks and the under peaks area defines pain
      intensity at detection moment. During monitoring you can note down directly on the graphic
      every intervention on the patient (medication, blood sample, ect.). Detection can be
      extrapolated with Excel for statistical analysis.

      - Follow--up phase: it will begin from the end of the blood samples. Assessments will
      continue until hospital discharge.

      AE that are ongoing during the study phase as well as clinical outcomes (that are major
      clinical diagnoses) will be assessed until hospital discharge. Clinical data will be recorded
      on CRF. In addition the following information will be collected at hospital discharge:

        -  Number of previous skin breaking procedures

        -  Number of previous sucrose doses

        -  Clinical status of the infant

        -  Duration of hospitalization

        -  Number of Ventilated Days

        -  Need for oxygen/monitor at discharge

        -  Need for supplemental oxygen at 36 weeks post--menstrual age
    
  