
    
      Once a tooth reaches a level of inflammation where healing can no longer occur or when the
      pulp space begins to go through necrosis, root canal treatment is indicated. The goal of root
      canal therapy is to clean, shape, disinfect, and obturate all canal systems within the tooth.
      Schilder's mechanical and biological objectives for cleaning and shaping includes: preparing
      a continuous tapering root canal funnel from access to apex, cross-sectional diameters should
      be wider at every point as you move coronally, the preparation should occupy as may planes as
      presented by the original canal and should follow the shape of the original canal, the apical
      foramen should remain in it is original spatial relationship to bone and to root surface, the
      apical opening should be kept as small as practical in all cases, complete cleaning and
      shaping in one appointment, procedures should be confined to the roots themselves, necrotic
      debris should not be forced beyond the foramina, all tissues should be removed from root
      canal space, and sufficient space for intracanal medicaments and irrigation should be
      created. Traditionally, the standard protocol for cleaning and shaping is completed using
      multiple hand or rotary files. Siqueira discovered that the factors that are commonly
      responsible for post-operative or interappointment pain include mechanical preparation and
      obturation beyond the apex, bacterial insults not present in the primary infection, and
      chemical extrusion of irrigant materials beyond the apex. Post-operative pain can occur hours
      to days following root canal procedures. Irrigation dissolves organic material and kills
      microbes. It also helps prevent the binding of instruments, improves the cutting
      effectiveness of files, dissolves tissue, and cools the instrument and tooth. The most common
      endodontic irrigant is sodium hypochlorite. Sodium hypochlorite is an alkaline fluid with a
      pH of approximately 11-12. It hydrolyzes proteins and causes hemolysis of red blood cells
      which leads to the dissolution of vital, as well as necrotic tissue. Upon contact of organic
      debris, hypochlorus acid forms which disrupts bacterial metabolism by oxidizing the
      sulfhydryl group of bacterial enzymes. The purpose of this study is to determine whether a
      new treatment modality for cleaning and disinfecting the root canal system will significantly
      affect the occurrence and severity of post-operative pain. Patients will be randomly divided
      into two groups, control and research. The control group will have the standard root canal
      procedure. The research group will have a root canal treatment that includes irrigation and
      disinfection with the Gentlewave system, thus eliminating the need for multiple rotatory
      files and multiple irrigation steps. Patients will be asked to complete a visual analog pain
      scale rating for pretreatment pain, as well as the same visual assessment scale for pain 6,
      24, 72, & 168 hours following treatment. The results of the study should show that following
      Gentlewave treatment patients will experience less severe post-operative pain, if any at all.
      The findings should support a treatment modality that retains tooth structure while
      completely removing necrotic debris and bacteria, as well as causing minimal to no
      post-operative pain.
    
  