
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability. A first diagnosis of atrial fibrillation
      may occur at the time of stroke (e.g. about 45% of patients with acute stroke). Undiagnosed
      atrial fibrillation is therefore a major care-gap in stroke prevention.

      Against this backdrop, oral anticoagulant therapy is extremely effective at reducing the risk
      of ischemic stroke in atrial fibrillation, associated with a two-thirds risk reduction.
      Therefore, a major care gap in stroke prevention is the prevalence of undetected atrial
      fibrillation in the community. Traditional pulse screening in all patients > 65 years detects
      new atrial fibrillation in about 1% of people.

      The CHA2DS2-VASc score was developed and validated to risk-stratify patients with atrial
      fibrillation into low, intermediate and high risk of stroke. The Investigators believe that
      the CHA2DS2-VASc score represents an opportunity to identify patients at high risk of atrial
      fibrillation, but also identifies this at highest risk of stroke, and therefore those that
      will derive greatest benefit from anticoagulant therapy.

      The advent of external-worn event loop recorders (ELRs) present a more convenient and
      efficient method of detecting atrial fibrillation. Loop recorders have an in-built diagnostic
      algorithm that identifies atrial fibrillation, and initiates recordings before and after the
      event-trigger. This rhythm strip is then examined and confirmed by the trial cardiac
      technician. The investigators will examine if using external loop recorders in patients
      identified as high risk will improve the detection rate of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

      The study is a randomised controlled cross-over multi-centered clinical trial in General
      Practice. Ethical approval has been sought from the Galway University Hospitals research
      ethics committee. The investigators have also engaged with Clinical Research Patient and
      Public Involvement.

      The investigators primary research question is whether extended cardiac rhythm monitoring
      (with ELR for 1 week), compared to standard care, in patients pre-identified to be at
      high-risk of atrial fibrillation (defined by CHA2DS2-VASc score >2) increases the detection
      of new atrial fibrillation resulting in introduction of oral anticoagulant therapy, that is
      efficient, acceptable to patients and cost-effective.

      All participating general practices will require the Socrates software package. The
      investigators will run analyses to identify patients with a CHA2DS2-VASc of 3 or greater. The
      investigators will exclude all patients with known atrial fibrillation, those in whom
      contraindications to oral anticoagulant therapy exist, and those who are deemed unsuitable
      for extended monitoring.
    
  