
    
      All patients referred electively to a participating investigator for the evaluation of their
      ascending aortic aneurysm will be screened for study eligibility. Patients between the age of
      18 and 79 with an asymptomatic ascending aortic aneurysm between 5.0 cm and 5.4 cm in maximal
      diameter are entered into the randomization study. Patients with ascending aortic aneurysm
      with a diameter of 4.5 cm - 4.9 cm will be observed with serial CT, and will be considered
      for enrollment into the trial once the aneurysm reaches 5.0 cm.

      When the patient is first assessed in clinic, a pre-randomization evaluation will be
      completed. Baseline information of the patient, including demographics, past medical history,
      family history, medications, smoking habits, and the characteristics of the aneurysm, is
      collected. Measurements including weight, height, heart rate, blood pressure in both arms, is
      recorded. Basic blood work, including hemoglobin, white cell count, platelets, electrolytes,
      creatinine, random blood sugar, HbA1c, and cholesterol profile is taken for analysis. An
      electrocardiograph, chest X-ray, and a CT scan from the surgeon's institution is also
      obtained. SF-36, the quality of life questionnaire, will be completed by the patient. Those
      patients that are suitable for the trial based on inclusion and exclusion criteria will then
      be randomized en-site through a computer-generated randomization program.

      For the patients randomized to elective surgery group, the surgery is scheduled within 10-12
      weeks of randomization. In the interim, the patient will be placed on maximal medical therapy
      for their aneurysm, including beta-blocker, statin, and blood pressure control, and the doses
      of these medication will be individualized based on each patient's own physiological
      response. The types of surgery (ascending aortic replacement, Bentall procedure,
      valve-sparing root replacement, etc.) will be at the discretion of the surgeon. The details
      of the surgery and the patient's course of postoperative hospital stay is recorded. The
      patient will be managed postoperatively according to routine hospital care. After discharge,
      patients will be seen at 1 months for their routine postoperative follow up, then annually
      counting from their index clinic visit before the surgery. At the first postoperative clinic
      visit, weight, height, heart rate, blood pressure in both arms, is recorded. Basic blood
      work, including hemoglobin, white cell count, platelets, electrolytes, creatinine is taken
      for analysis. An electrocardiograph and chest X-ray will be obtained. All subsequent clinic
      visits can be done in person or by phone conducted by a study coordinator. A CT scan will be
      obtained at all subsequent clinic visits. Mortality status and occurrence of acute aortic
      event or stroke in the previous year will be assessed at every annual clinic visit. Quality
      of life assessment by SF-36 questionnaire will be completed by the patient in person or by
      phone at 1 year and 2 years follow-up. Annual follow-up will continue until either the
      patient dies or the trial ends. Patients who are randomized to the surveillance group will be
      placed on maximal medical therapy for their aneurysm, including beta-blocker, statin, and
      blood pressure control. The doses of these medication will be individualized based on each
      patient's own physiological response. The patients will undergo a CT scan of the chest at the
      first clinic visit then annually for the duration of the study. All CTs will be uploaded to a
      core CT imaging lab where the image will be reviewed by a Radiologist. If the aneurysm grows
      beyond 5.5 cm or the patient develop symptoms, the surgeon will consider the patient for
      surgery. At all clinic visits, in addition to CT, weight, height, heart rate, blood pressure
      in both arms, an electrocardiograph, and a chest X-ray will be obtained. The surveillance
      visits continue until either the patient dies, the trial ends, or surgery is considered. If
      the patient is no longer considered a suitable candidate for surgery or refuse surgery,
      follow-up will continue, and the patient will no longer be a part of the trial and will only
      be registered in the side arm.
    
  