
    
      The goals of rehabilitation are to improve functional level, decrease secondary morbidity and
      enhance health-related quality of life. The costs associated with pressure ulcers are
      considerable. In addition to direct treatment- related costs, pressure ulcers also impact the
      hospital performance metrics. On top of the financial implications, pressure ulcers have a
      significant impact on patient morbidity and -mortality, as well as on health related quality
      of life. The researchers believe there is a large potential for improvement in prevention of
      pressure ulcers. An interdisciplinary approach, including home-based rehabilitation programs,
      might help prevent PUs and their complications, and thus reduce associated costs. The
      investigators conducted a pilot in 2012, in which patients with SCI and PU were monitored
      through interdisciplinary outpatient homecare, using telemedicine. The project was beneficial
      for the users/ patients, especially in terms of user- participation and -contribution, the
      improved quality of life, and a better cooperation between primary and specialized healthcare
      services. Economic analysis indicated that telemedicine provides great savings for public
      healthcare services, and that using telemedicine with other patient groups with similar
      problems, could be beneficial. A positive outcome of this study can be made available to most
      PU patients. Knowledge about PU will contribute in both planning and establishment of good
      treatment lines for the patients, as well as contribute to environmental savings and a proper
      use of the health resources. This may reduce the consumption of hospital services, because a
      larger proportion of services are provided by the municipality. An important scientific
      significance of this research will thus be to improve, simplify and streamline health care
      and health- related services.
    
  