
    
      Most of the surgeries involving the foot and ankle require non-weight bearing status post
      operatively. Patients use crutches, walker or knee scooters during that period to avoid
      weight bearing. However, using any mobility device(s) requires training to avoid falls. Most
      of the falls happen during early post-operative period after any surgery. The usage of
      assistive mobility device(s) increases the risk of falls. Some studies have shown physical
      therapy and training to decrease this risk of falls. Physical training for usage of assistive
      devices can be done either preoperatively or post operatively. When training is done
      postoperatively, it may increase the risk of fall due to pain, usage of narcotic drugs,
      especially in older patients due to lack of muscle power. To prevent these increased risks,
      the training can be done preoperatively. However, the role of preoperative training regarding
      usage of assistive devices has not been emphasized in the literature. Hence, the aim of our
      current study is to evaluate the difference between preoperative training and no training
      before surgery on the use of mobility device(s).

      250 patients will be enrolled in the study. Each participant will be stratified by
      randomization into either Group 1 or Group 2. Patients in Group 1 will receive training on
      the mobility device(s) during their standard pre-operative care whereas patients in Group 2
      will not receive this training. This training is not a component of routine, standard
      pre-operative care. Each group will include 125 patients.

      Working in conjunction with University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) Foot and Ankle Division
      of the Orthopaedic department, volunteers meeting inclusion criteria will be identified in
      the outpatient clinic setting. After thorough discussion of risks and benefits, potential
      volunteers will be consented for participation in the study. The volunteer's demographic data
      will be obtained including gender, age, and race. The patient will then undergo the
      "pre-operative mobility device(s) training" during the pre-operative physical therapy visit,
      if they are randomized to Group 1. Patients in Group 2 will not receive this training. The
      preoperative training will not incur any additional cost to the patient. Patients in both
      groups will then undergo standard operative care. During routine 2-week and 6-week follow-up
      visits, they will be asked questions from a questionnaire that will assess the number and
      details of any fall(s) they may have experienced.
    
  