
    
      NODE-303 is a multi-center, open label (OL) study to evaluate the safety of etripamil NS in
      patients with PSVT. Patients will be provided with an ambulatory Cardiac Monitoring System
      (CMS) to help document PSVT episodes. The CMS will be self-applied by the patient, when PSVT
      symptoms begin. Patients will self-administer etripamil NS if vagal maneuver is ineffective.
      After an episode of PSVT where drug is administered, the patient will return to the
      investigative site for a study visit and will be given the option to continue in NODE-303 and
      manage subsequent episodes of PSVT with etripamil NS.

      The study will include:

      A Screening Visit during which the Investigator will verify that the patient meets the
      eligibility criteria of the NODE-303 study, will obtain the signed informed consent, take
      blood and urine for laboratory evaluations, and conduct other screening procedures. The
      informed consent for NODE-303 will be applicable for the initial and all subsequent PSVT
      episodes. A Baseline Visit during which the site will confirm eligibility, concomitant
      medications, train the patient on study procedures, and give the patient study drug, patient
      reported outcome (PRO) materials, and the CMS materials. A Treatment Period during which the
      patient will complete the monthly PRO survey, self-identify symptoms of PSVT, use the CMS,
      perform a vagal maneuver (VM), and self-administer etripamil NS if the symptoms do not
      resolve during or after the VM. Patients may be contacted during this period for reminders
      and training on what to do during a PSVT episode. Patients will also complete a per episode
      survey after any PSVT episode they experience. During the Treatment Period, Follow-up Visits
      will occur at the study site up to 14 days after each episode of PSVT which is treated with
      etripamil NS, and during which the Investigator will evaluate the results of the last usage
      of etripamil NS and decide whether the patient can continue in the study and receive a new
      study drug kit. A Final Study Visit that will occur when a patient discontinues or withdraws
      from the study, or when the overall study is completed, or the patient has completed the
      maximum number of doses. NODE-303 will continue until enough documented self-administrations
      of etripamil NS are included in the safety database to meet regulatory requirements for the
      etripamil NS development program. The common study end date (CSED) for the entire study will
      depend on the rate of accrual of the primary endpoint, unique patients with an episode. When
      the criteria for concluding the study have been met, the Sponsor will announce the common
      study end date (CSED) for the entire study and sites will be informed in advance to schedule
      all final patient visits prior to the CSED.
    
  