
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To define the role of pre-therapy ^64Cu-labeled diacetyl-bis(N4-methylthiosemicarbazone)
           (copper Cu 64-ATSM) in predicting prognosis and determining the behavior of an invasive
           squamous cell cervical cancer in patients with newly-diagnosed stage IB2-IVA cervical
           squamous cell carcinoma.

        -  To determine whether higher copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake is associated with lower
           progression-free survival of these patients after chemoradiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To determine if higher copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake is associated with lower overall
           survival of these patients.

        -  To determine if higher copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake is associated with earlier primary
           cervical tumor recurrence and a higher rate of development of distant metastatic disease
           in these patients.

        -  To determine if higher copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake is associated with a lower frequency of
           complete metabolic response on 2-Deoxy-2-[18F]fluoroglucose (FDG) -PET/CT scan performed
           3 months after completion of radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

        -  To estimate the accuracy of copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake as a predictor of progression-free
           survival, overall survival, primary tumor recurrence, and future development of distant
           metastatic disease in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the performance of copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake as a predictor of lymph node
           metastasis at study entry.

        -  To evaluate whether copper Cu 64-ATSM uptake correlates with tumor volume at study
           entry.

        -  To examine the relationship between tumor uptake of copper Cu 64-ATSM and other markers
           of tumor hypoxia, including Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) , Glucose
           transporter 1 (GLUT1), Carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9/CA IX), and Osteopontin (OPN).

        -  To compare the predictive ability of pre-therapy copper Cu 64-ATSM-PET to that of
           post-therapy FDG-PET/CT scan.

        -  To assess whether pre-therapy FDG-PET/CT findings are predictive of progression-free
           survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive copper Cu 64-ATSM IV and undergo PET/CT scan over 30 minutes 30-40 minutes
      later. Within 4 weeks after copper Cu 64-ATSM-PET/CT scan, patients begin planned concurrent
      standard of care chemoradiotherapy comprising 6 weeks of radiotherapy (external beam and
      brachytherapy)and weekly cisplatin administration per NCCN guidelines. Patients then undergo
      FDG-PET/CT scan 3 months after completion of chemoradiotherapy.

      Tissue samples from previously collected cervical biopsy (obtained for diagnosis) are used
      for detecting hypoxic markers by immunohistochemistry analysis.

      After completion of study intervention, patients are followed for every 3 months for 2 years
      and then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  