
    
      Type 2 diabetes is a chronic disease. In the United States, an estimated 21 million people
      have diabetes, with type 2 diabetes occurring in 90% to 95% of cases. Hypertension (high
      blood pressure) affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. The
      association of diabetes and hypertension is increased in this population; hypertension is
      more common in persons with diabetes while individuals with hypertension are 2.5 times more
      likely to develop diabetes than those who have normal blood pressure. As a result, more than
      70% of adults with diabetes have hypertension (defined as having blood pressure greater than
      or equal to 130/80 mm Hg or using prescription medication for hypertension).

      Patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension are at high risk of other illnesses and death.
      Diabetes and hypertension are associated with insulin resistance (normal amounts of insulin
      are no adequate to produce a normal insulin response from fat, muscle and liver cells). and
      hyperinsulinemia (excess levels of insulin in the blood), which are independent risk factors
      for cardiovascular (heart vessel) disease. Individuals with type 2 diabetes carry a 2 to 4-
      time greater risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke compared with the general population.
      Uncontrolled hypertension also is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease
      and stroke.

      Takeda Global Research and Development Center, Inc. is developing a fixed-dose combination
      product, AD-4833-536. AD-4833-536 is a combination of AD-4833 (pioglitazone) and TAK-536
      (azilsartan). Pioglitazone is an oral antidiabetic agent that acts by reducing insulin
      resistance and approved for treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
      Azilsartan is a angiotensin II receptor blocker that modulates the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system that regulates blood pressure.
    
  