
    
      Older, critically ill patients who survive their ICU stay frequently develop post-ICU
      syndrome (PICS) - a condition manifested by sarcopenia, weakness, malnutrition and
      neurocognitive decline - which occurs as a result of a critical illness, prolonged bed rest,
      catabolism, and polypharmacy. PICS frequently leads to chronic disability, prolonged
      mechanical ventilation (MV), functional deficits, and the need for extended rehabilitation in
      long term care facilities (LTCs). As the majority of patients admitted to ICUs are ≥ 65 years
      old, many of these patients are at high risk for PICS. Since the care of ICU patients is
      primarily focused on the medical management of the acute critical illness, there are limited
      resources and strategies available to prevent PICS. Evidence suggests mobility-based physical
      rehabilitation (MPR) combined with resistive training with neuromuscular electric stimulation
      (NMES) and high protein diets (HPRO) containing essential amino acids can mitigate the loss
      of muscle mass and function during bed rest in the elderly. The investigators hypothesize
      that preventive therapy involving the addition of both NMES and HPRO to MPR early and
      throughout the ICU and hospital stay can mitigate PICS-associated sarcopenia, malnutrition,
      and immobility to confer valuable health benefits toward recovery. To test this, the
      investigators will use a 2x2 factorial design in which older, MV ICU patients will all
      receive comprehensive ICU care and MPR, then be randomized to one of 4 groups: 1) MPR+NMES,
      2) MPR+HPRO, 3) all 3 together, or 4) MPR alone (control), to determine independent and
      combined effects of the interventions.

      The Specific Aims are to 1) determine the effects of adding NMES and HPRO interventions to
      MPR on muscle mass, strength, and mobility function in older, critically ill MV patients
      while still in the ICU, and 2) determine the effects of adding NMES and HPRO interventions to
      MPR on the clinical outcomes of time to weaning from MV, ICU/hospital length of stay and
      discharge disposition of these patients.

      This proposal capitalizes on the interdisciplinary collaboration among Pulmonary/Critical
      Care Intensivists, Physical Therapists, Geriatricians, Clinical Nutritionists, Statisticians
      and Nutrition and Metabolism clinical researchers examining the efficacy of the proposed
      comprehensive rehabilitation approach. The investigators' primary goal is to attenuate the
      severity of sarcopenia and functional decline in this older, critically ill population at
      risk for severe disability. Additionally, by focusing on maintaining skeletal muscle mass,
      function, and strength, the investigators hope to improve clinical outcomes. The
      investigators posit this combined therapy will mitigate PICS-associated disability and speed
      the recovery from critical illness in older, MV ICU patients. This project has high overall
      impact as the intervention is easily administered by hospital staff and may greatly reduce
      the physiological and functional declines while hastening recovery during acute ICU
      hospitalization in older adults.
    
  