
    
      All volunteers received an asthma education program (AEP) and trained for diaphragmatic and
      pursed lip breathing exercises. Additionally, the TG participated in the core stabilization
      exercises program combined with AEP and breathing exercises. Data were collected from all the
      patients at baseline and post interventions (6 week) by the same physiotherapist who also
      supervised the exercise sessions.

      All subjects were included in the asthma education program (AEP). AEP was performed at least
      once for approximately 20 minutes via face to face interviews. Education topics covered
      description of asthma, physiological changes of lungs, risk factors, treatment methods,
      relaxation positions to reduce dyspnea and usage of a specific inhaler. Breathing exercises
      were comprised of instructing breathing control, diaphragmatic breathing and pursed lip
      breathing exercises. Participants attended breathing exercises training for 2 days at the
      clinic under the supervision of a physiotherapist and 3 days at home as a home-exercise
      program. Total duration of breathing exercises lasted for 6 weeks. TG performed core
      stabilization exercises combined with breathing control for 2 days/a week for the duration of
      6 weeks under the supervision of a physiotherapist at the clinic. Basic knowledges on spine,
      muscles of core stabilization and working principle of diaphragm and biofeedback unit (SPB)
      (Chattanooga Stabilizer Pressure Biofeedback, USA) were explained before the training. The
      SPB consists of an inflation pump and a cell like sphygmomanometer, which reflects body
      spinal movement in terms of mmHg by changing pressure in air filled cells. The SPB was placed
      under the lumbar 5th vertebra and patients attempted to maintain their core stability
      performing neutral zones at the settled level of 40 mmHg pressure. Furthermore,
      physiotherapist tried to improve thoracolumbar awareness by following changes from SPB and
      volunteers assured a constant lumbar position during upper and lower extremity movements
      combined with diaphragmatic movements. The 6 week exercise protocol emphasized core muscle
      co-contraction in hook-lying position with a flat cushion between two knees to provide
      integration between the pelvic floor muscles and diaphragm. Subsequently, exercises
      progressed as diaphragmatic breathing, flexion of both shoulder with breathing control and
      extending knees bilaterally with breathing control. Moreover, the hold time and the number of
      repetitions were increased from 5 repeats x 1 set to 5 repeats x 4 sets and each session
      lasted 20 minutes.
    
  