
    
      This is an randomized controlled trial to determine if portable critical care ultrasound use
      is feasible, if its findings change clinical decision making by critical care fellows and
      whether ultrasound can improve patient outcomes during rapid response events at Beth Israel
      Medical Center.

      Patients for whom a rapid response has been called for cardiac or respiratory failure will be
      randomized to either have a bedside ultrasound performed by a critical care fellow at the
      time of rapid response or to undergo a bedside ultrasound only if clinically indicated and
      specifically requested by the RRT leader.

      For all patients on whom a rapid response is called with shock or respiratory failure who are
      randomized to the intervention group, a designated ultrasound critical care fellow will
      document their ranked top 2 preliminary cause for either shock or respiratory failure on a
      data collection instrument (DCI). These clinical (i.e. pre-ultrasound) diagnoses will be
      based on history, physical exam and all ancillary testing available prior to ultrasound
      performance. Available ancillary testing will be documented.

      An ultrasound exam will then be performed by the designated ultrasound fellow using a
      portable hand-carried unit (GE Vscan) and the findings documented on the same DCI. The GE
      Vscan will be used for all ultrasounds performed during this study. The ultrasound study will
      take approximately 5 -10 minutes and will not interfere with alternative evaluation or
      treatment modalities deemed to be necessary during the rapid response.

      The critical care ultrasound fellow will then provide the RRT leader team with their 2 most
      likely post ultrasound diagnosis for shock and respiratory failure and then document these on
      the DCI. Any changes to management made as a result of the ultrasound exam, including all new
      ancillary tests and therapeutic interventions will be recorded.

      At 72 hours following the initial event the ICU or general medical attending physician will
      be asked to document the "final" diagnosis as to the cause of the initial shock or
      respiratory failure. This "final" diagnosis will serve as the "gold standard" to allow the
      assessment of accuracy of the pre-ultrasound and post-ultrasound diagnoses.

      Patients randomized to the standard care group will not have an ultrasound performed at the
      time of rapid response unless it is deemed medically necessary by the responding RRT leader
      or critical care fellow. This is the current practice approach at the investigators hospital
      where ultrasound is performed only when clinically indicated.

      The study investigators will obtain all DCI's as well as the final diagnosis from the
      attending physician at 72 hours, and will enter this data into a database that will not
      contain any unique patient identifiers.

      The patient's time in respiratory failure and time in shock will be recorded as primary
      outcome measures. Secondary outcomes of in-hospital mortality, utilization of CT scan and
      chest x-ray in the 24 hours following rapid response and hospital length of stay will also be
      recorded. Also measured will be variability in pre and post-ultrasound diagnosis as well as
      changes in management following ultrasound performance.
    
  