
    
      The management of patients with intraoperative detection of lymph node (LN) involvement
      currently varies widely. Options include completing or abandoning radical hysterectomy,
      performing or abandoning pelvic lymph node dissection and even continuing with
      inframesenteric or infrarenal paraaortic lymph node dissection. The most significant aspect
      is the decision regarding the performance of radical hysterectomy, due to the high morbidity
      caused by combined treatment composed of radical parametrectomy and adjuvant radiotherapy in
      these patients - patients are referred to pelvic radiotherapy after distal ureters, bladder
      and rectum have been surgically dissected [1].

      Data on the oncologic outcome of patients with LN involvement after radical hysterectomy and
      adjuvant radiotherapy are broadly available. Recent figures show five-year survival in stage
      IB at around 70-85 % [2,3]. In contrast, the data on patients in whom radical hysterectomy
      was abandoned due to intraoperative detection of LN involvement are scarce. Available
      literature mostly refers to small groups of cases with grossly involved LN detected during
      surgery [4-7].

      The goal of this study is to obtain the best data available from an adequate number of
      patients treated by both types of management in the same period of time and to analyse the
      risks and benefits of the performance of radical hysterectomy if LN involvement is detected
      intraoperatively in spite of non-suspicious preoperative radiological assessment.

      ABRAX is an international multicenter retrospective trial. Data of cervical cancer patients
      with preoperatively negative LN in whom nodal involvement is detected during operation will
      be evaluated. The protocol has been developed to be inclusive and reflect current clinical
      practice. All surgical approaches are eligible for the study. Lymph node infiltration can be
      detected either by intraoperative pathology assessment or by gross assessment (macroscopic
      suspicion has to be confirmed by the final histology). Sentinel or any other pelvic lymph
      node can be subject of intraoperative assessment. Any type of nodal metastasis
      (macrometastasis, micrometastasis ot isolated tumor cells) is considered a positive LN. All
      types of cervical procedures (such as conisation, simple hysterectomy, trachelectomy, any
      type radical hysterectomy or radical trachelectomy) are eligible for the trial and
      administration of neoadjuvant chemotherapy is not an exclusion criterion. The abandonment of
      planned cervical procedure depends solely on the decision of the surgeon and on local
      institutional guidelines. The completion or abandonment of cervical procedure stratifies the
      cohort in two subgroups.

      The primary end-point is the progression free survival assessed separately in both subgroups.
      Prevalence of ≥ G2 treatment related morbidity (CTCAE), overall and pelvic progression free
      survival are the secondary end-points.

      Oncological outcome will be stratified according to the prognostic parameters such as tumour
      size, number of involved LN, type of LN metastases, presence of LVSI (lymphovascular space
      invasion), tumor type, administration of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, performance of systematic
      pelvic lymphadenectomy.
    
  