
    
      Background: Psychological burden in cancer patients may worsen quality of life and even
      medical outcomes such as mortality. Nevertheless, many distressed patients are not recognized
      by the treating clinicians and left untreated even though effective psychosocial
      interventions exist. Existing screenings in turn have multiple limitations: To be effective
      in reducing distress, screening results need to be adequately interpreted and transformed
      into individualized support plans. Most of current screening programs expect the clinical
      staff to undertake this task, which in turn requires extensive and repeated training. Another
      critical issue is the assessment: To limit the completion time to a minimum, conventional
      screening instruments contain as few items as possible, which in turn limits their diagnostic
      accuracy. Finally, most screening programs assume that there is a clear link between reported
      levels of distress and the individual need for psychosocial care. Accordingly, many current
      screenings derive the need for psychosocial care exclusively from the level of distress
      reported by the patients. However, self-reported distress and self-reported supportive care
      need are not closely related.

      Aims of the study: To address some of the limitations outlined above, we developed an
      electronic psycho-oncological adaptive screening program (EPAS) which separately assesses
      distress and psychosocial care needs and provides immediate patient feedback with
      individualized recommendations about psychosocial care services.

      Design: Patients of the intervention are compared to a control condition. All participants
      are assessed at three measurement points (baseline, and at 3-months and 6-months follow-up).

      Outcomes: Outcomes assess aspects related to psychosocial care services, well-being and
      satisfaction.

      Sample size: Our study aims to separately test for group differences (screening vs. no
      screening) at t1 and t2. To detect an expected small to medium group difference in level of
      information (effect size = 0.3) with a power of 80 %, sample sizes of 176 patients in each
      group were needed. Given an expected drop-out rate of 30 % from t0 to t2, we initially
      planned to recruit n = 251 per group (ntotal = 502).

      Recruitment: Patients are recruited within suitable health care facilities within the
      University Cancer Center Hamburg (UCCH) and facilities in the competence network of the UCCH.
      Patients are checked for eligibility via review of the medical chart and consecutively
      recruited by research assistants.

      Sample: We applied a cross-over design: That is, all clusters received each intervention so
      that a largely equal number of patients received each intervention in each cluster. Between
      the changes of the conditions, recruitment was suspended for a certain amount of time to
      avoid any overlap of patients in the two conditions.

      Duration of the study: From start of recruitment, 2 years are planned until data analysis. 1
      year is planned for recruitment.

      Analyses: We conduct group comparisons in the study outcomes separately for t1 and t2.
      Robustness of the analyses is checked by calculating both unconditional and conditional
      (controlled for care relevant co-variates) models. In detail, we apply linear and logistic
      regression analyses for continous and binary outcomes, respectively.

      Detailed description of the intervention:

      General principle and procedure: The patients in the intervention arm undergo EPAS
      (electronic psycho-oncological adaptive screening), a tablet-based screening application
      consisting of three adaptive tests and one supportive care checklist. EPAS provides immediate
      feedback via a printed results page, which presents and interprets the level of distress and
      contains individualized recommendations for psychosocial services. The results pages are
      printed by research assistants immediately after the screening on a mobile printer and given
      to the participants together with a brochure containing information about all psychosocial
      services available at the UCCH. The treating physicians also receive a slightly modified
      results page, but are not expected to discuss these with the patient unless they are highly
      distressed (see algorithm section). Before and during the screening, patients are explained
      how to use the program by the research assistance and supported if needed. The whole
      screening process including the conventional tests that are also assessed by the control
      group takes about 30 minutes.

      Measures within EPAS: Three adaptive tests with varying response options are applied to
      assess depression (D-CAT, 64 items), anxiety (A-CAT, 50 items) and distress/stress reaction
      (S-CAT, 38/31 items). From the item pools, only items with highest information value are
      selected according to both item characteristics and individual response pattern. The
      presentation of items ends if (i) the standard error was ≤ 0.32 or (ii) a maximum of 10 items
      is reached. Furthermore, patients fill in an internally developed checklist to report
      supportive care needs.

      Structure and content of the results page: The results page contains (i) the extent of
      distress and additional information to interpret these levels, (ii) a summary of the reported
      supportive care needs and (iii) individualized recommendations for the use of psychosocial
      services at the UCCH based on the care needs. As additional information to interpret the
      levels of distress, categories derived from a psychosomatic population are provided for D-CAT
      and A-CAT (low/medium/high). No such categories exist for the S-CAT, and thus the mean among
      a population with burnout-syndrome is provided as a reference value. The patient and
      physician versions slightly differ: Whereas patients are explicitly referred to the
      information brochure they receive during the screening, the distress-categories in the
      physician version are illustrated with colors (low = green; medium = yellow; high = red) and
      contain specific information in case of highly distressed patients (see algorithm section).

      Algorithm for the results page: The supportive care needs reported in the respective list are
      transformed into concrete recommendations to use the adequate psychosocial service at the
      UCCH (e.g., a reported need for support to return to work results in a recommendation to use
      the social service). Highly distressed patients, i.e., those falling in the category "high"
      in the A-CAT or D-CAT, are recommended to use psycho-oncological service irrespective of
      whether they have previously reported such a need in the check list. Physicians of highly
      distressed patients are recommended on their results page to talk with the patient about
      his/her psychosocial condition and further issues within such an appointment are suggested
      (e.g., check for medical reasons for distress, encourage patients to use psycho-oncological
      service).
    
  