
    
      Subjects with Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or Subjective Cognitive Impairment (SCD) are
      eligible for this study. MCI often represents the earliest stages of Alzheimer's disease
      (AD), as individuals meeting criteria for MCI are subsequently diagnosed with AD at much
      higher rates than their cognitively normal elderly peers. Subjects with MCI are at risk of
      developing AD, within 6 years. Subjects with SCD may be at risk to develop MCI. The study is
      stratified according to whether subjects have SCD or MCI. The goal of the current study is to
      determine whether dietary supplementation with a novel formulation of curcumin (a component
      of the curry spice turmeric), which is better absorbed and more efficiently transported into
      the brain, can alter biological and clinical markers associated with AD risk, and to
      determine whether the potential beneficial effects of curcumin supplementation are
      synergistic with aerobic exercise. The investigators will recruit 80 elderly participants
      meeting criteria for MCI. Over the second 6 months of the study, the curcumin and placebo
      groups will be further divided into groups receiving training in either aerobic or
      non-aerobic yoga to determine the synergism between curcumin supplementation and aerobic
      exercise. The effectiveness of these interventions will be measured using plasma samples (for
      expression of Alzheimer-related biomarkers), and neuropsychological, functional, and
      behavioral assessments (i.e. clinical measures) collected at baseline, 6 months, and 12
      months after initiation of treatments, with a subset of participants receiving brain imaging
      at baseline and 6 months. Dosage is titered up two weeks prior to study start (1 capsule BID,
      first five days, then 2 capsules BID for five days, then 6 capsules BID for five days, then 8
      capsules BID- study dosage). Over the first 6 months of the study, participants will be
      randomized into equal groups receiving dietary supplementation with either curcumin or
      placebo. Patients are stratified according to whether they have only subjective memory
      complaints without MCI versus those that have MCI. Over the second 6 months of the study,
      participants will be further randomized into equal groups receiving dietary supplementation
      with either curcumin or placebo.
    
  