
    
      Chronic exposure to total parenteral nutrition (TPN) can cause parenteral nutrition
      associated liver disease (PNALD), a progressive condition that may severely affect the liver
      and lead to end-stage liver disease. Fish oil has been shown to exert beneficial effects as
      it favorably alters metabolism and inflammation. It has been used parenterally (Omegaven) in
      young children with short bowel syndrome and PNALD with encouraging results. In adults it has
      mostly been used in peri-surgical settings as well as in critically ill patients, again
      proving its effectiveness.

      The goal of this proposal is to show that Omegaven use in home-TPN patients with PNALD and
      elevated bilirubin despite conventional treatment, is beneficial in improving cholestasis and
      reducing intrahepatic inflammation. Primary objective is to compare the response to treatment
      between the Omegaven and the Intralipid group. Secondary objectives are to study the effect
      of Omegaven supplementation on single liver function tests, liver histology, liver fatty acid
      composition, liver oxidative stress and gene expression. In addition, the investigators want
      to compare the baseline values of all 20 patients to 20 healthy controls subjects.

      After establishing that the patients' liver disease does not improve with conventional
      medical treatments for 3 months, as evidenced by repeated blood work at that time, they will
      all have a liver biopsy done as per diagnostic standards. They will then be randomized to
      either continue receiving Intralipid (0.25 g/kg/TPN day) or a mixture of Intralipid (0.25
      g/kg/TPN day) and Omegaven (0.4 g/kg/TPN day) for a period of 3 months. After that, patients
      in the Omegaven arm will continue their treatment for 3 more months. Those in the Intralipid
      arm will be switched over to also receive Omegaven for the following 6 months.

      Blood work will be repeated every 3 months after the initiation of the intervention. A repeat
      liver biopsy will be done in both groups after 6 months.

      Main outcome is response to treatment (improvement in liver function tests) after 3 months
      (comparing Intralipid to Omegaven). In addition, change in liver function tests during the 6
      months on Omegaven will be assessed. Lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress, fatty acid
      composition, and gene expression in the liver will be compared before and after 6 months on
      Omegaven.

      In a second part of the study baseline values from all 20 patients will be compared to 20
      healthy controls. Controls will be recruited from the healthy living liver donor transplant
      program at the University Health Network (UHN). Liver samples will be obtained at the time of
      hepatectomy for transplantation. The same measurements as for the patient livers will be
      performed in healthy liver tissue.

      Significance: The investigators aim to reveal the beneficial effects of fish oil
      supplementation in the setting of PNALD. Should this pilot study show improvement in the
      liver disease with Omegaven, a larger, randomized trial should follow. Comparison with
      healthy controls will provide further insight into the pathogenesis of PNALD, which to date
      is not completely understood
    
  