
    
      Overview of the study phases Prior to the randomization phase, we will draw some blood work
      (1 teaspoon) with regular blood work to see if you/your child meet the final eligibility
      requirements. If the results are within normal limits, we will proceed on to the
      Randomization Phase. If the results are not within normal limits for your/your child's age,
      then you/your child will not be able to proceed with the study and we will pass these test
      results on to your regular oncologist.

      Randomization Phase If you/your child agree to take part in this study you/your child will
      have an equal chance of receiving one of two possible liquids: Megace (7.5 mg/kg/day taken
      once in the morning) or the same amount of a placebo (a placebo is a substance that looks and
      tastes exactly like the real medicine, however it is an inactive substance that contains no
      drug). This assigning to the drug or the placebo is called randomization. Neither you nor
      your physician can choose or know which treatment you are receiving. This "blinding" is
      necessary to fairly test these drugs. In an emergency, your physician can immediately find
      out which of the drugs/treatments you are receiving.

      Once randomized, you/your child will be given a supply of the drug or the placebo. Both the
      drug and the placebo are a lemon-lime flavored liquid. There are no pills or tablets to take.
      You/your child are to take the liquid by mouth in the amount prescribed once per day. You
      will take the liquid every day for 90 days (3 months). The liquid is to be taken half an-hour
      before breakfast.

      Pre-treatment Information Collection Phase Before you/your child start taking the liquid, we
      will collect some initial information. This will include taking your/your child's weight and
      height. A dietitian will perform an assessment of you/your child's body composition using a
      tool called a caliper. This will briefly pinch the skin at the back of your/your child's arm.
      It will not hurt. The dietitian will also measure your/your child's upper arms using a tape
      measure.

      A research nurse will ask a series of questions called a Quality of Life assessment. This
      will tell us about how you/your child feels before starting the study.

      Afterwards, you/your child will have a scan called a DEXA (stands for Dual Energy X-Ray
      Absorptiometry) scan done to assess your/your child's body composition. A DEXA scan does not
      hurt but requires that you/your child lie still on the table while the scanner moves over
      you/your child. Like all scans, there is some radiation exposure. However, the total amount
      of radiation is very small (about half the radiation exposure of a normal chest xray). This
      should not cause any problem for you/your child.

      We will also draw some additional blood (approximately 1 teaspoon) from your central line.
      You/your child will not have extra pokes for the purposes of this study.

      Follow-up Phase You/your child will be followed closely by our team of doctors and dieticians
      during the 90 days you/your child are on the study. Follow-up will occur when you are
      normally scheduled to see your doctor. This can occur at either the Pediatric Oncology
      outpatient clinics or when you are admitted to the BC Children's Hospital (Vancouver) or
      Stollery Children's Hospital (Edmonton). You do not have to make special appointments for the
      purpose of this study.

      We will watch your weight closely during the 3 months of the study. If you/your child lose an
      additional 15% from your/your child's baseline (starting) weight we will stop you taking the
      medication or placebo. You will then receive regular medical care. This may include starting
      tube feeding or TPN.

      We will also take additional blood work at least every 2 weeks during the 3 months. This can
      be done through your/your child's central line at times when regular blood work is being
      drawn. Once a month our research nurse will contact you by phone to see how things are going
      and ask questions about possible side effects.

      Study Conclusion Phase At the end of the study we will again collect all the information as
      we did in the Pre-treatment Information Collection Phase. This will include your/your child's
      weight, height, caliper and arm measurements as well as asking the same quality of life
      questions. You will then have a second DEXA scan done.

      After 90 days you will be told whether you received the drug (Megace) or the inactive
      substance (Placebo).

      The time commitment for you/your child to take part in this research should be minimal. Each
      DEXA scan (you/your child are asked to complete 2 DEXA scans during the study) will take
      approximately 1 hour. Each study nurse interview (3) should take approximately 10-15 minutes
      each time. The quality of life questions will be asked three times and take approximately
      5-10 minutes each time to complete.
    
  