
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine how well an active motion device, Camoped, works
      compared to a continuous passive motion device, CPM, for rehabilitation after partial or
      total knee replacement. It is hypothesized that the Camoped active motion device will provide
      outcomes equal to or superior than the CPM. 110 patients will be randomized during the course
      of the study. Participation lasts approximately 4 weeks. Data for patients who begin the
      trial, but choose to drop out or are lost to follow up will not be included in analysis.

      Patients who have elected to undergo surgery with one of the PIs, either a total knee
      replacement with Dr. Richard Scott or a partial knee replacement with Dr. Wolfgang Fitz, will
      be informed about the study and offered participation if they meet eligibility criteria. The
      PI will obtain written consent in the office for those who choose to participate. For
      participants, demographic data including height, weight, BMI, age and sex will be collected.
      Additionally, sit-to-stand, knee flexion, proprioception, strength and balance testing will
      be performed in the office by a physical therapist. Participant responses to the SF-36
      physical and mental health surveys, knee function score, KSS and WOMAC questionnaires will
      also be collected.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either the Camoped or CPM device after surgery.
      Patients will receive the device and its protocol for usage in the hospital following
      surgery. They will use the device for the duration of their hospital stay, and then take the
      device home. At home, patients will be asked to keep a daily diary tracking device usage as
      well as daily pain and medication intake. These results will be compared as part of the study
      analysis.

      When patients return for their follow-up appointment four weeks after surgery, demographic
      data including height, weight, BMI, age and sex will be collected. Additionally,
      sit-to-stand, knee flexion, proprioception, strength and balance testing will be performed in
      the office. Participant responses to the SF-36 physical and mental health surveys, knee
      function score, KSS and WOMAC questionnaires will also be collected. These measures will be
      compared to the preoperative results.

      Two-sample t-tests will be used to analyze the similarity between the two treatment groups
      before the intervention and to assess any differences afterwards. The Wilcoxon-Mann Whitney
      test will be performed as a non-parametric alternative to t-testing for any data sets found
      to be non-normal.

      Data collection and management will be the responsibility of the PIs. All adverse events will
      be reported as necessary.
    
  