
    
      There are two specific aims for this first phase of the project:

        1. Collect short-term acoustic and accelerometric data on groups of patients with volume
           overload before and after successful diuresis of amounts of fluid that are large enough
           to permit robust statistical testing of derived measures.

        2. Determine whether direct measures (based on previously-developed approaches for acoustic
           and ACC-based monitoring of vocal function can differentiate between hypervolemic and
           optivolemic patterns.

      2.2 Justification for Clinical Study The study will evaluate if acoustic and accelerometric
      measures of voice and speech production have the sensitivity to detect a clinically
      significant change in lung fluid status for patients with confirmed acute heart failure
      syndrome with pulmonary congestion. Changes in lung fluid in acute heart failure syndrome are
      difficult to diagnose and evaluate. A blinded observational methodology was chosen as the
      most appropriate study design to understand changes in lung fluid values in patients with
      acute heart failure syndrome with pulmonary congestion. The primary endpoint is significant
      correlation of changes in voice and speech characteristics with change in total body water as
      measured by change in weight during the hospital admission.

      2.3 Measurement Precision Exploratory endpoints will be to determine the distributions of
      lung fluid values for patients with confirmed acute heart failure syndrome and to determine
      if acoustic and accelerometer-based measurements have sufficient sensitivity to detect
      changes in lung fluid status in a symptomatic hospitalized population. The establishment of
      the underlying etiology of the heart failure will help determine how it may contribute to
      symptomology and changes in acoustic and accelerometric measures of voice and speech
      production. The types of analyses that can be performed on the airborne acoustic (microphone)
      signal are somewhat limited by the levels of background noise in the recording environment,
      particularly with respect to some of the acoustic measures related to voice quality. For this
      reason it is proposed that recordings of voice/speech production for this pilot study be
      obtained simultaneously with both a microphone and a neck-placed miniature accelerometer
      (ACC). The ACC is relatively immune to environmental noise, and we have been able to extract
      some voice quality-related measures from the ACC signal. The ACC is easily placed on the
      anterior neck just above the clavicular notch using double-sided medical grade adhesive tape
      (see Figure 1). The recording protocol will be comprised of: 1) sustained vowels, 2) standard
      sentences and a reading passage, and 3) 30 seconds of spontaneous speech. Recordings will be
      made before, during, and after an acute episode of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF). Each
      recording session should take less than 10 minutes.

      3 STUDY PROTOCOL 3.1 Study Design and Objective - see above

      3.2 Study Duration Enrollment in the trial is expected to take approximately 4 months
      including enrollment.

      3.2.1 Enrollment Procedure and Follow-up Procedure Patients will be screened and enrolled
      prior to admission required for their medical management. Subjects enrolled in the study will
      have their baseline voice recordings made within 24 hours of admission. Following their index
      measurement, all subjects will have their recording performed daily within the first 96 hours
      and on discharge and/re reaching presumed dry weight. At the discretion of the investigator,
      voice recordings may be obtained more frequently but no more than once per day of the
      hospital admission up to a maximum of ten (10) days.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria: see below

      4.0 OutComes - See below for primary and secondary endpoints

      5 Statistical Methods 5.1 Introduction This is an observational study. Subjects are enrolled
      in the study throughout their inpatient stay up to maximum of 10 days. The objective of the
      statistical analysis is to determine via Pearson correlation if voice and speech measures
      have sufficient precision to detect clinically significant changes in overall volume status
      for those experiencing acute heart failure syndromes.

      5.2 Confirmation of a reduction in body fluid volume In order to confirm that a clinically
      significant reduction in overall volume status has occurred during the voice recording
      period, a cardiologist will review all relevant medical records pertaining to the patient and
      independently determine if the admission resulted in reduction in volume overload. They will
      have access to source medical records and any additional information that becomes available
      after the evaluation in the hospital environment. This information will include the
      following: reading of the chest roentgenograms obtained in the emergency department or
      inpatient stay by a radiologist, medical history obtained from a medical chart that was not
      available to the emergency department physicians at the time of presentation, the results of
      subsequent tests, such as echocardiography, radionuclide angiography,or left
      ventriculography, performed at the time of cardiac catheterization, and the hospital course
      for patients admitted to the hospital.

      6 Statistical Analysis 6.1. Data Analyses

      Digital signal processing approaches will be to extract the following measures from the
      acoustic and ACC signals:

      A. Sustained vowels: measures related to voice quality including perturbation (jitter and
      shimmer) and signal-to-noise levels (harmonics-to-noise, spectral, and cepstral measures),
      and the frequency locations of subglottal resonances.

      B. Connected speech (sentences, reading, and spontaneous speech): measures related to sound
      segment, suprasegmental, and utterance length parameters including pitch (fundamental
      frequency), loudness (relative sound pressure level), and articulation/timing (sound segment
      durations, vocalic formant transitions, pauses).

      7 Study Visits 7.1 Pre-Enrollment Evaluations and Parameters

      Pre-enrollment procedures and protocols for all subjects will follow the standard hospital
      practice but should, at a minimum, include the following:

        -  Subject demographics

        -  History and physical exam, including weight

        -  Medical history

        -  Dyspnea as quantified by the VAS instrument

        -  Blood NT-proBNP level

      7.2 During Enrollment

        -  Voice assessment

        -  Weight and other vital signs

        -  Dyspnea visual analog scale (DVAS)

        -  Global assessment of symptoms (GVAS)

        -  N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide NTproBNP

      7.3 At Discharge (or when deemed to be at dry weight) assessment (max 10 days post admission)

        -  Voice assessment

        -  Weight and other vital signs

        -  Dyspnea visual analog scale (DVAS)

        -  Global assessment of symptoms (GVAS)

        -  (NTproBNP)
    
  