
    
      Levofloxacin is an antibacterial agent used for the treatment of a many types of acute
      infections in adults. This is a randomized, double-blind study of the safety and
      effectiveness of levofloxacin compared with ciprofloxacin in the treatment of adults with a
      complicated urinary tract infection. Complicated urinary tract infections include those
      associated with fever, chills, kidney involvement or anatomic and functional abnormalities of
      the bladder. Patients in one group are treated with 250 mg of levofloxacin taken once daily
      for 10 days, and the other group is treated with 500 mg of ciprofloxacin, also an
      antibacterial agent, taken twice daily for 10 days. Patients are followed for 5 to 9 days
      after completion of treatment (post-therapy) to assess clinical signs and symptoms of
      infection. Long-term follow up (4 to 6 weeks after the end of treatment) of those patients
      who respond to therapy provides further evaluation of clinical signs and symptoms. The
      primary assessments of effectiveness include the microbiological response (the eradication at
      post-therapy of the infectious organism identified at the start of the study) and the
      clinical response (the resolution of signs and symptoms at post-therapy compared with those
      at the start of the study). An additional assessment of efficacy includes the overall
      clinical response, which is described as cured, improved, or failed. Safety assessments
      include the incidence of adverse events throughout the study, clinical laboratory tests
      (hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis) and physical examinations at the start of the
      study and post-therapy. The study hypothesis is that levofloxacin is at least as effective
      therapeutically and as well tolerated as ciprofloxacin in the treatment of adults with
      complicated urinary tract infections. Two levofloxacin 125 mg tablets taken orally once daily
      (and two placebo tablets taken once daily, 12 hours later) for 10 days; or one ciprofloxacin
      500 mg tablet and one placebo tablet taken orally twice daily for 10 days.
    
  