
    
      1. Introduction Anticoagulants are generally recognized as a necessary therapy to prevent
           the recurrence of ischemic stroke in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation
           (NVAF), but in some patients they also cause bleedings, particularly intracranial
           hemorrhage (including intracerebral hemorrhage). One of the independent predictors of
           intracerebral hemorrhage is the presence of cerebral microbleeds (CMBs); a high
           incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage is reported in patients with multiple CMBs (Soo et
           al, J Neurol, 2008; Lee et al, Neurology, 2009) Also, the rate and absolute number of
           CMBs increase in proportion to CHADS2 score in patients with cerebral infarction
           accompanying NVAF (Song et al, Eur J Neurol, 2013). Among CMB-positive patients, a high
           incidence of intracranial hemorrhage associated with oral anticoagulation therapy has
           been reported (Song et al, Eur J Neurol, 2013); suggesting a relationship between the
           occurrence or absolute number of CMBs and the development of intracranial hemorrhage
           during oral anticoagulation therapy. Imaizumi et al. (J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis, 2013)
           found that warfarin alone did not increase the incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage in
           all subjects with CMBs, but subjects with 3 or more deep CMBs did show an increased
           incidence. Also, a meta-analysis conducted by Lovelock et al. (Stroke, 2010)
           demonstrated a higher incidence of CMBs in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage
           receiving warfarin than in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage not receiving
           antithrombotic therapy. Recently, Orken et al (Clin Neurol Neurosurg, 2013) suggested
           that patients who had CMBs at baseline developed more new CMBs after 2 years (26%),
           compared with patients (12%) who did not have CMBs at baseline (p=0.03). However, there
           has been no study on the progression of CMBs in patients receiving so-called novel oral
           anticoagulants (NOACs).

           NOACs, including dabigatran (Hart et al, Stroke 2012), rivaroxaban (Patel et al, N Engl
           J Med 2011), apixaban (Granger CB et al, N Engl J Med 2011), and edoxaban (Giugliano et
           al, N Engl J Med 2013), are superior to warfarin in preventing stroke or systemic
           embolism in patients with NVAF, and have been reported to significantly reduce the
           incidence of hemorrhagic stroke. Therefore, this study was designed to evaluate and
           compare the absolute number of CMBs in patients with at least one CMB at baseline, who
           receive anticoagulant therapy with NOACs and with warfarin. The correlation between CMBs
           and intracranial hemorrhage, as well as the status of CMBs before commencement of
           treatment and their progression during treatment, will be evaluated to determine whether
           there are differences between the two groups.

        2. The feature of this study Japan has a very high availability of MRI facilities, and thus
           CMBs can be readily evaluated in multiple patients using T2*WI. As of January 1, 2013,
           the total population of Kanagawa Prefecture was 9.07 million, of whom the elderly (≥65
           years) comprised 1.95 million; therefore, a clinical observational study covering this
           prefecture that revealed a significant difference between NOACs and warfarin should have
           a substantial impact on drug-prescribing practice.

           CMBs found on T2*-weighted gradient-echo MRI 1.5 Tesla should be evaluated. The imaging
           data will be evaluated by the Cerebral Microbleeds Evaluation Committee using the
           assessment scale of Gregoire et al. under a blinded condition.

        3. Study design This study tests the hypothesis that the incidence of hemorrhagic stroke is
           lower in patients receiving NOACs than in those receiving warfarin, and this difference
           reflects the difference in the effects of warfarin and NOACs on the progression of CMBs
           in patients with at least one CMB.

           This study is an observational study, and the numbers of patients in the NOACs and
           warfarin groups were not predetermined, though the total number of patients for the
           study was limited to 200 for practical reasons. Primary endpoint is the proportion of
           subjects with an increased number of CMBs at Month 12 of treatment with NOACs or
           warfarin. If the results of this study support the efficacy of NOACs in preventing
           increase of CMBs, this would be of great interest to domestic and overseas clinicians,
           in view of the potential therapeutic impact, including that for primary prevention of
           ischemic stroke.

           For quality assurance, data validation and registry procedures including any plans for
           site monitoring and auditing is performed.

        4. Sample Size and Sample Size Justification Orken et al. (Clin Neurol Neurosurg, 2013)
           suggested that more patients who had CMBs at baseline developed new CMBs (26%) after 2
           years, compared with patients (12%) who did not have CMBs at baseline. Therefore, the
           rate of new CMBs in warfarin-treated patients who had at least one CMB at baseline was
           assumed to be 13% in 1-year follow-up. Meanwhile, in the ENGAGE AF-TIMI study, the
           incidence of intracranial hemorrhage among patients receiving edoxaban (one of the
           NOACs) was about half of that in patients receiving warfarin; the rate of appearance of
           new CMBs was assumed to be 6.5%. Simulations (10,000 times) indicated that the
           probability that the rank order of the rate of newly developed CMBs in 1 year would not
           be reversed between the two groups was 92.7% (power: 19%, two-sided α= 0.05). As this is
           a pilot study, the number of necessary subjects was estimated to be 100 subjects in 1
           group and 200 in 2 groups combined, based on the above results.

        5. Statistical Analysis plan For proportion with new CMBs at month 6 and at month 12,
           number of new CMBs at months 6 and 12, and location of CMBs, major analyses will be
           conducted according to the per protocol set (PPS) principle. In addition, for incidence
           rate of adverse events, major analyses will be conducted according to the intention to
           treat (ITT) principle. As the primary endpoints analyses (proportion with new CMBs at
           month 12), the NOACs group and the warfarin group will be compared with respect to total
           CMBs positive proportion. It' will be also compared between the NOACs group and the
           warfarin group about the respective secondary endpoints (proportion with new CMBs at
           month 6, number of new CMBs at months 6 and 12, location of CMBs, incidence rate of
           adverse events). Proportion of subjects with an increased number of CMBs at month 12 is
           compared among NOACs. As the need arises, such as the comparison among NOACs, it will be
           stratified by the factors which are a patient background, the treatment contents and
           etc., and will be analyzed.
    
  