
    
      -  Significance: Approximately 1.4 million victims of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) are seen
           in emergency departments each year in the U.S. and, of those, 50,000 die and 235,000 are
           hospitalized. A least 2% of the U.S. population has a TBI-related long-term need for
           help to perform activities of daily living. There is growing evidence that the
           management of TBI in the early minutes after injury profoundly impacts outcome. This has
           led to the promulgation of evidence-based TBI treatment guidelines by authoritative
           national and international scientific bodies. Reports on guideline implementation in the
           hospital setting are very promising. However, no studies have evaluated their impact in
           the prehospital setting. While randomized prehospital trials to identify the
           effectiveness of the guidelines would clearly be optimal, the strong indirect evidence
           currently precludes withholding guideline therapy because of ethical considerations.
           Thus a large, prospective, historically controlled, observational study is the best
           methodology currently available to evaluate the effectiveness of implementing the
           guidelines in the prehospital setting.

        -  Specific Aim: To test the hypothesis that implementation of the TBI guidelines in a
           statewide EMS system will reduce mortality and improve non-mortality outcomes in adults
           and children with moderate to severe TBI.

        -  Objective #1: Implement the nationally-vetted TBI guidelines across a broad variety of
           EMS systems (urban, suburban and rural) throughout the State of Arizona. This will be
           accomplished through the statewide collaboration between the University of Arizona, the
           Arizona Department of Health Services, and local EMS agencies responding to 85% of the
           state's population. This will mirror the approach that has been successfully employed to
           study and document a tripling of patient survival from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in
           the state.

        -  Objective #2: Collect prehospital EMS and trauma center data on severe TBI patients
           cared for by participating EMS agencies to determine pre-implementation and
           post-implementation injury severity/risk-adjustment measures and outcomes.

        -  Objective #3: Evaluate the impact of prehospital guideline implementation on the
           following outcomes: 1) Overall mortality (primary outcome), 2) mortality among patients
           who are intubated prior to hospital arrival, and 3) non-mortality outcomes such as
           hospital/intensive care unit length of stay, ventilator days, and patient disposition.

        -  Relevance/health impact: The societal burden of TBI is immense. While the potential for
           dramatically reducing morbidity and mortality by early treatment appears to be great,
           the effectiveness of the prehospital guidelines remains unproven. Demonstrating the
           impact of guideline therapy would potentially lead to widespread implementation of the
           effective interventions. This could dramatically reduce morbidity and mortality from
           this major public health problem. On the other hand, if the guidelines are not effective
           despite confirmed implementation across a wide variety of EMS systems throughout the
           entire state, this would provide the ethical basis for conducting future randomized
           trials.
    
  