
    
      In contrast to the situation in adults, most medicines used to treat the children of Europe
      have not been tested and are not authorised for use in children. In particular, 46% medicines
      prescribed to children in hospital are either unlicensed for their age group or, if licensed,
      are prescribed off label. Of the children who receive at least one medication in hospital,
      67% receive an unlicensed or off-label drug, and in the context of intensive care, this rises
      to up to 90% of patients.

      The new Paediatric Regulation entered into force in early 2007 ensure that medicines for use
      in children are of high quality, ethically evaluated and authorised appropriately. The
      Paediatric-Use Marketing Authorisation (PUMA) is a new type of marketing authorisation for
      drugs not covered by a patent, already available on the market for adults. PUMA applies to
      medicines lacking information and/or appropriate formulation for children of all ages.

      Thus, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has published a list of drugs, which azithromycin
      belongs, as priority medicinal products needing an evaluation in the paediatric population.

      Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a specific disease of prematurity accompanied by
      pulmonary inflammation. Multiple factors may contribute to the occurrence of BPD. In infants
      who are at risk of developing CLD, one frequent finding is colonisation of the preterm lung
      with the microbe Ureaplasma.

      Two Meta-Analyses and recent studies have suggested an association between the presence of
      pulmonary Ureaplasma and the development of BPD.

      Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic active against Ureaplasma spp with anti-inflammatory
      properties. Thus, it may be effective in reducing the severity of bronchopulmonary diseases
      in which both infection and inflammation play a role.

      TINN2 project: the aim of the TINN2 study is to evaluate the efficacy of azithromycin in
      prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in preterm neonates. TINN2 is a consortium involving
      European leaders in neonatology, paediatric pharmacology, methodology and several SMEs that
      will establish links with ethical bodies and regulatory authorities.
    
  