
    
      Postoperative nausea and vomiting; defined as any nausea, retching or vomiting. Many studies
      are carried out to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting, which may be a major concern in
      patients undergoing surgery. However, this remains the most undesirable complication of the
      surgical procedure. While the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting is around 30% in
      patients receiving general anesthesia, it can rise up to 70-80% in high risk patients.
      Postoperative factors affecting nausea and vomiting; are grouped as factors associated with
      the patient, surgery, and anesthesia. Factors related to the patient; age, gender, body mass
      index, pain, anxiety, presence of a history of road traffic or previous postoperative nausea
      and vomiting history. Surgery related factors; surgery duration and type of surgery. Factors
      associated with anesthesia are; type and amount of anesthetic substance, ventilation type,
      oral intake time, and the amount of opioid taken in the postoperative period. With
      postoperative nausea and vomiting; Complications such as fluid-electrolyte imbalance, wound
      dehiscence, hemorrhage, aspiration pneumonia, delayed discharge and increased
      re-hospitalization rates are seen. All these complications not only increase the length of
      hospital stay and cost of patients, but also negatively affect the postoperative recovery
      quality of the patients. In addition, postoperative nausea and vomiting is an exhausting
      process that requires effort for caregivers. Therefore, postoperative nausea and vomiting
      should be prevented. Some antiemetic drugs are used to prevent nausea and vomiting, which are
      undesirable complications. The use of these drugs significantly increases the patient's care
      costs. Unlike drugs in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in the literature;
      It has been observed that reducing abdominal insufflation pressure, reducing anxiety in the
      preoperative period, acupuncture, ginger root application, alcohol sniffing, listening to
      music and extra oxygen therapy practices. Oxygen administration, which is one of the
      applications to prevent nausea and vomiting, is stated as an inexpensive method with low side
      effects in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting. One of these methods is an
      irreversible mask. 60% with 6lt / min oxygen application with non-recyclable mask; 80% oxygen
      can be given from 8 lt / min. There are studies In the literature regarding the prevention of
      nausea and vomiting by oxygen administration. in a study they conducted on patients who
      underwent colon resection; They found that administration of 80% oxygen during anesthesia and
      for two hours after anesthesia reduced the postoperative nausea and vomiting rate from 30% to
      17%. In the study conducted on gynecological patients who underwent laparoscopy, it was found
      that the rates of nausea and vomiting in patients who were given 80% oxygen were
      statistically significantly lower than those who were given 30% oxygen. Found that the rate
      of nausea and vomiting decreased from 28.3% to 24.5% in the group where they gave oxygen at 8
      lt / min with a simple face mask for 6 hours in the postoperative period after cesarean
      delivery, but it was not statistically significant. . Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the
      removal of the gallbladder from three or four small holes in cases where polyps and stones
      are problematic in the gallbladder. One of the symptoms that patients frequently complain
      after laparoscopic cholecystectomy is nausea and vomiting. In laparoscopic interventions
      applied in abdominal surgeries, the abdominal area is inflated so that the surgery can be
      performed comfortably, thus increasing abdominal pressure. The diaphragm is pushed up due to
      the increase in abdominal pressure. This situation causes the diaphragm to be more irritated.
      In addition, carbon dioxide insufflated to inflate the abdominal area is absorbed from the
      peritoneal area and increases endogenous catecholamines. In this case, nausea and vomiting
      may increase.

      Postoperative nausea and vomiting, which prolongs the postoperative recovery period, are
      often seen in patients within the first 24 hours. Therefore, minimizing nausea and vomiting
      after laparoscopic cholecystectomy is important for the patient. In the literature, no study
      on oxygen administration has been found in studies conducted to relieve nausea and vomiting
      after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In the studies conducted in the literature regarding the
      prevention of nausea and vomiting by oxygen administration in different surgical procedures,
      a consensus could not be reached on the type of surgery and the amount of oxygen. In
      addition, there are studies evaluating 80% and 30% oxygen content in relieving postoperative
      nausea and vomiting.Considering these situations, this research; It was planned to examine
      the effects of 80%, 60% and air oxygen on postoperative nausea and vomiting in patients who
      underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
    
  