
    
      With increasing demands of patients concerning refractive outcome after cataract surgery,
      toric intraocular lenses (IOLs) that correct corneal astigmatism have been introduced more
      widely to cataract surgery. Originally, toric IOLs were used mainly for patients with high
      degrees of astigmatism. Since a couple of years, toric IOLs are available from numerous
      manufacturers to correct moderate amounts of astigmatism which are much more prevalent with
      about 8% having a corneal astigmatism of 2.0D or more in the cataract population. 5Using
      toric IOLs for these eyes results in less spectacle dependence of patients due to the
      astigmatic correction. Other astigmatism reducing techniques, such as peripheral corneal
      relaxing incisions and opposite clear corneal incisions were shown to be less predictable.
      Although the use of toric IOLs became the gold standard to correct corneal astigmatism during
      cataract surgery , there is still uncertainty, if low astigmatism should be corrected. Visser
      et al. showed that moderate astigmatism of than 1.5D should be corrected for monofocal IOLs
      and Hayashi showed that remaining astigmatism of 1.0D already decreases visual quality in
      eyes with multifocal IOLs. Although correction of low corneal astigmatism appears to be
      beneficial, some hurdles have to be taken into account. In eyes with low corneal astigmatism
      the accuracy of measuring the astigmatism meridian is relatively low. Furthermore, different
      corneal measurement techniques are not always comparable and it is difficult to know, which
      device shows the correct amount of astigmatism. Additionally, the correction of the spherical
      equivalent is of high importance, as a refractive surprise will also attenuate the
      astigmatism reducing effect of the toric IOL. Aim of this study is to assess, if toric IOLs
      are useful in patients with low amounts of corneal astigmatism and to quantify the sources of
      error in toric IOL power calculation.
    
  