
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the combination of PE plus concurrent and sequential bevacizumab with respect
      to six month progression free survival in patients with previously untreated SCLC.

      II. To evaluate the combination of PE plus concurrent and sequential bevacizumab with respect
      to survival and response rate.

      III. To evaluate toxicity in patients with extensive small cell lung cancer, treated with the
      combination of PE plus concurrent and sequential bevacizumab who have received no prior
      systemic chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if pre-treatment levels of plasma VEGF predict response to chemotherapy with
      Etoposide-Cisplatin plus concurrent + sequential bevacizumab.

      II. To determine if pre-treatment plasma VEGF is predictive of progression free survival and
      overall survival in advanced SCLC.

      III. To determine whether elevated plasma levels of endothelial cell-specific proteins (VCAM,
      E-selectin), reflective of chemotherapy or bevacizumab induced endothelial damage, are useful
      markers in assessing response to Etoposide/Cisplatin plus concurrent + sequential
      bevacizumab.

      IV. To determine whether pre- and post-treatment plasma levels of basic fibroblast growth
      factor (bFGF) is predictive of progression free survival and overall survival or predictive
      of response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Chemotherapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over
      60 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Bevacizumab therapy: Beginning concurrently with chemotherapy, patients receive bevacizumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses (1 year) in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 6 weeks for up to 3 years from study entry.
    
  