
    
      Adults accessing routine HIV testing in Nakivale Refugee Settlement will be invited to
      participate. The study population will include adult refugees and Ugandan nationals of all
      genders older than 18 years of age. Pregnant women will be invited but Maternal Health Clinic
      will determine if they participate. Those that test positive for HIV will be invited to
      participate in the Early Community Client-Led ART Delivery group intervention.

      Individuals will be offered research participation which will include an intake survey, an
      HIV test, and the option to participate in early community client-led ART delivery (early
      CCLAD) groups if diagnosed with HIV. Those interested in participating will have a consent
      form read aloud to them by a Research Assistant before being tested for HIV. Consent forms
      will be available in 4 languages: Runyankore, Kinyarwanda, Kiswahili and English, and will be
      read by multi-lingual Research Assistants. These individuals will be told at the outset that
      they can alternatively access free HIV testing at the outpatient department clinic if they
      prefer to not participate in any aspect of the research. After consent but prior to HIV
      testing, the investigators will conduct a baseline survey. This will include collection of
      contact information, demographic information, physical assessment, migration patterns, HIV
      testing history, perceived stigma, screening for mental disorders, and assessment of social
      support. Like the consent process, the survey will be available in 4 languages: Runyankore,
      Kinyarwanda, Kiswahili or English, and will be read aloud to participants with responses
      entered directly into a passcode-protected electronic tablet.

      The first meeting of each Early CCLAD group will include an HIV clinic clinician. The first
      meeting is the one time in the intervention where participants will be compensated for their
      transportation to the clinic or to the meeting site (20,000 USH will be provided for each
      participant who attends this meeting). The HIV clinician, who will have been trained in the
      Early CCLAD group intervention, will help individuals in the group to understand their roles
      and responsibilities. The group will work together to plan future meeting dates and
      locations. The participants will decide if they would like to support the person responsible
      for picking up the ART each month (e.g. money, transportation, childcare, food). The
      participants will specify which dates they will be responsible to attend HIV clinic and pick
      up ART for the group. They will discern if they would like to identify a connecting activity
      to be integrated into their group (e.g. exercise, faith, livelihood, craft). The participant
      group will select a Team Leader to coordinate communication between the group and the
      healthcare facility. Finally, an important part of this first meeting is that the HIV
      clinician will conduct a standard comprehensive clinical exam and will refer each
      person/participant for any necessary laboratory testing.

      Monthly "Early CCLAD" meetings: The "Early CCLAD" intervention will require monthly group
      meetings. This is intentionally more frequent than is suggested in the Ugandan Ministry of
      Health guidelines (which recommends visits every 3 months) as this intervention will occur at
      the time of diagnosis rather than when a person is deemed "stable" in care. Before the
      designated individual goes to clinic in any given month, they will be responsible for
      connecting with each group member to ask about how they are feeling and to see if they have
      any questions to ask of the HIV clinic staff. That individual will then attend HIV clinic and
      communicate about the status of each group member. They will collect information from the
      clinic and pre-packed ART for each group member. The "Early CCLAD" group will then meet at
      their predetermined location so that the individual who attended clinic can share information
      from the clinic and can distribute the ART to each person in the group. If a participant
      misses a CCLAD group, they can present to the HIV clinic to pick up their ART refill if a
      member of the group cannot arrange delivery or pickup.

      Additional clinic attendance: All participants assigned to an "Early CCLAD" group will be
      expected to attend HIV clinic in person twice yearly for a clinical evaluation and a viral
      load check. The HIV clinician will work with the team to decide if they prefer their twice
      annual HIV clinic visits on the same day but individually, on the same day as a group, or
      individually on different schedules from others in the group. Additionally, individuals will
      attend clinic in person when they do not feel well, when they have any questions they prefer
      to ask the clinicians directly, when additional laboratory testing is required, and when
      requested by HIV clinic staff to optimize their medical care. In cases where the participants
      are deemed clinically unstable and are in need of regular clinical follow up (e.g. develops
      an opportunistic infection, develops other co-morbidity, has a viral load > 1,000 copies/mL),
      clients will be asked to attend the clinic monthly with the rotating group member collecting
      group ART refill or to step in as the group member responsible for attending clinic that
      month. Individuals "Up referred" by HIV clinic staff to monthly HIV clinic visits should
      still participate in the "Early CCLAD" groups to receive psychosocial support and other
      benefits of community group care.

      Option to stop the "Early CCLAD" group at any time: Participants can opt to stop Early CCLAD
      participation at any time. If willing, they will be asked to participate in a brief exit
      interview so the investigators can better understand what aspects of the intervention were
      acceptable or not acceptable to them.

      "Early CCLAD" groups and HIV clinic connectedness: To ensure the Early CCLAD intervention
      participants remain well integrated into HIV clinic, the research staff will meet regularly
      with the HIV clinic staff to update them on the intervention and to discuss specific problems
      and specific individuals needing specialized care. Additionally, efforts will be made so that
      participant HIV clinic files and pre-packed medications are ready for the visit of the
      individual Early CCLAD group member each month. Finally, participants will be reminded
      frequently that they are expected and welcome to attend clinic when they do not feel well or
      when they have any questions or needs that are not being met through group care.

      Follow-up data collection: Early CCLAD group participants will be given components of the
      intake survey (i.e. to assess mental health screening, perceived stigma, and social support)
      again 6-months after they began participation in the intervention. Some of this may occur in
      an interview setting which is recorded and then later transcribed. Additionally, data will be
      collected to assess retention in group care, ART medication pick-up, and HIV clinic outcomes.
    
  