
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Considerable interest and controversy exist concerning the role of psychosocial factors in
      the pathogenesis of ischemic heart disease. Studies of the prevalence, incidence, and
      mortality from ischemic heart disease have implicated socioeconomic status, job strain, Type
      A behavior, hostility, social support, and other variables.

      The study used baseline data previously collected as part of the Kuopio Ischemic Heart
      Disease Risk Factor Study conducted in eastern Finland by the Research Institute of Public
      Health and the Research Institute of Exercise Medicine, both in Kuopio, and the Finnish
      National Public Health Institute in Helsinki. The area of eastern Finland lies within the
      area of greatest morbidity and mortality from ischemic heart disease in Finland, was part of
      the reference area for the evaluation of the North Karelia Project, and is part of the World
      Health Organization MONICA project.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was longitudinal in design. Physical examinations were conducted at baseline and
      information collected on behavioral risk factors, medical history, and medications.
      Evaluations included a maximal exercise tolerance test, four day supervised food recordings,
      a broad set of hematological and chemical tests from fasting venous blood and two 24-hour
      urine samples. Holter monitoring and ultrasonography of the carotid arteries were performed
      in Cohort II only. Psychosocial measures included social support and network participation,
      socioeconomic status, job strain, Type A behavior pattern, and John Henryism. All members of
      Cohort II were re-examined three years post-baseline. Cohort I members were not re-examined
      because they did not undergo Holter monitoring and ultrasonography. Prevalence and ischemic
      heart disease incidence analyses were performed using both cohorts. Baseline psychosocial
      factors were examined in relation to study endpoints which included extent of carotid
      atherosclerosis, presence of ischemia on exercise, presence of arrhythmias, tendency toward
      blood clotting, four year progression of atherosclerosis, and incidence of fatal and
      non-fatal ischemic heart disease.

      The study was renewed in 1997. Data from a baseline examination, a four-year re-examination,
      and a proposed one-year re-examination of ultrasonographically assessed carotid and femoral
      atherosclerosis, and surveillance for myocardial infarctions and other outcomes, will be used
      to examine the progression or incidence of these outcomes in relation to changes in
      behavioral, psychosocial and socioeconomic factors. It will also be possible to see to to
      what extent the input of these behavioral, psychosocial and socioeconomic factors on
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 1,600 men and women is mediated by lipid peroxidation,
      hemostatic factors, and cardiovascular reactivity. Finally, the investigators state that this
      will be the first population-based epidemiologic study to examine the association between a
      carefully developed set of measures of cardiovascular reactivity to stress and the
      progression of carotid atherosclerosis, risk of myocardial infarction and death, and
      development of hypertension. The cohorts had previously been all male. Women were added when
      the study was renewed in FY 1997.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  