
    
      Heart Failure is the final common pathway of most forms of cardiovascular disease. In the
      United Kingdom (UK), it affects around 900 000 people, causes or complicates around 5% of
      adult emergency hospital admissions and consumes up to 2% of total National Health Service
      (NHS) expenditure. An important part of discharge planning includes measures such as early
      follow up in order to prevent readmissions. The hallmark of heart failure is fluid retention
      and between 2009 and 2016, 43% to 50% of hospital admissions were associated with peripheral
      oedema. Therefore, early recognition of this and treatment of the congestion may prevent
      hospital admissions. In clinical trials, management strategies have included patient
      education, telemedicine and remote monitoring. The main non-invasive method for detecting
      fluid retention has been the use of weight as a surrogate marker.

      The Heartfelt device is an invention that uses a system of cameras in a compact device in
      order to generate 3 dimensional images of the feet and lower legs. The volumes can then be
      calculated and thus, changes in amount of peripheral oedema can be estimated. In a clinical
      trial (NCT02993601) performed by the Heart Failure team at the Royal Brompton Hospital, there
      was good correlation between measurements made by Heartfelt and a water displacement method.
      The resolution was as good as 20mls.

      By positioning the Heartfelt device in the bedroom, automatic measurements can be made
      whenever the subject gets in and out of bed. Images are only taken of the specified subject.
      Data is censored so that the part of the body which is 50cm above the floor is not stored.
      Encrypted, anonymised data is transmitted over the internet to the company's secure servers.
      Personal identifiable data (participant name, address, age…) is stored on an encrypted hard
      drive, along with linkage information (device serial numbers) to associate the participant
      identifiable data with the data captured in the home. Therefore, data collection is not only
      secure but entirely passive, which is a major advantage compared with previous non-invasive
      methods and it is applicable to a very wide range of compliant and non-compliant patients.

      Our hypothesis is that the Heartfelt device can directly detect the increase in peripheral
      oedema associated with heart failure decompensation and that, on average, the number of days
      with missing data collected by the Heartfelt device will be lower than that of the weighing
      scales.

      Blackpool Victoria Hospital provides acute heart failure service both for in-patients and
      out-patients, including capacity to administer parenteral furosemide in hospital cardiac day
      case unit, community or home settings.

      Participants with chronic heart failure in the experimental arm will be monitored in their
      home using the Heartfelt device and will report their symptoms. Participants in the weighing
      + symptom reporting arm will receive standard care. "Standard care" means that participants
      will be encouraged to report symptoms and weigh themselves on a regular basis (as per the
      recommendation of their doctor or heart failure nurse) reporting them without delay. This
      will be done in line with current advice given to heart failure patients locally, which is
      that patients should record their weight in a diary and seek urgent medical attention if
      their weight goes up by at least 2 to 3 pounds in 24 hours, or 5 pounds or more in one week,
      or if they notice an increase in leg swelling and/or an increase in breathlessness.

      Participants in the weighing + symptom reporting arm will be provided with electronic,
      internet connected weighing scales that can transmit weight data. These weighing scales will
      be used as per the usual advice given to patients, thus taking part in the study should not
      change their behaviour. Research questionnaires will also be used to estimate the quality of
      life, mental wellbeing and hope status of participants and collect feedback on the device and
      study design.
    
  