
    
      Purpose: To test the safety of a new LED light therapy device on patients with chronic
      diabetic or venous lower extremity ulcers, and to determine whether the light device
      decreases pain and accelerates wound healing.

      Hypothesis: Patients with chronic diabetic or venous foot/leg ulcers treated with standard
      care plus 10 minutes of high intensity LED light therapy will experience less overall pain
      associated with their ulcer and the ulcer will heal faster than standard care alone.

      Justification: Diabetic and venous foot ulcers are debilitating, costly, extremely painful
      and interfere significantly with quality of life. Standard care for chronic wounds has
      improved but there is great need of new treatments to complement wound care, reduce pain, and
      accelerate wound healing. High intensity LED light therapy is a re-emerging treatment option
      that is known to decrease inflammation, decrease pain, and increase tissue regeneration.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to assess the safety of a high intensity LED light
      device (KPTL-10) in the treatment of chronic foot and leg ulcers. The secondary objectives
      are to assess the ability of the KPTL-10 device to reduce pain and accelerate wound healing.

      Research Method/Procedures: Participants with chronic foot and leg ulcers less than 8 cm in
      diameter (longest direction) will randomized into one of 2 groups for this study: 1) to
      receive a free 10 minute light treatment with the KPTL10 device in addition to standard care,
      or 2) strictly be a part of the standard care control group (no light treatment). For
      treatment, the light device is placed at a fixed distance (1 cm) above the wound. All
      participants will have wound measurements taken with digital software throughout the course
      of the study to track wound healing. Patients will also record their pain levels by filling
      out a VAS pain scale throughout the study.

      Plan for Data Analysis: For each study participant, detailed Case Report Forms will be
      completed by study researchers and the principal investigator Dr. Eric Bly at every study
      appointment. The target numbers for this study data set are 40 treated participants, and 20
      control (untreated) participants. These case report forms contain data sections to capture
      wound sizes, patient experiences post treatment, and pain scores (VAS scale). All data will
      be stored digitally on a single study computer and manually as printed hardcopies for study
      records and complete data analysis by Dr. Eric Bly and Illumacell's clinical team.
    
  