
    
      The study is designed as a cluster-randomized trial in the setting of a meningitis epidemic
      to assess the impact of chemoprophylaxis with single-dose ciprofloxacin on the incidence of
      meningitis in the study area.

      The study will be implemented in a health district in Niger where a meningitis outbreak is
      occurring, and where Médecins Sans Frontières is providing assistance to the Ministry of
      Health in its outbreak response. In order to launch the study protocol, at least two Health
      Areas (HA) of a Health District (HD) will have met the weekly epidemic threshold of 10 cases
      per 100 000 per week, or of 5 cases per week if the population of the HA is less than 30 000
      people, following the most recent WHO recommendations for meningitis surveillance.

      All villages in the HAs which have crossed the epidemic threshold and are included in the
      study area will be randomized to receive standard care, household-level prophylaxis or
      community-wide prophylaxis.

      Once a HA has been included in the study, a case-based surveillance system will be put in
      place, or reinforced if one is currently in place in the study area. Suspected cases of
      meningitis that present to health posts will be referred to the nearest health center. In
      each health center, the diagnosis and treatment of meningitis will follow national protocols.

      In the standard care arm, after the first case has been notified from a village, a study
      nurse will visit the village with a local community member. The study nurse will lead an
      informational session for members of the community regarding the signs and symptoms of
      meningitis, and the urgency of presenting to the nearest health center as soon as possible if
      any of those signs or symptoms arrive. In the household-level prophylaxis arm, each time a
      case is reported from a village that has been randomized to this arm, a study nurse will
      visit the household of the notified case within 24 hours. The study nurse will offer
      ciprofloxacin to all persons currently living in the same household compound and present at
      the time of the visit. In the community-level prophylaxis arm, after the first case is
      reported from a village that has been randomized to this arm, a member of study staff will
      visit the village within 24 hours. During this visit, arrangements will be made for a
      community-wide distribution of ciprofloxacin, preferably within 72 hours of the initial case
      presentation at the health center / district hospital. A series of informational meetings
      will be organized before the distribution.

      If the epidemic is in an urban setting, neighborhoods will be randomized to one of the three
      arms in a 1:1:1 ratio. If the epidemic is in a rural area, villages will be randomized to
      either standard care or village-wide prophylaxis in a 1:1 ratio.

      A nested substudy to assess the effects of ciprofloxacin prophylaxis on the prevalence of
      ciprofloxacin-resistant enterobacteriaceae will be carried out among 400 persons (200 in the
      standard care arm and 200 in the community-wide prophylaxis arm). Participants will provide a
      series of 3 stool samples for culture, speciation, and antibiotic resistance testing.
    
  