
    
      This is a phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm study in patients with high-risk
      PCa diagnosed with prostate biopsy and undergoing RP and ePLND. Screening assessments should
      be performed no more than 3 weeks prior to the start of study treatment. Local, nodal and
      systemic staging with prostate mpMRI, abdominal and chest CT, PSMA-PET/CT and bone scans will
      be performed before the administration of pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab will be administered
      at the dose of 200 mg intravenously, every 3 weeks, for a total of 3 cycles prior to RP and
      ePLND. Following the screening assessment, subsequent assessments will be carried out after
      the 3 administrations of the study drug prior to RP and ePLND. If an unscheduled assessment
      is performed and the patient has not progressed, the results should be reported at the next
      scheduled visit. After the last cycle of pembrolizumab, mpMRI and PSMA-PET/CT scan will be
      performed to re-stage the tumour. Progressive disease will be defined as an increase of 20%
      in the maximum diameter of the index lesion at multiparametric MRI or as the onset of nodal
      or distant metastases at imaging or onset of symptoms and skeletal related events. In the
      case of symptomatic disease progression (i.e., de novo onset of symptomatic distant
      metastases), the patient will not complete the 3 cycles of pembrolizumab and will be
      considered for immediate imaging (i.e., bone scan, mpMRI and PSMA-PET/CT scan) to re-stage
      the tumour and for treatment according to clinical guidelines. After RP, patients will be
      managed according to clinical guidelines. PDL-1 status will be assessed on all samples of
      patients enrolled on the study. Tissue and blood samples will be collected before and after
      the administration of pembrolizumab. The presence of biomarkers predictive of radiological
      and pathological response to neoadjuvant administration of pembrolizumab will be assessed.
      Patients will be monitored carefully for the development of adverse events and will be
      monitored for clinical evidence of disease progression according to usual standards of
      clinical practice. Adverse events will be evaluated according to criteria outlined in the NCI
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. There will be no
      intrapatient dose escalation in this study. For individual patients that experience
      dose-limiting toxicities, no criteria for dose modification of pembrolizumab will be applied,
      but only criteria for dose delays as detailed in the protocol. Patients will be treated with
      a maximum of 3 cycles of therapy until surgery (i.e. RP and ePLND), provided that no
      dose-limiting toxicities will occur throughout the treatment course for each individual
      patient.
    
  