
    
      LUCAS (LUcentis Compared to Avastin Study) A randomized, double-blind, prospective
      multicenter study comparing the effect of intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin) to
      ranibizumab (Lucentis) when given to patients with exudative (wet) age-related macular
      degeneration in Norway.

      Version: 4, Protocol: 166-09, EudraCT: 2008-004225-41

      Purpose:

      LUCAS is a prospective, randomized, multicenter study comparing the effects of intravitreal
      injection of bevacizumab (Avastin) with ranibizumab (Lucentis) when given to patients with
      exudative (wet) AMD in Norway.

      The study will include 420 patients to be recruited starting March 2009. The study will
      continue for 2 years after completed enrollment.

      Design:

      LUCAS is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind study, with 1:1 parallel groups treated with
      either bevacizumab (Avastin) 0.05 ml (25 mg/ml) or ranibizumab (Lucentis) 0,05 ml (10 mg/ml).
      The drug is injected intravitreally according to an "inject and extend" principle (5).

      Randomization will be stratified by center and performed with minimization according to
      prognostic factors.

      Treatment Regimen:

      Bevacizumab (Avastin) will be given as an intravitreal injection of 0.05ml (25 mg/ml) from a
      vial containing 4 ml.

      Ranibizumab (Lucentis) will be given as an intravitreal injection of 0.05 ml (10 mg/ml) from
      a vial containing 0.23 ml.

      Follow-up and treatment will follow a principle called "inject and extend." This connotes the
      following: initial follow-up and injection with a 4 week intervals until the macula is dry.
      When dry, then follow-up and injection will be increased 2 weeks at a time. If the patient
      has a recurrence of wet AMD, then the interval is reduced by 2 weeks at a time until the
      macula is once again dry. The shortest interval is 4 weeks. When once again extending, the
      treatment interval shall not be as long as the interval of the original recurrence, as this
      could confer risk for new activity. Therefore further follow-up and injection occurs at the
      "ideal" interval which is hereby defined as being 2 weeks less than that of the original
      recurrence. With this method, the patient receives an injection at each follow-up, presuming
      that no complications occur. The maximum interval is limited to 12 weeks. Treatment will
      continue for 2 years. After the study is completed, then the patient is to be offered
      continued treatment, in accordance with the ophthalmology department's routines, If there is
      no response to treatment after 3 injections with a 4 week interval, then the patient shall be
      removed from the study and be offered alternative treatment, such as combination treatment
      with photodynamic therapy (PDT).
    
  