
    
      The clinical features of PD include progressive postural instability, hypokinesia, tremor and
      rigidity. It is therefore common that people with PD experience reduced balance and gait
      function, symptoms which can have far-reaching negative effects on their health and quality
      of life. Injurious falls and fear of falling are especially prevalent among those with PD, a
      factor which may partly explain why this group are less physically active than older people
      of a similar age without the diagnosis. Balance and gait training, on the other hand, have
      been shown effective in PD and also appear to have potential neuro-protective properties.
      Research in the area of balance training in PD disease however is sparse and previous
      interventions have been criticized for applying training stimuli which lacked intensity and
      challenge.

      The HiBalance program is based on scientifically well-established principles of exercise
      training and postural control as well as current research on training in PD. The program was
      developed to affect symptom-specific balance impairments in PD by targeting four main
      subsystems underlying balance control (stability limits, anticipatory postural adjustments,
      sensory integration and motor agility). The intervention consists of a 10-week progressive
      balance training program in group format (5-7 participants). Each training session is
      conducted by a minimum of 2 physiotherapist trainers, during twice weekly 1-hour sessions (20
      hours in total). Additionally, a home-exercise program is carried out by the participants
      once a week during the trial period. The difficulty level of the group-based training is
      increased in three consecutive blocks. To ensure highly challenging exercises, each task is
      individually adjusted by altering the area of base of support, increasing movement
      speed/amplitude and/or restricting vision and varying the grade of multitasking. The program
      has previously been proven feasible [Conradsson, 2012] and effective [Conradsson, 2015] in
      improving balance and gait impairments in a randomized controlled hospital setting. In
      addition, favorable transfer effects were seen in relation to physical activity levels and
      the performance of activities of everyday life.

      For research interventions to be adopted in real-life clinical settings however a level of
      adaptation is required. Best practice then involves evaluating the effectiveness of
      efficacious programs in clinical settings, in order to verify whether or not the adaptation
      has attenuated the effective core elements of the program itself.

      The current study combines a clinical effectiveness trial together with implementation
      research. Use of a type-1 hybrid design will allow the effects of the HiBalance program in
      clinical settings to be tested while simultaneously gathering information on barriers and
      facilitators to the implementation process [Curran, 2012]. Use of the hybrid design also
      allows for constant monitoring of the process by which the intervention is applied, and
      therefore allow problems in early application to be identified and quickly altered so as to
      ensure better outcomes. A participatory approach will be adhered to whereby 'users' of the
      program (physiotherapist trainers) will be actively involved in all stages of the program
      adaptation, process and outcome evaluation. This approach is recommended in order to increase
      the relevance, acceptability and successful implementation of the program. The Consolidated
      Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) will be used in the current study to guide the
      investigation of potential barriers to and facilitators of the implementation process
      [Damschroder, 2009 ].
    
  