
    
      Early pregnancy loss (EPL) or miscarriage is a common problem occurring in 15-20% of
      pregnancies. EPL can safely be managed surgically, medically, or expectantly; patient
      preferences, together with provider recommendations, should be used to guide treatment
      decisions. The three management options differ substantially experientially for patients.
      Previous literature has shown that patients have preferences for treatment and higher
      satisfaction when treated according to their preferences. Decision aids provide
      individualized information to help patients clarify their priorities and personal values.
      There is good evidence that decision aids compared to usual care resulted in greater
      knowledge, more realistic expectations, lower decisional conflict relating to feeling
      informed, more active decision making, less people remaining undecided, and greater effect
      agreement on value and choice. Despite this, there is limited research on the extent of
      decisional conflict experienced by women undergoing treatment for EPL, or the effect of
      decision aids on decisional conflict. Furthermore, only a few decision aid tools are publicly
      available for this indication. The Healthwise decision aid tool receives high scores by the
      International Patient Decision Aid Standards Scale, and is readily available to patients
      within the clinical site's electronic medical record.

      The investigators propose a pilot randomized control trial, enrolling 50 participants with
      EPL. The study will measure baseline decisional conflict, and randomize participants to
      counseling with or without the decision aid. The investigators intend to study the Decisional
      Conflict Scale at baseline and after counseling, knowledge scores, Decision Regret and the
      9-item Shared Decision Making Questionnaire (SDM-Q9) after counseling. Study data can be used
      to inform future research and to identify patients with predictors for high decisional
      conflict. This study is the first step towards validation of a high-quality decision aid tool
      for patients undergoing EPL management. It will also be the first study to report on
      decisional conflict and regret in patients with early pregnancy loss.
    
  