
    
      MoveStrong at Home is an 8-week pilot study with a 4-week follow up.

      The primary research question pertains to the feasibility of implementation, defined by
      recruitment (number of participants recruited at the end of rollout), retention (number
      retained at post-rollout end), and adherence (percentage of exercise sessions completed) and
      participant experience. The criteria for success of this study are to recruit 8 participants
      per month (up to a total of 25 participants in 3 months), retention of 80% at follow up, and
      adherence of ≥70% across exercise and nutrition sessions.

      For secondary outcomes, the investigators will assess effects of MoveStrong at Home on
      physical activity, fatigue, mental health and social isolation, quality of life, as well as
      protein/energy intake via telephone pre, post and at follow up. The following questionnaires
      will be used: Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly; Center for Epidemiologic Studies
      Depression Scale-fatigue questions; Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale; EQ5D5L20; and
      the Automated Self-Administered 24-Hour Dietary Assessment Tool (via interview). Physical
      function will be assessed pre, post and at follow up using adapted and self-administered
      versions of the Short Performance Physical Battery balance test and the 30-second chair stand
      test. Qualitative exit and follow up interviews will identify barriers and facilitators to
      implementation and capture participant experience. The investigators will monitor falls and
      adverse events throughout the study.

      The investigators will recruit participants in two phases. The investigators will recruit up
      to 8 participants between October 5th and October 23rd, 2020 to begin the intervention
      together by November 2020. Participants recruited after that date will participate in
      screening and assessments between November 2020 and January 2021, and begin the intervention
      in January 2021. The investigators will consider making modifications to the protocol to
      address any challenges that arise during delivery with the first phase of participants. The a
      priori criteria for success related to recruitment is 25 participants in 3 months or
      approximately 8 per month.

      Each participant will begin the intervention with two 1-on-1 sessions on non-consecutive days
      (Monday to Friday) and complete the third session on their own. As progress is made,
      participants will continue to receive a 1-on-1 session each week and complete two sessions
      independently. Participants may request to keep both private sessions if they are attending
      by telephone or require additional assistance. If a participant is unable to attend a 1-on-1
      session due to a prior commitment, illness, or injury, a make-up session will be scheduled
      for the same week or following week as necessary.

      An optional support group will take place on weeks 3, 5 & 7 (Wednesday). The intention is to
      foster a sense of community, allow participants to share their experience thus far, and
      review the exercises together. These sessions do not count toward adherence.

      In addition, individuals will participate in three dietitian-led virtual group seminars to
      review content from the booklet and videos, as well as discuss more personalized strategies
      to increase protein intake. The dietitian will consider the cost of preparing high protein
      foods and the accessibility of these foods during a time of physical distancing. 60-minute
      small group seminars (5-10 participants) will occur on weeks 2, 4, and 6 (Wednesday). In
      total, the dietitian will host 9-12 seminars split between the two phases.

      The long-term goal of the investigators is not to test the efficacy of exercise, but to test
      the implementation of scalable and sustainable models to promote exercise at home or in the
      community.
    
  