
    
      The primary objectives of this exploratory study are:

        -  To assess the uptake of [F-18] RGD-K5 by carotid plaque with PET/MRI imaging in
           participants prior to carotid endarterectomy and thereby determine if carotid plaque
           that causes significant stenosis [in participants being considered for carotid
           endarterectomy (CEA)] is characterized by increased integrin expression and enhanced
           angiogenesis.

        -  To collect safety data of [F-18] RGD-K5 in participants with carotid atherosclerosis.

      Potential subjects will be identified and approached during an inpatient or outpatient
      clinical visit by a member of the research team. Potential subjects will be identified by
      their treating physicians and referred to the researchers. Patients' private and identifiable
      information will not be shared prior to receiving permission from the patient to do so

      Summary of research procedures:

      Physical exam and vital Signs:

      Height, weight, temperature, heart rate and blood pressure will be checked before beginning
      the imaging tests. Subjects' heart rate and blood pressure will be checked again after each
      of the two PET/MRI images, and as needed.

      Patients will also be asked about the presence of ICD, pacemaker or any metallic implants
      that would not be compatible with the MRI magnet (presence of MRI non-compatible devices will
      be an exclusion criteria)

      Blood Test:

      If labs have been done and the lab values meet the criteria to participate in this study, the
      investigators will not need to collect these labs again on the day of testing. If these labs
      have not been collected within 30 days prior to the research imaging tests, the investigators
      will draw a tube of blood to check kidney function and other necessary blood values prior to
      the research testing. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) <40ml/min will be
      excluded from the study.

      Urine Pregnancy test:

      This will only need to be done in female subjects of childbearing potential. This will need
      to be checked prior to scheduling subjects' research imaging tests. If subjects' tests are
      schedules more than 2 days (48 hours) since first checked, this test will need to be
      rechecked on the day of subjects' research imaging testing.

      ECG:

      An ECG (electrocardiogram) will be done to assess subjects' heart rhythm before the testing
      begins, and after each of the PET scans.

      IV insertion:

      A catheter will be inserted into subjects' arm. It is through this IV catheter that the dose
      of [F-18] RGD-K5 will be given prior to imaging.

      Research PET/MRI Imaging of the Carotid Arteries:

      2 hours after receiving the dose of [F-18] RGD-K5 PET/MRI imaging of subjects' neck (carotid
      arteries) will be performed. Subjects will be lying on subjects' back with a head fixation
      device supporting subjects' head to prevent Subjects from moving subjects' head while the
      images are taken. This scan will take about 30-45 minutes. Subjects will be permitted to get
      up and move around between receiving the radiotracer and imaging. Subjects will be asked to
      drink a glass of water before receiving the dose of [F-18] RGD-K5.

      Histology and Immunohistochemistry:

      During Subjects carotid endarterectomy(CEA) which is a clinically indicated procedure,
      atherosclerotic plaque will be removed. A sample of this plaque will be collected and taken
      to the histology laboratory at Cedars Sinai for analysis.

      Follow Up phone call:

      Subjects will be contacted by phone the day after subjects' PET scans to ask if Subjects have
      had any medical problems and what medications Subjects have taken since the PET scan. If
      Subjects were seen by a doctor to be evaluated for a medical problem, the investigators may
      ask permission to contact the doctor or hospital to obtain copies of subjects' medical
      records

      Research poses greater than minimal risk

      Anticipated benefits:

      There is no personal benefit to participants by participating in this research study.

      The knowledge to be gained from this research may be beneficial for other patients, society
      or science.

      The detection by the imaging protocol of unstable atherosclerotic plaque in the carotid
      artery will not result in any change in their standard of care.

      The potential benefit of the study to the patient is that it will allow the physician
      treating the patient to know the entire extent of the carotid plaque, plaque composition and
      will inform them of the anatomy of the carotid artery in question.

      Furthermore, it will provide information about plaque in the contralateral carotid artery and
      if that plaque has a high degree of inflammation. If a high inflammatory burden is noted in
      the contralateral carotid artery, there will be more vigilance in monitoring these patients.

      Summary of process by which confidentiality will be maintained:

      Research records will be stored in a locked cabinet in a secure location Electronic research
      records will be stored in a shared network folder on the CSMC network. The list linking the
      assigned code number to the individual subject will be maintained separately from the other
      research data. Only certified research personnel who are listed on the approved Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) application will be given access to identifiable subject information.
      Research related data and patient/subject information will never be stored on a researcher's
      personal (private) computer or laptop. Study data will be coded upon abstraction so that
      Direct Identifiers** are maintained separately from the data set.

      Summary of data and safety monitoring plan:

      The study will be monitored only by the study investigators and/or sponsor.

      How does participation in the research differ from the receipt of standard care:

      RISKS OF THE STUDY

      As with any research study, there may be adverse events or side effects that are currently
      unknown and it is possible that certain of these unknown risks could be permanent, serious or
      life threatening. The study doctor will inform subjects of any significant new information
      that is discovered during this trial.

      Risks of the Study Drug Based upon the toxicity profile to be administered as a single dose,
      the purity and impurity profile of [F-18] RGD-K5, no risk of adverse events is anticipated
      for this study.

      Radiation Risk:

        -  It is very unlikely that participants will see any harmful effects because of the
           radiation exposure participants will receive from taking part in this study.

        -  At high levels of exposure, scientists agree that radiation can cause cancer. This
           research study involves exposure to radiation from the RGDK5-PET scan. The total amount
           of radiation exposure participants will receive is equivalent to a uniform whole-body
           exposure of 0.8 rem. This is comparable to approximately three years' worth of radiation
           exposure from typical environmental sources (about 0.3 rem per year, which includes
           radon, natural background radiation, and cosmic rays). This is also comparable to 16% of
           the maximum annual exposure for radiation workers (5 rem) allowed by the Nuclear
           Regulatory Commission.

      MRI is not associated with any radiation risk.

      MRI non-compatible devices such as pacemakers, ICD (implantable cardioverter defibrillator)
      and metallic implants may cause artifacts in imaging and device malfunction as well as local
      tissue injury.

      Contrast used for MRI is associated with minimal risk among patients who are free of
      significant renal dysfunction.

      When injected into the body, gadolinium contrast medium makes certain tissues, abnormalities
      or disease processes more clearly visible on a magnetic resonance imaging scan. They are used
      to improve the clarity of the scanned images or pictures of the body's internal structures.

      Gadolinium contrast medium is given by intravenous injection.

      The risk of gadolinium contrast is minimal in patients without severe renal disease.

      The most common adverse effects of gadolinium agents are

        -  Itching of the skin (5%)

        -  Headache (4%)

        -  Nausea (4%)

        -  Very small risk of local pain

        -  Hypersensitivity (allergic reaction)

        -  Rarely (<1% of the time) it can cause low blood pressure and lightheadedness. This can
           be treated immediately with IV fluids.

      More serious allergic reactions that are life threatening are rare. Gadolinium is not safe
      for people with late stage kidney disease or who have had a liver transplant.
      Gadolinium-based contrast agents increase the risk for a rare, but serious adverse reaction,
      called nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) among patients with impaired elimination of the
      drugs. Patients with kidney disease are at increased risk of developing NSF. NSF may cause
      skin thickening, joint pain and/or swelling, causing feelings of burning, itching and pain
      that can be severe. In very rare cases, NSF can lead to lung and heart problems and may be
      life threatening. Participants will have a blood test to measure kidney function and if the
      blood test is abnormal, they will not be permitted to receive gadolinium.

      There is a very small risk of mild headache and local pain. Rarely (<1% of the time) it can
      cause low blood pressure and lightheadedness. This can be treated immediately with IV fluids.
      More serious allergic reactions that are life threatening are rare. Gadolinium is not safe
      for people with late stage kidney disease or who have had a liver transplant.

      As with all research procedures and administration of study drugs, subjects will be monitored
      at all times.
    
  