
    
      TAS-102 is an oral agent, which consists of a combination of a novel antimetabolite
      5-trifluorothymidine (FTD) and a thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor (TPI) that prevents
      degradation of FTD. It has demonstrated activity in chemorefractory metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC) patients. In the Japanese randomized phase II trial, TAS-102 improved medial
      overall survival when compared to placebo (9.0 vs.6.6 months, Hazard Ratio (HR) 0.56) in
      patients with mCRC refractory to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), irinotecan and oxaliplatin.
      Subsequently, a randomized phase III study conducted in 13 countries (RECOURSE trial)
      confirmed this benefit on overall survival when compared to placebo (7.1 months vs. 5.3
      months, HR 0.68) in patients with refractory metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) 5.

      Oxaliplatin is a third generation platinum compound, which is active when used together with
      5-FU in the treatment of mCRC (FOLFOX). FOLFOX chemotherapy, which is frequently combined
      with anti-angiogenic agent Bevacizumab, is widely accepted as the preferred first-line
      regimen in the treatment of this disease in the US. Oxaliplatin is also frequently
      reintroduced in more advanced settings. Reintroduction is seen after progression on
      maintenance therapy, after resolution of previous treatment limiting neuropathy, after
      disease recurrence post adjuvant treatment or post metastasectomy. In the control arm of a
      randomized study of FOLFOX4 or FOLFOX7 with oxaliplatin in a stop-and-go fashion in advanced
      colorectal cancer (OPTIMOX1 study), oxaliplatin was reintroduced in 27% of patients. Although
      patients derive clinical benefit when oxaliplatin is reintroduced, the response rates are not
      as robust as during initial exposures. Decreased efficacy may be at least in part due to
      prolonged exposure and resultant resistance to 5-FU, which is a backbone in maintenance and
      in oxaliplatin containing regimens. Hence, the investigators propose exploring the safety and
      efficacy of oxaliplatin in combination with an alternative anti-metabolite TAS-102 (TAS-OX).

      TAS-102 has demonstrated activity in 5-FU refractory mCRC, so the investigators hypothesize
      that TAS-OX may serve as an alternative drug combination for patients who have progressed or
      recurred after FOLFOX, and who are candidates for additional oxaliplatin therapy.

      This is a 2-part clinical trial with TAS-102 in combination with oxaliplatin. The first part
      will be a dose-finding run-in phase and will enroll 3-18 patients. The second part, the focus
      of this study, will be a single arm cohort , which will further evaluate the safety, as well
      as efficacy, of TAS-OX in the treatment of mCRC. The subjects in part 2 will be treated with
      the drug doses determined in Part 1 of the trial. Up to 50 patients will be enrolled in part
      2. Anticipated enrollment may be as high as 68 patients. Maximum potential enrollment is
      listed under anticipated enrollment, below.
    
  