
    
      Despite the encouraging results of recent trials, only a minority of patients shows
      significant response to single agent immunotherapy with nivolumab (Overall response rate
      (ORR) around 20%). Therefore, further investigations are urgently needed to improve the
      prognosis of patients with mRCC. Recent analyses of phase I trials in mRCC and also in
      non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients as well as more advanced studies in melanoma
      patients have provided evidence that combination of immunotherapies can improve response
      rates and response duration.

      Cancer immunotherapy rests on the premise that tumors can be recognized as foreign rather
      than as self and can be effectively attacked by an activated immune system. An effective
      immune response in this setting is thought to rely on immune surveillance of tumor antigens
      expressed on cancer cells that ultimately results in an adaptive immune response and cancer
      cell death. Meanwhile, tumor progression may depend upon acquisition of traits that allow
      cancer cells to evade immunosurveillance and escape effective innate and adaptive immune
      responses. Current immunotherapy efforts attempt to break the apparent tolerance of the
      immune system to tumor cells and antigens by either introducing cancer antigens by
      therapeutic vaccination or by modulating regulatory checkpoints of the immune system.

      Dysfunctional T cells in cancer show an upregulation of inhibitory receptors (T cell
      exhaustion). Combined blockade of inhibitory receptors including CTLA-4 and PD-1 are
      considered to act synergistically. Indeed, early trials in mRCC showed improved response
      rates and combinations have also demonstrated to be prolonging progression-free survival in
      melanoma. While CTLA-4 is mainly involved in transmitting negative signals in T cells during
      priming in the lymph node, PD-1 is thought to mainly inhibit T cell cytotoxicity within the
      tumor by engagement of ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2, which are upregulated by tumor cells and
      inflammatory cells within the tumor microenvironment as shield against the immune attack. It
      is therefore reasonable to combine PD-1 blockade with CTLA-4 blockade and this has been
      tested with an intriguing doubling of ORR in a phase I trial in patients with mRCC. An
      important aspect of any combination therapy is the question of additional/ excessive
      toxicity. In that trial the combination of nivolumab 3mg/kg/q3w (cont.) and ipilimumab
      1mg/kg/q3w (4 times) proved to be safe, efficacious and feasible (much better safety profile
      in patients with mRCC compared to patients in melanoma trials). 78% of patients had any AE,
      but only 28% a grade 3-4 AE event. While diarrhea was quite common, only 4.8% had grade 3-4
      diarrhea. Other treatment related immune-mediated AEs, especially endocrinopathy,
      pneumonitis, skin disorders were recorded at lower grades than 3. No deaths were reported for
      this combination. The overall response rate was 43% with durable responses of 78% in patients
      that had an initial response (durable responses).

      Moreover, recent variations of dosing schedules and strengths of the nivolumab-ipilimumab
      combinations have shown improvement of toxicity rates with no loss of efficacy. For example,
      ipilimumab every 6 weeks at 1mg/kg was shown to be well tolerated in patients with non-small
      cell lung cancer when combined with nivolumab.

      Nivolumab has proven efficacy and a favorable toxicity profile as a 2nd line therapy in mRCC.
      It is therefore destined to become the standard therapy after a first line TKI therapy.
      However, only a minority of patients shows clear responses leaving plenty of room for
      improvement. The addition of a further agent including blockade of CTLA-4 that acts
      synergistically could improve the response rate and also extend the progression-free and
      overall survival in patients with mRCC.

      The addition of ipilimumab to nivolumab in order to increase response rates and induce more
      often durable remissions in patients is a reasonable next step and is currently tested in
      several randomized trials. However, at this point it is unclear which subgroup benefits most
      from the combination of CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade and the optimal regimen/schedule remains
      unknown. To this end, this trial will test a combination of ipilimumab with nivolumab at an
      alternate schedule and a subsequent adaptation of the treatment regimen to the individual
      response with the aim to increase efficacy while reducing toxicity in mRCC patients.
      Ipilimumab is often used only in the first weeks of antineoplastic treatment for initial
      immune priming, allowing the presumption that it could be stopped after an initial priming
      phase. A phase I dose finding study is not needed, as experience with this dose and even
      higher doses have been reported and data are on file at Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS). In
      addition, sequential biopsies and biomarker studies shall identify patients that benefit the
      most of a combination immunotherapy. In this trial, it was decided to have a nivolumab
      lead-in phase to be able to determine whether any acute side effect is nivolumab or
      ipilimumab related.
    
  