
    
      Neonatal encephalopathy (NE) due to hypoxia-ischemia is a major public health concern as it
      occurs in 6/1000 live term births and has devastating consequences. Many affected neonates
      suffer lifelong motor disabilities and epilepsy, but increasingly the high prevalence of
      cognitive and behavioral disabilities is becoming appreciated. In hypoxia-ischemia there is a
      decrease in blood and oxygen delivery, followed by reperfusion with transient energy
      recovery. What follows is a "window of opportunity" where excitotoxicity and associated
      increased cerebral metabolism eventually lead to secondary energy failure and irreversible
      cell death. In this window, therapeutic hypothermia (TH) is currently the only treatment
      available with proven efficacy. TH acts primarily by decreasing cerebral metabolism, thus
      preserving energy stores.

      Although the current gold standard for brain injury detection is magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI), MRI is impractical as a screening tool and cannot provide bedside monitoring to
      optimize individual responses to therapies. Commercially available continuous wave (CW) near
      infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) systems provide bedside measures of cerebral oxygen saturation
      (SO2) but SO2 alone cannot assess oxygen metabolism, as oxygen delivery is not taken into
      account. What is needed is a bedside tool that can monitor cerebral metabolism to detect
      elevations in metabolism that suggest evolving hypoxic-ischemic injury, and decreases in
      metabolism that suggest response to therapy. Cerebral oxygen consumption (CMRO2) is a direct
      measure of cerebral metabolism and therefore the investigators propose to measure an index of
      CMRO2 at the bedside using the innovative combination of Frequency Domain Near-Infrared
      Spectroscopy (FDNIRS) and Diffuse Correlation Spectroscopy (DCS). The initial studies from
      the investigators show that CMRO2 is elevated in neonates with MRI evidence of perinatal
      brain injury, and confirm that neonates on TH have significantly lower CMRO2 than normal
      controls. Following these exciting results, they now propose a feasibility study to determine
      if FDNIRS-DCS can screen for involvement, assess response to treatment, and predict outcomes
      in one of the largest neonatal populations requiring early screening and immediate
      intervention: neonatal encephalopathy. To assess early outcomes, the research team proposes
      an innovative combination of advanced neurobehavioral testing, regional FDNIRS-DCS measures
      and quantitative MRI analysis using MRIs obtained without sedation. If the hypotheses prove
      true, it will help in determining if bedside indices of CMRO2 provided by FDNIRS-DCS can
      optimize TH for individual neonates, thereby improving neurodevelopmental outcomes. Success
      at this stage will also allow exploration of the potential for FDNIRS-DCS to determine the
      additional benefits of emerging new treatments for NE and to screen for other treatable
      neonatal disorders.
    
  