
    
      Objectives:

      To compare the early versus deferred initiation of antiretroviral combination therapy
      consisting of tenofovir, emtricitabine and atazanavir/ritonavir in treatment naive patients
      who present with an acute AIDS-defining illness, namely pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) or
      toxoplasma gondii encephalitis (TE).

      The primary objective of this study is as follows:

      To compare the rates of clinical progression between both groups. Progression is defined as
      death, all new/relapsing opportunistic infections (OI), and other grade 4 clinical endpoints
      (evaluated by standardized toxicity tables) within 24 weeks after randomization.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        -  to evaluate and to compare hospitalization days after completion of initial OI treatment
           between both groups.

        -  to evaluate the incidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS,
           definition see Objectives) in both groups during the first 24 weeks.

        -  to evaluate and to compare the virological outcome proportion in both groups.
           Virological outcome is assessed by HIV-1 plasma viral load at Week 24 (proportion of
           patients achieving HIV RNA below 50 copies/mL). For definition of virological failure,
           see below.

        -  to evaluate and to compare the frequency changes in ART regimen for lack of efficacy or
           of toxicity in both groups.

        -  to evaluate the quality of life (QOL) and the adherence to the ARV regimen in subjects
           starting tenofovir, emtricitabine and atazanavir/ritonavir at late stages of
           HIV-1-infection.

      Study Design: Prospective, randomized, open-label multicenter study

      Number of Subjects to be Randomized:

      105 patients per arm (total of 210 patients planned).

      Target Population:

      ART naïve HIV-1 infected adults, who have developed an acute AIDS defining opportunistic
      infection, namely PCP or TE.

      Duration of Treatment:

      24 weeks

      Diagnosis and Main Eligibility Criteria:

      Key Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Adult (at least 18 years) HIV-1 infected subjects

        -  Antiretroviral naïve HIV-1-infected patients who have developed an acute AIDS defining
           event, namely PCP or TE (women receiving prior MTCT prophylaxis may be enrolled)

        -  Patients who are able to take or to receive antiretroviral treatment and who are able to
           give written consent Key exclusion criteria

        -  Renal failure or CrCl below 60 mL/min

        -  Patients who are not able to initiate ART or with current contraindications against
           atazanavir/ritonavir

        -  Other AIDS-defining events than PCP or TE (exceptions see below)

        -  Pregnancy/Women of childbearing potential who want to become pregnant

      Study Procedures/ Frequency:

      OI Diagnosis, Screening, Randomization

        -  Patients should be screened immediately after diagnosis and decision for OI treatment
           have been made, providing the patient's personal doctor considers ART to be possible and
           the patient agrees to be included in the study (written consent).

        -  Diagnosis of both PCP and TE will be established according to standard of care by the
           treating physician. A definitive diagnosis (histologically proven) is not required for
           study entry. The decision for specific treatment of OI is also made by the treating
           physician according to appropriate guidelines.

        -  Screening assessments include medical history, social background, physical examination,
           height, weight, vital signs, and concomitant medications.

        -  Blood parameters should be assessed by the local lab and should contain CBC (complete
           blood count) with differential and platelet count, Bilirubine, ALT, AST, LDH, yGT, serum
           creatinine, electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride), calculated creatinine clearance
           (CrCl), urinalysis, and serum pregnancy test (females of childbearing potential only).
           These results must be available before sending the evaluation form.

        -  Further screening assessments include HIV-1 RNA, genotype HIV resistance test, CD4/CD8
           T-cell count, serology for hepatitis C antibody, hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg),
           cryptococcus antigen, CRP and a T Cell Interferon-Gamma Release Assay (TIGRA). Of note,
           there is no need to wait for the results of these further screening parameters.

        -  A questionnaire that will describe social and educational status and reasons for
           presenting late during HIV-infection will be performed at screening or entry. A QoL
           questionnaire (SF 36) is also required at screening or entry.

      Randomization, Baseline Prior to first randomization, every participating center will receive
      study drugs for the treatment of three patients for one month. Within 24 hours after sending
      the screening form, the site investigator will receive a randomization sheet with the
      decision when to start ART ("immediate" or "deferred"). The day of receiving the
      randomization sheet will be defined as baseline visit. Immediate arm: ART should be initiated
      as soon as possible but no later than 3 days after initiation of OI treatment. Deferred arm:
      ART should be initiated after the completion of OI treatment which is achieved at the
      earliest at day 21 for PCP and at day 28 for TE. ART should be initiated no later than 6
      weeks after initiation of OI treatment.

      Follow up Procedures

        -  Week 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24 or Early Study Drug Discontinuation Visit assessments include
           a symptom-directed physical examination, weight, vital signs, concomitant medications,
           adverse events, HIV-1 RNA, CD4 count, CBC with differential and platelet count, ALT,
           AST, LDH, Bilirubine, gGT, serum creatinine, electrolytes, calculated CrCl.

        -  Additional Week 12, 24, or Early Study Drug Discontinuation Visit assessments include
           the preservation of a plasma sample for HIV genotype/phenotype analysis in selected
           centers. Subjects who were HBsAg positive at screening will have HBV DNA and HBV
           serology measured at these visits.

        -  If the subject discontinues study drug prior to Week 24, the subject will be asked to
           return to the clinic within 72 hours of stopping study drug for an Early Study Drug
           Discontinuation visit. All of the Week 24 assessments will be performed at this visit.

        -  HIV resistance assessments will be performed in patients who do not achieve plasma HIV 1
           RNA levels of < 400 copies/mL at Week 24, who achieve plasma HIV 1 RNA levels of < 400
           copies/mL on at least one occasion, and later have at least two consecutive plasma HIV 1
           RNA levels > 400 copies/mL, or for subjects who discontinue study drugs prior to Week 24
           and have > 400 copies/mL of HIV 1 RNA on their last study visit prior to discontinuing
           study drugs.

        -  Additional Week 12, 24 assessments include a patient adherence questionnaire and a QoL
           Questionnaire (SF 36).

      Test Product, Dose, and Mode of Administration:

      Atazanavir capsules with 300 mg and ritonavir tablets with 100 mg, each to be taken QD with a
      meal. The NRTI backbone chosen by the treating physician is preferably the combination of
      emtricitabine and tenofovir DF tablets.

      Criteria for Evaluation: Primary Endpoint:

      Clinical Progression (death, all new or relapsing OI, other Grade 4 clinical endpoint) within
      24 weeks. For G4 events standardized toxicity grading tables will be used. For abnormalities
      not found in the Toxicity Tables, a Grade 4 event will be defined as potentially
      life-threatening (extreme limitation in activity, significant assistance required;
      significant medical intervention/therapy required, hospitalization or hospice care probable).
      Patients who drop out of study observation before end of week 12 are counted as clinical
      progression.

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Hospitalization days after completion of OI treatment

        -  Incidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) as judged by the site
           investigator (for definitions see below) compared in the two groups during the first 24
           weeks.

        -  Virological outcome at week 24 (proportion of patients achieving HIV RNA < 400 (<50
           copies/mL).

        -  Proportion of patients with changes in ARV regimen for lack of efficacy or of toxicity

        -  to evaluate and to compare the immunological outcome proportion in both groups.

        -  Quality of life (QOL), including overall self-reported QOL at Week 24

      Statistical Methods:

      Tabular and/or graphical descriptive methods will be used to summarize and explore the
      results. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, standard deviation, minimum, 25th,
      50th (median), and 75th percentiles and maximum. Count and percent of subjects will summarize
      categorical variables. Appropriate transformations will be applied (e.g., log10 for HIV-1
      RNA). Appropriate confidence intervals (two-sided; 95%) will be calculated for changes in
      major endpoints. Appropriate tests of significance may also be performed.

      This study will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines of Good Clinical Practices
      (GCPs) including archiving of essential documents.
    
  