
    
      Multi-centre, randomised clinical trial with anticipated 17 European centres: in the
      Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and UK. Patients with a dysfunctional bypass graft with a
      clinical indication for revascularization will be randomized to either PCI of the native
      vessel or PCI of the dysfunctional venous bypass graft. The CT-substudy and the PROCTOR
      registry is planned to be conducted too (details included in the flow chart).

      CCTA substudy Selected patients will be approached for participation in the CCTA substudy of
      the trial. Participation in this substudy is optional. After written informed consent is
      obtained patients will undergo a CCTA in an out-patient setting. The CCTA will be performed
      before the PCI procedure.

      PROCTOR registry

      Patients can be approached for the registry when :

        -  PCI have been deemed clinically indicated by the local hartteam, and

        -  both the lesions in the native vessel and the dysfunctional graft have been deemed
           technically feasible by the local hartteam,

        -  the patient does not meet the in- and exclusion criteria for the randomized PROCTOR
           study or declines to participate in the randomized study.

      Patients will be approached for participation and will have one week to consider. Written
      informed consent is mandatory for participating in the registry. Patients will be followed by
      telephonic follow-up after 1, 3, and 5 years. No additional study procedures will be
      performed.

      Study objectives:to investigate the clinical and angiographic outcome of native vessel PCI
      compared to PCI of venous bypass graft in patients with a dysfunctional venous bypass graft
      with a clinical indication for revascularization.

        1. PROCTOR main study

           - Investigate the clinical outcome of native vessel PCI vs. PCI of dysfunctional venous
           bypass graft with a clinical indication for revascularisation

        2. CCTA substudy

             -  Investigate prognostic value of CT-derived plaque characteristics for occurrence of
                MACE following bypass graft PCI

             -  Investigate value of CCTA in guidance of CTO PCI procedures

        3. PROCTOR Registry - Investigate long-term clinical outcomes in patients with
           dysfunctional venous bypass graft and an indication for PCI whom are not included in
           randomised main study.

      All patients with a significant stenosis (>50% on coronary angiography) in a venous bypass
      graft discussed in the local heart team for revascularization will be screened for potential
      inclusion in the study. Patients will be eligible for inclusion if revascularization is
      deemed clinically indicated and technically feasible for PCI by the local heart team. The
      indication for revascularization will be based on symptoms and evidence of ischemia and
      viability in the target vessel territory. The lesion in the native vessel must be bypassed by
      a single venous graft or must be connected to a jump graft at the most distal anastomosis of
      that graft. In jump grafts, the lesion must be located distally to the second-to-last
      anastomosis. In case both the lesion in the native vessel and the lesion in the graft are
      deemed technically feasible for PCI, patients will be eligible for inclusion in the
      randomized study after consideration of in- and exclusion criteria. Patients who do not meet
      these criteria or decline to participate in the randomized study will be approached for
      inclusion in the registry. Subsequently patients will be approached for study participation.
      After being informed, patients will have at least 24 hours to consider participation. An
      independent physician will be available for extra information, if desired. After obtaining
      written informed consent, patients will be randomized to either native vessel PCI or PCI of
      the venous bypass graft. In case of PCI failure, a second attempt can be performed by the
      operator within one month.

      If feasible, it is possible to perform a second attempt in another high-volume center. When
      successful PCI cannot be accomplished in one or two attempts, cross-over to the other
      treatment arm may be used as bailout strategy to restore myocardial blood flow to the distal
      vascular bed of the vessel. Randomization will be performed using an interactive Web-based
      randomization system, Open Clinica. After 1 and 5 years, follow-up will be performed by means
      of a telephonic visit. After 3 years patients will be admitted to undergo a control invasive
      angiography.
    
  