
    
      This PhD project is an industrial PhD. The protocol is approved and fully financed by the
      Innovation Fund Denmark (case number 7038-00157B), Protac A/S, Skanderborg and Aarhus
      University, Denmark.

      The project will take place at The Mood Disorders Clinic, Aarhus University Hospital,
      Risskov, Central Denmark Region and in The Clinic of Affective Disorders, Department of
      Psychiatry, Psychiatry in The Region of Southern Denmark.

      Background: Depression affects approximately 5% of the Danish population and is associated
      with significant morbidity and mortality. Proper treatment of these patients is therefore, an
      important clinical and public health issue. Unfortunately, some symptoms of depression are
      difficult to manage which is the case for sleep disturbances such as insomnia. Insomnia
      occurs in the majority of patients with depression, and is characterized as problems with
      initiating sleep, several awakenings, early wake ups, poor sleep quality, and daytime
      dysfunction. The causality of the insomnia-depression relationship is debated. Several
      studies have raised the question whether insomnia is not just a typical symptom of depression
      but rather an independent clinical predictor of depression, which implicates the importance
      for primary prevention and specific focus on the treatment of insomnia. Often, medication is
      used to treat insomnia but pharmacological treatment has side effects and, importantly, there
      is a risk of drug tolerance and addiction. Increased attention on investigating the known and
      un-known benefits of non-pharmacological treatment options for sleep disturbances is
      therefore highly relevant. Non-pharmacological treatments include cognitive behavioural
      therapy, which has proven effects on insomnia. Cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia
      (CBTI) typically includes sleep restriction, stimulus control, cognitive therapy, sleep
      hygiene and relaxation training. It has been included as the treatment of choice in a
      campaign by the Danish National Board of Health. Unfortunately, CBTI is limited to patients
      without severe cognitive problems that are mentally able to participate in therapy sessions.
      Therefore, more evidence based non-pharmacological treatment options that hit a greater
      target group are needed if tailor-made management of insomnia in depression is to be
      achieved.

      Ball blankets are a promising option that can be used in all patients including patients with
      severe cognitive deficits due to depression. It has been shown to decrease sleep disturbances
      in children with ADHD using the Protac Ball BlanketTM (Protac A/S, Skanderborg, Denmark). The
      Protac Ball BlanketTM (PBB) has been used in adult psychiatric inpatient settings since the
      early 1990s for patients suffering from insomnia, anxiety, agitation, manic episodes and
      psychosis. From a clinical perspective the blankets is experienced to enhance the patient's
      awareness of the body and its physical delimitation which relieves restlessness, stress and
      anxiety and provides a sense of security and calm in head and body, which for some resolves
      in improved sleep quality. This is in line with the mechanism of the PBB, which is to provide
      a changing sensory stimulation because of the movement of the plastic balls in the blanket.
      Further, the weighted plastic balls gives a light pressure distributed across numerous
      points, helping the brain to register the body. During sleep the balls will move because of
      slight changes in body position and the skin is thus continuously stimulated in new ways.

      Clinical experiences support the use of PBB in depression but there are neither RCTs nor
      qualitative studies on the effects and appropriateness of using PBB in insomnia among adults
      with depression. Two dissertations on sleeping problems due to dementia or sense of touch and
      sense of movement issues in kids indicate effects of using ball blankets. Overlap in symptoms
      between these conditions and depression, i.e. anxiety and sleep disturbances suggests an
      effect in depression. Currently, ball blankets are used as an unapproved treatment option
      among adults with depression. However, lack of solid evidence limits the use of PBB in the
      adult population or may expose some to a useless treatment. Further, if ball blankets are
      beneficial for a proportion of patients with depression, the lack of data on adult patient
      hampers further development and improvement of the PBB for the benefit of patients.

      Possible reasons for insomnia in depression are: anxiety, stress, agitation and suicidal
      thoughts. Additional, insomnia plays a role in several biological processes such as stress
      and mood regulations, therefore an important goal in the treatment of depression is to
      normalize the total sleep time, minimize the sleep onset latency and improve quality of
      sleep, and at the same time minimize the use of sedatives. Investigators hypothesize that PBB
      will extend sleep durations, minimize the sleep onset latency, reduce the number of
      awakenings, reduce the need for sedatives, improve the quality of sleep and reduce the
      self-reported symptoms in patients with insomnia due to depression.

      Since 2007 the duration of inpatient treatment has been shortened significantly.
      Consequently, fewer patients with depression are in remission at hospital discharge.
      Importantly, some will still be weeks from the full effect of the antidepressant medication
      when discharged as the full pharmacological treatment may take from 6-8 weeks to reach and an
      average hospital admission is estimated to 19 days. Therefore many patients still suffer from
      fatigue due to the disturbances in sleep associated with depression. Medical treatment for
      sleep disorders may be problematic as described. The fatigue in itself makes coping with
      everyday life challenging and hinders the rehabilitation process.

      Furthermore, depression-related financial costs in Europe are estimated at €113,4 billion
      every year due to health care costs and reduced ability to work. From a financial
      perspective, this illustrates the importance of reducing the symptoms and duration of the
      depressions (and this is of cause obvious from an individual and clinical perspective). If
      the non-pharmacological treatment with PBB has an effect it may thus potentially reduce
      social-, health- and socio-economic costs because of the reduced fatigue in important stages
      of depression and potentially faster return to normality for the patients.

      PBB is potentially an innovative non-pharmacological alternative to the medical treatment of
      patients with insomnia due to depression but solid evidence is needed, before the treatment
      can be implemented. Furthermore clinical data from this project may improve the product.

      Objective: To investigate the efficacy of PBB on insomnia in adult patients with depression
      in outpatient psychiatric clinics.

      Hypotheses: The use of PBB on patients with insomnia due to depression will:

      Primary goal:

      1. Extend the total sleep time

      Secondary goals:

        1. Reduce sleep onset latency

        2. Reduce the number of awakenings

        3. Reduce wake after sleep onset

        4. Reduce the need for sedatives and hypnotics

        5. Improve the quality of sleep

        6. Reduce the self-reported symptoms of patients with depression

      Methods: The study is carried out as a randomized crossover trial. The study has a randomized
      2-sequence, 2-period, 2-treatment crossover design.

      Sample size: The power calculation is based on a literature review and a pilot study (N=8).
      The main outcome will be changes in total duration of sleep. The null hypothesis is no change
      in sleep duration. In the pilot study, the mean sleep duration was 420 minutes. The standard
      deviation of the difference within each person was 42 minutes. It is a cross-over design and
      investigators will perform a paired, two-sided analysis. The aim is to be able to detect a
      change in total sleep time of 20 minutes and with an alfa=0.05 and beta=0.20 the minimum
      sample size based on the pilot study is N=37. To take into account drop out rates
      investigators aim to include 45 patients.

      Variables and Assessment: The total sleep time, sleep onset latency, number of awakenings and
      wake after sleep onset will be assessed by actigraphy (MotionLogger Micro Watch from
      Ambulatory Monitoring Inc. NY) and sleep diaries including "bed time" and "time getting out
      of bed" registrations. The severity of depression and anxiety will be assessed using 6-item
      Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD6), the Major Depression Inventory (MDI), Self
      Reported Symptoms (SCL-28) and Becks Anxiety Index (BAI). The severity of Insomnia will be
      assessed using the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and Sleep quality will be assessed using the
      Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index (PSQI).

      Data analysis Data will be analyzed using MotionLogger Analysis Software Programs (from
      Ambulatory Monitoring Inc. NY) and Stata 15 (StataCorp, Tx, USA). The computer generated
      randomization will determine whether the participants will begin or end with a weight
      blanket. The baseline characteristics of these two groups will be presented in a table to
      illustrate the result of the randomization. The "ladder" command in Stata will be used to
      search for potential transforms that convert the continuous outcome measures into normally
      distributed variables, and the measures will be transformed accordingly. For the scores, e.g.
      PSQI, the study will estimate changes in the score and therefore the measures are likely to
      be normally distributed even though the underlying score is not. If normality is impossible
      to reach for some measures, even after transformation, non-parametric tests will be used,
      e.g. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests or Fisher's exact tests. An intention to treat analysis will
      be conducted and the outcome measures (potentially transformed) will be compared using a
      paired sample t-test. The level of statistical significance will be set to 5%.
    
  