
    
      Suspension laryngoscopy is a surgical intervention for which no airway management
      recommendations exist.

      Many techniques are used, each having limitations. While tracheal intubation is the gold
      standard of airway management, in this particular intervention, it does not allow for optimal
      visualisation of the larynx. Maintaining spontaneous ventilation under general anaesthesia is
      used by some teams but puts the patient at the risk of laryngospasm. Apneic oxygenation is
      another option but its use is limited by the associated risk of hypercapnia. High frequency
      jet ventilation allows for good surgical conditions, satisfactory blood oxygen delivery and a
      low risk of hypercapnia; however, its use has been associated with severe, sometimes deadly,
      complications.

      Nasal High Flow oxygenation is a relatively novel technique that allows for the delivery of
      heated and humidified oxygen with flow ranging up to 70l/min. It is widely used in neonatal
      and adult critical care. Its use in apneic patients under general anaesthesia has been
      reported to be associated with a mean of 14 minutes of desaturation-free apnea time with
      limited risk of hypercapnia. Desaturation-free apnea times up to 60 minutes have been
      reported. The use of nasal high flow apneic oxygenation in suspension laryngoscopy has been
      reported once in the literature with encouraging results.

      The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy of nasal high flow oxygen in maintaining
      normal blood oxygen saturation (>95%) in apneic patients undergoing suspension laryngoscopy
      under general anaesthesia.

      Adult patients undergoing suspension laryngoscopy (laser surgeries and cavoscopies excluded)
      in two french hospitals will be screened for eligibility by the anaesthesiologist during the
      preoperative consultation. Consenting and eligible patients will be enrolled in the study.

      After pre oxygenation (until etO2 >90%), general anaesthesia will be started and maintained
      using TIVA propofol and remifentanil. Neuromuscular blockade will be achieved using
      rocuronium.

      As soon as apnea is obtained, nasal high flow oxygen will be started at 70l/min using
      Simplified OptiflowTM (Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Ltd, Auckland, New Zealand) . A
      transglottic high frequency jet ventilation catheter will also be placed in the trachea to
      allow for emergency ventilation if high flow oxygenation fails to maintain SpO2>92%.

      Oxygen saturation, blood pressure, pulse rate, BIS and neuromuscular blockade will be
      monitored throughout the surgery.

      At the end of surgery (maximum 30 minutes), or as soon as blood oxygen saturation falls below
      92%, whichever comes first, arterial blood for blood-gas analysis (PaO2, PaCO2, pH) will be
      drawn.

      Neuromuscular blockade will be reversed with neostigmine or sugammadex depending on the depth
      of nerve block.

      If the technique is shown to be associated with a low risk of blood oxygen desaturation and
      of severe hypercapnia, it could be considered for predictable difficult airway management.
    
  