
    
      Atiprimod was shown to slow or stop the growth of several human tumor cell lines in
      laboratory studies. Researchers believe it may have the same effect on tumor cells in
      patients with advanced cancer.

      Before you can start treatment on the study, you will have what are called "screening tests".
      These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. At the
      screening visit, you will be asked questions about your medical history and any medications
      you use. You will be asked questions about your ability to carry out everyday activities
      (performance status). You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of your
      vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, breathing rate, and temperature), routine blood (about 1
      teaspoon) and urine tests, and an electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical
      activity of the heart).

      You will have a neurological exam, which will include a series of questions and tasks (such
      as walking, talking, and touching your nose). The interview will take about 20 minutes to
      complete. Additionally, the study doctor will test your reflexes by tapping your arms, knees,
      and the bottom of your feet with a rubber triangle-shaped end of a special instrument that
      looks like a little hammer. The study doctor will also test your ability to sense light touch
      and pinprick, and will check your eyes with a special light source (ophthalmoscope). You will
      be asked questions about your physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being,
      as well as additional concerns you may have regarding numbness, tingling, discomforts, and
      difficulties you may be having. The interview will take about 10 minutes to complete.

      The tumor will be measured by tests that are normally used to check the extent of disease in
      patients with the same type of cancer. This may include x-rays, MRIs, CT scans, or bone
      marrow biopsies. To collect a bone marrow biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed
      with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large
      needle. Women who are able to have children must also have a negative pregnancy test in order
      to participate in this study.

      If you complete all of the screening tests and are eligible to participate in the study, you
      will be scheduled to return to the clinic within 14 days, for baseline testing and the start
      of treatment (Day 1). You will be asked questions about your medical history and the
      medications you used since the last visit. You will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of your vital signs, and routine blood tests (about 1 teaspoon). A blood sample
      (roughly less than half of a teaspoon) will also be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing.
      PK testing is used to measure the amount of atiprimod in your blood. This first blood sample
      will be your "baseline" PK sample, and the drug level in later blood samples will be compared
      to it.

      You will be assigned to one of 8 specific dose levels of atiprimod, based on when you entered
      the study; however, your dose level may be lowered if you experience increased blood levels
      of AST and ALT (liver function tests used to monitor for possible liver inflammation). Your
      assigned dose level will decide how many tablets or capsules of atiprimod you will take for
      each dose. The first group of 3 patients will receive atiprimod tablets at the lowest dose
      level for 14 days, followed by 14 days off drug. If no serious side effects occur, the next 3
      patients will receive atiprimod capsules at the lowest dose level. If no serious side effects
      occur, the next 3 patients will receive atiprimod capsules at the next higher dose level and
      capsules will be used for the rest of the study (tablets will only be used for the first
      group of 3 patients). If 1 of the 3 patients experiences a serious side effect, the next 3
      patients will be given the same dose (rather than the next higher dose) to further evaluate
      safety at that dose. If no serious side effects occur, the next 3 patients will receive the
      next higher dose. Each new dose level will be tested in this way, until the highest dose
      level (8th dose level) is reached or until serious side effects occur, in which case the dose
      will not be raised any higher.

      During the study, you will take your dose of atiprimod orally (by mouth) in tablet or capsule
      form once a day for 14 days, followed by 14 days with no atiprimod treatment. These 28 days
      (4 weeks) will make up one treatment "cycle." If you do not experience a serious side effect
      that forces your doctor to remove you from study, and your cancer is stable or shrinking
      after 2 months of treatment, you will be eligible to continue on atiprimod treatment for up
      to 1 year (a total of 12 cycles). If you experience increased blood levels of AST and ALT,
      and these levels return to normal within 7 days of completing the treatment cycles, you may
      be eligible to continue atiprimod treatment, but at a lower dose level and on a modified
      schedule (atiprimod once a day for 7 days, followed by 7 days off atiprimod). You should take
      the atiprimod in the morning at about the same time each day. You should not eat food for at
      least 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking atiprimod. You should drink 1 - 2 glasses of
      water (preferred) or orange juice, soda, tea, or coffee during the 2 hours before and 2 hours
      after taking your daily dose of atiprimod, and you may drink water (preferred) or orange
      juice, soda, tea, or coffee during the 2-hour period after taking your daily dose of
      atiprimod.

      After your baseline testing, you will be given your first dose of atiprimod. During the first
      8 hours after your first dose of atiprimod, you will be watched for any side effects that
      might occur. You will have several blood samples taken during this period for PK testing.
      About a quarter of a teaspoon of blood will be drawn 30 minutes after your first dose, then
      again at 60 minutes, 90 minutes, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, and 8 hours after your
      first dose, for a total of 2 teaspoons of blood drawn. After these blood collections, you
      will go home. You will be given a study diary for recording any other medications you take
      and how much you take, as well as any side effects that you experience. You will also be
      asked to record the type and amount of beverage consumed during the 2-hour period before
      taking atiprimod and the 2-hour period after taking atiprimod. You will be required to keep
      this diary up to date during your entire participation on study, and you must bring it to
      every study visit.

      You will return to the clinic 24, 48, and 72 hours after your first dose (Study Days 2, 3,
      and 4). You will be asked questions about your medical history and the medications you used
      since the last visit. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital
      signs, routine blood (about 1 teaspoon), and an ECG. The ECG will only be done on Day 2 (not
      on Days 3 and 4). A blood sample (less than half of a teaspoon) will be drawn for PK testing.
      You will be given your daily dose of atiprimod.

      Before you leave the clinic on Study Day 4, you will be given enough atiprimod to last until
      the next visit (in other words, through Study Day 6). You will be instructed to not eat food
      for at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after taking atiprimod, and to take the atiprimod in
      the morning at the same time each day. You will also be instructed to drink 1 - 2 glasses of
      water (preferred) or orange juice, soda, tea, or coffee during the 2 hours before and 2 hours
      after taking your daily dose of atiprimod. You will be given a diary for recording when you
      take the atiprimod, the type and amount of beverage consumed during the 2-hour period before
      taking atiprimod and the 2-hour period after taking atiprimod, other medications that you
      take, and any side effects that you experience.

      You will be asked to return to the clinic for tests once a week during the first cycle of
      treatment (Days 7, 14, 21, and 28). You will take the atiprimod doses on Days 5-14 at home as
      instructed, except for the 2 days during this period that you are scheduled to return to the
      clinic (Study Days 7 and 14). These 2 doses will be given to you at the clinic. Before you
      leave the clinic on Study Day 7, you will be given enough atiprimod to last until the next
      visit (Study Day 14).

      During these first four weekly visits (Study Days 7, 14, 21, and 28), you will have several
      tests performed. During each visit, you will be asked questions about your medical history
      and the medications you used since the last visit. You will be asked questions about the
      doses of atiprimod you have taken on your own (number of tablets or capsules taken at each
      dose, time each dose was taken, if you ate food or drank something other than water, orange
      juice, soda, tea, or coffee during the 2 hours before or after taking study drug, and the
      number of glasses of water, orange juice, soda, tea, or coffee that you drank during this
      4-hour period). You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs,
      routine blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine tests. You will have an ECG at Day 28 only (not on
      Days 7, 14, or 21). You will also have a neurological exam. You will be asked questions about
      your physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being, as well as additional
      concerns you may have regarding numbness, tingling, discomforts, and difficulties you may be
      having.

      You will have several PK blood samples taken at your Day 14 visit. About a quarter of a
      teaspoon will be taken 30 minutes after you take the atiprimod dose at your Day 14 visit, and
      then again at 60 minutes, 90 minutes, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, and 8 hours after
      that same dose, for a total of 2 teaspoons of blood drawn. You will also be instructed to
      return to the clinic 24, 48, and 72 hours after your Day 14 visit for a single blood
      collection. Less than a quarter of a teaspoon of blood will be collected at each of these 3
      visits. A single blood collection (about half of a teaspoon) will also be taken at your Day
      7, Day 21 and Day 28 visits for PK testing.

      At your Day 28 visit, you will also have the size of the tumor measured using x-rays, MRIs,
      or CT scans, as before. Women who are able to have children will have a blood pregnancy test.

      After the first cycle, you will return to the clinic for evaluation once a month at the end
      of each cycle that you are eligible for treatment. If you do not experience a serious side
      effect that forces your doctor to remove you from study, and your cancer is stable or
      shrinking after 2 months of treatment, you will be eligible to continue on atiprimod
      treatment for up to 1 year (a total of 12 cycles).

      At each monthly study visit, you will be given enough atiprimod to last until your next
      clinic visit (Week 4 of next cycle). You will be given a diary for recording when you take
      the atiprimod, the type and amount of beverage consumed during the 2-hour period before
      taking atiprimod and the 2-hour period after taking atiprimod, other medications that you
      take, and any side effects that you experience. During these monthly visits, you will have
      several tests performed. You will be asked questions about the doses of atiprimod you have
      taken on your own. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs,
      routine blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine tests, and an ECG. You will have a neurological
      exam. You will be asked questions about your physical, social/family, emotional, and
      functional well-being, as well as additional concerns you may have regarding numbness,
      tingling, discomforts, and difficulties you may be having. A single blood collection (less
      than half of a teaspoon) will be taken for PK testing. Your tumor will be measured using the
      same kinds of scans as before. Women who are able to have children will have a blood
      pregnancy test.

      If you experience increased blood levels of AST and ALT, and these levels return to normal
      within 7 days of completing the treatment cycle, you may be eligible to continue atiprimod
      treatment, but at a lower dose level and on a modified schedule. If you do receive a modified
      schedule of atiprimod, you will return to the clinic for an additional evaluation on Week 2
      (Day 14) of the modified cycle (in addition to the evaluation that you will have at the end
      of the cycle). This evaluation will include the same tests done at the monthly visits, except
      that your tumor will not be measured and you will not have a pregnancy test.

      Extra visits, tests, and/or procedures may be done at any time during this research study, if
      the doctor thinks they are in your best interest.

      You will be taken off study if the disease progresses, intolerable side effects occur, or you
      do not follow study guidelines for participation.

      One month after your last treatment cycle, you will return to the clinic for a follow-up
      evaluation. You will be asked questions about your ability to carry out everyday activities
      (performance status). You will be asked questions about your medical history and the
      medications you used since the last visit. You will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of your vital signs, routine blood (about 1 teaspoon) and urine tests, and an
      ECG. You will have a neurological exam. You will be asked questions about your physical,
      social/family, emotional, and functional well-being, as well as additional concerns you may
      have regarding numbness, tingling, discomforts, and difficulties you may be having. A single
      blood collection (less than half of a teaspoon) will be taken for PK testing. Women who are
      able to have children will have a blood pregnancy test.

      This is an investigational study. Atiprimod is authorized by the FDA for research only. About
      61 individuals will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  