
    
      Researchers want to learn how glucarpidase may impact patients' length of stay in the
      hospital, kidney function, and quality of life. Also, researchers want to learn if
      glucarpidase may decrease the incidence of neutropenic fever, which may decrease the use of
      antibiotics by vein to treat this kind of fever.

      MTX is a high-dose chemotherapy drug that reduces the supply of an important vitamin (folate)
      required for the growth of cancer cells. In patients with delayed clearance of MTX from the
      body, there is a risk of more frequent or severe side effects from the drug.

      Glucarpidase is a drug that breaks down MTX in the blood, causing the drug to be less toxic
      and decreasing levels of the drug in the blood.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your complete
      medical history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of
      your vital signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure). You will have
      blood drawn (about 3 teaspoons) for routine tests. You will also have blood drawn (about 1
      teaspoon), right before treatment starts, 28 days after the first dose of study drug in each
      cycle, and at the end of the study to see if you have any antibodies (proteins in the body
      that help fight infections and foreign substances in the body) to the study drug. Women who
      are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test. The blood used for the
      pregnancy test will come from the sample taken for routine tests. (There is no additional
      blood draw for the pregnancy test).

      You may be given either glucarpidase or placebo (a drug that looks like glucarpidase but is
      not active). Neither you nor the study doctor will know if you have been given glucarpidase
      or placebo. This is called the blinded phase of this study. Before you can begin on this
      study, if you are already suffering from side effects (because of difficulty with MTX
      clearance), such as kidney toxicity, severe mucositis (redness and painful ulcers in the
      mouth), and/or you have extremely high MTX levels, you will not be randomized and will
      receive glucarpidase, not placebo. If this is the case, your doctor will know that you have
      been given glucarpidase.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment groups, which will be based on the dose of MTX you received. You will then be
      randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups. Participants in
      one group will receive glucarpidase. Participants in the other group will receive placebo.
      There is a higher chance that you may receive glucarpidase than placebo because for every
      patient that receives placebo, 2 patients will receive glucarpidase. The glucarpidase or
      placebo dose that you may receive will be given by vein within 12 hours after you have been
      found eligible to participate in this study. Glucarpidase or placebo will be given during the
      first study cycle (after MTX treatment is completed, if after 72 hours your MTX levels are
      found to be high). You may receive additional doses of glucarpidase (depending upon the level
      of MTX in your blood) up to a maximum of 2 doses. If this is the case, the second dose will
      be given at least 24 hours after the first dose you received.

      Regardless of the treatment group that you are assigned to, you will continue to receive
      standard treatment (fluids by vein with sodium acetate or sodium bicarbonate and leucovorin)
      for high MTX levels. In future cycles of MTX, you may receive glucarpidase, if you continue
      to experience a delay of MTX clearing from your body. The glucarpidase dose may be repeated a
      maximum of 2 times in a given cycle of chemotherapy. The length of a cycle of chemotherapy
      will vary, depending on the dose of MTX and the regimen the patient is receiving. One cycle
      of treatment with glucarpidase is at least 24 hours apart.

      You will be asked to fill out several questionnaires regarding your quality of life. These
      questionnaires will ask about your level of pain, fatigue, nausea, sleep disturbances, etc.
      They will be given during the first study cycle only (before the study drug is given and
      daily during the first study cycle). They will take about 5 minutes to complete each time.

      You will also have blood drawn (about 3 teaspoons each), at different times, so that study
      doctors can monitor your kidney function and liver function, depending on your clinical
      condition. These blood samples will be drawn at least twice a week while you are on this
      study. You will again have blood drawn for the presence of antibodies 14 days after treatment
      with glucarpidase, before every cycle of MTX treatment, and at the end of this study.

      You will be taken off this study if your disease gets worse, you experience intolerable side
      effects, or you completed planned therapy (a maximum of 6 cycles of study drug). At the end
      of this study, your complete medical history will again be recorded. You will have a physical
      exam, including measurement of your vital signs. You will also have blood drawn (about 1
      teaspoon) for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Glucarpidase is not FDA approved or commercially available.
      The M. D. Anderson Institutional Review Board (IRB) has authorized the use of glucarpidase
      for research only. The IRB is a committee made up of doctors, researchers, and members of the
      community. The IRB is responsible for protecting the participants involved in research
      studies and making sure all research is done in a safe and ethical manner. Glucarpidase and
      placebo will be provided free of charge during this study. Up to 46 patients will take part
      in this study. All patients will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  