
    
      The purposes of this study are: 1. To determine the normal pattern of FDG uptake demonstrated
      by pet up to two years following total joint replacement surgery 2. To establish the optimal
      diagnostic criteria for differentiating septic from aseptic painful joint prosthesis by
      FDG-PET imaging and determine its accuracy 3. To compare the accuracy of FDG-PET imaging to
      conventional techniques for the differentiation of septic from aseptic painful joint
      prostheses.

      We intend to enroll 100 patients per year for 5 years. These patients will be selected from
      more than 300 cases that undergo joint revisions at the collaborating institutions. After
      each patient undergoes an appropriate evaluation including history, physical examination,
      radiographic and laboratory evaluation, he/she will be assigned into one of the groups listed
      below based on the degree of suspicion of an infectious process. Every effort will be made to
      have approximately one-third of the patients recruited from each of the following groups.

      Study Plan Study I: FDG-PET imaging in the painful partial or total joint prosthesis We
      intend to enroll 100 patients per year for 5 years. These patients will be selected from more
      than 300 cases that undergo joint revisions at the collaborating institutions. After each
      patient undergoes an appropriate evaluation including history, physical examination,
      radiographic and laboratory evaluation, he/she will be assigned into one of the groups listed
      below based on the degree of suspicion of an infectious process. Every effort will be made to
      have approximately one-third of the patients recruited from each of the following groups.

      Group 1: Low pre-scan suspicion of infection. The incidence of infection based on past
      experience is <10% in this population.

      Group 2: High pre-scan suspicion of infection. The incidence of infection in this group is
      quite high based on past experience.

      Group 3: Intermediate pre-scan suspicion of infection. Criteria: Any patient who does not fit
      into either group 1 or 2 will be considered for this category. The incidence of infection in
      this group based on past experience is intermediate.

      Considering the large number of patients who undergo joint revision (more than 300 annually)
      in the participating institutions combined, we expect no difficulties in recruiting adequate
      numbers in all 3 categories.

      Each patient will undergo only one preoperative diagnostic FDG-PET scan. After the PET scan
      is completed, a diagnosis and detailed description of the observations made will be
      communicated to the attending surgeon before the operation. We believe this information will
      enable investigators to establish the correct diagnosis during surgical intervention.

      Study II: FDG-PET imaging following uncomplicated partial or total joint arthroplasty To
      accomplish this goal, we will enroll 10 patients per year for the first 3 years. FDG-PET
      scans will be performed at approximately 12 months, 18 months and/or 2 years following
      surgery. All scans will occur within 2 months of the 12-, 18-, and/or 24-month anniversary of
      that patient's most recent joint replacement surgery. It is unknown how long FDG uptake
      persists in an uncomplicated partial or total joint arthroplasty. The expected pattern of FDG
      uptake following arthroplasty will provide a basis for the correct diagnosis of
      periprosthetic infection and loosening during the life of the implant.
    
  