
    
      Recent evidence has started to emerge regarding the benefits of testosterone in the heart
      failure (HF) population. Firstly, testosterone directly augments vascular resistance by
      causing vasodilation of peripheral vessels which can decrease afterload and improve cardiac
      output. In addition, testosterone causes coronary artery vasodilation and improves cardiac
      ischemic threshold based on subjective and objective measures. Clinically, several studies
      have pointed out the potential benefits patients with HF can derive from testosterone
      therapy. Measures of cardiopulmonary function tests, six minute walk test, incremental
      shuttle walk test and baroreflex sensitivity, all of which have prognostic implications for
      patients with HF, show improvement with the addition of testosterone therapy to
      traditional-medical management. In addition to these objective measurements, mood, NYHA
      functional class and muscle strength are all improved by treatment with testosterone
      supplementation. While past studies have used functional and prognostic measures as outcomes,
      other issues common in patients with HF, such as sexual dysfunction and repeat
      hospitalizations, have the potential for improvement with testosterone therapy

      The majority of studies performed in the past have utilized intramuscular or transdermal
      patch delivery systems of testosterone as a means for supplementation. These methods have
      inherent issues as a means of treatment as patients often times do not have the means to
      receive intramuscular injections and patches have a high level of skin reactions making
      compliance difficult. Topical administration of testosterone gel may prove to be a more
      efficacious method for testosterone supplementation with a lower side effect profile and
      adequate absorption. It has been used with success by the general public for treatment of
      hypogonadal symptoms, but has not been studied in the HF population. With the emergence of
      studies showing promising benefits of testosterone supplementation in the HF population, the
      ease of topical administration for this population would provide benefits to millions
      suffering from HF.

      The investigators study aims to find the benefits of topical testosterone on symptoms and
      function of HF patients, and its effects on rehospitalization rates and quality of life.
    
  