
    
      1. Henan institute of cardiovascular epidemiology is responsible for design, data quality
           control and statistical analysis.

        2. Data are collected using a uniformed questionnaire by trained staff at each hospital.

        3. Sample size estimation: Based on Henan retrospective observational cohort of STEMI
           patients, in-hospital mortality in secondary and tertiary hospitals were 5.6% and 6.0%,
           respectively. To achieve a precision of 20% with an α of 0.05 in each of the hospital,
           investigators need a sample of 5000, 2500 in each class hospital.

        4. Statistical analysis plan: Investigators will report summary statistics for patient
           characteristics, delay time (symptom onset-to-first medical contact(FMC),
           FMC-to-reperfusion), patient referral (time and means of transportation), treatments
           received and primary outcomes. Investigators will also undertake the following
           prespecified subgroup analyses: hospital class, age, sex, killip class, time to first
           medical contact, infarct location, history of hypertension, diabetes or smoking and
           thrombolysis in myocardial infarction risk score.

        5. Quality assurance plan

      1)Diagnosis of STEMI is according to the third universal definition of myocardial infarction.

      2)Before registry, a training program on study objectives, data collection, and STEMI
      management is given to the primary investigator and related staff at each participating
      center.

      3)Henan institute of cardiovascular epidemiology will regularly monitored at least 10% of
      questionnaires for accuracy against medical records. If the questionnaires are not completed
      with 98% accuracy, all questionnaires are considered unqualified and this staff will be
      retrained.

      4)Real-time automatic logic and range check on the completeness and validity of the data are
      integrated in the data entry system to control basic data quality. Henan ICE regularly
      provides data quality checks and sends queries for illogical, invalid or missing data
      elements to participating hospitals to review and revise. Participating centres who has the
      high error rate of data, and no change in 6 months shall be deemed abandoned automatically;
      participating centres who has the high quality of data will be issued a certificate to
      reward.

      5)Investigator meeting will be annually held to conclude the progress, solve existing
      problems and strengthen program training.
    
  