
    
      Objective:

      The goal of this study is to define the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the
      development of disability in immune-mediated disorders of the central nervous system (CNS)
      and to distinguish these from beneficial responses of the human immune system to CNS injury.

      The protocol serves as a screening tool for Neuroimmunological Diseases Section (NDS) of the
      National Institute of allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) clinical trials and enables
      development of clinically-useful tools such as diagnostic tests and new, sensitive scales of
      neurological disability, disease severity and CNS tissue destruction.

      The protocol also serves as a repository to enable prospective institutional review board
      (IRB) review of research using human samples and data collected under other NDS protocols.

      Study Population:

      Patients with evidence, or suspicion of immune-mediated CNS injury. Healthy volunteers (HV)
      are included as controls for immunological and imaging and biomarkers and to obtain normative
      data for development of new clinical scales and smartphone apps.

      Design:

      Collection of multimodal data (standardized clinical/functional, neuroimaging and
      molecular/immunological data) during the diagnostic work-up of patients with varied disorders
      of the CNS in which immunemediated

      processes are expected to play a pathophysiological role.

      For the patient cohort, a comprehensive evaluation establishes a definitive diagnosis or
      confirms diagnosis and subtype of multiple sclerosis (MS) as a pre-requisite for enrollment
      into NDS clinical trials. Adult patients have a mandatory follow-up visit approximately 1
      year from protocol enrollment. Depending on the diagnosis and clinical/research needs,
      patients may be offered additional follow-up visits. The maximum frequency of the follow-up
      visits and research samples to be collected is specified to ensure patient safety. Patients
      age 12-17 years are included in the patient cohort to establish a definitive diagnosis, or to
      provide non-standard assays to help with diagnostic and therapeutic decisions as part of
      extraordinary clinical care.

      The HV will provide sex and age-matched (to adult patients) normative values.

      "Sample processing only" patient subcohort enrolls patients from whom only biological samples
      and data collected by outside clinicians are processed and evaluated to provide non-standard
      assays.

      Outcome Measures:

      MRI and immunological outcomes are outlined in section 8. However, no pre-defined research
      questions will be addressed other than to establish the diagnosis, determine the level of
      disease activity, and monitor the natural history.
    
  