
    
      HIV in women is increasing worldwide, with women comprising approximately 14% of the total
      adult and adolescent AIDS cases, the highest proportion yet reported. The impact of AIDS is
      particularly severe in minority populations; among women, African Americans, and Hispanics
      combined now represent the majority of AIDS cases (76%) in the United States. AIDS is now the
      third leading cause of death for women aged 25 to 44 (after cancer and cardiovascular
      disease) and is the leading cause of death of African American women in this age group.

      Studies of HIV and AIDS in women can play a unique role in testing new biological or
      socio-behavioral hypotheses at the population level and in linking basic science findings and
      laboratory methods to well-defined populations and communities. Research areas that are
      likely to draw more attention in the near future will include the study of pathogenicity and
      transmissibility of different HIV subtypes or recombinant forms and their interaction with
      variably susceptible individuals; the change in the scope of HIV natural history studies in
      the era of combination antiretroviral therapy; and the contribution of such studies to the
      design of a wide spectrum of prevention modalities (e.g., prevention of HIV and prevention of
      opportunistic infections). In addition, studies of natural history of HIV-related
      malignancies and active surveillance of malignancies in HIV infected and high-risk uninfected
      women may lead to new screening and prevention modalities in high-risk populations of women.

      Participants will have study visits every 6 months. Questionnaires regarding sexual behavior,
      health care utilization, medical and obstetric/gynecological history, psychosocial factors,
      and sociodemographics will be completed by participants. Physical, gynecological, and
      lipodystrophy examinations will also be conducted at each visit, and current medication
      regimen will be noted. Blood and other bodily fluid samples will be collected and registered
      in both local and national repositories of the WIHS in conjunction with NIAID.
    
  