
    
      The well-known cardioprotective and metabolic effects of wine consumption are mainly
      attributed to its micro-constituents. Grape pomace (GP) is a by-product of the winemaking
      process and consists mainly of skins and seeds. Winery by-products are a cheap and rich
      source of similar-to wine micro-constituents, which can be used either to enrich other foods
      or to be included in food supplements targeting the prevention or partially the therapy of
      cardiovascular diseases.In this line, our previous results revealed the potent in vitro
      anti-platelet effects of a specific ethanol-water extract rich in Platelet-Activating Factor
      inhibitors from winery by-products.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the in vivo anti-platelet and anti-inflammatory
      properties of the specific winery by-products extract as well as to detect the extract
      compounds and their metabolites in biological fluids.

      Therefore a randomized double-blind, crossover, placebo controlled postprandial study in
      healthy women will be implemented. For this purpose, 15 healthy women will participate in the
      protocol. The two daily trials will take place during specific days based on their menstrual
      cycle. Three days before each blood collection the volunteers will be instructed to abstain
      from food and beverages rich in phenolic compounds and their dietary intake will be recorded
      (three 24h recalls and one food frequency questionnaire). The blood collections will be
      carried out after 8h fasting. At trial day, the volunteers will bring the first morning urine
      sample and anthropometric measurements will take place (weight, height, waist/hip
      circumference, bioelectrical impedance). Then a venous catheter will be placed and after 10
      minutes the fasting blood will be collected. Volunteers will proceed to the consumption of a
      standardized meal (1131 kcal, 19.7% carbohydrates, 11.2% protein, 66.7% fat) along with the
      capsules (study extract or placebo). The type of the capsules consumed (study extract or
      placebo) will be randomized and blind during the two intervention days for both volunteers
      and investigators. Blood will be drown after the meal consumption and for the next 6h (every
      30minutes for the first 4h and every 1h for the next 2h). Serum, plasma, platelet-rich
      plasma, leukocyte-rich plasma and urine samples will be isolated at certain time points
      during trial days so that the anti-platelet, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of the
      study extract can be evaluated.
    
  