
    
      The study is a prospective phase II randomized multicenter trial. The purpose of this study
      is to compare short-term radiotherapy with MRI simulation-guided boost followed by
      consolidation chemotherapy(Experimental group) with preoperative long-term
      chemoradiotherapy(Control group) for middle-lower unresectable locally advanced rectal cancer
      evaluated by MRI. The primary endpoint is the rate of R0 resection, and the secondary
      objectives are local recurrence-free survival, distant metastasis-free survival, disease-free
      survival and overall survival at 3-year and 5-year follow up. Furthermore, pathological
      complete response rate, the acute and late toxicity profile and quality of life (QOL) after 3
      years follow-up are secondary endpoints. The exploratory end point includes the circulating
      tumor DNA, and other potential biomarkers from tumor tissue and blood sample for treatment
      response and survival predicting. For each group, a plan for collection of serum/plasma/feces
      at baseline and different stages during or after treatment and for obtaining fresh tumor
      tissue for freezing prior to treatment was defined in the protocol.

      The SUNRISE-trial has been designed by National Cancer Center/Cancer Hospital, Chinese
      Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, and the hypothesis is R0 resection
      rate in Experimental group was superior to that in Control group.

      Interim analysis design: As a phase II trial, the safety of experimental intervention is a
      major concern. We took the toxicity data from STELLAR, a phase III randomized study led by
      our center, as a reference. The incidence of G3 and above side effects in the short course
      radiotherapy with sequential neoadjuvant chemotherapy group was 28%, and that in the standard
      long-course concurrent chemoradiotherapy control group was 5%. Considering that boost dose
      may increase toxicity, if severe toxicity in the study group significantly exceeds that in
      the control group by more than 35%, it is up to the principal investigator to decide whether
      to modify the study protocol or terminate the study. The sample size of the interim analysis
      was calculated by the Z-pooled test, with α=0.05 (one-sided test), 1-β=0.90, using PASS 11
      software. The frequency of the toxicity of G3 and above should be compared when neoadjuvant
      therapy was completed in 21 patients enrolled in each group.
    
  