
    
      Micronutrient deficiency in the infancy is associated with growth faltering, morbidity, and
      delayed motor development, and is common in developing countries where the food available for
      infants has low micronutrient density.

      A low-cost and sustainable way to address this problem is to utilize locally producible foods
      rich in multi-micronutrients as home supplements to complementary food. Arthrospira
      platensis, also known as spirulina, is a blue-green micro-algae indigenous to Africa.

      It contains a high percentage of protein, and is rich in multiple micronutrients know to
      support infant growth such as beta carotene, B vitamins, and minerals such as calcium, iron,
      magnesium, manganese, potassium, and zinc. The cost of producing spirulina is much lower than
      that of producing other comparably protein-rich foods, such as soya beans and beef, and
      therefore may potentially sustainably meet the nutritional demands of African infants.

      Our objective is to assess the acceptability and effects of spirulina supplementation on
      growth, incidence of morbidity, and level of motor development in infants in Zambia. The
      testable hypothesis is that spirulina supplementation for 12 months would increase infant
      height, reduce the incidence of morbidity, and reduce time taken to achieve motor development
      milestones (ability to walk unassisted).

      This study is conducted from April 2015 to April 2016 in the form of an open-labeled
      randomized control trial, and involves in a spirulina-fed treatment (SP) group and a control
      (CON) group.

      501 Zambian infants are randomly assigned into a control (CON) group or a spirulina (SP)
      group. Children in the CON group (n=250) receive a soya-maize-based porridge for 12 months,
      whereas those in the SP group (n=251) receive the same food but with the addition of
      spirulina.

      The change in infants' anthropometric status, morbidity, and motor development over 12 months
      are assessed.

      Amendment: the study period has been extended by 4 months. Without no-intervention period,
      monthly supplementation was restarted in study are.
    
  