
    
      Sample size was calculated using Sample Size Calculator (SSC) a Windows based software
      package (93) with the following assumptions: to detect an increase in exclusive breastfeeding
      for 6 month from 52% to 72% (44), with 95% Confidence Intervals and 80% power, assuming an
      intra-cluster correlation coefficient of 0•1 from Ugandan study (94) for a cluster size of
      ten, it is calculated that we will need thirty six clusters. Adding 20% of the sample size
      for loss to follow-up, the final sample size is 432 pregnant women (216 in intervention, and
      216 in control).

      Standard operating procedure will be prepared and used for data collection. Data will be
      entered into Epi-data version 3.1 and analyzed using STATA version 12.0. Frequency
      distributions will be run to identify outliers. In relation to the trial hypotheses,
      intervention group will be compared to the routine education using intention to treat
      analysis. For the outcomes, proportions of women who initiated BF timely and who exclusively
      breastfed their babies at 72 hours and at 6 month will be compared using odds ratios derived
      using logistic regression between intervention and control groups. In all analyses,
      adjustment will be made for clustering at the zone level since randomization was done at
      cluster level rather than individual level. Generalized linear models will be used to
      calculate prevalence ratios (PR) for the categorical anthropometric outcomes. In the
      longitudinal analysis, the correlated nature of the data from the repeated measurements will
      be taken into account by adjusting for repeated measurements in the same individual as well
      as the above-mentioned design effect resulting from the cluster randomization. A linear mixed
      effects regression model will be used in the longitudinal analysis of z-scores with cluster
      as a random effect and the repeated measurements in each child accounted for through a first
      order autocorrelation structure. Least Squares Means (LSM) are reported at 3, 6 months,
      corresponding to the scheduled data collection visits.
    
  