
    
      Objectives: Primary objective is to assess whether the balance between dopamine D1 (D1R) and
      D2 receptors (D2R) signaling in striatum is disrupted in participants with an opioid use
      disorder (OUD) who are on opioid agonist medication (MAT+: methadone or buprenorphine)
      relative to OUD participants treated with the opioid antagonist medication naltrexone and OUD
      participants not being treated with medications (MAT-). Secondary objectives are to assess
      how striatal D1R to D2R availability (assessed with PET) influences: (1) striatal dopamine
      (DA) release; (2) the function of brain reward and self-control networks (assessed with task
      fMRI activation and with resting functional connectivity, RFC) and (3) behavior (locomotor
      activity and neuropsychological tests); (4) to assess if DA increases, as induced by oral
      methylphenidate (MP), improve the function of brain reward and control networks in OUD; and
      (5) to assess if there is recovery after protracted treatment (comparing treated and
      non-treated) by repeating fMRI at 6 month follow-up.

      Study population: We will complete studies in 150 (n=150) subjects: N=60 healthy control
      adults and N=90 OUD participants (30 MAT+, 30 naltrexone-treated and 30 MAT-) aged 18-80
      (male/female) will be included.

      Design: Single-blind. Participants will undergo three scans with positron emission tomography
      (PET): one with [11C]NNC-112 to assess baseline D1R, another with [11C]raclopride after
      placebo to assess baseline D2R and a third one with [11C]raclopride after MP administration
      (60mg oral) to assess striatal DA release (assessed as the difference in specific binding of
      [11C]raclopride between baseline and MP). In addition, participants will undergo two imaging
      sessions with MRI to assess functional reactivity to drug-cues and to a measure of
      self-control (delayed discounting task), to assess RFC and to obtain structural brain
      measures (including diffusion tensor imaging, DTI). One of the sessions will be done under
      baseline conditions (no drug administered) and the other after MP (about one hour after the
      [11C]raclopride MP scan is completed). Neuropsychological tests (NP) and accelerometers will
      be used to assess cognitive performance and locomotor activity respectively.

      Outcome Measures: Main outcome: (1) Differences in D1R to D2R striatal ratio between
      participants with an OUD and controls and between MAT+, naltrexone, and MAT- groups.
      Secondary outcomes: Correlations between striatal D1R to D2R and (1) striatal DA release; (2)
      fMRI activation in reward and controls networks (assessed with cue-reactivity and delay
      discounting tasks, and with RFC) and (3) NP performance and locomotor activity. (4)
      Differences in fMRI activation and RFC after MP when compared with baseline measures.
    
  