
    
      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the appointment attendance rate using SMS
      reminder of nurses and allied health appointments for diabetic patients, when compared to
      conventional telephone reminder and no reminder. We also aim at determine the factors
      associated with appointment attendance. Finally, we will also survey patients' acceptance and
      satisfaction to the SMS service.

      This is a single blind randomization study. It will be carried out in Ha Kwai Chung General
      Outpatient Clinic.

      The primary outcome of this study is to evaluate the attendance rate of each individual
      doctor, nurses and allied health clinic appointments for diabetic patients, as well as their
      overall attendance rates:

        1. Diabetes Complication Screening Clinic (OPAS DMCS/RDNA)

        2. Diabetes Nurse Intervention Clinic (OPAS DMIC/RDNI)

        3. DM nurse group (OPAS RDNG)

        4. Dietitian Counselling (OPAS DC/DG)

        5. Physiotherapy (OPAS PTC/PTG)

        6. Diabetes Doctor Session (OPAS RDR)

        7. Retino photo Assessment (OPAS RDO)

        8. Blood taking appointment (OPAS LABT)

      The secondary outcomes are:

        -  Acceptance Rate of SMS Reminder Vs Telephone Reminder Vs no reminder

        -  Factors associated with acceptance of SMS

             1. Personal Parameters: Age, sex, educational level, occupation, mobile phone models,
                Habit of using mobile phone service

             2. Disease Parameters: Number and types of comorbidity, disease control (by
                biochemical markers)

             3. Quality of Life (by SF-6D)

        -  Reported adverse effects of the reminder system

        -  Chang in biochemical markers (BMI, HbA1c, LDL-c level) 6-9 months later

      Subjects who agreed to participate in this study will first receive a survey on the
      acceptance of SMS service. For those agree to receive SMS reminder, they will be randomized
      to:

        1. an SMS remind them to come for scheduled clinic appointment 24-72 hours before, or

        2. usual care with no reminder / telephone reminder.
    
  