
    
      People infected with HIV have an increased risk for cardiovascular disease, which is a
      leading cause of death for those with HIV. This may be due to increased inflammation of the
      blood vessels, which is often observed in HIV-infected people and which can lead to
      endothelial dysfunction-a condition that involves the malfunctioning of the thin layer of
      cells that line the interior surface of blood vessels. Endothelial dysfunction increases the
      risk of developing both atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.

      Much of the focus on the causes of HIV-related endothelial dysfunction has been centered on
      the use of several types of antiretroviral medications used to treat HIV infection. However,
      more recent data suggest that newer protease inhibitors, a type of antiretroviral medication,
      are not associated with endothelial dysfunction and that newer combination antiretroviral
      therapy (cART) regimens result in an initial improvement in endothelial dysfunction. Yet,
      preliminary research has also shown that in people who receive cART, the risk of endothelial
      dysfunction in fact persists with time, suggesting that a mechanism other than viral control,
      notably inflammation, is playing a role in endothelial dysfunction. Pentoxifylline is a
      medication that is currently used to reduce leg pain in people with blockages in the blood
      vessels in their legs. Previous research has shown that pentoxifylline may improve blood
      vessel function and reduce inflammation in people infected with HIV, but more research is
      needed to confirm these benefits. The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and
      effectiveness of pentoxifylline and cART versus cART alone at improving endothelial function
      and reducing inflammation in HIV-infected people.

      This study will enroll people infected with HIV who are about to start receiving cART. At a
      baseline study visit, participants will undergo a medical history review; physical
      examination; measurements of blood pressure, heart rate, height, weight, temperature, waist,
      and hip; and blood and urine collection. An ultrasound imaging test of the arm will measure
      blood vessel function. Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive either
      pentoxifylline or placebo three times a day for 48 weeks. All participants will also receive
      cART medications, as prescribed by their primary HIV doctor. At study visits at Weeks 4, 8,
      16, 24, 32, and 48, participants will undergo repeat baseline measurements; however, the
      ultrasound testing will only occur at Weeks 8, 24, and 48.
    
  