
    
      Eighteen million people in the United States are currently suffering from Major Depressive
      Disorder, which is characterized by episodes of low mood, poor self attitude and poor
      vitality. Of those suffering from Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), only one third completely
      improve, but even among these cases, there is a waiting period of several weeks or more
      during which antidepressants take effect. Our inability to adequately treat MDD is evident in
      its being ranked number one in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) among persons aged
      15-44. Given this profound burden, improving our understanding of the molecular basis of MDD
      is of utmost importance in the development of novel antidepressant medications.

      Serotoninergic neurotransmission is implicated in MDD, as demonstrated by the relative
      success of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs block the reuptake of
      serotonin through the serotonin transporter, which then increases serotonin at the synaptic
      cleft. Serotonin then binds to 5-HT1A receptors, which are G-protein coupled receptors that
      are present both presynaptically and postsynaptically. Presynaptically, these receptors act
      as autoinhibitory receptors, triggering decreased firing rates and serotonin release. This
      autoinhibition, which lasts for about two weeks, is believed to be the reason why patients
      experience a delay in symptomatic improvement after initiation of SSRIs. Serotonin binding to
      postsynaptic receptors mediates symptomatic improvement of depression. Multiple positron
      emission tomography (PET) studies utilizing antagonists at 5-HT1A have been conducted. The
      results are mixed, with some noting increased and others noting decreased 5-HT1A in the
      brains of patients with MDD. While clinical heterogeneity and the effects of previous
      treatment with SSRIs may be confounding factors, the lack of consistent finding could also be
      secondary to using antagonist rather than agonist radioligands. Unlike agonists, antagonists
      are unable to discriminate between 5-HT1A in the high and low affinity states, and only the
      high affinity state, which is G-protein-coupled, allows for activity at the 5-HT1A receptor.

      We propose a PET study using 5-HT1A radiolabelled agonist, C(11)CUMI, to determine whether
      there is a difference in the density and distribution of 5-HT1A in the high affinity state in
      the brains of patients with MDD versus controls. We will perform an internal control at 1-5
      days after initiation of SSRI to determine whether increased serotonin causes detectable
      displacement of C(11)CUMI. At 4-8 weeks after initiation of SSRI treatment, we will reimage
      patients to determine whether there is a change in the density of 5-HT1A in the high affinity
      state.
    
  