
    
      Background:

      Heart failure (HF) affects 5 to 6 million Americans and is increasing in prevalence. There
      are about 550,000 new cases of heart failure every year and about 3 million admissions for
      acute decompensated heart failure every year. Despite advances in medical care, the hospital
      readmission rate is 20% at one month and 50% at six months. The total cost of heart failure
      on the health system is upwards of 35 billion dollars per year. About half of these resources
      are used during acute hospitalizations.

      An important limitation to the current approach to the management of HF is the focus on the
      awake patient. This approach underestimates the mechanisms that might contribute to the
      pathophysiology or progression of HF.

      Sleep disordered breathing (SDB) is very common in congestive heart failure. Recently, the
      adverse implications of SDB in patients with HF have been appreciated. Intermittent
      apnea-induced hypoxia, hypercapnia, surges in central sympathetic outflow and left
      ventricular afterload, daytime hypertension, and loss of vagal heart rate regulation are
      potent stimuli to myocyte necrosis and apoptosis, myocardial ischemia, arrhythmias, adverse
      cardiac remodeling, and the resulting accelerated disease progression in HF.

      This makes us believe that treatment of SDB during acute decompensated heart failure in
      addition to standard medical therapy (SMT) would be beneficial.

      Study Design:

      80 eligible patients admitted to Albert Einstein Medical Center with the diagnosis of Acutely
      Decompensated Heart Failure will be recruited for the study. Once patients have been
      identified, inclusion and exclusion criteria met, they will be consented to participate in
      the trial within 24 to 48 hours of admission to the hospital. After enrollment, the patient
      will be screened for SDB with NEXAN CPS system. The Sensor, a flexible data collection patch
      that adheres to the patient's chest, continuously records ECG, respiratory, and oximetry data
      and allows for future use and evaluation. Patients with SDB will be further randomized to SDB
      monitoring only and SDB monitoring plus Autotitratable Continuous Positive Airway Pressure
      (APAP) treatment arm. Patients in both arms will be treated with standard of care therapy for
      acute heart failure. There is a possibility that patients randomized to APAP therapy may
      refuse further treatment after the first night. These patients will be analyzed on the basis
      of intention to treat approach

      Once randomized, all patients will be fitted with the NEXAN Clear Path System and will
      continue to wear it until the time of discharge or 7 days. Those in the treatment group will
      be fitted with an Autotitratable Continuous Positive Airway Pressure device and will be
      continued on treatment until discharged or a maximum of 7 days.

      Follow-up of these patients will include a 15 day and 60 day phone call and a 30 day office
      visit. At the 30 day visit the patients will be asked to use the NEXAN sensor for that night,
      and return the equipment the next day. The patients that were determined to have
      sleep-disordered breathing will be referred for a full overnight polysomnography test.
    
  