
    
      Preterm birth is the leading cause of perinatal morbidity and mortality. The rates of
      spontaneous premature labor have not changed much during the past 10 years. A significant
      decrease in mortality and morbidity of premature babies will only be possible if women at
      risk of spontaneous preterm birth are accurately identified and administered preventive
      therapies. Ultrasonographic measurement of the cervix between 20 and 24 weeks of gestation
      can improve the identification of both women with single pregnancies and those with twin
      pregnancies at risk. Asymptomatic women with a short uterine cervix (25 mm or less) are at
      increased risk of spontaneous premature labor.

      The prophylactic use of progesterone during the early phase of pregnancy in women with a
      history of preterm birth and those with a short cervix can prevent preterm birth.

      The cervical pessary is a device used also for the prevention of preterm birth. The omega-3
      intake also appears to be related to the prevention of prematurity. Vaginal infections are
      also important causes of preterm birth. There are not many studies about the vaginal
      microbiome in pregnant women.

      Measurement of cervical length is used as a screening test because it is inexpensive, has a
      short learning curve, and is well tolerated by patients. In addition, placement and removal
      of the pessary is an easy, accessible, and noninvasive procedure. The results on the
      concentration of omega 3 and preterm birth are still conflicting.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of the cervical pessary and the natural
      progesterone in reduction of preterm birth rates in pregnant women with a uterine cervix
      measuring 25 mm or less in length as evaluated by transvaginal ultrasonography, assess
      whether there is a relationship between maternal plasma concentration of omega 3 and preterm
      birth, and compare the microbiome in these women.

      Methods: A prospective randomized controlled trial including pregnant women at the time of
      morphological ultrasound between 20 and 23 weeks and 6 days of pregnancy. Pregnant women in
      this gestational age with cervical length of 25 mm or less will be randomized between the
      conduct and the inclusion of progesterone vaginal pessary. In patients of both groups vaginal
      discharge sample will be collected at the time of randomization. In all pregnant women who
      accept participate in the study (short cervix or not) will be collected blood sample for
      measurement of omega 3.
    
  