
    
      Patients will be recruited from an ongoing study - Gastric Cancer Epidemiology, Clinical and
      Genetic Programme Cohort Study (GCEP). GCEP is a prospective cohort study aiming to enroll
      3,000 Singapore- Chinese subjects aged >50 years, and offers screening by endoscopy and
      systematic follow-up for a minimum of 5 years. 20 patients will be randomized into two
      groups. All of them will be examined using four different endoscopy imaging technologies by
      one trained specialist. 10 patients will be in group A and another 10 patients will be in
      group B. Group A: WLE followed by AFI followed by NBI followed by pCLE. Group B: WLE followed
      by NBI followed by AFI followed by pCLE. The difference between two groups is the sequence of
      two endoscopy imaging modes - AFI and NBI. Diagnosis made during NBI and AFI must be made
      based on pre-defined criteria, and should not be influenced by the preceding imaging
      modality. To control for the possible bias on the third imaging modality caused by influence
      from the preceding imaging modality, patients are randomized to receive NBI before AFI or AFI
      before NBI.

      Endoscopic diagnosis will be made for each suspected lesion with every imaging modality. The
      biopsy of lesions will be taken after pCLE examination is completed and sent for histology.
      In the absence of suspicious lesions, the area of examination will be as follows (as stated
      in main GCEP protocol):

        -  A1- lesser curvature of the antrum, within 2-3cm of the pylorus.

        -  A2- greater curvature of the antrum, within 2-3cm of the pylorus.

        -  IA- incisura angularis.

        -  B1- lesser curvature of the corpus, 4cm proximal to the angulus.

        -  B2- middle portion of the greater curvature of the corpus, 8cm from the cardia.

        -  Cardia (C) - within 1 cm below the OGJ (defined as the point where gastric folds
           disappear).

      The results will be compared with the gold standard diagnosis - histopathology diagnosis. The
      sensitivity and specificity for each imaging tool will be calculated accordingly.
    
  