
    
      Background:

      Substance use disorders (SUDs) are highly prevalent among veteran psychiatry inpatients. Dual
      substance use and psychiatric disorders are related to poor outcomes and rehospitalizations,
      which are quite costly. However, relatively little is known about how to effectively help
      dually diagnosed psychiatry inpatients. Telephone Monitoring (TM) is effective among SUD
      patients at increasing SUD continuing care and self-help utilization and improving SUD
      outcomes. This study will build on these findings and contribute important new clinical
      knowledge by determining whether TM is similarly effective when adapted for dually diagnosed
      veteran psychiatry inpatients. It will evaluate the effectiveness of a manual-guided TM
      intervention.

      Objectives:

      Primary hypotheses are that patients in the TM condition, compared to patients in usual care
      (UC), will attend more SUD continuing care sessions and 12-step group meetings, and have
      better SUD and psychiatric outcomes. Secondary hypotheses are that TM patients will have
      fewer and delayed rehospitalizations, and their better outcomes will be mediated by SUD
      outpatient treatment and 12-step group participation.

      Methods:

      This study will take place at two VAs: Palo Alto (VISN 21) and Ann Arbor (VISN 11). Dually
      diagnosed patients in psychiatry inpatient treatment will be randomly assigned to UC or TM.
      Patients in the TM condition will receive an in-person session while in treatment, followed
      by monitoring over the telephone for three months after discharge. The intervention will
      incorporate motivational interviewing to monitor patients' substance use, facilitate entry
      into outpatient treatment if a relapse occurs, and encourage 12-step self-help group
      participation. Patients will be assessed at baseline, end-of-intervention, and six months and
      one-year post-intervention for primary and secondary outcomes and non-VA health care; VA
      health care will be assessed with VA databases. GLMM analyses will be conducted to compare
      the UC and TM groups on course of primary and secondary outcomes over time; Cox regression
      models will compare groups on time to rehospitalization; and sequential regression analyses
      will examine whether outcomes associated with TM are mediated by more SUD continuing care and
      12-step group participation.

      Status:

      As of this time, this project is in the follow-up data collection phase.
    
  