
    
      Rapid diagnosis and treatment of acute ischemic stroke is critical to reduce disability and
      death caused by stroke. While recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, or rt-PA, is the only
      approved treatment for acute ischemic stroke, less than 2-3 percent of individuals with
      stroke actually receive treatment. The inability to capture acute ischemic stroke cases
      within 3 hours of symptom onset is one critical factor. Populations at highest risk for
      stroke are significantly undereducated about the need for rapid, intervention upon onset of
      stroke symptoms. This is especially true among vulnerable populations including African
      Americans, Hispanics, and the poor.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a 2-session,
      culturally-sensitive, interactive stroke educational program compared to standard educational
      materials and usual care. In this study, the scientists will determine if the interactive
      program increases knowledge about stroke, and results in earlier arrival to the emergency
      room in the case of stroke.

      The study will enroll 1400 individuals who have had a stroke or transient ischemic attack
      (TIA). Participants will be randomized to receive usual medical care--which includes standard
      educational information on stroke, stroke warning signs and risk factors--or usual medical
      care plus a 2-session interactive stroke educational program. All participants will be
      administered pre and post (30 days and 1 year) intervention stroke knowledge/behavior
      surveys. In additional, participants will be contacted every 12 months to check health status
      and document new stroke events associated with emergency room arrival time.

      The SWIFT study is part of the Specialized Program for Translational Research in Acute Stroke
      (SPOTRIAS), which seeks to understand why certain people may be at increased risk for stroke.
      The goal of the study is to increase stroke knowledge, change behavior, and improve emergency
      room arrival times upon onset of stroke symptoms.
    
  