
    
      Rationale: Fitter patients have better surgical outcomes. Poor physical fitness measured
      objectively using cardiopulmonary exercise testing has been associated with increased LOS,
      increased morbidity and mortality in many patient cohorts undergoing major cancer surgery.
      Chemotherapy and radiotherapy have detrimental effects on physical fitness, which may in turn
      have a detrimental effect on the patients' ability to withstand surgery. Research suggests
      psychological factors including depression and self-efficacy (confidence to manage
      cancer-related problems) prior to surgery predict recovery trajectories in health-related
      quality of life up to 2 years after major surgery for colorectal cancer.

      The aim is to investigate whether SRETP (Prehabilitation) ± psychological support prior to
      and during cancer treatment before major elective surgery reduces LOS, increases survival and
      improves their ability to self manage. Additionally, we aim to see if this intervention can
      bring about long-term behavioural change in relation to physical activity.

      Trial Design: Phase III: A pragmatic factorial design randomised controlled to assess the
      effectiveness of a prehabilitation programme delivered prior to cancer treatments and/or
      major cancer surgery in patients undergoing elective intra-cavity major cancer surgery in
      Wessex.

      Sample size: 1560

      Intervention:

        1. An in-hospital transition to a community based Structured Responsive Exercise-Training
           Programme (SRETP) ± psychological support (delivered in community/ council gyms or
           Cancer Support Centers). The intervention/s will be delivered before surgery. Patients
           receiving neoadjuvant cancer treatments prior to surgery will receive the intervention
           during and after these treatments.

        2. Control: Standard care with extra monitoring
    
  