
    
      This is a 2-arm, randomized controlled, population based trial to test the impact of multiple
      exposures to brief nicotine corrective messages among adult tobacco cigarette smokers and
      non-smokers followed for 12 weeks. The primary outcome, assessed at wave 1 (baseline), wave 2
      (weeks 5-6), and wave 4 (weeks 11-13) is nicotine beliefs. Secondary outcomes assessed at the
      same time points include intention to use nicotine/tobacco products and nicotine/tobacco use.
      All participants will be recruited from a US national consumer research panel. Eligible
      participants will be U.S. adults ages 18+ who are enrolled members of the partnering consumer
      research panel. The sample will include non-smokers and smokers, oversampling current smokers
      (defined as smoking 100+ lifetime cigarettes and now smoking all or some days) to ensure the
      proportion of smokers in the sample reflects the ~15 % population smoking prevalence among
      adults. Panel members will be contacted by email with a brief study description and link to
      an eligibility screener and online informed consent form. Eligible and interested
      participants will complete the baseline (Wave 1) survey measures of nicotine beliefs and
      intentions/use of nicotine and tobacco products, after which they will be randomly assigned
      in equal numbers to the nicotine corrective message (NCM) intervention condition or the
      delayed message control condition. After completing the baseline survey, participants in the
      NCM condition will receive their first exposure to the corrective messages. In the Wave 2
      survey, all participants will complete measures of nicotine beliefs and intentions/use of
      nicotine and tobacco products. Participants in the NCM condition will then receive their
      second exposure to study messages. Only participants in the NCM condition will receive the
      Wave 3 survey, which involves the third exposure to study messages. The Wave 4 survey will
      include the fourth exposure to study messages for those in the NCM condition and the final
      assessment of nicotine beliefs and intentions/use of nicotine and tobacco products for all
      participants. Upon completion of the final assessment, participants in the control condition
      will be exposed to the nicotine corrective messages and all participants will be directed to
      resources on quitting smoking.
    
  