
    
      Study Phase:

      Phase II, Prospective, multicentric, non randomized, open label

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of the trial is to investigate the cytogenetic and molecular effects of
      the protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor nilotinib in the treatment of early chronic phase
      Ph+ CML.

      The secondary objectives are:

      To investigate in early CP Ph+ CML patients treated with nilotinib the clinical and the
      hematologic effects, the effect on bcr/abl point mutations, the kinetic of the response, the
      toxicity, the compliance to treatment and the dose density.

      Study design:

      This study is an open-label, multicenter, exploratory, Phase II study of nilotinib
      administered orally twice daily for one year. For the patients who will benefit an extension
      to 4 years is planned.

      Visit Schedule and Assessments:

      A visit with blood counts and differential and serum chemistry is due baseline, every 15 days
      for 3 months, hence every 30 days.

      An ECG is due baseline, after 15 and 30 days, hence at 60, 90, 150, 240 and 360 days.

      An echocardiogram is due baseline and at end-of-study (360 days) or early withdrawal.

      A bone marrow aspirate is due baseline (cytology, cytogenetics and quantitative molecular
      biology), after 3 and 6 months (cytology and cytogenetics) and after 12 months (cytology,
      cytogenetics, quantitative molecular biology and mutational analysis).

      A peripheral blood sample is due baseline, at 30, 60, 90, 180, 270 and 360 days for
      quantitative molecular biology.

      After the end of the study (i.e. after one year) clinical, cytogenetic and molecular data are
      due every 6 months.

      Biologic Monitoring:

      Bone marrow and peripheral blood cells will be collected before, during and at the end of the
      study, stored at the central lab in Bologna and used for molecular assays that are listed in
      details in the protocol, with the exclusion of any test allowing the identification of
      patients genotype. The samples are kept for a minimum of 10 years and can be destroyed upon
      patient request. A specific consent form to the sample storage will be submitted to the
      patients.
    
  