
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial. The trial is held at
      Urogynecological Rehabilitation Unit of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department
      between February 2021 and July 2021. The local ethics committee approve the study
      (E-60116787-020-4274). All women are informed about the purpose and contents of the study and
      all women written consent to participate in the study.

      A random allocation sequence was generated at 1:1 ratio. By using a random number generator,
      women are randomized into two groups as follows: Group 1 receive BT+IVES (2 times/week),
      Group 2 receive BT+IVES (5 times/week).

      All women which are planned to treat during 20 sessions are included in this study.

      Bladder Training (BT) All women were informed about BT for 30 minutes in two groups. Then it
      was given as a written brochure to be implemented as a home program. BT, consisting of four
      stages, did not contain any PFM training programs. At the first stage, all of the women
      visited the physician who was blinded to the study groups and at the initial visit, the women
      were familiarized with the location of the PFM and the pelvic anatomy and pathophysiology.
      After that information session, squeezing the PFM was shown in practice at least once to use
      in the urgency suppression strategies via digital palpation technique. In the second stage,
      including urgency suppression strategies, it was aimed to delay urination, to inhibit
      detrusor contraction and to prevent urgency; by squeezing the PFM several times in a row
      (women were encouraged to pause/stop their work, sit down if possible, relax the entire body
      and squeeze PFM repeatedly), breathing deeply, giving their attention to another job for a
      while and self-motivating (I can do it, I can check the urination, etc.). In the third stage,
      timed voiding program was started. It was carried out in 2 steps: timed voiding and
      increasing the time between urination considering the voiding diary. At the last stage, the
      women were encouraged to continue BT. By increasing their motivation that it is an effective
      treatment method, compliance to the treatment was increased.

      Group 1: IVES (2 times in a week) This group included the IVES in addition to all components
      of the BT. IVES was performed in lithotomy position via electrical stimulation device with a
      vaginal probe. IVES sessions were performed two times in a week, for 10 weeks. Every session
      lasted 20 minutes. The intervention comprised a 20-sessions treatment program of ES. The
      stimulation parameters were frequency at 10 Hz, a 5-10s work-rest cycle and 100 ms pulse
      width. The symmetric biphasic pulse wave could be delivered over a range of 0-100 milliamp
      (mA). The intensity was controlled according to patients' discomfort level feedback.

      Group 2: IVES (5 times in a week) This group also included the IVES in addition to all
      components of the BT as in Group 1. IVES performed in the same way as Group 1, except for
      frequency of treatment. IVES sessions were performed five times in a week, for 4 weeks. Every
      session lasted 20 minutes. The intervention comprised a 20-sessions treatment program of ES.
      Stimulation parameters were the same as Group 1.
    
  