
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether or not prolonged adjuvant hormonal therapy comprising letrozole vs
           placebo will improve disease-free survival of postmenopausal women with estrogen
           receptor-positive and/or progesterone receptor-positive breast cancer who have completed
           5 years of hormonal therapy with 5 years of an aromatase inhibitor (AI) or 5 years of a
           combination of up to 3 years of tamoxifen citrate followed by an AI.

        -  Compare the disease-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare breast cancer-free interval of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare distant recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of osteoporotic-related fractures (e.g., Colles', hip, and spine)
           in these patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of arterial thrombotic events in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized study. Patients
      are stratified according to pathologic nodal status (negative vs positive), adjuvant
      tamoxifen citrate therapy (yes vs no), and lowest bone mineral density T score for
      lumbosacral spine, total hip, or femoral neck (> -2.0 vs ≤ -2.0 standard deviation). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Group I: Patients receive oral placebo once daily.

        -  Group II: Patients receive oral letrozole once daily.

      In both arms, treatment continues for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,840 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  