
    
      This is a randomized, single-blind study design. Starting in July 2019, approximately 550 to
      700 HCP from two hospitals (275-350 per hospital site) in Israel will be enrolled. Following
      completion of a written consent form, participants will complete an enrollment survey and
      grant permission for review of information collected during the SHIRI study, including
      vaccination status and immune response during the SHIRI study years. Participants will
      complete an enrollment survey and grant permission to include and integrate information
      collected during the SHIRI study into the current study's data, including health history,
      influenza vaccination history, and immune response to vaccination during the SHIRI study
      years. HCP will be randomly assigned 1:1 to receive a single dose of IIV4 licensed in Israel
      (expected to be Vaxigrip® Quadrivalent, 15µg of HA per strain) or RIV4 (Flublok® Quadrivalent
      by Sanofi Pasteur, 45µg of HA per strain) during August-October of 2019. Participants will be
      blinded to the vaccine that they vaccine, but study staff will be aware of the vaccine.
      Adverse events following vaccination will be monitored and documented. Blood specimens will
      be collected prior to vaccination and approximately 28 days after to evaluate immune
      responses to vaccination.

      Eligible HCP who were already vaccinated with Vaxigrip, the vaccine that is routinely
      available in Israel, at the time they are approached to join the study, will be invited to
      join the study as part of the Vaxigrip arm. Like randomized participants, participants who
      were vaccinated with Vaxigrip outside the study will complete a written consent form, an
      enrollment survey and grant permission for review of information collected during the SHIRI
      study, including vaccination status and immune response during the SHIRI study years. As part
      of the consent form, participants will record the estimated date that they received the
      vaccine, and the location, and will authorize study staff to verify the date of current-year
      Vaxigrip vaccination in the Clalit EMR and with the hospital vaccination staff. Participants
      will complete an enrollment survey and grant permission to include and integrate information
      collected during the SHIRI study into the current study's data, including health history,
      influenza vaccination history, and immune response to vaccination during the SHIRI study
      years. Blood specimens will be collected approximately 28 days after to evaluate immune
      responses to vaccination.
    
  