
    
      Patients and Methods

      Patients with newly diagnosed GI SETs will be prospectively enrolled at 8 university
      hospitals in Korea between May and December 2016, if they met the following criteria: having
      a hypoechoic mass in the submucosal and/or proper muscle layers on the basis of EUS and tumor
      >2 cm in size. Exclusion criteria are: SETs were not located in the submucosal and/or proper
      muscle layers on EUS; EUS revealed the characteristic findings of lipoma, cyst, vessel or
      extraluminal lesions; the platelet count was <50,000/mm3 and prothrombin time was <50%; or
      the patient did not provide consent to undergo the study. This study is approved by the
      Institutional Review Board of each hospital and conducted in accordance with the Declaration
      of Helsinki and its amendments and the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. All enrolled
      patients provide written informed consents to participate in the study.

      Technique for EUS-FNB

      All procedures are performed by using a linear array echoendoscope (Olympus UCT-140, UCT-240;
      Olympus, Tokyo, Japan or PentaxEG-3870UTK; Pentax, Tokyo, Japan) with the patients placed in
      the left lateral decubitus position under conscious sedation.

      Before the study commenced, all participating endosonographers discuss the procedural steps
      in detail. Technical details of the standard tissue-acquisition protocol are as follows.
      After the target lesion is endosonographically visualized and the region scanned for SETs
      using color or pulsed Doppler, FNB is performed at the esophagus, stomach, duodenum or
      rectum, depending on the lesion location. The needle is advanced into the target tissue under
      endosonographic guidance.

      After penetrating the lesion, the endosonographer moves the needle to-and-fro for more than
      10 to 15 times within the lesion while an assistant simultaneously pulled out the stylet
      slowly and continuously over 20 s to achieve minimal negative pressure within the needle
      (slow-pull technique). Finally, the needle is withdrawn from the lesion. At least three
      needle passes are performed using the designated needle, and if a diagnostic or technical
      failure is encountered, the patient is switched to the alternative needle according to the
      judgment of the endosonographers.

      Preparation for histological analysis

      Because pathologists are absent during endoscopy, FNB samples are recovered and stored for
      subsequent processing by the endosonographers. The specimens are then expressed onto slides
      by using a stylet or by flushing with air into the needle assembly, to harvest the core
      samples from the needle. The endosonographers then carefully inspect the material on the
      slides for the presence of tissue cores defined as whitish pieces of tissue with apparent
      bulk, which are measured and then lifted off the slides and placed into a formalin bottle.
      The core samples are macroscopically assessed as a definite tissue core; suspicious tissue
      core mixed with blood clots; or only blood or scarce sample without any tissue core. The
      former two sample types are considered macroscopically optimal core samples.

      If tissue cores are obtained, they are fixed in formalin and stained in hematoxylin and eosin
      for evaluation by pathologists. Samples with tissue cores are graded as optimal or
      suboptimal: optimal, if the material allows satisfactory assessment of histologic
      architecture and immunohistochemical evaluation, such as c-kit, CD34, S-100, or smooth muscle
      actin, if indicated, and suboptimal, if the histological core is inadequate for the
      abovementioned assessments. Because the morphological characteristics of mesenchymal tumors
      are nonspecific, a positive diagnosis by EUS-FNB is only considered true positive when
      immunohistochemical analysis is conclusive. Conventional cytological analysis is additionally
      performed in most cases or if a core sample is unavailable. Cytological material is sent to
      the cytologists as a fixed or an air-dried slide. The gold standard is the histopathological
      assessment of the resected specimens for patients who underwent endoscopic resection or
      surgery, and the assessment of the FNB samples for those who did not.

      Outcome parameters

      The primary outcome parameter is diagnostic sufficiency. Diagnostic sufficiency is defined as
      the proportion of patients in whom the histopathological diagnosis could be established
      within three needle passes. The percentage of cases in which the pathologist classified the
      quality of the sample as optimal for histological evaluation is also evaluated. The secondary
      outcome measures are rates of diagnostic failure, technical failure, and complications.
      Diagnostic failure is defined as failure to obtain sufficient core samples even after three
      passes, and technical failure is defined as malfunction of the needle before three needle
      passes. Complications are defined as any deviation from the clinical course after EUS-guided
      sampling, as observed by the endosonographers or recovery suite nurses, or as reported by
      patients. Excessive bleeding at the site of puncture, perforation, hypotension, and need for
      reversal medication are documented.
    
  