
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), a fibrotic/emphysematous lung disorder is a common sequela
      among extremely premature infants. The severity of BPD, but not incidence, has been reduced
      by surfactant therapy. BPD remains one of the most significant contributors to excessively
      prolonged hospital stays and, therefore, potentially avoidable costs. Research leading to a
      reduction in BPD morbidity should prove cost effective in the estimated 10,400 affected
      infants annually (40 percent of a projected 26,000 survivors of birthweights less than 1,250
      grams).

      Inflammation is a significant component of both clinical and experimental model BPD and is
      the subject of numerous basic science investigations begun since the empiric observation that
      BPD responds favorably to systemic steroids. The known side effects of systemic steroids have
      led to their cautious sequential controlled clinical investigation, initially for late
      treatment (at more than 30 days of age), then early treatment (two weeks), then very early
      treatment (seven days), and even prophylaxis (day one). The prophylactic clinical trial of
      inhaled steroids, starting at day three for 21 days, is a logical next step in this sequence
      of determining the least dangerous, yet effective means to prevent or treat the inflammatory
      components of BPD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled. The premature infants were
      randomized to beclomethasone or placebo on day three of life. Beclomethasone was delivered in
      a decreasing dosage, from 40 to 5 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per day, for four
      days. The primary outcome measure was bronchopulmonary dysplasia at 28 days of age. Secondary
      outcomes included bronchopulmonary dysplasia at 36 weeks of postmenstrual age, the need for
      systemic glucocorticoid therapy, the need for bronchodilator therapy, the duration of
      respiratory support, and death.

      Clinical sites included the Boston Perinatal Center at the New England Medical Center
      Hospitals, the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Massachusetts, and the Pennsylvania
      Hospital in Philadelphia. The Data Coordinating Center was at Boston University School of
      Medicine. Support for the trial ended in April, 1999.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  