
    
      Study setting:

      15-bedded pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) of a multi-specialty, tertiary referral and
      teaching hospital- the Advanced Pediatrics Centre (APC) in Post-Graduate Institute of Medical
      Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India Study period Recruitment: January 2014 to
      December 2016 Data Analysis: Jan 2017 to June 2017 Study design An open-labelled,
      parallel-arm, efficacy/feasibility randomized controlled trial Ethics approval Ethics
      approval has been obtained from the Institute Ethics Committee. The study has been registered
      with Clinical Trials Registry - India (CTRI) (ctri.nic.in). Informed consent will be obtained
      from the parents/legal guardian and the conversation would be recorded using a camera
      (audio-visual documentation of evidence).

      Sample size estimation Assuming alpha error of 5% and power of 80% with non-inferiority limit
      of 4 days (Standard deviation of VFDs being 8.2 days in the conventional low tidal volume
      ventilation group in pilot trial), sample size was calculated to be 52 per group. As this is
      a safety and feasibility trial, an interim analysis would be done at 50% enrolment.

      Enrolment Parents or legal guardians of children who satisfy the above eligibility criteria
      will be invited by the investigator to participate in the study. Parents are free not to
      participate, or to withdraw from the study at any point of time. All children, irrespective
      of their enrollment in the study, will receive standard pediatric intensive care unit (PICU)
      care as per the unit's existing protocol. An information sheet (in Hindi/ English) furnishing
      details of the study will be provided to the parents. Given the fact that all these children
      are sedated and on mechanical ventilation, obtaining assent would not be feasible in this
      study.

      Randomization Sequence generation A computer-generated, unstratified, block randomization
      with variable block sizes will be performed to determine group allocation. A person not
      involved in the study will perform the random number allocation and prepare opaque, sealed
      envelopes containing the allocation.

      Concealment allocation Each pre-sealed opaque envelope would be opened only after obtaining a
      written consent and audio-visual record of the same. As the randomization is done using a
      variable block size, and prepared by a statistician not directly involved in the study, there
      would be no way of predicting the random allocation, thus minimizing the risk of allocation
      bias.

      Randomization implementation After parents provide informed consent, randomization would be
      done within the next one hour and child initiated on appropriate mode of ventilation. The
      supportive care for both the groups, would be as per the attached supplementary protocols

      Intervention protocol:

      The Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) intervention protocol has been designed based
      on the available APRV literature as of Dec 2013.

      Start the child on APRV mode of ventilation with the following settings:

        -  P HIGH would determine the degree of baseline lung inflation. A rough estimate can be
           obtained based on the plateau pressure requirements on the conventional mode of
           ventilation. Perform an inspiratory hold to ascertain the plateau pressures:

             -  If P plateau > 30 cm water, set P HIGH at 30 cm water

             -  If P plateau < 30 cm water, set P HIGH at or 1-2 cm above the measured P plateau.

        -  Alternatively, if P plateau cannot be measured, P HIGH can be set according to the
           following guide:

      PaO2/ FiO2 ratio P High < 250 15-20 < 200 20-25 < 150 25-28

      After initiating a particular P HIGH, a clinical assessment of lung volume needs to be
      followed with a chest radiograph to determine the degree of lung inflation (similar to
      setting of Mean airway pressure in High frequency oscillatory mode of ventilation). The
      child's P HIGH is adjusted to maintain optimal lung volume, without clinical or radiological
      evidence of hyperinflation: no signs of decreased cardiac output/ hypotension and/or the
      level of the diaphragm visible greater than the ninth rib.

        -  Start at T High of 4 seconds; Titrate T High based on oxygenation status. At least 80
           -95% of the total cycle time should be spent in T High.

        -  Set P Low at Zero cm H2O

        -  Set T Low so that expiratory flow decreases by 25 % of peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR);
           usually 0.1-0.8 seconds. The ratio of T-PEFR to PEFR should be targeted near 75%. This
           entity needs to be titrated every 2-4 hours and may have to be shortened as lung injury
           advances.

        -  Set Pressure Support at ZERO

        -  The number of breaths per minute or number of releases is a function of T High and T Low
           as depicted below:

      Weaning from APRV would also be carried out in a structured, protocolized manner. The
      following strategies would be adopted:

        1. As child's clinical condition and oxygenation index improves, and Fraction of inspired
           oxygen levels are brought down to 0.6, T HIGH is increased in steps of 0.5-2 seconds
           till it is 10-12 seconds.

        2. P HIGH can be subsequently decreased in steps of 2-3 cm H2O till a value of 12-16 is
           reached. Decrease in P HIGH can be carried out earlier if features of hyperinflation
           (clinical/radiological) appear at any point.

        3. The goal is to reach pressure levels of 12-16 cm H2O and then switch to Continuous
           positive airway pressure (CPAP) of 6-8 cm H2O, from which child can be extubated
           directly to nasal prong CPAP or gradually tapered off CPAP to Endotracheal-T piece and
           subsequently extubated depending on the overall clinical status.
    
  