
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with previously untreated stage III or IV
           squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx treated with induction chemotherapy comprising
           docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil followed by radiotherapy and cisplatin versus
           radiotherapy and cisplatin only.

        -  Compare the progression-free survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life and functional status of patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      primary cancer site (base of tongue vs other), nodal extent (N0-1 vs N2-3), radiotherapy plan
      (conventional [2-D or 3-D conformal radiotherapy] vs intensity modulated radiotherapy).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (induction chemotherapy with or without salvage surgery followed by
           chemoradiotherapy)

             -  Induction chemotherapy with or without early salvage surgery: Patients receive
                docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil
                IV continuously on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 1-3 courses.
                Patients achieving complete or partial response at the primary site after course 1
                receive 2 additional courses of therapy and then proceed to chemoradiotherapy
                within 3-4 weeks after completion of fluorouracil administration. Patients with
                stable disease or surgically resectable locoregional disease progression undergo
                early salvage surgery and then proceed to concurrent chemoradiotherapy within 70
                days after surgery. Patients with locoregional unresectable disease progression or
                patients who refused early salvage surgery proceed directly to concurrent
                chemoradiotherapy within 3-4 weeks after completion of fluorouracil administration.

             -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients undergo 2-D or 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity
                modulated radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks and receive cisplatin
                IV over 30-60 minutes concurrently on days 1, 22, and 43* in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients undergoing surgery before chemoradiotherapy receive cisplatin on days 1 and
      22 only of a 6-week course of radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II (chemoradiotherapy only): Patients undergo 2-D or 3-D conformal radiotherapy or
           intensity modulated radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks and receive
           cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43 in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after completion of chemoradiotherapy, and then at
      12 months after randomization.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 398 patients (199 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  