
    
      Otolaryngologists often use drainage tube after head and neck surgery to reduce hematoma or
      seroma formation. In addition, the duration of drainage tube placement is closely related to
      the length of hospital stay. So early removal of drainage tube could eventually shorten the
      admission period. The factors related to the duration of drainage tube placement include:
      type of surgery, intra-operative bleeding, underlying disease of coagulation disorders, etc.
      According to the literatures, the average duration of drainage in head and neck surgery is 4
      days. Another study showed that one of the risk factors associated with surgical site
      infection is the longer drainage duration. Therefore, how to remove drainage tube as soon as
      possible is crucial to head and neck surgeon.Tranexamic acid belongs to fibrinolytic
      inhibitors. Several prospective randomized clinical trials have proved its effectiveness in
      reducing intra-operative and post-operative bleeding in orthopedic and cardiovascular
      surgeries. However, there is little study about tranexamic acid in reducing post-operative
      bleeding in head and neck surgery. So the aim of this study is to investigate if tranexamic
      acid could reduce post-operative bleeding via prospective double-blinded randomized clinic
      trial.This study includes 60 consecutive patients who will undergo head and neck surgery.
      Those who are allergy to tranexamic acid, history of coagulation disorders, under
      anti-coagulation therapy will be excluded. Basic data will be recorded along with detail
      physical examination and operation type. Then they will be divided randomly into study group
      and control group. Study group will receive tranexamic acid before and after operation while
      control group not. PT, APTT, level of prothrombin fragments 1+2, D-dimers, plasminogen,
      α2-antiplasmin, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), and plasminogen activator inhibitor
      (PAI-1) will be obtained before and after operation. The drainage amount, duration of
      drainage tube placement will also be recorded. Relevant variables will be collected and
      analyzed.
    
  