
    
      Aging leads to a decrease in physical activity and a reduction of postural control, which
      implies a loss of balance control, both static and dynamic, thus compromising the autonomy of
      the elderly and increasing the risk of suffering a fall. It has been observed that the
      balance degenerates in an accelerated way from 60 years of age. Basically appears a natural
      physiological degeneration of the organism, which affects strength, range of mobility,
      reduces vestibular function, there is loss vision and lower cardiopulmonary capacity.

      In the older adult who suffers falls, in relation to the one who does not suffer, a series of
      differences or determinants have been observed. In this group, a series of characteristics
      such as the lower flexibility of the ankle joint and the muscle-tendon complex are present,
      hallux valgus appears, lower foot tenderness or a decrease in the strength in the first
      plantar flexor finger. They appear to have poorer balance and have less force in the flexors
      of the soles accompanied by less mobility of the foot inversion-eversion.

      One of the causes that seems to contribute in the decrease of the balance in the older adult
      are the alterations in the ankle and foot, besides supposing a worse capacity of adaptation
      to the possible environmental changes. Before a deficit of this type, the subject tends to
      compensate for his position with compensatory strategies in other joints of the lower limb.
      It has also been shown that as we grow older, there is an increase in the demand for
      articulation of the other joints, such as the hip and knee, secondary to a decrease in joint
      range of ankle and foot or weakness of the dorsal flexors of the foot.

      It follows that there is a relationship between alterations in the ankle and foot and the
      balance in the elderly, all related to the forces that suffer the ankle in the gait and to
      the low normal activity. Any alteration in this joint could predetermine an alteration of its
      function in maintaining stability in the elderly.
    
  