
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a major public health problem world-wide. CHF carries a
      devastating prognosis which resembles that of some types of malignant cancer. Its incidence
      rises steadily from 0.02 per 1000 population per year in those aged 25 to 34 years to 11.6 in
      those aged 85 years or older. Despite substantial improvements in the management of the
      disease, the prognosis remains poor especially in advanced stages of the disease. About half
      of the patients diagnosed with CHF die within 4 years of diagnosis. With the increasing
      number of patients with CHF being referred from hospital to primary health care, the demands
      for expanded services in primary health care have increased. Caring for patients with CHF
      often involves a number of physical, medical, behavioral, psychological and social factors,
      and requires appropriate attention to all aspects of care, both pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological. Educating patients about CHF treatment and the consequences of CHF has
      been shown to improve self-management behavior. For patients with CHF, the self-management
      plan includes monitoring of symptoms such as fatigue and shortness of breath, daily weighing,
      and knowing what to do if signs of deterioration appear, and when to report the changes to
      health care provider. In patients with CHF, the prognosis worsens considerably once
      malnutrition develops. Mortality at 18 months in unselected patients with CHF in whom cardiac
      cachexia had been diagnosed was as high as 50% compared to in non-cachectic patients from the
      same study population. In addition, amount of proteinuria has been known to be related to
      atherosclerosis burden and disease severity regarding lots of disease entities. The
      atherosclerosis score is also probably modifiable by life style intervention and educational
      program. CHF can also activate a few neurohormone and natriuretic peptides, among which brain
      natriuretic peptide is the most world-wide used. Summarized, in this study, to estimate the
      effect of CHF education and self-management program, the parameters adopted include blood
      brain natriuretic peptide and albumin levels, atherosclerosis scores, proteinuria, renal
      function, changes in life quality, left ventricular ejection fraction, and cardiac outcomes.
      In Taiwan, so far, the investigators don't have this kind of CHF education and self-care
      system. The investigators hypothesize that patients in the heart failure management programs
      that promote self-management by means of intensive education, edema index-assistance, and
      telephone follow-up can improve their functional status and quality of life, as well as the
      biomarkers of CHF, left ventricular systolic function, proteinuria and nutritional status.
    
  