
    
      Bipolar spectrum disorder (previously known as manic depression) is a diagnostic term used to
      describe experiences of extreme, and sometimes enduring, fluctuations in mood that interfere
      with a person's life or cause significant distress. Individuals diagnosed with bipolar
      disorder experience periods of depressed mood and periods of elevated or irritable mood. In
      many cases, this amounts to clinical depression, or mania that entails hospital admission.
      Periods of mood fluctuation usually involve extreme changes to usual thinking and behaviour.
      During a period of depression people might feel hopeless and suicidal, withdraw from social
      activities and have difficulty functioning, resulting in a neglect of self-care and basic
      needs. During mania people might experience delusional beliefs, become highly distractible
      and prone to engaging in high-risk activities such as excessive spending or drug-taking. Both
      mood states can result in significant impairment in work, social or daily functioning and may
      result in hospitalisation.

      Many people with a diagnosis of a bipolar spectrum disorder experience multiple relapses,
      causing them significant long-term disability. Meeting the needs of this client group can
      pose a real challenge for services given the complexity of fluctuating mood states, high
      levels of impulsivity and associated risk, and additional difficulties that people can also
      experience (such as anxiety and trauma).

      Current guidelines recommend that people who have received a diagnosis of a bipolar spectrum
      disorder are offered an evidence-based psychological intervention as well as medication.
      These interventions are typically time-limited and guided by a specific manual with emphasis
      on alleviating symptoms and relapse prevention. The quality of the evidence supporting such
      interventions has been questioned. There has also been doubt cast on the effectiveness of
      these interventions.

      Treatment adherence is also considered suboptimal, with relatively high drop-out rates.
      Access to talking therapies for those with complex needs has been described as 'notoriously
      poor'. People diagnosed with a bipolar spectrum disorder often report reasons for distress
      other than symptoms and prioritise a fulfilling, purposeful life over remaining relapse-free.
      Talking freely to a caring, approachable therapist is valued, as are interventions that
      facilitate control over aspects of life beyond mood. Recovery is achievable when people are
      empowered to follow a self- determined path, take ownership and confront longstanding
      problems.

      Recent advances in cognitive therapy have departed from traditional relapse prevention to
      offer a theory-based approach that helps people understand their individual experience of
      bipolar spectrum disorder and target current problems and control over life goals (rather
      than focusing on controlling swings). Although patients perceived the intervention to be
      beneficial, a trial did not find significant improvement compared to treatment as usual.
      Patients wanted more sessions and greater flexibility in scheduling, and many reported
      problems beyond their diagnosis.

      More client-led approaches that are not tied to the specific diagnosis could better suit the
      therapeutic needs of people diagnosed with a bipolar spectrum disorder. One such approach is
      Method of Levels (MOL); an application of Perceptual Control Theory (PCT). PCT proposes that
      distress arises when people strive to achieve conflicting goals. People are typically able to
      resolve the conflict and re-establish control through a natural trial-and- error process.
      This process becomes disrupted when people remain unaware of the conflict. The questioning
      approach of MOL therefore aims to help people develop greater awareness of important goals
      and conflicts, and consider problems from new perspectives, thus generating their own
      solutions. For example, a client diagnosed with a bipolar spectrum disorder may work through
      their dilemma over whether to devote their life to their success as a creative writer, or to
      their relationship with their family; or they may be struggling between disclosing a past
      traumatic assault to the police to get justice, or to keep the experience to themselves for
      fear of reprisal or ridicule.

      MOL has potential advantages over existing psychological approaches; it offers flexible,
      client-led appointment scheduling, it can be applied to a range of problems causing distress,
      treatment is tailored to individual needs, and it aims to provide people with more choice and
      control over the interventions they receive.

      Perceived control, identified as a key mechanism of psychological change in MOL therapy, has
      been shown to contribute to decreased levels of overall distress. Perceived control has been
      linked to an increased awareness of the problem, an ability to talk freely and develop
      problem resolution. Client perceptions of control are closely related to their perceptions of
      helpfulness; both factors have been associated with effectiveness of therapy.

      MOL has shown promising results in a variety of settings, including primary care, secondary
      care and inpatient hospital settings. It has been applied to a range of problems, including
      complex mental health problems such as psychosis.

      Remote delivery of MOL via videoconferencing could further improve the level of flexibility
      and control offered to patients. There is promising evidence that video therapy can be
      clinically effective and acceptable to patients; when managed well it can also reduce costs
      for health services. Delivery via videoconferencing fits in with the flexible, client-led
      ethos of MOL, and is highly relevant given the current COVID-19 pandemic and associated
      restrictions on face to face therapy. MOL is interaction based, with no reliance on written
      information; it could be offered remotely from a practical perspective. It would seem that
      MOL has the potential to meet the needs of those who have received a diagnosis of a bipolar
      spectrum disorder, particularly when offered via videoconferencing.

      To date, there have been no published studies evaluating MOL as a potential intervention for
      bipolar spectrum disorder. The feasibility and acceptability of offering MOL via
      videoconferencing has not yet been established. The proposed study therefore aims to evaluate
      the feasibility and acceptability of MOL, delivered via videoconferencing, as an intervention
      for people with a diagnosis of a bipolar spectrum disorder.

      Given the importance of perceived control within therapy, the study also aims to provide an
      opportunity to explore the elements of therapy that people want choice over and the impact
      and importance of these elements. Considering the effectiveness of the intervention (in terms
      of reduction of distress and improvements in functioning and goal attainment) is a secondary
      aim of the study. An additional secondary aim is to determine whether there is a link between
      how much control over therapy participants perceive themselves to have and the degree to
      which they generate new perspectives, thoughts and insights.

      The results of the study could help to inform future research into the clinical effectiveness
      of MOL for those with a diagnosis of a bipolar spectrum disorder, as well as the most
      effective methods of delivery for this therapy. It could also help inform developments in
      psychological therapies more broadly by considering the importance people place on perceiving
      themselves to have more choice and to feel in control during therapy and the impact this has
      on psychological change and overall wellbeing.
    
  