
    
      Background:

      Acute lung failure requiring respiratory treatment is the most common cause of intensive care
      in Sweden and the condition has a high mortality rate; approximately 40%. To a large extent,
      the high mortality rate is due to the patient's underlying disease, e.g. sepsis or trauma but
      the respiratory treatment itself can also cause mechanical damage to the lungs with the risk
      of secondary development of acute lung failure and failure in other organ systems such as the
      liver, kidneys, heart and brain.

      In order to reduce the risk and damage of ventilator treatment, it is necessary to improve
      monitoring of lung function and to develop and evaluate methods for more gentle respiratory
      treatment.

      The studies aim to map the elastic properties of the lungs (pulmonary elastance and
      transpulmonary drive pressure) in different patient groups, lung healthy and patients with
      acute lung failure, using the non-invasive PEEP step method. Since the method is non-invasive
      and is based only on a change in the end expiratory pressure in the ventilator, it can be
      easily applied during clinical conditions, thus allowing a significant improvement in
      monitoring and setting of ventilator therapy in both patients under general anesthesia in
      "major surgery" and patients with acute pulmonary failure in intensive care units.

      During general anesthesia, patients lung elasticity will be measured immediately after
      starting the anesthesia and during surgery and before emergence. In intensive care, the
      measurement procedure will be applied immediately after the patient has been placed on a
      ventilator and then during respiratory care when normal intensive care measures take place,
      such as changing the ventilator setting in terms of breath volume, respiratory rate, end
      expiratory pressure (PEEP) and similar measures, as well as respiratory suction and
      inhalations to identify elastic properties within the range normally present in intensive
      care patients.

      Aim:

      The aim of the studies is to be able to evaluate lung function during intensive care with new
      noninvasive measurement methods such as measuring transpulmonary pressure and calculating
      lung drive pressure, to evaluate lung function during intensive care in order to try to find
      optimal methods for gentle but effective ventilation of critically ill patients. Studies have
      previously shown that more gentle respiratory treatment can reduce mortality in
      respiratory-treated intensive care patients. The development and adaptation of new methods
      for respiratory treatment and monitoring, can offer better decision support when adjusting
      airway pressure and volumes, which may ultimately lead to improvements in the form of shorter
      respiratory time and reduced mortality in respiratory patients. An additional aim is to map
      normal values of the elastance of the lung ("stiffness") on a population of normal lungs in
      lung-healthy patients who are sedated for planned surgery.

      Main issues:

        1. Is the measurement with the PEEP step up and down procedure sufficient to accurately
           present the lung pressure/volume curve and the transpulmonary drive pressure in
           respiratory-treated patient populations in surgery and ICU?

        2. Is it possible to collect data on a normal population of lung-healthy patients who are
           sedated for operative surgery as well as in intensive care patients with different
           degrees of lung failure with the intention of mapping pulmonary elastance/transpulmonary
           drive pressure and changes in these parameters at initiation of and during respiratory
           treatment?

      Methods:

      The PEEP-step method for determining lung elastane: The elastic properties of the lung are
      measured by increasing PEEP from the clinical baseline level and then lowering the
      measurement procedure by setting the breath volume to correspond to the lung volume increase
      that occurs during the PEEP increase. PEEP and tidal volume changes are very common routine
      measures in both general anesthesia and intensive care. So far, all analysis has been done
      through manual calculations off-line, but now the measurement procedure and calculations must
      be automated as far as possible and the transpulmonal drive pressure is presented breath by
      breath in order to be used for the individualization of the ventilator treatment bedside.
      This automation is performed in the form of software development. This work is ongoing and
      expected to be completed in August 2020. Then the PEEP-step method can be implemented and
      tested in the clinic.

      During ten years, in two doctoral theses and four validation studies and additional lung
      model studies, the investigators have developed an alternative method for measuring the
      transpulmonary drive pressure, which does not require oesophageal pressure measurement, but
      only to make a change in the end expiratory pressure (PEEP) in the ventilator and determine
      the resulting lung volume increase (DEELV) using the ventilator's volume measurement. The
      elastic properties of the lung (lung elastane, EL) are calculated as DPEEP/DEELV and then the
      transpulmonary drive pressure is calculated as the volume of breath of the lung elastance, EL
      x VT. The above additional measurement methods have been evaluated during the last 15 years.
      Measurement methods collects data from standard monitoring equipment used in clinical
      anesthesiological practice since the 1980s.

      Protocol:

      The study is a longitudinal observational study. Measurements will be performed before,
      during and after respiratory treatment in patients in intensive care units and in surgical
      units. The measurements take place during the respiratory care period with focus on
      variations in lung mechanics before and after the procedures included in the clinical routine
      regarding respiratory settings and other care. Noninvasive measurement methods will be used
      (see above) of which no one has a negative impact on the patient. Physiological data will be
      collected from blood gas analyses and monitoring equipment. The monitoring equipment will be
      connected to a laptop with software that collects continuous clinical data for analysis.

      Informed consent: 1) Adult patients who are about to undergo surgery will be consulted at the
      preoperative assessment approximately 1-2 weeks before surgery about their participation. 2)
      In adult intensive care patients treated with respiratory therapy, surrogate consent will be
      prompted. Since it is not previously predicted which patients will be treated on a ventilator
      in the intensive care unit, the patient's relatives will be asked for informed consent.

      For key-references, se References
    
  