
    
      The proposed outcomes study is a prospective, randomized, multicenter, single blind,
      non-inferiority clinical trial comparing the safety and efficacy of deep brain stimulation
      therapy applied in a community-based model for 62 subjects with Parkinson's disease
      appropriate for STN DBS therapy.

      Eight community-based private neurology practices will be networked to Vanderbilt University
      Medical Center (VUMC). Neurologists for each practice will attend structured educational
      programs offered by Medtronic in the identification, selection, and management of Parkinson's
      disease patients with DBS therapy. Following this educational program, each practice will
      identify subjects for implantation VUMC. Following screening and baseline visits at VUMC,
      appropriate patients will be implanted with bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain
      stimulating therapy. The initial post-operative programming will be done at VUMC four weeks
      after implantation. 8 subjects will then be equally randomized with half being followed for
      long-term management by the community-based neurologist. The other half will be followed at
      VUMC.

      All subsequent outpatient evaluation management of medications and deep brain stimulation
      will be managed per standard of care at the location assigned by randomization,
      community-based private neurology practice or VUMC.

      All subjects will be enrolled during the first 24 months of the study. Follow-up evaluations
      at 12 months will be performed at VUMC. Each patient identified by the community-based
      neurologist for implantation will be assessed at VUMC. This assessment will include a
      videotaped off and on UPDRS III rating, neuropsychological testing, and appropriateness as
      outlined in the patient selection educational program. Patients will be implanted by
      bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation therapy within 120 days of their initial
      assessment. The initial post-operative programming will be performed four weeks
      post-operatively, this is all standard of care.

      Subjects will then be randomized to be either managed by their community-based neurologist or
      at VUMC. Follow-up evaluations at 12 months will include a videotaped on and off UPDRS rating
      and neuropsychological testing, anti-parkinson medication dosages, and quality of life
      measures.
    
  