
    
      Adult diabetic patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) stage 4+ (estimated GFR using the
      Modification of Diet in Renal Disease 4-variable, MDRD4, formula <30 mL/min per year), with
      stable renal function (historical reduction of eGFR of < 10 ml/min-year), proteinuria > 3g/g
      creatininuria and good nutritional status (SGA A) will be enrolled. Patients with evidence of
      active kidney disease (except proteinuria), with indication of etiological or pathogenic
      treatment, those with poor control of diabetes (HbA1c >8%), those with uncontrolled high
      blood pressure (≥155/85 mmHg), those with significant co-morbidities (heart failure, active
      liver disease, malabsorption, active infections, inflammatory diseases requiring
      corticosteroids), those with uremic symptoms (pericarditis, digestive disorders ) or
      malnutrition (SGA B or C, serum albumin < 3.5 g/dl) will be excluded.

      Eligible patients will enter a run-in phase (3 mo), when mild protein restriction (0.8g/kg
      dry ideal bw) will be initiated and compliance will be evaluated twice monthly.

      Those who will prove compliant during the run-in phase and still fulfill the selection
      criteria will be randomized 1:1 (computer-generated numbers) to receive the low protein diet
      (0.6 g/kg-day, mainly vegetarian) supplemented with ketoanalogues of essential amino-acids
      (Ketosteril 1 tb/10 kg dry bw) or to continue the mild protein restriction (0.8 g/kg-day).

      The total recommended energy intake is of 30 kcal/kg of ideal dry body weight per day in all
      patients.

      The primary composite endpoint is the need for RRT initiation or a more than 50% reduction in
      the initial eGFR any time during the assessment phase. The decision to initiate RRT will be
      made by the Ethical Committee of the Hospital, based on the clinical and laboratory data.

      The need for RRT initiation, the quality of life [assessed by the Short Form-36 (SF-36)
      Questionnaire], the decline in GFR and the correction of metabolic complications of CKD
      [serum levels of urea, calcium, phosphates, serum parathyroid hormone levels, bicarbonate,
      potassium] will be secondary efficacy parameters.

      Parameters of nutritional status (SGA, anthropometric and biochemical parameters), compliance
      to the diet, occurrence of any adverse event and the number of withdrawals will be safety
      variables.

      All the parameters will be assessed at baseline, throughout the intervention phase and at end
      of the study.
    
  