
    
      The proper implementation of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) has the potential to improve
      health care quality and reduce costs by promoting the use of evidence-based interventions.
      However, these benefits vary largely according to the way CPGs are put into effect. The
      behavior of physicians towards CPGs is a determining factor in their successful
      implementation. It has been suggested that physicians have difficulties in memorizing and
      processing the complex information contained in CPGs.

      Computer-Based Clinical Decision Support Systems (CDSSs) are defined as "any software
      designed to aid in clinical decision making in which characteristics of individual patients
      are matched to a computerized knowledge. These systems have shown to: improve prescribing
      practices, reduce serious medication errors, enhance the delivery of preventive care
      services, and improve adherence to recommended care standards.

      Recent evidence had also suggests that mobile technologies could provide an effective
      approach in order to allow these Decision Support Systems to be implemented (Mobile Decision
      Support Systems, MDSS) without requiring personal computers or its integration into other
      clinical information systems.

      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a global major medical and public health challenge, accounting for
      881.000 deaths annually. Evidence-based CRC screening strategies have shown to be effective
      in reducing CRC mortality. Hence, the majority of CRC deaths are believed to be the result of
      CRC screening process breakdowns. Multiple studies report overuse and underuse of
      colonoscopy, as well as poor physician's knowledge about CRC screening CPG's and their
      inability to apply them in daily clinical practice. All these factors may threaten the
      effectiveness of CRC screening programs.

      The above mentioned problematic added to recent evidence showing a strong willingness of the
      physicians to use mobile-based apps in order to assist them in making guideline-concordant
      recommendations, motivated us to satisfy this need and we developed the first MDSS(CaPtyVa
      CCR app), to assist physicians in the CRC screening and surveillance task process.

      The aim of this prospective study is to evaluate whether a MDSS (CaPtyVa CCR app) improves
      gastroenterology and coloproctology specialist's performance in CRC screening and
      surveillance according to local current guidelines

      A prospective, nationwide, single blinded, randomized study will be conducted. A 10-question
      anonymous survey was created with CRC screening and surveillance clinical vignettes
      reflecting real life daily practice scenarios. After the question were developed, they were
      pre-tested and discussed for content and clarity by three experienced gastroenterologists.
      Gastroenterologists and coloproctologists; randomly selected will be invited by e-mail to
      participate in this study between May 2020 and June 2020.
    
  