
    
      Cardiac arrest is an important health problem and cause death all over the world. In the
      event of an arrest, the initiation of emergency resuscitation increases survival rates by
      3-fold. Although basic life support is vital, unfortunately the level of knowledge on the
      subject is quite low. When the nursing programs are examined, it is seen that the first aid
      emergency care course is included in the nursing undergraduate education plan of Higher
      Education Institutions Core Program. It is seen that theoretical and clinical applications
      are carried out in the scope of First Aid and Emergency Care Nursing course.

      Clinical practice is an essential part of nursing education. However, during clinical
      practice, factors such as inadequacy of clinical application areas, not feeling ready for
      students, fear of harming the patient and making mistakes, increasing student / instructor
      ratio increase the anxiety levels of students and thus prevent students from making patient
      care correctly and completely. During clinical practice, students should realize their
      practices by paying attention to the values and rights of the patients and it is very
      important to ensure patient safety.

      Technological advances, which allow for the recurrence of clinical skills and the opportunity
      to experience rare clinical conditions, enable students to work with models that act as real
      patients in environments similar to actual clinical settings. While providing this, it is a
      teaching method that maintains the safety of the patient, improves the ability of skill by
      learning and provides learning opportunity without fear of harm to the patient. However,
      there are many positive features such as increasing students' motivation, encouraging
      learning and increasing self-confidence. Computer-aided simulation and virtual reality
      applications developed within the scope of experience-based teaching design are enriched with
      feedback and increase learning outcomes. Considering all these, the use of simulation
      practices and tools in nursing education is rapidly increasing.

      The didactic teaching and learned procedures, which are among the various advantages of
      simulations, are considered as a learning tool that will increase the success in healthcare
      practices, thanks to the opportunity to apply them to patients. However, expensive simulators
      that are dependent on teaching in terms of design, space and feedback have accessibility
      problems. For this reason, this study has been planned in order to determine the method
      required to ensure effective education of vital first aid applications and firstly the basic
      life support application and to determine the most effective method to ensure the best
      integration into education in this rapidly advancing period of technology.
    
  