
    
      This study compares pharmacy-based medication assisted treatment (MAT) with usual care MAT.
      This will be the first study to use a randomized controlled trial design to test the
      multisite implementation of known effective interventions to treat opioid use disorder and
      prevent fatal opioid overdose (treatment with buprenorphine and natlrexone) in a community
      pharmacy setting. Understanding how this model can improve engagement in care within
      innovative systems of MAT delivery like the Rhode Island Centers of Excellence in MAT model
      as well as the more traditional office based opioid therapy (OBOT) arrangement, and for
      patients with shorter and longer time on stabilized MAT doses advances the science of
      addiction health services.

      This study presents an opportunity to compare clinical outcomes of patients randomized to
      receive the same medications but in different settings that are equipped with differing
      levels of counseling expectations and access to wrap-around services. In this way, the trial
      helps to inform whether-and for whom--the limited support services in the pharmacy are
      sufficient to engage and retain patients in MAT, or if ready access to comprehensive services
      are necessary. Approximately 86% of Americans live within 5 miles of a pharmacy, making
      pharmacists the most accessible health care professionals. This model could redefine the role
      of the pharmacy.

      The completed initial phase of the study (Phase 1) involved a pilot of the pharmacy MAT care
      model. The current phase of the study (Phase 2) is a randomized controlled trial comparing
      the pharmacy MAT care model to usual MAT care.

      The aim of the current phase is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of 250
      medication-stabilized (with BNX or NTX) patients with OUD receiving MAT care in Rhode Island,
      comparing engagement and clinical outcomes for patients followed up in a usual care model to
      those maintained and followed up in a pharmacy MAT care model.
    
  