
    
      Nabilone and an anti-inflammatory diet are two novel treatments that may be beneficial for
      managing Neuropathic Pain (NP) after Spinal Cord Injury (SCI).

      Neuropathic pain is a common complication following SCI that significantly decreases quality
      of life. Treatment options are limited, and current treatments can have significant side
      effects. Those with SCI have identified a need for additional treatment options, particularly
      those that are not medications. Cannabinoids and an anti-inflammatory diet may provide pain
      relief while being better tolerated.

      The Co- Sponsor Investigators will test the potential benefits of these treatments for
      neuropathic pain after SCI.

      Clinically, cannabinoids have been shown to be effective in the management of central NP
      after multiple sclerosis (MS), and although they have been trialed for a variety of
      complications after SCI, direct evidence for their ability to manage NP in this population is
      limited. Further, no studies have evaluated the efficacy of synthetic cannabinoids (nabilone)
      for the treatment of NP after SCI. Accordingly, the CanPainSCI Clinical Practice Guidelines
      concluded that the evidence is insufficient to develop a specific recommendation regarding
      cannabinoids in the treatment of NP after SCI. In addition, relevant side effects for those
      with SCI have not been well documented. Despite this, cannabinoids have been increasingly
      used as a treatment option for NP after SCI, particularly given increased access to, and
      greater societal acceptance of, cannabinoids in general. Studies that evaluate the
      effectiveness and side effects of cannabinoids and synthetic cannabinoids in the SCI
      population are therefore urgently needed.

      An anti-inflammatory diet has recently shown promise in the management of NP after SCI. An
      RCT comparing an anti-inflammatory diet to placebo identified a reduction in sensory NP
      symptoms following SCI. This RCT was done in a general population of SCI patients and did not
      necessarily select those who were experiencing significant neuropathic pain. Therefore,
      additional evidence to demonstrate treatment effect will be important to justify widespread
      adoption of this diet for NP after SCI.

      The study will collect data on a sample of up to 140 patients with SCI and at- and/or
      below-level neuropathic pain >3/10 in severity on the numeric rating scale.

      The Principal Investigators will assess the treatment's effects on quality of life and pain
      management. If the study is successful, the results (and an evaluation of the process) will
      be used to inform an affordable and sustainable anti-inflammatory nutrition program to be
      implemented at Power Cord. This nutrition program will also be widely disseminated and
      potentially act as a template for similar programs In SCI care centres across Canada.

      This study will assess blood samples at three time points for analysis of pro and
      anti-inflammatory markers. The research coordinator (blinded to the randomization) will
      assess patients using various quality of life and pain assessment questionnaires during
      clinic visits, at home or by telephone interview.

      The type, level, and completeness of injury will be documented, and, if necessary, updated at
      each in-person visit. Each participant will be provided with instructions and study schedule.
      Protocol compliance will be tested through product count and interviews at each follow-up
      visit. Side effects will be assessed using standardized case report forms at each visit.
      Study visits may be in person or over the phone. Participants will be encouraged to report
      any events they may experience directly to the coordinator.

      Participants who withdraw consent to continue treatments, will be encouraged to undergo the
      planned assessments. Withdrawal at the request of investigators or medical personnel may
      include, but are not limited to:

        1. Symptoms are deemed to be potentially related to the study product

        2. New diagnosis of exclusion criteria;

        3. Unacceptable side effects;

        4. Death

      Estimated time to complete recruitment: Averaging 36 months, approximately 3 years.
    
  