
    
      This study will be led by Dr Alan Mackie at the Institute of Food Research and supported by
      Dr Paul Malcolm at the Radiology Department at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital
      Foundation Trust (NNUHFT) and meals will be prepared under the supervision of Dr Frances
      Bligh at Unilever Research.

      The recruitment of participants will be carried out by Alan Mackie at the Institute of Food
      Research in Norwich. Four apparently healthy participants will be recruited onto the study.
      Apparently healthy male participants with BMI between 19 and 35 will be recruited either by
      advertisement or identified from the Institute of Food Research (IFR) Human Nutrition Unit
      (HNU) Volunteer Database.

      Preliminary telephone interview with Alan Mackie, the chief investigator will establish
      inclusion/exclusion criteria of potential participants who respond to the advertisement
      and/or the invitation letter. Potential participants will be invited to attend an interview
      at the HNU at IFR to meet the chief investigator to discuss the study protocol, test meals
      and to ask any question they have about the study. They will then have a minimum of 72 hours
      to consider their participation. They will be asked to contact the chief investigator if they
      are still interested and they will not be contacted by anyone from the research team during
      this time.

      After the participant's response, a next visit will be arranged at the IFR HNU to obtain
      written consent (Annex 4) and complete an MRI safety questionnaire (Annex 10). The consent
      will be taken by the Chief Investigator or Senior Research Nurse. Participants consent is a
      requirement of the screening procedure, during which weight, height and blood pressure will
      be assessed. Enrollment is contingent on a screening questionnaire (Annex 5) and simple
      screening (urine dipstick), carried out by the HNU research nurse.

      If a participant decides to join the study, the appointment will be made for their Study Test
      Day at the Radiology Department at the NNUHFT.

      On each study day participants will be asked to eat their breakfast at home (before 09:00).
      The breakfast meal should be recorded (Annex 6) so that it can be repeated on the second
      visit. They may drink water as much as they need but only until 10am. They will subsequently
      not be allowed any food or drink.

      The study involves participants attending the Radiology Department at the NNUHFT on two
      separate occasions to consume a test meal (allocated at random)and undergoing 11 MRI scans of
      the abdomen on each of the two test days.

      On each day, after initial formalities, including checking the MRI patient safety
      questionnaire and changing into a surgical gown, each participant will undergo the first MRI
      scan (baseline measurement) and complete a VAS questionnaire. If the baseline scan shows
      significant content as a result of consumption of food after 09:00 then the participant will
      be rescheduled. The participant will then be asked to consume the meal, allocated at random.
      The meal will be plated out and consumed in an appropriate room adjacent to the MRI facility.
      Immediately after the meal has been consumed the second MRI scan will be performed with
      subsequent scans being undertaken as laid out in the protocol. For each measurement the
      participant will lie on the scanner table positioned beneath the torsophased array surface
      coil placed over the upper abdomen. A breath hold scan will be performed to determine stomach
      position before the full imaging session. Each scanning session takes approximately 5
      minutes, in between scans the participant will sit just outside the scanner room. The
      participants will be asked to repeatedly complete a VAS satiety questionnaire. The timing of
      these will be predetermined and is given in the protocol.

      There will be 1 more study day, similar to Day 1, carried out at least 7 days apart with a
      different test meal on each occasion (in random order).
    
  