
    
      The study drug PVSRIPO is the live attenuated, oral (Sabin) serotype 1 poliovirus vaccine
      containing a heterologous internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) derived from the human
      rhinovirus type 2 (HRV2). The purpose of this pilot study is to examine PVSRIPO bioactivity
      in tumor tissue after intratumoral administration of PVSRIPO in women with invasive breast
      cancer. The hypothesis is that administration of PVSRIPO in the tumor causes inflammation,
      which stimulates innate and adaptive immune activation in invasive breast cancer. Enrollment
      target will include six women with invasive breast cancer. Women with stage II-IV invasive
      breast cancer with at least 1 cm of residual tumor after chemotherapy and scheduled for
      standard of care surgery will be eligible.

      The objective of the study is to investigate PVSRIPO-mediated inflammation and immunity in
      women invasive breast cancer. The primary exploratory objective is to describe the change in
      the amount of tumor infiltrating immune cells in tumor tissue pre- and post-injection of
      PVSRIPO by H&E (Haemotoxylin and Eosin).

      Other exploratory objectives are: 1.) to examine tumor tissue pre- and post-injection of
      PVSRIPO for inflammatory and immune signature using arrays, CD155 expression by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), immune cell infiltrate by IHC and tumor infiltrating immune cells
      using flow cytometry (post-injection only); and 2) To examine blood for inflammatory and
      immune signature using arrays, immune cell composition (antigen presenting cells, B cells and
      T cells), T cell activation by flow cytometry and B cell activation by ELISA and peptide
      arrays. Blood will be collected on day -7 (before polio vaccine booster), day 0 (before
      PVSRIPO injection), day 2 (after PVSRIPO), day 14 (after PVSRIPO before surgery), and in
      follow-up at months 1 and 6 post-PVSRIPO.
    
  