
    
      Loss of walking ability is a one of the major problem after stroke and recovery of walking is
      a priority goal for most patients. Several studies demonstrated that rehabilitation could be
      an effective treatment on improving gait following stroke. Learning to walk backwards
      correctly has been recommended to improve the movement components required for walking
      forwards. Backward walking, therefore, has been promoted as a treatment strategy to improve
      gait. During backward walking the same motor programme is used as during forward walking, but
      possibly running in reverse. It has been suggested that backward walking may offer some
      benefits beyond those experienced through forward walking alone. Backward walking appears to
      create more muscle activity in proportion to effort than forward walking. This suggests a
      greater level of energy expenditure in backward walking than in forward walking.
      Additionally, backward walking also demands a greater oxygen consumption, metabolic response
      and cardiorespiratory than forward walking. Up to our knowledge, only two studies
      demonstrated the positive effects of an additional backward walking training in post stroke
      patients. Yang and coll. examined the effectiveness of additional backward walking training
      on gait outcome of 25 subacute stroke patients and they demonstrated that asymmetric gait
      pattern could improve. In a recently study, a randomized control trail was conducted on 36
      acute stroke patients evaluating the efficacy of a walk backwards on a treadmill. The
      patients were randomly allocated to three groups and they received 3 weeks of intervention:
      first group (n=12) underwent partial body weight support treadmill training in backwards, the
      second group (n=12) received partial body weight support treadmill training and the third
      group underwent conventional rehabilitation training. The results showed significant
      improvements in walking speed and in the rivermead Mobility Index, suggesting that Partial
      Body Weight Support treadmill backward training for patients in the early phase of acute
      stroke is effective at improving mobility.

      Recently, gait rehabilitation methods in patients with neurological impairment have relied on
      technological devices, which drive the patient's gait in a body-weight support condition and
      emphasize the beneficial role of repetitive practice. The rationale for these approaches
      originates from animal studies which have shown that repetition of gait movements may enhance
      spinal and supraspinal locomotor circuits.

      Two reviews concludes that treadmill training with partial body weight support is effective
      to improve walking speed and endurance without worsening gait quality
    
  