
    
      This is a single-arm, open-label Phase II multi-institutional trial in 30 patients that have
      been molecularly selected based on that their tumors possess alterations in molecular targets
      of cabozantinib. Patients will be treated be continuously until they develop radiographic
      progression or discontinue cabozantinib for toxicity. If 6 or more out of 12 subjects with
      particular mutation or gene amplification show progression prior to 6 months, accrual for the
      particular genomic alteration may close. In addition, a series of correlative studies will be
      performed including tissue biopsies in order to further define the mechanisms of cabozantinib
      anti-tumor action in prostate cancer and identify surrogate markers of response.

      This research study is being done because additional effective treatments are needed for
      prostate cancer that has spread and is growing despite hormone suppression. Prior studies
      indicate that Cabozantinib may be effective in a subset of these participants, but that has
      not yet been determined.

      About 30 subjects will take part in this study at 4 participating sites. We expect to enroll
      approximately 20 participants at Weill Cornell Medicine and approximately 3-5 subjects per
      participating site. All subjects participating in this study will be treated with
      Cabozantinib. All subjects will continue to take LHRH analogue therapy.

      Once eligible participants will be enrolled on the trial for approximately approximately 12
      months. At that point, subjects will switch to long-term follow up for two years after
      removal from the study or until death, whichever occurs first.

      Study related procedures can be combined with routine Standard of Care (SOC) visits. These
      will include obtaining medical history, vitals, routine blood collection, radiographic
      imaging (CT, MRI and Bone scan), EKG and between 2 and 4 weeks after starting therapy, a
      tumor biopsy is required. This will be done with a needle by local sedation by an
      Interventional Radiologist.
    
  