
    
      Despite extremely close attention to aseptic technique and the use of prophylactic IV
      antibiotics, wound infection rates for posterior instrumented spinal surgery have been as
      high as ~20% in published studies[4-13]. Such infections can be devastating for patients,
      frequently requiring multiple re-operations to remove and then replace spinal implants,
      lengthy hospital stays, prolonged courses of intravenous antibiotics, pain, immobility, and
      increased risk of other complications. While the cost of the initial surgical episode can be
      upwards of $250,000, the total cost of care can increase to more than quadruple this number
      when complications like wound infection occur[14, 15]. Given the impetus to decrease
      healthcare costs and a federal reimbursement policy denying payment for any care surrounding
      a wound infection, it is critical to search for cost-effective ways of preventing surgical
      wound infections[14, 16].

      For several decades the standard of care in North America for surgical wound infection
      prophylaxis has been IV cephalosporin administration within one hour of incision, followed by
      interval IV dosing for 24 to 48hrs post-procedure[5, 13]. In some settings these antibiotics
      now effectively treat less than half of identified infection-causing organisms[17, 18]. In
      response, some groups of surgeons, including at the investigators' own institution, have
      begun placing lyophilized Vancomycin into the surgical wound bed at the conclusion of the
      procedure in an effort to further reduce wound infection rates[1-3]. The rationale behind
      this intrasite antibiotic application is to increase local concentrations of antibiotic to
      many times the minimally inhibitory concentration (MIC) for even moderately-resistant
      gram-positive organisms, thereby increasing the bacterial kill rate[3]. It is also thought
      that local antibiotic application should minimize blood concentrations of the drug, thereby
      minimizing systemic complications like renal toxicity. Additionally, it is hypothesized that
      intrasite antibiotic therapy could be less inclined to generate resistant organisms due to a
      steep concentration gradient from the wound to the systemic circulation. The site of
      potential infection (the wound) receives a dose of antibiotic vastly exceeding the saturation
      concentration for bactericidal effect while the systemic concentration remains extremely low.
      Bacteria should therefore be completely exterminated in the area of the wound or elsewhere
      exposed to such a minimal concentration of Vancomycin that selection for resistant organisms
      is avoided.

      While none of these hypotheses have been rigorously or prospectively tested, three
      retrospective studies have recently published a total of 2,479 spinal fusion patients treated
      with intrasite Vancomycin for wound infection prophylaxis[1-3]. The largest of these studies
      demonstrated a 0.99% infection rate in the treatment group, among the lowest rates ever
      published[1]. Two of the studies showed large and statistically significant decreases in the
      wound infection rate, compared to historical controls, when using intrasite Vancomycin in
      addition to standard of care IV cephalosporins. Preliminary evidence in one study also
      indicated high levels of Vancomycin within the wound and low or undetectable levels within
      the blood following surgery[3]. All of these studies specifically cited that no adverse
      events had been observed related to the treatment[1-3].

      If intrasite Vancomycin proves to be safe and effective for preventing spinal fusion surgical
      site infections, the treatment will offer great clinical value both for reducing morbidity
      and also for decreasing large unsupported costs. A future large prospective efficacy trial
      would be required to provide high-level evidence for this new mode of antibiotic therapy in
      order to justify wide-spread adoption of the practice in spine surgery. Such data in any
      population might also be generalizable to surgical wounds at large and prompt a paradigm
      shift in infection prophylaxis for all types of surgical wounds. The proposed study addresses
      necessary prerequisites for such a large-scale efficacy trial, including basic
      pharmacokinetic and preliminary prospective safety data.
    
  