
    
      This is a prospective observational study of usual care of patients undergoing treatment for
      schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder at CBHOs. Up to 50 CBHOs will be selected as sites for
      this study. Treating clinicians at these sites will notify the designated research
      coordinators for this study when they are initiating a patient on a new antipsychotic
      medication (including risperidone long acting injectable or paliperidone palmitate) or if
      they are treating a patient with risperidone long acting injectable or paliperidone
      palmitate. New initiation will include patients not previously on any antipsychotic
      medication as well as those switched from one antipsychotic to another. Switches may include
      but are not limited to switches among different types of oral antipsychotics, from an oral
      antipsychotic to Long Acting Therapy (LAT), or from LAT to an oral antipsychotic. Site
      research staff will screen potential participants identified by the clinicians and enroll
      those meeting study criteria who consent to study participation. Sites will maintain a
      screening log of all potential participants. The target enrollment for this study is up to
      2,450 participants. Enrollment by cohort will be monitored and sites will be notified to stop
      enrollment if target enrollment for a particular cohort has been reached. Eligible
      participants who consent to the study will be recruited into one of two samples: participants
      with a schizophrenia diagnosis (target n=2,250) and participants with a bipolar I disorder
      diagnosis (target n=200). There will be four cohorts: risperidone long acting injectable new
      starts (target n=475); risperidone long acting injectable continuous users (target n=75);
      paliperidone palmitate new starts or continuous users (target n=1,200); and other
      antipsychotic new starts (target n=700). During the entire study follow-up period
      participants will receive their medication per usual care in their treatment setting and no
      study drug will be provided. Enrolled participants will be followed prospectively over a
      12-month study period, with interviews at baseline, 6 and 12 months. Sites will also abstract
      medical history and healthcare utilization information from the chart of each enrolled
      participant. There will be three chart abstractions (baseline, 6 Months, 12 Months). The
      baseline abstraction will cover services rendered in the 6 months prior to antipsychotic
      initiation or switch, or from their first visit to the CBHO if the individual did not receive
      services for as long as 6 months prior to initiation or switch. The 6M and 12M abstractions
      will each cover services rendered in the prior 6 months. When all three abstractions are
      complete, the data will cover the period from 6 months before baseline to 12 months after
      baseline. If a Serious Adverse Event (SAE) associated with a J&J medicinal product occurs the
      investigator will record it in the source document as well as fax the SAE form to J&J
      internal safety group within 24 hours. Treatment as usual
    
  