
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a
      specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved mirvetuximab soravtansine as
      a treatment for any disease.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved pembrolizumab for this
      specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      In this research study, the investigators are studying the combination of mirvetuximab
      soravtansine and pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab is an immunotherapy that activates a patient's
      own immune system to recognize and kill tumor cells. Pembrolizumab by itself may not be
      enough to kill cancer cells in all people with cancer. In this study, all patients will
      receive mirvetuximab soravtansine and pembrolizumab. Mirvetuximab soravtansine is an
      antibody-drug conjugate. That is a type of agent that attaches a chemotherapy drug to a
      molecule that binds a protein on the outside of cancer cells. The protein targeted by
      mirvetuximab soravtansine is called folate receptor-alpha (FRα). FRα is expressed on the
      surface of certain cancers, including endometrial cancer cells. Mirvetuximab soravtansine is
      expected to kill cancer cells by delivering chemotherapy to cells that have high levels of
      FRα. To participate in this study, a sample of your tumor was previously tested, and was
      found to have high levels of FRα. Mirvetuximab soravtansine also may also active immune cells
      and improve the response to immunotherapies like pembrolizumab.

      In this study, the investigators expect to learn whether the combination of pembrolizumab and
      mirvetuximab soravtansine can shrink endometrial cancers or prevent their growth for at least
      6 months. The investigators will also learn more about the side effects patients experience
      who receive this treatment. The investigators also plan to learn more about which patients
      are likely to benefit from this treatment
    
  