
    
      Background

      The Monoamine Deficiency Hypothesis is one of the most solid theories of the neurobiology of
      mood, anxiety disorder, and addiction. There is increasing evidence that monoamine deficiency
      also plays an important role in bulimia nervosa. Many indications revealed a disturbance of
      the catecholamine system in bulimia nervosa. In symptomatic bulimic patients, the
      concentration of norepinephrine and dopamine in cerebrospinal fluid and peripheral blood was
      lower than in healthy controls. The neurotransmitter dopamine is thought to be importantly
      involved in the processing of rewarding stimuli.

      One instructive paradigm for investigating the relationship between catecholaminergic
      function and psychiatric disorders has involved the behavioral response to catecholamine
      depletion achieved by oral administration of alpha-methyl-paratyrosine (AMPT). This
      medication is a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor and, therefore, it reduces availability of
      catecholamines in the brain by depleting central norepinephrine and dopamine stores. A
      relatively large interindividual variation in the response to catecholamine depletion has
      been consistently observed. Genetic factors may conceivably contribute to this variation. The
      COMT val-158-met polymorphism was found to play a critical role for the activity of the
      enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) that metabolizes catecholamines after they have
      been released into the synaptic cleft. The enzyme activity in individuals homozygous for the
      val-158 allele is about 40% higher than in homozygotes of the met-158 allele. A high activity
      of this enzyme is thought to be associated with a higher reduction of catecholamines,
      particularly of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex.

      In a previous study Gregor Hasler and colleagues were the first to use catecholamine
      depletion to evaluate the roles played by norepinephrine and dopamine in the pathophysiology
      of bulimia nervosa. The results of this study revealed that under catecholamine depletion
      remitted bulimic participants showed dysfunctions in motivated behavior in a reward task. In
      addition this study provided preliminary evidence that COMT val-158-met polymorphism explains
      some of the variance in the behavioral response to catecholamine depletion. However, in
      eating disorders, the pathway leading from genetic polymorphism to neural activity to
      neuropsychological abnormalities to risk of eating disorders remains to be determined.

      With this new study the investigators want to investigate the neural substrate of the induced
      bulimia-associated neuropsychological abnormalities with functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI). An additional goal is to examine the effect of the COMT val-158-met
      polymorphism on neural activity.

      In the following the investigators will present their central hypotheses:

        1. Remitted bulimic participants will reveal impairments in motivated behavior and abnormal
           neural activation in a reward task following catecholamine depletion.

        2. Remitted bulimic participants will show increased amygdala activation during encoding of
           negative pictures under catecholamine depletion.

        3. Participants with homozygous val-158 alleles of the COMT val-158-met polymorphism will
           show an increased activation in the ventral striatum during a reward task.

        4. Participants with at least one met-158 allele of the COMT val-158-met polymorphism will
           show higher amygdala activation during the encoding of negative emotional visual
           information.

      Objective

      This study will further elucidate the etiology and pathophysiology of bulimia nervosa at
      various levels, ranging from the role of a specific genetic factor to the activity of
      specific neural networks to neuropsychological abnormalities and clinical symptoms. It may
      provide important insights into a specific pathogenetic pathway of bulimia nervosa related to
      the catecholaminergic in particular to the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system. Since a
      range of drugs targeting this neurotransmitter system are available, this study may directly
      inform the development of novel therapeutic strategies tailored to individual patients.

      Methods

      Remitted bulimic and healthy control participants will be enrolled into a double-blind,
      placebo-controlled cross-over catecholamine/sham depletion study.

      The initial assessment comprises physical examinations, a structured psychiatric interview,
      clinical ratings and neuropsychological testing.

      Catecholamine depletion will be induced by administration of AMPT over 24 hours. Sham
      depletion includes diphenhydramine at the first medication intake time point because AMPT
      mostly induce mild sedation.

      Based on previous reports, the investigators expect maximal depletion 30 hours after the
      first dose AMPT. Blood samples will be taken at that time to measure serum prolactin levels
      as a proxy of catecholamine synthesis. Behavioral experiments (tasks assessing reward and
      emotional processing) will be conducted in a MR-scanner. The participants will complete
      various self-report ratings before the first, during and after medication intake.
    
  