
    
      Background:

        -  A growing number of mobile health solutions are enabling the tracking, diagnosis, and
           management of various physiological processes and disease conditions, and many common
           devices such as smartphones (e.g., iPhone) have integrated robust sensors to collect and
           track this data.

        -  The two most commonly used tools in oncology include the Eastern Cooperative Oncology
           Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) and Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) scales that
           were invented more than 50 years ago.

        -  Although standard performance status (PS) measurements are simple to implement in the
           clinic, they are retrospective, subject to bias and limitations including intra- or
           inter-observer variability, they are intermittent, providing a snapshot of the patients
           status at the time of assessment, they are largely subjective, relying on physician
           judgement and patients ability to recall events and describe their symptoms. Also the
           inability to retrospectively verify or confirm the accuracy of PS assessment is another
           limitation.

        -  The benefits to patient care of knowing the accurate PS are extensive, including making
           the right treatment decision based on the side effect profile, and survival benefit and
           eligibility on clinical trials.

        -  Biometric data can also play a role in empowering patients to become active participants
           in their own care, by providing them with quantitative feedback on activities of daily
           living and other functions.

        -  There are some studies exploring the accuracy of available electronic activity
           monitoring systems (EAM), but the available data on use of EAM systems in oncology
           patients is limited.

        -  Continuous biometric data can provide actionable insights into fluctuations in not only
           the activity level of cancer patients, but also their cognitive function and mood
           throughout treatment episodes.

        -  Given the current limitations in the overall clinical evaluation of cancer patients, the
           use of remote sensor technologies can provide an objective, frequent, and near-real time
           stream of data in a machine-readable format that is free of human bias and can greatly
           enhance the ability of both clinicians and patients to manage the complexities of cancer
           care.

      Objective:

      -Determine the feasibility of using an Apple iPhone alone or in conjunction with an Apple
      Watch to collect data from patients with cancer to assess their fatigue, acoustic
      neurotoxicity, and cognitive status.

      Eligibility:

        -  Inclusion criteria: Male or female subjects aged greater than or equal to 18 years with
           histologically or cytologically proven malignant tumors who are under active treatment

        -  Exclusion Criteria: Active central nervous system (CNS) metastases, known current
           alcohol or drug abuse, any psychiatric condition that would prohibit the understanding
           or rendering of informed consent

      Design:

      This pilot study will be done in two arms (enrolled concurrently) on a total of 60 evaluable
      patients.

      Patients assigned to Arm 1 will have all assessments done in the clinic. A specially
      programmed iPhone, Apple Watch, an NIH iPad, and investigator conducted assessments will be
      used to collect data assessing patient fatigue, reaction time, and cognitive functioning.
      These data will be compared with data collected from questionnaires including: patient
      reported outcome (PRO)- CTCAE fatigue and mood grading, ECOG/KPS, Neuro-QOL Ability to
      Participate in Social Roles and Activities short form, the Delis-Kaplan Executive Functioning
      System, and The NIH Toolbox.

      Arm 2 of this study will be a subset of enrolled patients who have a personally-owned iPhone.
      Patients in Arm 2 will complete the same battery of assessments in the clinic as those in Arm
      1, with additional continuous measurement of their activity recorded by an Apple Watch at
      home, between clinic visits. Patients in Arms 2 will have the option of having the apps
      designed for this study installed on their personally owned iPhones so they can complete the
      app assessments at home. The Apple Watch will be given to these patients (or they may use a
      personally owned Apple Watch) who will be trained by study staff on using the device for
      continuous monitoring. Patients who agree to have the study aps installed on their personally
      owned iPhone will be trained by study staff on the use of the apps.
    
  