
    
      Procedures:

      Subjects will sign the informed consent prior to any examination procedures. Eligibility
      assessment will be performed by the treating physical therapist and will include the subject
      filling out the demographic / health history questionnaire, outcome measures, and a clinical
      examination. The treating physical therapist will use 2 components of the examination for
      eligibility criteria into the study. The treating therapist will press on the subject's
      joints in their back to try to elicit their chief complaint. The treating physical therapist
      will also press on the soft tissue of the subject's back to check for any symptomatic points.
      A symptomatic point would include recreation of their chief complaint, tenderness,
      hypersensitivity, or referred pain. The treating physical therapist will then draw an X on
      the patient's back where the most symptomatic tissue exists. This point will be used by the
      data collecting physical therapist in order to collect pain pressure threshold of the area.

      The data collecting physical therapist will have the subject complete an Oswestry Disability
      Index(ODI), gather a measure of the pain from the patient ,and the pain pressure threshold.
      Each subject will then be allocated to either the manual therapy group or the dry needling
      group.

      Once a subject is assigned to a group, they will receive either dry needling or manual
      therapy mobilizations by the treating therapist. Each subject will remain in the assigned
      group as long as they are continuing in the study up to 3 weeks. In addition to the
      treatments under investigation, a standardized home exercise program will be assigned to each
      of the subjects by the treating physical therapist. This program will be given to and
      reviewed with each subject to ensure they understand the exercises and will perform the
      exercise program 1x/day for the duration they are under the care of the physical therapist
      for the study. Subjects will be treated on day 1 of their plan of care and subsequent
      treatments will occur 2x/week for a total of 3 weeks, unless discharge occurs earlier than
      the 3 week data point. Early discharge will occur if the subject achieves resolution of
      symptoms or if they decide they no longer wish to be a research participant.

      Subsequent sessions will involve the collection of outcome data by the data-collecting
      therapist followed by treatment performed by the treating physical therapist. No adjustments
      will be made to the treatment protocol in any of the sessions. Subjects will only be
      scheduled with and treated by the same treating physical therapist each session. In the event
      that a treating physical therapist is unable to see a subject participating in the study, the
      subject will be rescheduled for a different time to receive care.
    
  