
    
      Evidence Action's Dispensers for Safe Water program currently provides access to safe water
      for two million people. The program would be able to leverage the existence of this service
      delivery platform to provide promoters with training on proper nutrition and methods for
      delivering these messages to target groups.

      The intervention is a home visiting program that will provide nutrition advice on
      complementary feeding to households with children aged 6-24 months. Two types of home visits
      will be evaluated, a 'traditional visit mode' in which the child's mother receives the visit;
      and a 'couples visit mode' in which the promoter attempts to involve both the father and
      mother.

      Households in the control group will also receive home visits by promoters but the content of
      the visit will be restricted to safe water. The same information on safe water will also be
      provided to households in the treatment group. Hence, the evaluation will measure the
      additional effect of providing nutrition information on top of information on safe water.

      Promoters will provide advice on nutrition and food hygiene to target households, according
      to criteria established by Evidence Action. Following the Guiding Principles for
      Complementary Feeding of the Breastfed Child (PAHO/WHO 2003), the intervention will include
      information on the maintenance of breastfeeding, safe/hygienic preparation and storage of
      complementary foods, amount of complementary food needed, food consistency, meal frequency
      and energy density, nutrient content of complementary foods, and feeding after illness. The
      home visits will be modelled on the MaiMwana Infant Feeding intervention
      (http://www.maimwana.malawi.net/MaiMwana/Home.html) that has been taking place in Mchinji
      (Malawi) since 2005.

      Households within the treatment group will be provided by a poster to hang in their dwellings
      with some basic information on nutrition. A random subset of households will be given a small
      poster in black and white, and the other subset of households will be give a larger color
      poster.
    
  