
    
      Evidence exists that short periods of ischaemia (lack of oxygen delivered to tissue in the
      body) can protect a local or remote area of the body from subsequent prolonged periods of
      serious ischaemia. It has been shown that substances are released into the circulation after
      short periods of ischaemia that may cause this protection. This study aims to identify some
      of these compounds.

      After participants are informed about the study and have an opportunity to ask questions,
      informed consent will be obtained. Following this, a modified Exercise and Sports Science
      Australia questionnaire and brief medical history will be obtained. Blood pressure readings,
      height, weight and waist circumference would be measured. This is to establish a picture of
      overall general health and cardiovascular risk profile.

      Those who meet the study eligibility criteria will proceed on a subsequent day to the blood
      pressure cuff inflation protocol. Consumption of caffeine or alcohol cannot be consumed
      within 4 hours prior to the protocol and participants must minimise any physical activity in
      the 4 hours prior to the protocol. After resting for 15 minutes on arrival, a baseline venous
      blood test will be taken from the dominant arm. A standard pneumatic blood pressure cuff will
      be placed around the non-dominant upper arm and inflated to 200mmHg for 5 minutes. The cuff
      will then be deflated completely for 5 minutes. This cycle will be repeated a further 3
      times, with each cycle commencing as soon as the previous one has been completed. At the end
      of the final deflation, a second venous blood sample will be taken from the arm with the
      cuff. 10 minutes after this, a final venous blood test will be taken from the dominant arm.
      Blood samples will be processed and stored appropriately until analysed by mass spectrometry.
      Changes in compounds in the cuffed limb and the opposite limb from the baseline blood sample
      will be analysed.
    
  