
    
      Knee replacement is an established treatment for late stage osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee.
      There is an increasing demand for joint replacement in a younger population. Due to the
      changing demographics of joint replacement, the population of younger patients are seeking
      options that not only correct their disease or deformity, but do not limit them in activity.
      Studies have shown that modern implant designs can potentially improve outcome. Therefore new
      implants are introduced to the marked with the theoretical benefit of improved implant
      survival and superior patient reported outcomes. Within Total knee arthroplasty, design
      changes are introduced in an attempt to improve knee kinematics, functionality and outcome,
      but those potential improvements need to be evaluated.

      The NexGen Total Knee System is a knee replacement system with well a documented performance
      and has been the device of choice in many institutions. Recently, Zimmer-Biomet have
      introduced Persona Total Knee system with design changes that include asymmetric tibia plate,
      increased medial pivoting and more extensive choices in respect to poly thickness, all with
      the purpose to improve balancing, stability and longevity. Such design changes and proposed
      benefits need to be evaluated in a prospective clinical trial, with focus on patient safety,
      satisfaction and implant durability.

      The aim is to evaluate intra-operative and postop complications, long-term survivorship and
      patient reported outcome measures following primary total knee replacement using Persona
      Cruciate Retaining (CR) total Knee system compared to NexGen Cruciate Retaining (CR) total
      Knee System.

      This project is carried out as a 2-arm randomized controlled single-blinded trial. A total of
      314 participants are to be included at 6 centers in Denmark. Participants are seen on an
      outpatient basis at 3 months and 1 and 2 years postoperatively. After 2-year follow-up the
      patients will be followed for survivorship through the Danish Knee Arthroplasty Registry.
    
  