
    
      This study has three primary objectives and one secondary objective:

      Primary Objectives

        -  To understand variation in the composition of mixed-species biofilms on voice
           prostheses, both between patients and over time within patients. This will enable us to
           target resistance to specific microbes using chemistry-based approaches in the design of
           new medical silicones and develop realistic in vitro models using relevant clinical
           isolates with which to test them.

        -  To explore the association between the incidence of specific microbes in biofilms,
           patient factors (use of antimicrobials, antacids and dentures), and increased
           device-replacement frequency.

        -  To explore whether the colonising microbes originate from the participants's oral flora.

      Secondary Objective

      • To study the interactions that occur within the social group of microbes isolated from each
      voice prosthesis to learn a) whether these species are interdependent, b) whether they
      cooperate with each other in order to build biofilms and b) which species produce compounds
      that physically degrade medical polymers.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Four hypotheses will be addressed by this study:

        1. There is a correlation between the presence of certain microbes, or mixes of microbes,
           and the frequency of device replacement;

        2. The source of the problem microbes is the participants's oral flora;

        3. Participant-related factors such as continuous exposure of the microbes to antimicrobial
           or antacid treatments, or the use of dentures, may alter the composition of device
           biofilms.

        4. Identification of problem microbes may assist in the development of new medical
           silicones that are specifically designed to resist these species.

      These hypotheses will be addressed by collection of discarded devices from participants who
      are users of voice prostheses and registered at the Speech and Voice Clinic, Aberdeen Royal
      Infirmary (up to 27 people). Participants will be requested to donate discarded devices,
      mouthwash samples and simple data on recent antimicrobial or antacid treatments, and the use
      of dentures. The microbes colonising prostheses and contained within mouthwash samples will
      be isolated and identified and the association between microbial species and patient data
      over time will be analysed. Microbes will be stored as clinical isolates and used to test
      biofilm establishment and maintenance on silicones with modified surfaces designed to reduce
      biofouling.
    
  