
    
      High quality delivery of evidence-based psychosocial interventions (EBPIs) in primary care
      medicine is a function of many variables, including clinician training and ready access to
      EBPI decision support. Importantly, quality is also driven by the clinician's ability to
      implement the therapeutic elements of EBPIs to fidelity and with competence. Even when
      clinicians undergo rigorous training, and find the intervention components useful in care,
      clinicians significantly drift from the original protocol because the processes, structure
      and elements of care frequently clash with clinician productivity and the shifting needs of
      the patient populations they serve. Clinicians in low resource settings like federally
      qualified health centers (FQHCs) report that while elements of EBPIs are important, their
      design is cumbersome, complex, overwhelming, inflexible, and minimize the nonspecific factors
      clinicians feel are crucial for quality delivery of care. In short, EBPIs demonstrate low
      usability (i.e., the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve
      specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction in a specified context of
      use. Although many implementation science (IS) frameworks do address the importance of EBPI
      characteristics, adapting and modifying EBPIs to enhance usability has not been a focus. User
      centered design (UCD) approaches, which have been successful in creating hardware and
      software tools that are accessible and compelling to use, have the potential to modify EBPIs
      so that they are accessible and compelling to clinicians. The investigators hypothesize that
      UCD-driven modifications to EBPI usability will result in enhanced clinician ability to
      deliver EBPI elements competently (target), and that better competence results in better
      patient-reported outcomes. The investigators will modify Problem-Solving Therapy for Primary
      Care (PST-PC) because it is the EBPI used in Collaborative Care (CC). To prepare for a larger
      trial to test hypotheses regarding the impact of EBPI usability on uptake, fidelity and
      competence, the aims of this R34 are: Aim 1: Discover Phase (3 months). Using iterative and
      participatory methods, the investigators will interview 10 clinicians from FHQCs affiliated
      with the Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana and Idaho (WWAMI) region Practice Research
      Network (WPRN, a collaborative group of primary care practices to facilitate innovative
      community-based research), and observe the clinicians using PST-PC to identify usability
      challenges.

      Aim 2: Design/Build Phase (6 months) After identification of potential targets, the research
      team will work with the original 10 clinicians to engage in a rapid cycle of iterative
      prototype development and testing of PST-PC modifications. The build of these modifications
      will include the development of intervention prototypes for user testing and refinement with
      input from these care managers.

      Aim 3: Test Phase (15 months). The research team will test and compare the PST-PC
      modification (mPST-PC) to unmodified PST-PC in a small randomized clinical trial (RCT). Six
      newly identified clinicians will be randomized to the two conditions; each will see five
      patients for a total of 30 patients (15 in each arm) in the trial. H1: Modifications
      developed in the Design/Build phase for targets identified in the Discover Phase will result
      in better usability compared to traditional PST-PC. H2: Clinicians randomized to mPST-PC will
      certify faster, and will deliver PST elements more competently than clinicians randomized to
      PST-PC. H3: mPST-PC will be more effective than PST-PC on improving clinical outcomes of
      functional disability and change in depression symptoms over time.
    
  