
    
      Black adults have a greater prevalence of developing cardiovascular and renal disease (CVRD)
      than white adults. Elevated sympathetic nervous system activity is associated with increased
      incidence of CVRD. Physical exertion, such as exercise, acutely increases sympathetic nervous
      system activity directed towards the kidneys, resulting in renal vasoconstriction and reduced
      renal blood flow (RBF). Limited research shows that healthy young black adults exhibit
      exaggerated sympathetic responsiveness both at rest and during sympathetic activation, which
      may be a major contributor to the increased risk of CVRD in this population. However, the
      acute renal vasoconstrictor response to any sympathetic nervous system activation has not
      been investigated to date in black adults. During sympathetic nervous system activation such
      as exercise, sympathetic outflow to the kidneys in black adults might be exaggerated,
      contributing to greater renal vasoconstriction and a larger reduction in RBF. Over time, this
      exaggerated neurovascular response to sympathetic activation could have a negative cumulative
      effect on the kidneys, which could be a contributing factor to the greater incidence of CVRD
      in this population.

      Therefore, this study aims to examine the renal vasoconstrictor response to sympathetic
      stressors in healthy black adults prior to development of CVRD, which will be achieved via
      two Specific Aims. In Specific Aim 1, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the
      renal vasoconstrictor response to acute dynamic exercise is exaggerated in healthy young
      black compared to white adults. Specifically, the investigators will measure RBF and blood
      pressure at rest and during cycling exercise to calculate renal vascular resistance responses
      to exercise, enabling us to test the hypothesis that healthy young black adults exhibit an
      exaggerated renal vasoconstrictor response to acute cycling exercise compared to healthy
      young white adults. In Specific Aim 2, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the
      renal vasoconstrictor response to non-exercise sympathetic stressors is exaggerated in
      healthy young black compared to white adults. Specifically, the investigators will measure
      RBF and blood pressure at rest and during a cold pressor and mental stress tests to calculate
      renal vascular resistance responses to these non-exercise sympathetic stressors, enabling us
      to test the hypothesis that healthy young black adults exhibit exaggerated renal
      vasoconstrictor responses to non-exercise sympathetic stressors compared to healthy young
      white adults.

      Using the highly innovative approach of Doppler ultrasound to measure RBF during exercise and
      non-exercise sympathetic stressors non-invasively and with high temporal resolution will
      enable us to assess the renal vasoconstrictor response to sympathetic stressors in healthy
      black adults prior to development of CVRD, so the underlying integrative physiological
      responses to sympathetic activation in black adults can be understood. Findings from this
      study in this understudied yet clinically significant area will contribute to the ultimate
      goal of creating and implementing treatment strategies to reduce the risk of developing CVRD
      in black adults.
    
  