
    
      There is still debate concerning the appropriate timing of stabilization of long bone
      fractures in patients with thoracic trauma2. While most surgeons agree that definitive
      stabilization within 24 hours of injury is optimal, this is sometimes not possible nor wise.
      When early definitive stabilization is not possible, there are differences between accepted
      practice between European and North American surgeons. European surgeons prefer to wait five
      days until definitive treatment, citing literature from Pape6 concerning the increased
      incidence of pulmonary complications and multi-system organ failure (MOF) which is purported
      to be higher in patients who undergo stabilization during the two to four day window. Pape
      postulates that this may be in part due to a "second hit" to the inflammatory system. He
      cites an increase in IL-6 and TNFα in patients who are operated during this window.

      North American surgeons tend to operate whenever it is felt that the patient is stable enough
      to undergo surgical stabilization from a trauma surgery standpoint. Much less emphasis is
      placed on the "second hit" etiology of multi-system organ failure. More emphasis in this
      country is placed on the fat embolism theory of MOF.

      There are several flaws in the European literature which leave North American surgeons
      unconvinced that delay is better in this population. First, Pape's large retrospective study
      which reported on 4313 patients treated between 1975 and 1999 did not take into account the
      dramatic changes in the management of critically ill patients which occurred during this time
      interval. The conclusion that patients treated later in the study with the concept of "damage
      control orthopaedics" may have had better outcomes because of improved ventilatory or
      resuscitative techniques, rather than because of the timing of secondary surgery. In another
      study, he made the conclusion that patients operated between days two and four had a worse
      outcome than those operated after four days. Patients with a poor outcome also correlated
      with elevated IL-6 levels on admission. This study was a prospective cohort study with
      patients selected for early versus delayed treatment based on the convenience of getting to
      the operating room and the patient's general condition. This study did not control for other
      surgical procedures which may have been performed during the time periods studied. While
      compelling, this study should be repeated using randomized controls.

      There is considerable literature1,4,7-10 which suggests that MOF is related to an
      inflammatory mediated chain of events. Most inflammatory markers are elevated in trauma, and
      IL-6 seems to be one which may be of prime importance in this cascade of events. It has been
      shown that surgery of many kinds increases IL-6 levels.

      Furthermore, there is evidence that there is a genetic predisposition3,5 toward producing
      high levels of cytokines.

      In a pilot study performed at UAB, we have found that there is an increased risk of
      developing multisystem organ failure in patients undergoing long bone fracture fixation as
      compared to those undergoing other types of surgery.

      Because a rapid processing is required for the initial blood draw (within 1 - 2 hours of
      injury) to allow for an optimized analysis, it is of utmost importance that the research team
      be allowed to immediately collect and process any remnant of the routine blood draw of an ER
      trauma patient. This may occur prior to the consenting process. Should the patient refuse to
      give consent to active blood collection, the samples used for the initial processing will be
      sanitized of any identifying information and then discarded in an appropriate manner. After
      the initial blood sample processing, and prior to analysis being performed on that sample,
      the patient will be consented for permission to collect blood samples daily while in the
      hospital until hospital day 7. During this time, a single vial of blood will be collected and
      stored each day. Concurrently, patient data such as demographic data, medical record number,
      mechanism of injury, list of surgeries and corresponding surgical data such as type, time and
      length of surgery will be collected in an encrypted database. After approximately 100
      patients have been enrolled, we will examine the database and select age, sex and injury
      severity score-matched patients to include in the analysis of blood samples.

      These blood samples will be run for cytokines using a commercially-available cytokine panel
      and a SNP panel (single-nucleotide polymorphism) to determine if that patient is a
      hyper-responder for cytokine production. These samples will be statistically analyzed to
      determine if the genetic profile (SNP) can predict cytokine response and secondarily to
      predict the change in daily cytokine levels based on the type of surgery each patient had.
    
  