
    
      Experimental Design

      The study design for this research project will be a single centered, prospective randomized
      controlled trial. Subjects will be Tufts University School of Dental Medicine Department of
      Periodontology patients.

      Sample Size and Statistical Analysis

      There will be up to 22 subjects in each group, with a total of up to 66 subjects in the
      study. Up to 80 subjects will be enrolled in order to have 66 subjects completed the study.
      The calculation is based on 2 point difference in VAS pain and discomfort survey to have 80%
      power, while setting α=0.025 to adjust for the two primary outcomes (pain and discomfort)
      which gives 19 per each group. However, considering a 15% drop out rate, up to 22 subjects
      for each group will be recruited.

      Data collected for analysis will be 10 point VAS from subjects' survey forms for the primary
      outcome. And 10 point VAS from esthetic evaluation, gain of keratinized mucosa measured by
      periodontal probe in millimeters with stent will be data for secondary outcome.

      For all variables, normality will be assessed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. If the
      assumptions of normality hold, then means and standard deviations will be reported and the
      relationship between treatment arm and the outcome will be tested using one-way ANOVA. If the
      assumptions of normality do not hold, then medians and interquartile ranges will be reported
      and relationships will be tested using the Kruskal-Wallis test. If the initial analyses are
      significant, then the post hoc pair wise comparisons will be made using either independent
      sample t-tests or Mann-Whitney U-tests. When patients are lost to follow-up, their
      information will be excluded from the analyses. To account for the multiple comparisons, the
      Bonferroni correction will be implemented. Thus, all p-values less than 0.025 will be
      considered statistically significant. Analyses will be performed using SAS, Version 9.2 (SAS
      Institute, Cary, NC).
    
  