
    
      Women with high-risk pregnancies due to fetal complications have a higher risk of stress than
      those with uncomplicated pregnancies. In Colorado, self-harm, which is related to mental
      health challenges, anxiety, and stress is the most common form of maternal mortality. Both
      the presence of maternal or fetal complications and the anticipation of a surgical procedure
      increase likelihood of anxiety, specifically perioperative anxiety, in patients. The presence
      of perioperative anxiety in pregnant woman is associated with higher reports of postoperative
      pain and lower maternal satisfaction with the delivery. Additionally, preoperative anxiety in
      surgical patients is associated with other physiological symptoms and complications,
      including increase heart rate, blood pressure, and temperature, sweating, nausea, and
      heightened sensory awareness (and need for pain medications), emotional recall of the birth
      as psychological traumatic, and increased risk for postpartum mood and anxiety disorders.
      State (perioperative) anxiety is elevated prior to procedure and are similar to other norms
      for general medical/surgical patients.

      Educational and psychological interventions are recommended for adults with anxiety related
      to medical procedures. For mild, acute procedural anxiety, this includes education about the
      procedure, acknowledgement and normalization of any feelings of anxiety in the patient, and
      allowing opportunities to promote a sense of control during the procedure. For those with
      more intense anxiety, brief cognitive behavioral therapy is identified as effective
      treatment. Brief cognitive-behavioral therapy interventions typically involve some or all of
      the following components: psychoeducation (about the association between thoughts, behaviors,
      and emotions and how these relate specifically to the procedure), cognitive restructuring
      (developing self-statements that will reduce anxiety-inducing reactions during the
      procedure), in vivo exposure to the setting, and/or relaxation training. Among adult patients
      undergoing surgical procedures, brief cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) (typically 4 1-hour
      sessions) has been associated with reduced symptoms of anxiety and depression immediately
      after intervention and weeks after, as well as shorter hospital stays. Additionally, even
      briefer interventions involving exposure therapy is efficacious for other medical-related
      phobias, such as dental phobia. Exposure treatment can be administered in a single, 60-minute
      session, but may need more sessions for intense anxiety. Finally, in those with severe
      anxiety who are not responsive to previous interventions, anxiolytic premedicant drugs are
      sometimes indicated, though can be associated with acute anterograde amnesia and drowsiness
      during the procedure, as well as need for increased neonatal resuscitation, as they easily
      cross the placenta. For this reason, the majority of women with anxiety typically decline use
      of these medications when offered.

      Given the high prevalence of preoperative anxiety among women undergoing a cesarean delivery
      with maternal or fetal complications, identification of low-cost interventions to decrease
      anxiety and increase satisfaction with the delivery process is indicated. To date, there are
      no randomized control trials investigating brief cognitive behavioral interventions for
      elective cesarean sections. This study seeks to establish the feasibility and limited
      efficacy of a brief, single session intervention that combines psychoeducation and exposure
      treatment to reduce preoperative anxiety and satisfaction of the delivery process among women
      undergoing elective cesarean section
    
  