
    
      ERCP is a relatively complex and lengthy endoscopic procedure. It is increasingly performed
      in elderly patients with multiple comorbidities and carries serious complications including
      death in about 0.33% of patients. An important aspect of endoscopy is sedation. The role of
      sedation is to make the procedure tolerable and acceptable to the patient by reducing anxiety
      and discomfort. It ensures that the patient is relatively still to avoid injury and enhance
      the chances of an efficient and successful procedure. Hence, adequate and appropriate
      sedation is of utmost importance to maximize patient comfort and minimize adverse events in
      ERCP.

      The debate between anesthetist and gastroenterologist continues, as there is dearth of
      evidence evaluating the best form of sedative technique for ERCP.

      Three prospective studies have tried to compare AAS with general anesthesia. Despite the fact
      that significantly more patients who had a higher body mass index (BMI) and were of ASA class
      3 and above in the general anesthesia group, hypoxic events of less than 84% were much more
      common in patients having AAS then those who had general anesthesia (15% in AAS vs 6.7% in
      general anesthesia). On the other hand, hypotension (34% in general anesthesia vs 4% in AAS,)
      and arrhythmias (8% in general anesthesia vs 3% in AAS) were much more frequent in general
      anesthesia group than AAS. Upto 4% of patients had to be converted to general anesthesia due
      to cardiopulmonary compromise. However, the conclusion drawn was that AAS is as safe and
      effective as general anesthesia. Major caveats bring into question the conclusion. The
      studies were observational and non-randomized which introduces selection bias.

      A recent randomized controlled trail that looked at general anesthesia versu AAS during ERCP
      concluded general anesthesia had a better safety profile than AAS (17). However, this study
      included only patient who were high risk for sedation related adverse events with ASA class
      >3 and the anesthesia was provided by nurse anesthetist. Hence, these results cannot be
      generalized. There are no randomized trials comparing AAS with general anesthesia in patients
      with ASA ≤3, which includes the vast majority of patients having ERCP
    
  