
    
      The goal of the study is to test the efficacy of the pain medication safety intervention for
      increasing safe management of prescription medication opioids. The study will use a
      randomized, controlled design that compares the intervention (painACTION medication safety
      lessons) to a waitlist control condition.

      The hypotheses related to efficacy are that, as compared to the control group, people in the
      experimental group will demonstrate:

        1. Increased self-efficacy for how to safely manage medications (primary outcome)

        2. Increased behaviors associated with safely managing medication (secondary outcome)

      Participants:

      Investigators will recruit the first 148 respondents who meet the inclusion criteria and
      consent to be in the study.

      Experimental Group. Participants will be given instructions via email to review eleven online
      lessons about opioid medication safety. Instructions will suggest that participants view one
      lesson per day for eleven consecutive days. Each educational lesson focuses on one or two
      aspects of medication safety, including how to safely store medication, and the importance of
      taking medication exactly as prescribed.

      Control Group. The control group is a waitlist control. Participants will be given access to
      painACTION after the intervention period and follow up assessments are completed.

      Randomization: Participants will be randomized by gender and age.

      Procedure: Participants will be recruited with the help of the participating clinic. Staff
      members will let people know about the study by giving out informational fliers. The flier
      will direct people who are interested in participating in the study to an online screener.
      Those who screen in will automatically be lead to a consent form. Participants randomized to
      use painACTION will be sent the link to the online program and provided with a code that will
      serve as a Personal Identification Number (PIN) to access the program and return for
      subsequent sessions. The codes will also allow research staff to track program activity. The
      numbers are generated as participants agree to participate in the study and will begin with
      0001 and continue to 0140 as the investigators add participants. The Research Coordinator
      will only provide assistance with the technical aspects of navigating the program. All
      assessments will be administered online. The battery will take no more than thirty minutes to
      complete. Several studies have determined that online assessments have many advantages over
      other modes of data collection (Webb et al., 1999; Yun, 2000). Online administration allows:
      (1) automation of the data collection process; (2) standardization of administration; (3) the
      use of personalized e-mail invitations at the precise assessment time points; (4)
      opportunities for participants to complete questionnaires on their own time and in the
      setting most comfortable to them; and (5) greater protection of confidentiality and
      conservation of resources because no written record exists. In addition, a number of studies
      have demonstrated that participants prefer computer-assisted self-interviews to traditional
      methods of data collection, and are more honest with computers (Johnston & Walton, 1995,
      Paperny et al., 2000). The increase in precision translates to greater power to detect real
      effect differences and higher confidence in the validity of the data. Information will not be
      saved if the browser is closed and the questionnaire has not been completed and submitted.

      Assessments: Data will be collected from participants at baseline, immediately after the
      intervention, and one month post intervention.
    
  