
    
      For this web-based behavioral intervention trial aimed at improving lifestyle behaviors of
      individuals at higher risk for cancer, other comorbidities and functional decline, 652 cancer
      survivors (a large proportion of whom will be age 65 or over, rural, and of minority status)
      will be enrolled and randomly assigned to one of the following study arms: 1) A diet and
      exercise intervention which would begin immediately, with the first 6 months focused on
      promoting healthful changes in diet consistent with the American Institute for Cancer
      Research Guidelines and designed to invoke an average weight loss of one pound per week, and
      the second 6 months focused on increasing physical activity. The 163 cancer survivors
      assigned to this arm would be evaluated at baseline, 6-, 12- and 18-months; 2) An exercise
      and diet intervention which would begin immediately, with the first 6 months focused on
      increasing physical activity, and the second 6 months focused on promoting healthful changes
      in diet consistent with the American Institute for Cancer Research Guidelines and designed to
      invoke an average weight loss of one pound per week. The 163 cancer survivors assigned to
      this arm would be evaluated at baseline, 6-, 12- and 18-months; and 3) A 12-month combined
      diet and exercise intervention focused on promoting healthful changes in diet consistent with
      the American Institute for Cancer Research Guidelines and designed to invoke an average
      weight loss of one pound per week, while at the same time promoting physical activity. The
      326 cancer survivors assigned to this arm would receive the intervention after a 6-month
      delay and will be evaluated at baseline, 6-, 12-, 18- and 24-months. Weight status, waist
      circumference, body composition, diet quality, physical activity, physical performance,
      quality of life, comorbidity, and health utilities will be measured at baseline and each
      follow-up time point, as will mediators of behavior change, e.g., social support,
      self-efficacy and barriers. Additionally, phlebotomy will be performed and biospecimens
      stored for future analysis.

      It is hypothesized that cancer survivors assigned to all three of these study arm will
      experience significant improvements in weight status, body composition, diet quality,
      physical activity, physical performance, and quality of life. These improvements also will
      translate into lower health utility scores and prove cost effective. It also is anticipated
      that analyses will uncover significant mediators, such as self-efficacy, and moderators, such
      as level of educational attainment associated with program efficacy. Finally, we hypothesize
      that while all study arms will experience significant benefit, the sequenced arm participants
      (arms 1 and 2) will have significantly greater odds of achieving improved diet quality,
      weight loss, and moderate intensity aerobic physical activity of at least 150 minutes a week
      as measured by accelerometer) post-intervention than survivors randomized to the simultaneous
      arm.
    
  