
    
      Background: The study covers prescription narcotics and focuses on opioids and
      benzodiazepines (and related compounds). The use of opioids and benzodiazepines is relatively
      safe in the short term. However, long-term use for anxiety and chronic non cancer pain has
      limited scientific support. Moreover, use of opioids and benzodiazepines has been associated
      with a variety of adverse effects and both opioids and benzodiazepines are highly addictive.

      Clinical guidelines advise that narcotic analgesics and sedatives should not be used as
      first-choice treatments for pain, anxiety, or insomnia. Instead, guidelines recommend
      psychotherapy, physiotherapy, and non-narcotic pharmacological drugs (such as non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs and antidepressants), alternatives that are less addictive and more
      beneficial over time. Despite such recommendations, benzodiazepines and opioids are commonly
      prescribed and used over the long term.

      For patients who seek treatment for narcotic drug use disorder, tapering by gradual dose
      reduction is an important component but its effect is not well studied.

      Aims: This study aims to investigate the clinical trajectory and treatment outcome among
      patients with narcotic drug use disorder at specialized addiction treatment services.

      Specific aims:

      1) The outcome of tapering of narcotic drugs at 6, 12, and 24 months follow-up 2) How the
      treatments provided (e.g., tapering; tapering plus psychological treatment) are associated
      with patient outcomes 3) How psychiatric symptoms and comorbidity are associated with patient
      outcomes 4) Predictors of narcotic drug abstinence and retention in treatment 5) The validity
      of psychiatric diagnoses in relation to drug use (i.e., whether the diagnosis changes
      significantly following drug detoxification)

      Methods: This is a naturalistic, prospective study of outcomes following treatment at a
      specialized service for prescription narcotic drug use disorder. Standardized screening and
      assessment tools will be used to investigate patients at baseline, evaluate the treatment
      patients receive over a 24-month period, and evaluate patient outcomes.

      All patients starting a new treatment period at the center will be invited to participate at
      the first visit to the clinic or as soon as possible thereafter. Written informed consent
      will be obtained. The study will conform to Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) and the
      principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Measurements in the study include: urine drug screening, blood chemistry including screening
      for alcohol biomarkers, Drug Use Disorders Identification Test, Alcohol Use Disorders
      Identification Test, Patient Health Questionnaire, EuroQol -5D, Clinical Global Impressions
      Scale, Adult ADHD Self-Rating Scale - Screening, The Mini International Neuropsychiatric
      Interview, Version 7, the Life Events Checklist, the Insomnia Severity Index, the
      Benzodiazepine Withdrawal Symptom Questionnaire, the Subjective Opioid Withdrawal Scale,
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 7, Numeric Rating Scale for Pain, PROMIS Pain Interference -
      Short Form 4a, patient satisfaction, Substance use questionnaire, and Structural Clinical
      Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Personality Disorders Screening.

      Information regarding treatment at the unit (e.g. number and type of visits, somatic or
      psychiatric diagnoses) will be collected from medical records using the ICD codes. Diagnostic
      assessment will be performed according to both ICD-10 and DSM-5.

      The protocol allows for a 10-year follow-up using national registries.

      Study procedures and data collection will be regularly monitored by an external quality
      assurance organization.

      Analyses will be conducted using statistical software; p values < 0.05 will be considered
      significant. Prescription drug use, retention in treatment and the percentage of participants
      with negative urine samples and self-reported abstinence will be calculated at follow-ups.
      Regression analyses will be computed to assess factors associated with the outcome of
      tapering.

      To find a 95 % confidence interval around the point estimate (drug abstinence) with a margin
      of error not exceeding +/- 5 percentage points, where the assumed proportion is 0.3, at least
      322 patients must be included. Alternatively, to find a 95 % confidence interval with a
      margin of error not exceeding +/- 10 percentage points, at least 81 patients must be
      included. A minimum of 81 patients will be included in the study. The study will include an
      analysis of dropout.
    
  