
    
      A common problem faced by patients and clinicians in our health system is continuity of care
      and 'clinical handovers'. Few medical record technologies, paper or electronic, top down or
      bottom up, have been evaluated in a randomised clinical outcome trial to determine the
      clinical benefits and costs of 'shared' medical and health information. Furthermore, although
      there are many studies that have evaluated processes of care only a minority do so within a
      randomized design. Given that any difference is, possibly, small to moderate in magnitude,
      and given confounders, the use of a randomisation is an essential design requirement.

      The first 12 months of the trial constitutes Stage 1 whose primary objective is to describe
      the acceptability and satisfaction of the our Portable Health Files, and other key process
      measures. The subsequent 36 months constitutes Stage 2 whose primary objective it to compare
      important clinical outcomes. The assigned treatment (i.e., the e-PHF or p-PHF) will be used
      for 4 years total.

      To take into account a probable lag effect of the interventions, patients will also be
      followed for an additional 3 years beyond the conclusion of the randomised trial to see if
      there are any longer-term effects.

      The trial is un-blinded so there will be a potential for bias in trial conduct and a
      potential for ascertainment bias in the determination of important clinical outcomes and
      quality-of-life. To reduce clinical outcome ascertainment bias a blinded Adjudication
      Committee will make the determination which out-of-hospital events are "serious". The other
      primary outcomes: mortality and all overnight hospitalizations are objective outcomes and are
      not subject to ascertainment bias.

      Secondary outcomes include quality of life, quality measures uptake, investigations,
      medication use, medication errors, and adverse drug reactions. Utilities and costs will also
      be collected for cost-effectiveness analysis. Patient and provider acceptability and
      satisfaction with the PHFs will be also collected.

      All primary analyses will be undertaken masked to randomized arm allocation.

      Most secondary analyses including quality of life, quality measures uptake, investigations,
      medication use, medication errors, and adverse drug reactions, health utilities, health care
      utilisation and health care costs will also be undertaken masked to randomized arm
      allocation.

      This Adjudication Committee will also monitor trial safety and scientific integrity.
    
  