
    
      In individuals with certain clinical conditions, such as diabetes, corneal epithelial defects
      persist and do not necessarily respond to conventional treatment regimens because of delayed
      epithelial wound healing. While wound closure should occur following an injury to the corneal
      epithelium, a timely re-establishment of the epithelial barrier is of utmost importance.

      The wound repair process is intricately linked to a complex inflammatory response that must
      be properly regulated to ensure healing and optimal visual outcome. Infiltration of
      inflammatory cells into injured corneal tissue is a hallmark of wound repair, and the
      association of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocyte infiltration with sterile corneal ulceration
      is well recognized. Retardation of epithelial recovery by persistent inflammation, release of
      enzymatic products from degranulating PMN, and stimulation of mononuclear leukocytes by
      cytokines all contribute to poor re-epithelialization.

      It has been shown that diabetic corneas manifest reduced rates of epithelial healing after
      denudement. Yet, in the diabetic patient, not only is the rate of corneal epithelial healing
      of clinical concern, abnormalities inherent in the diabetic corneal epithelial
      cytoarchitecture can cause substantial impediments to normal stromal healing. Histologically,
      diabetic corneas typically demonstrate thickening of the epithelial basal membrane (BM),
      decreased number of hemidesmosomes, and decreased number of nerve fiber endings. Studies of
      BM changes in diabetic corneas have yielded information regarding poor adhesion of the
      epithelial BM to the stroma. During vitrectomy in diabetic patients, when the cornea
      epithelium is removed, it separates as an intact sheet and the entire thickened BM,
      characteristic of diabetes, adheres to the epithelium. In contrast, when normal epithelium is
      removed by scraping, the BM remains adherent to the stroma.

      Because patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR) corneas have delayed wound healing, the
      expression of thymosin beta 4 (Tβ4) as a potent epithelial cell migration stimulator in DR
      corneas was investigated. Human DR corneas were analyzed and were found to express
      significantly less Tβ4 compared to normal corneas, suggesting that the use of Tβ4 may
      accelerate the wound-healing process in this model.
    
  