
    
      Pressure injuries are a serious health care problem and threaten the health and well-being of
      millions of people. Most pressure injuries are avoidable with the application of standard
      practices and proper utilization of existing technology. Support surface technology has been
      shown to prevent pressure injuries, but the effectiveness of specific features designed for
      management of tissue loads, microclimate (i.e., heat and moisture), and/or other therapeutic
      functions are unknown. Preclinical research has demonstrated that heat and moisture are
      important pressure injury risk factors. Low air loss is a support surface feature designed to
      manage the heat and moisture at the interface between the person and the surface. It is a
      feature that is invariably combined with the provision of pressure redistribution through
      immersion and envelopment. Clinical research has produced evidence to support the use of
      reactive support surfaces with good immersion and envelopment characteristics, but there is a
      gap in evidence regarding the effectiveness of microclimate management features.

      This study aims to first determine if low air loss is effective for preventing pressure
      injuries. Second, to facilitate translation of the results to clinical practice, the study is
      designed to identify which low air loss performance characteristics and what levels of those
      performance characteristics are necessary for the technology to be effective.

      Aim 1 will compare the effectiveness of reactive support surfaces with low air loss to
      reactive support surfaces without low air loss in preventing pressure injuries for people
      with moisture risk factors in acute care. This aim will also investigate the comparative
      effectiveness in subgroups defined by age, body mass index (BMI), Braden score, and Braden
      mobility subscale score. We will also investigate the association between pressure injury
      severity and treatment group.

      Aim 2 will explore associations between support surface performance characteristics and
      pressure injury outcomes. Performance will be quantified by the microclimate control measures
      of evaporative capacity and heat flux.

      An individual randomized design with 816 subjects will be used to achieve the aims.
      Participants will be randomized into either a low air loss or no-low air loss surface type
      across seven possible groups differentiated only by the support surface assignment. The seven
      surfaces will have a range of heat and moisture control performance characteristics.
      Biological variables, pressure injury incidence, pressure injury risk factors and related
      clinical conditions and procedures will be recorded and analyzed. For Aim 2, to explore
      associations between support surface performance characteristics and pressure injuries, we
      will determine threshold and cutoff values for optimum effectiveness.

      The proposed study is designed to fill a critical gap in evidence regarding the effectiveness
      of support surfaces with low air loss. The study will also explore cutoff scores or ranges of
      effective performance for microclimate control. If successful, the study could influence a
      shift in the way support surfaces are characterized away from the current feature-based
      paradigm toward a more accurate and generalizable performance-based paradigm.

      Study protocol: An individual randomized design will be used to achieve the aims. The study
      procedures and flow is depicted in Figure 1. Eligible acute care patients will be identified
      and enrolled within 24 hours of admission. New admissions will be screened for the following
      criteria for inclusion: 1. total Braden score≤18 and 2. Braden Moisture sub-scale score
      1-constantly moist or 2-very moist, 3. projected length of stay ≥4 days, and 4. absence of
      pressure injuries.

      After informed consent, absence of pressure injuries will be confirmed, baseline data
      (demographic and clinical data) will be recorded and participants will be randomized to one
      of seven groups differentiated only by the support surface assignment. The seven surfaces can
      be divided into reactive support surface with low air loss (5 total) or reactive surface
      without low air loss (2 total) for analyses of Aim 1, and demonstrate a range of heat and
      water vapor control performance characteristics for analyses of Aim 2. Once enrolled, the
      participant will be provided the intervention within 24 hours.

      Participants in all groups will be provided usual care including tissue integrity management
      according to UPMC system-wide Skin Integrity Procedures, which address risk assessment
      (daily), skin inspection (twice daily), regular patient repositioning (every two hours as
      condition allows), pressure alleviation, moisture control, nutritional support and
      friction/shear relief applications. Outcomes will be recorded from electronic medical records
      and through assessment by research staff until pressure injury incidence or hospital
      discharge.

      The outcome measures were chosen to ensure direct relevance to patients at risk for
      developing pressure injuries. We chose the direct clinical outcome measure of pressure injury
      incidence to assess the clinical effectiveness of the study support surface interventions
      being compared.

      Pressure injury status will be assessed daily. Pressure injury risk factors, ambulatory
      status and related preventive interventions (support surface related conditions such as
      layers of linens, and interventions such as turning schedules) will be monitored and recorded
      every day (7 days per week) from electronic medical records, observation by research staff
      and interviews with clinical staff until any of the following endpoints are reached: pressure
      injury incidence, Braden score >18, or discharge from hospital. After an endpoint is reached,
      length of stay, and, for participants that develop pressure injuries, the severity will be
      recorded as the highest injury stage reached prior to discharge (Stage 1, 2, 3, 4, DTPI or
      unstageable) as defined by the National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel. If the injury status
      was observed to be a DTPI or unstageable at any point in time and later becomes identified as
      1, 2, 3, or 4, the latter stage will be recorded. Otherwise DTPIs and unstageable injuries
      will be recorded as such.

      Variables believed to be associated with the study outcome of pressure injuries include: 1.
      Demographic and clinical characteristics: age, race, ethnicity, weight, height, and medical
      comorbidities such as diabetes, peripheral vascular disease, nutritional status, and
      incontinence. These will be recorded at baseline. 2. Pressure injury risk factors: Braden
      score, Braden sub-scale scores, and ambulatory status will be monitored and recorded daily
      until endpoint. 3. Clinical conditions and procedures: layers of linens, interventions such
      as turning schedules, and type and length of the surgery will be monitored and recorded daily
      until endpoint. 4. Length of stay and number of days on the support surface will be recorded
      at study endpoint.

      816 participants will be identified and recruited from the adult inpatient population of
      facilities in the University of Pittsburgh hospital system (UPMC).

      The study will use a 2:1 allocation randomization scheme stratifying by support surface type
      (2 LAL to 1 no-LAL). The rationale for having a 2:1 allocation is to allow us to achieve both
      aims. The 2:1 allocation is necessary because we plan to randomize to 5 LAL groups and 2
      no-LAL groups. We will use randomized blocks of varying length (containing random
      permutations of the two surface types, LAL vs. no LAL, across the seven groups) for
      randomization. T.
    
  