
    
      This is a randomised, double-blind, parallel group, equivalence, multicentre Phase III study.
      500 patients with HER2+ early breast cancer (EBC) will be randomised (1:1) to receive either
      HD201 in combination with chemotherapy (n=250) or Herceptin® in combination with chemotherapy
      (n=250).

      HD201 or Herceptin® will be administered every 3 weeks for 8 cycles(24 weeks). After
      administration of the final neoadjuvant study drug dose, surgery will be done within 3-8
      weeks followed by an adjuvant treatment period for 10 cycles.

      Patients completing the 18 cycles of treatment and those discontinuing the study will attend
      an End of Treatment (EOT) visit 4 weeks (+/- 2 days), after last administration of study
      medication, followed by a follow-up period of 2 years.

      Patients will attend study visits every 3 weeks. At each visit, patients will undergo a
      complete physical examination, vital signs, weight, performance status, clinical laboratory
      tests and adverse events (AEs), concomitant medication will be recorded. After the EOT visit
      patients will be followed every 6 months for an additional 24 months or until death,
      whichever occurs first, to collect data on cardiac safety and disease status.

      Cardiac safety will be assessed by echocardiography or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan to
      evaluate the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (at screening, before cycle 5, before
      surgery, before cycles 12 and 16, EOT visit, and at 6 and 12 months after the completion of
      trastuzumab (more frequent if necessary)) and by means of a 12-lead ECG (at screening, before
      cycle 5, before surgery, before cycles 12 and 16, EOT visit, and at 6 and 12 months after the
      completion of trastuzumab).

      The primary efficacy endpoint, total pathological complete response (tpCR) will be assessed
      at the time of surgery after neoadjuvant treatment completion after 24 weeks. tpCR will be
      assessed both by local and by central reading.

      Sampling for pharmacokinetics (PK) analysis (determination of Ctrough values) will be
      performed in all patients before cycle 5 and cycle 8.

      An Independent Data Monitoring Committee will be implemented that reviews accumulating data
      of the clinical trial with respect to any potential safety issues, study progress and
      critical efficacy endpoints. The members will be selected on the basis of relevant experience
      and understanding of clinical research and the issues specific to the therapeutic area, as
      well as previous data monitoring committee experience.
    
  