
    
      Eligibility criteria:

        -  Inclusion criteria:

             -  Man or woman ≥ 50 years.

             -  Patient with MCI, of any type, according to the criteria of Petersen et al, 2001.

             -  Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) ≤ 0,5.

             -  Instrumental activities of daily living (IADL)=0.

             -  MMSE > 26.

             -  Cognitive and functional capacities well enough in order to avoid a possible
                diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease based on clinical evidences (DSM-IV TR) cannot be
                done during initial visit.

             -  Ambulatory patient.

             -  Visual and auditory capabilities (equipment allowed) and oral or written capacity
                able for the development of suitable tests (according to the clinician).

        -  exclusion criteria:

             -  Patient with identified neurological problems.

             -  Patient with developing and/ or non-stabilized psychiatric disease.

             -  Patient with biological disorders observed during diagnostic process. Number of
                subjects: 392 subjects Statistical analysis: Statistical analyses will be performed
                by the Unité Fonctionnelle de Recherche Clinique et de Biostatistique from the
                Limoges teaching hospital using SAS® V 9.1.3 software (SAS Institute Cary, NC).
                Level of significance will be 0.05 for all analyses. Statistical analyses will be
                performed and presented in agreement with STROBE guidelines.

      Descriptive analyses

      Quantitative variables will be described using mean ± standard deviation or median and
      interquartile range. Qualitative variables will be described using frequencies, percentages
      and 95% confidence intervals assessed with exact method.

      A flow chart of patients will be presented.

      Main analysis Association between dementia and EVVIE score will be assessed through relative
      risk calculation. 95% confidence interval will also be calculated.
    
  