
    
      The opioid epidemic is a serious national crisis that affects public health as well as social
      and economic welfare, with increasing and alarming mortality rates in the United States.
      Consequently, there is an urgent need for effective and efficient interventions to address
      opioid use to prevent the risk of opioid misuse and better address it once it is established.
      One of the greatest predictors for increased opioid use among patients with chronic pain is
      pain catastrophizing (PC), defined as persistent negative cognitive and emotional responses
      to actual or anticipated pain. Untreated PC can lead to increased opioid use and facilitate
      the risk for misuse and overuse of medications, particularly when surgery and pharmacologics
      are the focal medical care plan. Despite critical need, there are no targeted interventions
      that efficiently address the key psychological factors that can amplify both pain, need for
      opioids, and increased risk for misuse. This project aims to address this urgent need for
      efficient and effective solutions. A 2-hour targeted, single-session pain catastrophizing
      class (PC-class) has been developed, rooted in cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) approaches,
      aimed at reducing opioid use by reducing pain catastrophizing in chronic pain. This targeted,
      brief treatment obviates many of the existing barriers and burdens to usual comprehensive
      pain-CBT, such as the time required to attend 8 sessions, insurance coverage, travel costs,
      lack of skilled clinicians, patient attrition, and copayments. The investigators will
      implement a randomized controlled trial comparing the PC-class to a health education control
      class. Aim 1, To determine the efficacy of the PC class in reducing opioid use among patients
      with mixed-etiology pain conditions. Aim 2, To collect daily data that will allow the conduct
      of analyses on the daily experience of catastrophizing and how it relates to opioid use, as
      well as its dynamic response to treatment. The investigators will use this daily data to
      characterize the mechanistic influence of catastrophizing on opioid use both on the
      daily-level and prospectively. Patient outcomes will be longitudinally tracked at 1, 3, 6,
      and 12 months after the intervention session. This project aims to identify patients who
      achieve a meaningful reduction in opioid use, which will enable better characterization of
      treatment responders and refining opioid reduction strategies.
    
  