
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of azacitidine when given in combination with
           arsenic trioxide in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). (Phase I)

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the major hematologic response (erythroid response) rate in patients with
           transfusion-dependent lower-risk MDS treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Determine complete and partial remission rates in patients with higher-risk MDS treated
           with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

      Secondary

        -  Determine time to disease progression in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase I
           and II)

        -  Determine the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is an multicenter, open-label, phase I, dose escalation study of azacitidine
      followed by a phase II study. Patients enrolled in the phase II portion are stratified
      according to baseline International Scoring System score (lower-risk myelodysplastic
      syndromes [MDS] vs higher-risk MDS).

        -  Phase I: Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously once daily on days 1-5 and arsenic
           trioxide IV over 1-4 hours on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25. Courses repeat every
           28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
           stable disease may receive up to 8 courses of therapy. Patients with responding disease
           may continue to receive study therapy until a major response or a complete remission is
           achieved.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of azacitidine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive arsenic trioxide as in phase I and azacitidine as in phase I
           at one dose level below the MTD determined in phase I.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3-12
      months for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-18 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of
      this study. A total of 60 patients (30 per stratum) will be accrued for the phase II portion
      of this study.
    
  