
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study the efficacy and safety of dabrafenib mesylate (dabrafenib) and trametinib
      dimethyl sulfoxide (trametinib) as combination therapy in patients with BRAF V600E positive
      Erdheim Chester disease.

      II. To determine the clinical response rate to dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy
      in patients with BRAF V600E positive Erdheim Chester disease.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine time response, progression free survival and overall survival. II. To assess
      disease resistance to this combination therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To monitor the degree of histiocytic infiltration-fibrosis progression, stability and
      regression under combination therapy using fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron emission
      tomography (PET) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, computed tomography (CT) scans
      and technetium (T)-99m bone scans.

      II. To monitor serum C-reactive protein (CRP), estrogen receptor (ESR), and cytokine levels
      as inflammatory markers prior to and during combination therapy.

      III. To monitor renal function prior to and during combination therapy in order to assess for
      functional improvement.

      IV. To evaluate the level of functioning, fatigue, motor skills and ability to perform
      routine daily activities prior to and during therapy in order to assess for improvements in
      these areas as well as quality of life improvement.

      V. To establish duration of treatment-endpoints in patients with BRAF V600E positive
      Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) lesions.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive dabrafenib mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib dimethyl
      sulfoxide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 48 weeks.
    
  