
    
      Currently at Geisinger Medical Center Danville, use of the peanut ball is at the discretion
      of attending or resident physicians, or obstetric nurses on the Labor and delivery team for
      the day. Despite the common use of this labor adjuvant tool, a well-designed prospective
      study is necessary to investigate if the peanut ball provides any benefit during the labor
      process for the obese gravida. If this simple tool is shown to reduce the rate of cesarean
      delivery, then hospital protocols could be changed to ensure its use during labor. This has
      the potential to decrease the rate of cesarean delivery in the most vulnerable patient
      population. The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine if
      using the peanut ball during labor provides a reduction in the cesarean delivery rate in the
      obese patient population. The investigators will compare cesarean delivery rates in patients
      using the peanut ball to patients receiving routine intrapartum management without the use of
      the peanut ball. Singleton pregnancies complicated by obesity, defined by pre-pregnancy BMI >
      30kg/m2, will be included.

      Study participants will be randomized to one of the two study arms. The peanut ball arm (also
      referred to as study arm 1) will be managed according to the parameters specified for use of
      the peanut ball. The participants in the Control arm (also referred to as study arm 2) will
      be managed according to the standard intrapartum management as defined by Geisinger's Labor &
      Delivery protocol and per the OB providers. The objective of the study is to determine if use
      of the peanut ball during labor reduces the cesarean delivery rate in the obese patient
      population. Secondary outcomes of interest include rate of cervical dilation, rate of
      operative deliveries, fetal position (occiput anterior vs. occiput posterior) at complete
      dilation (10 cm), and patient satisfaction.
    
  