
    
      It is estimated that by the end of 2017 year, there will be 462 millions of patients
      suffering from diabetes mellitus type II (DMII), what is about 6% of world population (4,4%
      between 15 and 49 years of age, 15% between 50 and 69 years and 22% of patients older than 70
      years). It is predicted that by the beginning of 2030, number of cases on 100000 people will
      grow from 6059 up to 7079. There are studies proving that cardiovascular complications
      related to the diabetes are responsible for 4 millions of deaths annually. The newest
      epidemiological data suggest that growing number of DMII cases is no longer a problem in
      developed countries but also affects developing ones. As potential risk factors, well proved
      in the literature authors reported alcoholism, nicotinism, high body-mass index (BMI) and
      positive family history. It is therefore anticipated that the prevalence of one of its common
      complications, a diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), will increase as well. It is broadly
      recognized that a DPN leads to a decrement in distal lower limb sensory function; however,
      there is also a neuropathy-related decrease in distal motor function, even among those with
      relatively mild diabetic disease. It is well proven in the literature, that diabetes mellitus
      influences negatively function of peripheral nervous system by damaging sensory fibers. A
      high risk of falls has been reported in the diabetic population, with an overall incidence of
      1.25 falls/person-year.It was proven that short-period strength and balance exercises do not
      improves diabetic patients quality of life However they have positive influence on the
      functional outcome of those people. Influence of DMII on motion system is not limited only to
      the peripheral nervous system. It also affects structures of cerebrum such as: cerebral
      cortex, cerebellum or basal nuclei. DMII affects motor and somatosensory cerebral atrophy
      what leads to changes in projection tracts associated with them. In cerebellum it affects on
      the vermis and parts of lobes responsible for receiving impulses from the spinal cord and
      controlling proximal parts of muscles, which are crucial for movement coordination during
      gait. Disorders caused by DMII in basal nuclei result in longer response time and slower gait
      velocity. Together with pharmacological and dietary interventions, exercise interventions
      including resistance training, represent the cornerstones of type 2 diabetes management. In
      addition to the beneficial effects of exercise interventions on glycemic control and on the
      cardiovascular risk factors associated with type 2 diabetes, physical exercise is an
      effective intervention to improve muscle strength, power output, cardiovascular function and
      functional capacity in elderly diabetic patients. In elderly diabetics with severe functional
      decline, multicomponent exercise programs composed of resistance, endurance, balance and gait
      retraining should be employed to increase functional capacity and quality of life and to
      avoid disability and falls. The aim of the study was to evaluate balance and motor
      coordination parameters in patients treated for type 2 diabetes who received
      biofeedback-equivalent training using the Biodex dynamometric platform.
    
  