
    
      The study will be double blind and consist of two parallel groups. Patients with type 2
      diabetes with a creatinine clearance above 20 ml/min and with microalbuminuria or proteinuria
      who have both resistant hypertension and sleep apnea will be studied. Creatinine clearance
      and proteinuria will be assessed from a 24 hour urine collection not older than 6 months.
      Microalbuminuria will be assessed from at least 2 out of 3 positive random urine samples with
      the last one not older than 6 months. Blood pressure will be considered as resistive to
      treatment if the patient is on 3 or more antihypertensive medications with blood pressure
      readings of greater than 140/90 mmHg on the last 2 out of 3 office visits. Sleep apnea
      syndrome will be defined by the presence of at least 5 apneic or hypopneic episodes per hour
      during an overnight sleep study.

      Screening will be done in the following manner: Patients seen in the Hypertension Unit at the
      University of Ottawa Heart Institute, General Nephrology Clinic and Progressive Renal
      Insufficiency Clinic at the Ottawa Hospital, will be screened by the study coordinator. For
      the patients who meet the study criteria, the attending physician is asked for permission to
      contact each patient. If patients agree to participate, they will undergo a sleep study.
      Screening of patients and subsequent sleep studies will continue until 54 consecutive
      patients with moderate to severe sleep apnea (15 apneic or hypopneic episodes per hr) are
      found and enrolled into the study. The prevalence of sleep apnea in the specialty clinic
      population will be calculated as the number of patients with sleep apnea diagnosed based on a
      sleep study divided by the total number of clinic patients screened who underwent a sleep
      study.

      After the baseline visit and completion of all preliminary procedures, specific studies for
      microneurography, plasma renin and aldosterone will be performed. Consequently, a 24 hour
      blood pressure monitor and a 24 hour urine collection for creatinine clearance,
      microalbuminuria and proteinuria will be done. Once all the testing has been completed, the
      patient will be randomized to therapeutic or sub-therapeutic treatment with nasal continuous
      positive airway pressure for 6 weeks. After 6 weeks of treatment the specific studies, 24
      hour blood pressure monitoring and 24 hour urine collection will be repeated.
    
  