
    
      This randomized pilot study is an important first step in planning a large multi-center
      clinical trial to evaluate medical and laser approaches that could improve the visual outcome
      for patients with diabetic retinopathy. This study will provide preliminary safety data on
      these therapies as well as allow for assessment of the performance of ocular outcomes and
      study design for use in subsequent trials. If there are no safety concerns, the results of
      this pilot will be helpful in the design of a large multicenter clinical trial by providing
      data on estimates of expected treatment effects.

      Using a factorial design, this study will compare (1) diode (micropulse) laser
      photocoagulation to mild ETDRS style focal photocoagulation and, (2) treatment with a COX-2
      inhibitor (celecoxib), or placebo prior to and following laser photocoagulation. The primary
      outcomes are a visual acuity drop or increase of 15 letters or more from baseline to year 3.
      The secondary outcome is a significant reduction in macular edema, defined as a 50% reduction
      in thickening as measured by Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), a two step reduction in
      macular thickness compared to standard stereoscopic fundus photographs, and a 50% reduction
      in the area of leakage as measured by fluorescein angiography. The University of Wisconsin
      Fundus Photography Reading Center will grade OCT, photographs, and angiograms and will be
      masked to treatment assignment. Other secondary outcomes will include the timing of the first
      required laser treatment, changes in visual acuity throughout the study, and the number of
      laser treatments required during the course of the study. In addition, all adverse events and
      abnormal laboratory values will be collected and tabulated. Specific objectives regarding
      safety and efficacy follow:

      Safety

      Is the risk of visual loss in patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema
      potentially different across treatment groups?

      Preliminary Assessment of Potential Outcomes

      Is there evidence that any treatment combinations could be effective in reducing retinal
      thickening?

      Is there evidence that celecoxib may inhibit or induce retinal thickening?

      What are the estimated treatment effects on vision?

      Is the number of laser treatments required to achieve a reduction in retinal thickening
      similar across treatment groups?

      The tertiary objective of this study will be to examine the effects of dramatically reducing
      low-density lipoproteins cholesterol in patients with diabetic macular edema and elevated
      serum lipid levels. Change vision and retinal thickness will be compared across three groups;
      (1) patients without elevated serum lipids at baseline, (2) patients with elevated lipid
      levels at baseline and receive standard of care treatment, and (3) patients with elevated
      lipid levels at baseline and are aggressively treated pharmacologically.
    
  