
    
      Background: Upper limb function is essential for activities of daily living impacting on
      quality of life in children with cerebral palsy (CP). In preschool children, dysfunctional
      upper extremity manipulation not only leads to disability but may further delay global
      development and substantially increase career burden. Even modest functional improvement
      could have tremendous long-term benefit in activities of daily living and significantly
      reduce career burden. Hypertonia is the main symptom causing motor dysfunction in CP.
      Intramuscular Botulinum toxin injection is one way of treatment. In spite of anecdotal
      evidence suggesting that early intervention can lead to better outcomes, Israeli physicians
      are unable to prescribe this treatment for the upper extremities due to limited health
      insurance coverage. A paucity research evidence is often cited as the reason for limiting the
      insurance coverage, in particular to the upper limb. We therefore propose to study the
      effects of Botox® in treating children with CP.

      Method: Twenty cooperative quadriplegic CP children ages 8-11 years, gross motor function
      level 4, will be enrolled for the study. Inclusion criteria will be troublesome hypertonia
      that will respond to treatment with Botox® (as identified by clinical assessment and
      neurophysiological measures). Since cooperation is crucial for the intensive therapy children
      with cognitive impairment (IQ<70) or severe behavioural disorders will be excluded. The
      children will be randomized to one of two groups a Botox group (BG) and a control group (CG).
      CG children will undergo a program of intensive therapy and BG children will be given Botox,
      as clinically required, in addition to an equivalent program of intensive therapy. Botox
      injection will be tailored according to the specific child. Generally injection site will
      include biceps and brachioradialis , while flexors of the wrist and digits will be injected
      according to abnormal postures during function. Maximal total dose will be 23 IU per kg. The
      intensive therapy will be as clinically required and the therapy program will be fully
      documented.

      Outcome measures will include the following:

        1. Hypertonia- neurophysiological measures

        2. Impairment measures - Grip and Pinch strength, active and passive range of motion at the
           writs elbow and shoulder

        3. Upper extremity function - Quality of Upper Extremity Skills Test (QUEST), Box and
           Blocks test

        4. Function and patient needs assessment - Goal Attainment Scores, Developmental Fine Motor
           Scale, Pediatric Evaluation and Disability Inventory (PEDI)

        5. Quality of life scales (care and comfort hypertonicity questionnaire) All of these
           measures will be taken once before treatment and then repeated at 7 months, and at 13
           months after treatment.
    
  