
    
      The study was a prospective and randomized clinical trial. The study was performed at two
      departments of the University Hospital Ostrava.

      The design and performance of the study were approved by the Ethics Committee of the
      University Hospital Ostrava.

      The patients indicated for insertion of central venous catheter (CVC) were informed about the
      possible nursing techniques applied at the insertion site of the central venous catheter,
      participation in the study was conditioned with signing a written informed consent. The study
      evaluated the superiority of a new procedure in providing nursing care for patients with CVC.

      Basic patient characteristics were observed and recorded according to the protocol of the
      study (age, sex, diagnosis), the number of days with CVC inserted, type of dressing, APACHE
      II score, the presence of neutropenia and the final score of assessment of local signs of
      inflammation, which was defined as follows:

      0 points = No reddening

        1. point = Reddening below 2 mm in diameter around the incision

        2. points = Reddening below 5 mm in diameter around the incision

        3. points = Reddening exceeding 5 mm in diameter around the incision

        4. points = Purulent secretion, swelling, pain

        5. points = Catheter sepsis The investigators also recorded the day when the first signs of
           local infection were observed.

      The obtained results were evaluated with standard statistical techniques (Chí-quadrate test,
      Fisher's exact test).

      Upon inserting CVC, the type of draping was recorded (small, middle, large), and the
      cannulated vein (vena subclavia, left and right, vena jugularis interna, left and right, vena
      femoralis, left and right). A smear was obtained from around the incision site in all
      patients after insertion and after extraction; the smears were sent for microbiology
      cultivation and determination of sensitivity to antibiotic therapy. Changing of the dressings
      was performed in accordance with standard operating procedures of the University Hospital
      Ostrava. The CVC was attended under aseptic conditions, using sterile material. Surrounding
      of CVC was mechanically cleaned and disinfected using 2% chlorhexidine for disinfection of
      the skin, let to dry, and semipermeable foil was placed at the site, containing chlorhexidine
      gluconate. The dressing was identified with a date when it was applied. This was left in situ
      for 3-4 days, and the procedure was repeated.

      The patients were randomized into two study groups:

        1. HMG Group - the patients were treated with 2% chlorhexidine for skin disinfection, HMG
           and transparent foil

        2. CHG Group - the patients were treated with 2% chlorhexidine for skin disinfection and
           dressing with CHG The randomization procedure further divided the patients into two
           study arms

      1. Neutropenia Group (defined as the number of neutrophil granulocytes below 1x109/l 2.
      No-neutropenia Group (with a normal number of neutrophil granulocytes
    
  