
    
      There is a need for a non-invasive treatment modality in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients
      who are medically or technically inoperable or refuse surgery. The primary tumor in patients
      with RCC is generally managed surgically or with a non-surgical ablative modality, but there
      is significant toxicity and invasiveness associated with current surgical and percutaneous
      treatment modalities. Stereotactic radiotherapy was first developed to treat brain metastases
      and other intracranial tumors by giving a single high-dose treatment delivered with a
      precision of less than 1 mm. This treatment requires immobilization of the tumor and precise
      imaging to guide the treatment. The brain is particularly amenable to this approach since
      there is no internal brain motion, the skull is easily fixed in position, and excellent
      imaging is available. Recent developments in immobilization and image guidance now permit
      precise tumor targeting of extracranial sites, such as the liver and lung. Stereotactic
      radiotherapy used at extracranial sites is called stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).
      Because of the great precision of SBRT, a high dose per treatment is possible. Early work
      evaluating SBRT in primary and metastatic liver and lung tumors has shown excellent results
      in tumor control and toxicity. Based on this, we propose expanding the use of this technique
      to RCC.

      In this study, the investigators seek to evaluate the safety and efficacy of SBRT for the
      treatment of the primary tumor in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). One goal of this study is to
      establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of renal SBRT by determining the dose-volume
      relationship and toxicity for the kidney when high dose per fraction SBRT is used. In order
      to ensure proper immobilization and tumor localization, the investigators will use abdominal
      compression, 4D CT scanning at the time of simulation, and cone beam CT scanning at the time
      of treatment. The investigators propose to perform Tc-99m glucoheptonate renal scans before
      and after SBRT to assess renal tissue at the periphery of the lesion, as well as baseline and
      follow-up serum chemistry evaluation, creatinine, complete blood count, urinalysis, and
      creatinine clearance.
    
  