
    
      Parents can play an important role in evidence-based concussion management by (1) monitoring
      their child's activity and level of stimulation, (2) communicating with school personnel
      about potential need for short-term academic accommodations, and (3) ensuring their child
      does not return to contact or collision sport prematurely and risk greater injury. However,
      not all parents follow these evidence-based guidelines, in part due to health literacy
      deficits, and further compounded by the poor fit and inconsistent implementation of
      educational materials. The initial medical encounter following a concussion provides an
      important opportunity for evidence-based knowledge translation to parents. Families at risk
      of low health literacy most often seek initial post-concussion care in emergency departments
      (ED) and often do not follow-up with a primary care provider or concussion specialist.
      Knowledge translation to parents in the ED is often inconsistent in terms of content and
      delivery, and existing approaches often do not meet the needs of families with low health
      literacy. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's (AHRQ) Re-Engineered Discharge
      (RED) Toolkit provides an evidence-based approach to supporting the implementation of parent
      education that has not as yet been adapted for use post-concussion in the ED setting.
      Investigators will work with stakeholders to develop toolkit to support evidence-based parent
      education post-concussion in the ED. Guided by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation
      Research, investigators will adapt the AHRQ RED Toolkit to facilitate post-concussion parent
      education in the ED. The evidence-based parent education to be shared will be the CDC Acute
      Concussion Care Plan, adapted to meet learning needs of parents with low health literacy and
      limited English proficiency. Investigators will use parent and provider interviews to
      iteratively develop the implementation toolkit (provider training, checklists, EHR support,
      downloadable parent materials) in consultation with an advisory board comprised of providers
      and parents. The clinical trial component of the study will be a hybrid
      implementation-effectiveness evaluation of the educational intervention. Guided by the RE-AIM
      framework, our primary outcomes will be the reach, acceptability, and implementation of the
      post-concussion education intervention. Investigators will also explore whether successful
      implementation is associated with (1) improved parent knowledge and self-efficacy related to
      helping their child adhere to CDC guidelines for returning to daily activities, school and
      sports, and (2) decreased disparity in knowledge and self-efficacy between high and low
      health literacy parents. Achieving these aims will result in a scalable approach to the
      implementation of the CDC's ACE Care Plan in the pediatric ED post-concussion. If parents are
      better able to follow evidence-based guidelines for concussion, they will better advocate and
      care for their children, and this should improve outcomes for all youth. More broadly,
      achieving these aims will provide a model for engaging low health literacy parents in
      adapting evidence-based educational practices for implementation in ED settings.
    
  