
    
      The current recommended treatments for tuberculosis (TB) require a patient to take multiple
      drugs for six to eight months. Because the course of therapy is long, many patients do not
      adhere to treatment and as a consequence they have a poor outcome. In these cases either the
      sputum is not cleared of the bacteria causing tuberculosis, or the disease returns again
      (called relapse). Response to medication can be monitored during treatment by collecting
      regular sputum samples and examining these samples by culture, for the organisms that cause
      tuberculosis.

      The commonly used drugs to treat tuberculosis are rifampicin, isoniazid, ethambutol and
      pyrazinamide. Previous studies in animals and in humans suggest that a new drug called
      moxifloxacin may also be an effective treatment in tuberculosis. Moreover, promising
      laboratory studies on mice suggest that moxifloxacin may enable the total duration of
      chemotherapy to be reduced to four months, which would be a significant improvement for
      patients taking medication for tuberculosis.

      This study will involve comparisons that are designed to assess whether substituting
      moxifloxacin for individual drugs in existing treatment combinations will enable tuberculosis
      treatment to be shortened. Patients selected for the study will be allocated to one of three
      treatment groups. The first group will be given six months standard treatment. A second group
      will receive moxifloxacin substituted for ethambutol, as part of a four month regimen, to see
      whether the shorter treatment is not inferior to the standard six month treatment. The third
      group will receive moxifloxacin substituted for isoniazid, as part of a four month regimen,
      to see whether the shorter treatment is not inferior to the standard six month treatment.

      Hypotheses:

        1. In treatment-naïve adults with active pulmonary TB treated with eight weeks of
           moxifloxacin (M), isoniazid (H), rifampicin (R) and pyrazinamide (Z) (i.e. a standard
           regimen where moxifloxacin is substituted for ethambutol (E)), followed by nine weeks of
           moxifloxacin, isoniazid and rifampicin, followed by nine weeks of placebo, the
           proportion of patients who experience treatment failure or disease relapse in the twelve
           months following treatment completion will not be inferior to that observed in patients
           who are treated with a standard regimen (eight weeks of ethambutol, isoniazid,
           rifampicin and pyrazinamide followed by eighteen weeks of isoniazid plus rifampicin)
           (Comparison 1).

        2. In treatment-naïve adults with active pulmonary TB treated with eight weeks of
           ethambutol, moxifloxacin, rifampicin and pyrazinamide (i.e. a standard regimen where
           moxifloxacin is substituted for isoniazid), followed by nine weeks of moxifloxacin and
           rifampicin followed by nine weeks of placebo, the proportion of patients who experience
           treatment failure or disease relapse in the twelve months following treatment completion
           will not be inferior to that observed in patients who are treated with a standard
           regimen (eight weeks of ethambutol, isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide followed by
           eighteen weeks of isoniazid plus rifampicin) (Comparison 2).
    
  