
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure objective response rate (RR) to guadecitabine and pembrolizumab in subjects with
      recurrent platinum resistant ovarian cancer (OC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure progression free survival (PFS) for the combination of guadecitabine and
      pembrolizumab.

      II. Progression free survival (PFS). III. Measure clinical benefit rate (CBR) for the
      combination of guadecitabine and pembrolizumab.

      IV. Measure toxicity profiles to the combination of guadecitabine and pembrolizumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. NY-ESO-1 and MAGE antigens' promoter methylation (pyrosequencing) and messenger
      ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression levels (quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase
      chain reaction [RT-PCR]) will be measured before and after treatment in deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) (plasma and/or tumor biopsies) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) (tumor biopsies),
      respectively.

      II. Cytokine response (IFN gamma IL2, IL6, IL10, TNF alpha) will be measured in plasma by
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

      III. Measure LINE 1 methylation in DNA extracted from peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMCs) (measured on days 1 and 5 of cycles 1 and 2).

      IV. Expression of the PD-L1 ligand will be measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in archival
      tumors.

      V. Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) will be quantified in tumor biopsies before and
      after treatment (IHC).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-4 and pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 5. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks for 1
      year, and then every 9 weeks and, once a subject experiences confirmed disease progression or
      starts a new anticancer therapy, every 3 months thereafter.
    
  