
    
      Recruitment has been put on hold due to COVID-19

      Persons with spinal cord injury (SCI), particularly cervical injuries (tetraplegia), are
      unable to effectively regulate core body temperature (Tcore) due to interruption of motor,
      sensory, and sympathetic pathways. Thus, control of distal extremity vasoconstriction (heat
      conservation) and shivering thermogenesis (heat production) are impaired, and the ability to
      maintain a constant Tcore is compromised. Persons with tetraplegia often report "feeling
      cold," frequently present with subnormal Tcore (35-36.5 degrees C), and are particularly
      vulnerable to hypothermia (Tcore<35 degrees C) and associated impairment in cognitive
      performance, even when exposed to temperatures that are comfortable for able-bodied (AB)
      individuals. Cool seasonal temperatures have been shown to have a greater adverse effect on
      personal comfort, activities of daily living (ADLs), and vital daily activities in persons
      with tetraplegia than that of AB controls. Conversely, a minimal increase in Tcore from
      subnormal to normothermia, secondary to ambient heat may improve cognitive performance.
      Interventions addressing the tendency to poikilothermia and enhanced vulnerability to
      hypothermia in persons with tetraplegia are limited. Therefore, exploration of safe and
      efficacious bioengineering solutions to address the physiological, cognitive, and quality of
      life (QoL) issues associated with the routine exposure to cool temperatures that persons with
      tetraplegia often encounter is warranted.

      The goals of this pilot study are to: 1) fully bench-test the heated vest for safety before
      performing any human subject testing; 2) study the safety and tolerability of a
      feedback-controlled heated vest in AB controls; and 3) study the efficacy of this heated vest
      to minimize the expected decline in Tcore and associated deterioration of cognitive
      performance during 2 hours of cool exposure in persons with tetraplegia.

      In persons with tetraplegia, a two-condition (heated vest, non-heated vest) prospective study
      is being proposed to compare the physiological and cognitive responses to 2 hours of
      controlled cool exposure (18 degrees C) with a prototype heated vest vs. a similar, but
      non-heated vest (control condition). Eight subjects with tetraplegia (C3-T1, AIS A and B) and
      eight AB controls will be recruited for study participation. Before the prototype is tested
      on human subjects, it will have been fully bench tested and have satisfied all safety
      requirements and specifications. AB subjects will be observed to ensure the safety of the
      vest, which will be accomplished by determining the temperatures of the vest ( 39 degrees C)
      and subjective thermal sensation of no greater than "warm" during a cool condition that will
      be identical to the condition which subjects with SCI will be exposed. Subjects with
      tetraplegia will test the efficacy of the heated vest, i.e. preventing the expected decline
      in Tcore and cognitive performance and increase in thermal comfort.

      After the feedback-controlled heated vest has been fully bench-tested and has satisfied all
      safety requirements (interior vest temperature does not exceed 39 degrees C at maximal power)
      and design specifications (lightweight, slim, easy to don doff), the following specific aims
      will be addressed:

      Primary Specific Aim: In a cool thermal chamber (18 degrees C), AB controls will wear the
      heated vest at maximal setting for 120 minutes in the seated position to determine (1)
      maximum temperatures of all areas of the interior (user's side) of the heated vest and (2)
      subjective comfort of the heated vest (safety testing).

      Primary Hypotheses: The study of AB controls will demonstrate (1) All areas under the vest
      will have temperatures 39 degrees C. (2) All subjects will report a thermal sensation no
      greater than "warm" this would include identification of "hot spots" (Zhang 9-point Thermal
      Sensation Scale).

      Secondary Specific Aim: During exposure to a cool environment (18 degrees C) for up to 120
      minutes in the seated position, persons with tetraplegia will wear the heated vest to
      determine (1) change in Tcore, (2) change in cognitive performance, and (3) change in thermal
      comfort (efficacy testing).

      Secondary Hypotheses: In persons with tetraplegia wearing the heated vest compared to the
      same persons wearing the non-heated vest, it's expected that (1) 30% of the subjects will
      have a decline of 0.5 degrees C in Tcore compared with 80% in the control condition, (2) 30%
      of the subjects will demonstrate a decline of at least 1 T-score in at least one of the
      following measures: Interference of Stroop Color and Word test, Digit Span of Wechsler Adult
      Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition, compared with 80% in the control condition, and (3) a
      greater percentage of subjects reporting increased thermal comfort (Zhang 6-point Comfort
      Scale).
    
  