
    
      1. Introduction

           Globally, stroke is ranked as the second leading cause of death and the third largest
           cause of disease burden. Stroke is associated with tremendous physical, psychological
           and economical demands on patients, families, the health care system and society at
           large. The worldwide burden of stroke is expected to increase in the coming years. In
           the developed countries, this trend is primarily a consequence of the growing older
           population; age being a major risk factor for stroke. Upper limb paresis is one of the
           most frequent and persisting impairments following stroke, and represents a major
           obstacle to regain independence in activities of daily living (ADL). In fact, it has
           been estimated that about 50% of the stroke survivors will be left with a non-functional
           arm after completed stroke rehabilitation. In order to minimize the disease burden in
           stroke survivors, it is of great importance to design and implement effective
           rehabilitation strategies targeting the paretic upper limb.

           Studies have shown that recovery of upper limb functioning (i.e. recovery of impairments
           and activity limitations, including skills) follows a pattern with a pronounced early
           post-stroke recovery and a subsequent leveling off already by 6 months post-stroke. In
           fact, it has been shown that 80% of patients reached a plateau within 3 weeks, and 95%
           reached a plateau by 9 weeks. It has also been shown that regaining hand dexterity is
           largely defined within the first 4 weeks after stroke , indicating a critical time
           window for recovery of upper limb functioning. Therefore rehabilitation efforts in the
           early post-stroke phase are likely decisive to maximize functional recovery. However,
           despite the fact that recovery is most likely in the immediate weeks after stroke, there
           are very few studies investigating the effect of therapeutic interventions in this time
           period.

           Several therapeutic interventions are currently used to try to aid in the recovery of
           upper limb functioning. There is limited evidence that hands-on therapy, including
           passive joint mobilization, manual stretching of soft tissue and passive exercises, is
           effective. Strength training in chronic stroke may reduce motor impairments in patients
           with mild-moderate paresis, but without any effect on ADL-performance. Likewise, there
           is limited evidence for the use of mirror therapy, sensorimotor and mental training. The
           evidence for using orthoses and other supporting devices is inconclusive. Repetitive
           task-oriented practice, which is probably the widest used intervention in facilitating
           upper limb recovery after stroke, has demonstrated promising results mostly in chronic
           stroke when delivered using virtual reality systems and robots, as well as
           constrained-induced movement therapy. However, these approaches are patient and resource
           demanding in terms of hours of daily training or expensive technologies. Moreover, it
           remains unknown if the functional benefits persist at long-term.

           Electrical stimulation (ES) is another method that has been used in facilitating the
           recovery of upper limb functioning following stroke. ES can induce a muscle contraction,
           or it can be a somatosensory stimulation below the motor threshold. Regardless the type
           of stimulation, there is some evidence that ES can aid in reducing motor impairments,
           but the questions regarding the optimal stimulation protocol (e.g. current amplitude,
           pulse frequency, placement of electrodes, treatment duration), long-term effect and
           transfer of training effect into ADL remains unanswered. Since this body of evidence is
           primarily based upon studies conducted on ES in chronic stroke patients, it also remains
           unknown to what extent ES applied in the acute phase after stroke could affect the
           recovery of upper limb functioning. Although the vast majority of the studies have
           focused on ES that induces muscle contraction, it is widely accepted that somatosensory
           input is required for maintaining normal motor function. Research shows that motor
           skills acquisition and motor performance are dependent on somatosensory input, and
           stroke patients with intact somatosensory function experience more satisfactory response
           to rehabilitation. In healthy persons, the application of electrical somatosensory
           stimulation (ESS) to peripheral hand nerves, forearm muscles or the whole hand elicits
           an increase in the cortical excitability of the representations that control the
           stimulated body parts, and the increased cortical excitability seems to outlast the
           stimulation period itself. It has been hypothesized that increasing the amount of
           somatosensory input may enhance the motor recovery of patients following stroke. Recent
           studies in acute, subacute and mostly chronic stroke patients suggest that a single 2
           hours-session of ESS to the peripheral hand nerves leads to transient improvement of
           pinch force, movement kinematics and upper limb motor skills required for
           ADL-performance. The higher the current amplitude, the more prominent the effect seems
           to be. ESS is used in conjunction with motor training in only one of these studies. One
           study demonstrates that the effect of a single session of ESS is maintained 30 days
           after cessation of intervention. Interestingly, there is emerging evidence that multiple
           sessions of ESS to the peripheral hand nerves in conjunction with motor training might
           improve motor skills of the paretic upper limb in subacute and chronic stroke patients,
           and these positive results seems to outlast the intervention period. When ESS is
           delivered in multiple sessions, it is unclear which current amplitude is optimal in
           subacute stroke patients. ESS of the whole hand using glove electrodes may or may not
           benefit the motor recovery of the paretic upper limb in chronic stroke patients.
           Importantly, ESS is passive in nature, causes patients minimal discomfort, has no
           adverse effects, is relatively cheap and can easily be incorporated in regular practice.
           Therefore it is valuable to establish the effect of multiple sessions of ESS in the
           restoration of upper limb functioning in the acute phase of stroke.

        2. Purpose of the project

      The overall aim for the present study is to investigate the effect of multiple sessions of
      suprasensory ESS in conjunction with occupational therapy (OT)/physiotherapy (PT) training on
      recovery of upper limb functioning in acute stroke patients. Suprasensory ESS is defined as
      the highest current amplitude that elicits paresthesia in the absence of discomfort, pain and
      visible muscle twitches. Specifically, we wish to address the following:

        1. Does continuous, suprasensory ESS in conjunction with OT/PT training:

           a) reduce impairments, b) improve motor skills required to ADL-performance, and c)
           reduce disability,

        2. Are changes that can be observed at the end of the intervention still present by 6
           months post-stroke? (long-term effect)

      3. Hypotheses

      We expect that continuous, suprasensory ESS is more effective than intermittent, suprasensory
      ESS. The total time of electrical stimulation during a single, intermittent ESS session will
      be 1 minute corresponding to 1/60 of the electrical stimulation time during a single,
      continuous ESS session. Furthermore, we expect brain reorganisation to proceed and covariate
      with recovery.

      4. Methods

      4.1. Study participants

      The trial subjects will be recruited from patients admitted to the stroke unit of Bispebjerg
      Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. The stroke unit consists of an acute unit and a rehabilitation
      unit, and serves a well-defined urban catchment area with a population of approximately
      400,000 citizens.

      4.2. Procedure, including recruitment of study participants

      All patients consecutively admitted to the rehabilitation stroke unit will be screened for
      inclusion and exclusion criteria immediately after admission. Emma Ghaziani, daily project
      leader, or other health care personnel involved in the study (e.g. the persons delivering
      ESS) will take personal contact to each eligible patient as soon as the patient's medical
      condition allows it. The patient is first asked if he/she is interested in receiving
      information on the study. If so, the written information is handed out, the information
      interview is scheduled, and the patient is informed about the possibility of having a
      companion (e.g. a relative, a friend) present at the information interview. If necessary, the
      patient may get assistance in contacting the companion in this regard. The information
      interview will be performed by Emma Ghaziani or other health care personnel involved in the
      study and will take place at the patient's bedside. The patient's bed will be screened off
      from the rest of the ward and no other visitors will be present. The declaration of consent
      will be collected after the patient has been given a reflection time which is determined with
      regard to inclusion criteria d) (i.e. ESS can be initiated within 7 days post-stroke).
      Baseline assessment will be performed during the first week post-stroke.

      Using a stratified random sampling procedure, the study participants will first be divided
      into homogenous subgroups with respect to: a) the ability to perform active finger extension
      and b) gender. Active finger extension has shown to be a simple and reliable early predictor
      of recovery of upper limb functioning in stroke patients. The patients in each subgroup will
      then be randomly assigned to either the continuous or the intermittent group. The therapists
      providing OT/PT training and the therapists performing assessments will be blinded to group
      allocation. The study participants will be blinded to our hypothesis on which type of
      suprasensory ESS is most effective.
    
  