
    
      Setting and Sample Women will be recruited from six clinics in Alameda County that provide
      prenatal care. In clinic settings, women will be approached by a trained and culturally
      sensitive research graduate student researchers (GSRs) to determine their interest and
      eligibility for CALM participation based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. A standard
      screening form will be used.

      Second, participants who remain eligible on the above criteria will be screened at the same
      time for pregnancy anxiety, depressive and anxiety symptoms using standardized screening
      instruments. Participants will be asked to complete the measures on a computer/tablet. Their
      responses will be scored and they will be informed via a phone call if they are eligible for
      the study. Those who score above population cutoffs for risk of disorders on The Overall
      Anxiety Severity and Impairment Scale (OASIS), Edinburgh Perinatal Depression Scale (EPDS),
      the Pregnancy-Specific Anxiety Scale (PSAS) and/or the Pregnancy-Related Anxiety Scale (PRAS)
      are eligible for the study. Cutoffs are as follows:

        1. Pregnancy Specific Anxiety 4 items Scale (cut off 15 or higher)

        2. Pregnancy-Related Anxiety Scale (cut off 30 or higher)

      b) OASIS (cut off of 8 or greater for positive screen for anxiety symptoms) c) EPDS if not
      obtained as normal procedures in clinic at that time (cut off of 12 or greater for positive
      screen for depression)

      Third, a home visit (or visit in their location of preference) is then arranged for
      participants who remain eligible for research staff to do the Mini International
      Neuropsychiatric Interview in order to exclude any women with history of bipolar, psychosis,
      current addiction or current suicidality. CALM web-based CBT is not recommended for
      individuals with severe mental illness (e.g. bipolar disorder and psychosis) who need
      additional services and will be given referrals. If not excluded on this basis research staff
      will consent women into the RCT study, conduct a baseline assessment, and randomized to
      treatment (CALM intervention) or control (Treatment as Usual) at the same home visit.
      Randomization will be programmed within the RedCap system after participants completed their
      baseline assessment. The computerized randomization schema will use blocked-randomization to
      ensure that too many participants are not assigned to the CALM intervention at once.
      Participants will be provided with remuneration at the end of the home visit, regardless of
      whether they are found eligible and/or consent to participate in the study.

      CALM Intervention (Treatment) Each CALM-trained doula (referred to in study as "CALM
      specialist") will be assigned to a single participant for the entirety of their participation
      in the RCT. Study participants randomized to CALM will be visited weekly or biweekly in their
      home or location of preference by a CALM specialist between 6 and 8 times prenatally.
      Sessions may extend into postpartum if needed as determined by the CALM specialist in
      conjunction with their supervisor. Additional visits will vary based on continuing assessment
      of symptoms.

      The CALM program is interactive, with individualized data entered session by session (e.g.,
      symptom scales, homework completion, fear hierarchies, response to exercises in session),
      that is sometimes retrieved at later points throughout the program (e.g., fear hierarchies).
      The interactive data entry provides a tool for objectively monitoring progress throughout the
      program and a method for assessing symptom improvement from one visit to the next. In
      addition, video vignettes are embedded throughout to demonstrate a therapist and patient
      working together on a specific skill or component of treatment. To reinforce what was learned
      in session, printouts of the session material (including patient's individualized information
      that is entered) are given to participants at the completion of each session, providing them
      with an individualized workbook that cumulates as they progress through the program.
      Participants can also access the program through a patient portal to obtain more education,
      guidance and forms. Also, each module ends with an assessment section in which patients rate
      their understanding of the material and answer quiz questions, and clinicians rate the
      patient's proficiency in implementing the specific cognitive behavioral skill. This
      assessment information guides the participant and CALM specialist as to whether to repeat the
      module or not.

      During the intervention, the CALM specialist will sit side by side with the patient as they
      both view the program on screen (see CALM Tools for Living Video, www.chammp.org). The
      program provides a structure to guide the content of each visit, thereby enhancing the
      integrity with which cognitive and behavioral strategies are presented and implemented in the
      hands of novice clinicians. The CALM specialist guides the participants to read or talk about
      material on the screen, following the general outline of module presentation described above.
      Participants can read the information and then talk with the CALM specialist about what was
      read, and/or or they can summarize the information that is presented on screen to the
      participant, and then help them apply the information to their own situation.

      In addition, the program prompts CALM specialists to engage in specific tasks repeatedly
      throughout each module. These tasks include (1) stating the goals of each visit (2) entering
      participant data (e.g., number of homework practices completed) (3) choosing which links to
      select based on relevance to the participant's target problem (e.g., link for how to apply
      cognitive restructuring to social anxiety versus depression) (4) instruction in and
      demonstration of skills of breathing and cognitive restructuring (5) designing home work
      practices between visits (5) reviewing and problem solving home work practices and (6)
      summarizing the information from each section of the program. CALM Specialists will have
      portable printers to leave a copy of the homework for the participants in the CALM group,
      regardless of whether they have internet access to do it online.

      The CALM specialist is trained in advance to use the program skillfully, so that they can
      direct participants to which sections of the computerized treatment are most relevant to
      them; inquire about and assess the patient's understanding of the material; summarize and
      rephrase sections of the text as necessary to provide clarification; assist in the
      application of CBT principles to the participants' idiosyncratic thoughts and behaviors; and
      reinforce in-session skills practice and between-session assignment practice. Also, CALM
      specialists may choose to skip some modules and advance to other modules based on the needs
      of a given participant. CALM specialists will meet weekly by phone with a licensed clinical
      psychologist (Co-I) for supervision and to ensure optimal care.

      Study participants in the treatment group will also complete assessments at baseline, 12-week
      post-baseline, and 10-week postpartum follow-ups.

      Treatment as Usual (Control) Currently, participants who screen high on any of the anxiety or
      depression measures are referred to behavioral and/or mental health services in Alameda
      County using a public health department (ACPHD) generated list of providers. For the purposes
      of this study, this procedure will remain the treatment as usual. Study participants not
      randomized to CALM will receive treatment as usual (TAU) and will complete baseline, 12-week
      post-baseline, and 10-week postpartum follow-up assessments only.

      Measures Several measures in addition to the scores on the OASIS, EPDS, PSAS, and PRAS will
      be used to describe the sample, examine treatment effects, and to evaluate the participant
      satisfaction with the CALM program. First, a screening survey will be completed in the clinic
      (OASIS, EPDS, PSAS, and PRAS). Next participant assessments will be administered at baseline,
      12 weeks post-baseline, and 10 weeks postpartum for all participants. The baseline assessment
      will be conducted in the home (or location of preference) as described above). The two
      follow-up assessments will either be completed online or over the phone with a GSR, depending
      on the participant's preference. Remuneration will be sent after completion of each
      assessment.
    
  