
    
      Profuse and tenacious tracheal secretions are a significant factor impeding the weaning
      process in mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit (ICU). In homeopathy,
      high dilutions of plant extracts, minerals, and other biological substances are used as
      remedies for the treatment of illness, which is based on the "Law of Similars" (the higher
      the dilution, the stronger the effect). Kali Bichromicum (potassium dichromate) is a drug
      that is commonly used in homeopathy, mostly for conditions involving profuse, stringy,
      tenacious mucous and tracheal secretions. A recent randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study found a statistically significant effect of this remedy on improving
      the amount of tracheal secretion, timing to extubation and discharge from the ICU among
      critically ill patients, with no side effects observed.

      The proposed study will compare the efficacy of Kali bichromicum 10-60 (C30) versus placebo
      in reducing the amount of tracheal secretions in patients intubated with a conventional
      endotracheal tube and receiving controlled mechanical ventilation in the ICU setting. Both
      the quantity and viscoelasticity (measured by rheometry) of the secretions will be studied,
      as well as sputum neutrophil count (using direct microscopy). Time to extubation and the need
      for re-intubation will also be evaluated. 56 patients over the age of 18 years treated with
      mechanical ventilation for at least 3 days will be recruited from the ICU departments of 4
      medical centers in Israel. The preparations will be administered in the form of small
      pellet-like globules, which will be placed on the mucosa of the mouth, to the side of the
      endotracheal tube. Patients will be randomly allocated to either verum (n=28) or placebo
      (n=28) treatment, with the remedies administered twice daily with an interval of 12 hours,
      for a period of up to 14 days or until the patient is extubated. Any adverse event will be
      recorded.
    
  