
    
      The overall goal of this research is to assess the effects of innovative interventions for
      CKD on the decline in renal function among patients with CKD stages 3b or 4. First, a CKD
      Patient Navigator program was created, adapted from the use of Patient Navigators
      successfully in oncology. Second, an enhanced PHR was developed that uses electronic
      communication to disseminate CKD stage-specific goals of care and CKD education. Third, a
      randomized controlled trial is being conducted using a factorial design to investigate the
      clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of the two interventions - a CKD Patient Navigator and
      enhanced PHR compared to usual care for CKD Stage 3b/4 patients.

      As a conceptual framework for the proposed study, the investigators are using the Chronic
      Care Model developed by Edward H. Wagner, M.D., Director of The MacColl Institute for
      Healthcare Innovation, Director of The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation national program
      "Improving Chronic Illness Care" and Senior Investigator at the Group Health Research
      Institute in Seattle. The model emphasizes a synergy between community, the health care
      system, technology and personal interactions to achieve optimal functional and clinical
      outcomes among people with chronic diseases. It has been adopted by the National Kidney
      Disease Education Program (NKDEP) to achieve many of their goals related to kidney disease.

      With the help of the CKD registry, the investigators are recruiting patients from outpatient
      clinics at main campus and family health centers located in the surrounding Cleveland area.
      Patients are being recruited by a trained study coordinator. All patients are informed about
      study procedures and the purpose of the research, verbally and in a written informed consent
      document, two copies of which must be signed by both the patient and the study coordinator
      before enrollment. Upon enrollment, the patients will be provided with a $25 stipend.

      The investigators identify from the CKD Registry and recruit eligible patients with CKD stage
      3b (eGFR 30-44 ml/min/1.73 m2) or Stage 4 (eGFR 15-29 ml/min/1.73 m2) who meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. The majority of data comes from the EHR derived CKD registry.
      The investigators obtain baseline demographic characteristics (age, gender, and race),
      comorbidities, and medication use, smoking status at the baseline visit. Further, CKD stage
      specific laboratory data will be collected routinely i.e., whether a laboratory parameter was
      measured or not and if measured, whether the laboratory measures and blood pressure are under
      the target limits. Details about nephrology, vascular access, and transplant referrals are
      obtained at baseline visit. The primary outcome of the study will be change in eGFR over the
      two-year study period.
    
  