
    
      This randomized controlled trial is designed to assess the effect of timing of surgery on
      surgical complications in patients undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis at one of
      two participating institutions.

      Early appendectomy in patients diagnosed with acute appendicitis has been a mainstay of
      treatment. Timely intervention is recommended to avoid the risks associated with perforated
      appendicitis, which has been shown to increase the risk of post-operative complications
      compared to non-perforated appendicitis. However, some studies have suggested that delaying
      appendectomy does not increase complications. Several studies have also assessed the safety
      of nighttime operating with conflicting results. Some suggest that delaying surgery until
      daytime is safe.

      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial with blinding of the outcome
      assessors. Eligible participants will be adult patients diagnosed with acute appendicitis
      with an expected operative start time between 2000-0400. Patients randomized to the
      intervention group will have delayed surgery after 0530 the following morning to avoid
      nighttime operating. Patients randomized to the control group will receive immediate surgery
      within 6 hours of the decision to operate. The follow up period will be a minimum of 30 days.
      Independent outcome assessors will assess patients during their postoperative course in
      hospital as well as in the outpatient follow up clinic.

      The primary outcome for this study is complication occurring within 30 days of surgery.
      Complication includes any of the following: mortality, readmission to hospital, emergency
      department (ED) visit, percutaneous drain insertion, reoperation, prolonged hospital stay
      greater than 7 days, and a predefined list of postoperative complications. Secondary outcomes
      include perforated appendicitis, operative time, and length of stay.
    
  