
    
      The study investigates the influence of inflammatory processes on the development and the
      course of uni- and bipolar depression. It is assumed, that the concentrations of certain
      inflammatory proteins have an influence on the development of depression, its clinical
      severity, the response to treatment and the risk of relapse. To verify this hypothesis, a
      total of 145 patients, which were hospitalized für treatment of a depressive disorder in the
      study centers in Germany, Italy and France, were screened according to the criteria set out
      in the study protocol. Finally, 104 patients with moderate to severe depressive symptoms were
      included in the study. The severity of the symptoms was classified using well-established
      clinical rating scales like Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and Hamilton
      rating scale for depression (HAMD). All enrolled patients were treated according to the
      recommendations of the German Association for Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics
      (DGPPN) treatment guidelines.

      In order to make drug-induced changes in the serum concentrations of the examined proteins as
      comparable as possible, it was determined in advance, that all patients should be treated
      with either sertraline (first choice) or venlafaxine (second choice) as an oral
      antidepressant. Apart from that, the antidepressive therapy, ie psychotherapy and similar
      procedures, had not been standardized. The treatment of study participants did not differ
      from the treatment of other patients hospitalized because of depression, who did not
      participate in the study. The patients were examined for the presence and severity of
      depressive symptoms at the time of study enrollment, as well as after 4 and 8 weeks, using
      standardized clinical test procedures. In addition blood was taken. In the serum of the
      patients, the concentrations of specific inflammatory proteins were measured using Cytometric
      Bead Array (CBA) and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) and then correlated with the
      clinical data. The investigated proteins include high-sensitivity CRP (C-Reactive-Protein),
      Interleukin 4, Interleukin 6, Interleukin 12, tumor necrosis factor-α, Eotaxin, Intercellular
      adhesion molecule 1 (CD54), Interferone-gamma and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1).
    
  