
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recent studies demonstrate that the immune system plays an important role in coronary artery
      disease (CAD). Research also shows that psychological factors such as major depression and
      acute mental stress are involved in the clinical progression of CAD. Depression is associated
      with higher levels of immune parameters that play a role in CAD (cytokines, markers of low
      grade inflammation, infectious pathogen burden, and adhesion molecules), and most of these
      measures also increase in response to acute physical and mental stress. The
      pathophysiological mechanisms linking depression and mental stress with adverse
      cardiovascular outcomes may therefore be mediated by immunological factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study examines clinical outcomes in patients who undergo percutaneous coronary
      revascularization, because a major problem remains the frequent (20 percent-40 percent)
      occurrence of coronary restenosis and new cardiac events in the six months after the
      intervention. These adverse outcomes have substantial impact on the costs of medical care and
      patients' quality of life. Since previous research has not examined the role of
      behaviorally-induced changes in immune parameters in the prediction of CAD progression, the
      following immunological measures will be examined: cytokines (IL-1B, IL-4, IL-6, IFNy, TNFa),
      acute phase proteins (CRP, fibrinogen), lymphocyte counts and differential, adhesion
      molecules (ICAM-1, LFA, L-selectin), and a composite measure of pathogen burden (CMV, H.
      pylori, C. pneumoniae). Using a longitudinal design, this project will determine the time
      course of changes in depression and changes in immune parameters. Moreover, the present study
      will determine the contribution of behavioral and immunological factors in the clinical
      progression of coronary disease following coronary angioplasty. These data may therefore
      improve the identification of patients at risk for recurrent cardiac events and restenosis
      after coronary angioplasty, and provide further understanding of the pathophysiological
      mechanisms involved in coronary disease progression.
    
  