
    
      Study design It was a randomized controlled trial of integrating infant feeding counselling
      and psychosocial stimulation in slums of Mirpur, Dhaka. The trial was conducted in slum
      communities on the edge of Dhaka with 10 clusters of city blocks for each of the 2 study
      groups (167 mothers/infant pairs in each group). The two groups 1) Psychosocial stimulation +
      feeding counselling group and 2) Control group. The peer counselling education and
      psychosocial stimulation intervention will be delivered to the mothers, by locally recruited
      and trained peer counsellors, starting in the third trimester of pregnancy until the child is
      one year of age. The peer counselling education was offered to eligible pregnant women
      identified by household survey over 2 months in each community cluster in the intervention
      groups. Using a similar approach to recruitment, a cohort of mother-infant dyads, who
      received standard maternal and child health care programmes,were identified in the control
      clusters. Outcome assessments conducted with all the mother-infant pairs recruited in the
      community clusters in the study, with an expected total of 334 mother-infant dyads. There was
      a baseline assessment of demographic information and further assessments of growth every 3
      months from birth until the children are 12 months of age. The developmental assessments in
      children will be conducted at 12 months of age.

      Sampling scheme A community based randomized controlled trial namely "Mirpur Shishu Pushti
      Trial" is ongoing in 36 clusters within 4 wards of Mirpur municipality. The average
      population of a "Ward" is 350,000 people. There are approximately five "Mahallas" per "Ward"
      with an average population of 70,000 people. The unit of randomization for this trial was
      city block clusters (CBC) with a population of about 6,000. A list of 36 CBC has already been
      prepared using established GIS methods to map and census the households. These CBC are being
      used in the ongoing community trial (Shishu Pusti trial). This ongoing study includes two
      arms; a peer-counselling (Infant and Young Child Feeding) arm and a control arm and the aims
      are to assess if the peer-counselling program improves children's growth through an
      improvement in child-feeding program. In this present study, two stage cluster sampling will
      be used, at the first stage 10 cluster will be randomly selected from 36 pre-defined clusters
      under this study area, on the second stage, 5 clusters will be randomly allocated for each of
      the treatment group. As the duration of the present study is only 18 months, utilization of
      the same study field along with GIS mapping and population census will allow us to minimize
      time as well as cost for the current study.

      Trained field assistants identified women who were in their third trimester of pregnancy by
      systematic door-to-door surveys across the "clusters" over two months period. Pregnant women
      aged 16 to 49 years were included. Women who plan to migrate from the Mirpur area after
      delivery was excluded.

      There will be two types of intervention: one providing breast-feeding and complementary
      feeding counselling and the other breast-feeding and complementary feeding counselling +
      psychosocial stimulation interventions. The proposed individual peer counselling education
      will be of sufficient intensity to alter infant and young child feeding practices and to
      improve the growth and development of the young children, hence prevent malnutrition and
      developmental delay. The interventions will be delivered to the women starting in last
      trimester of pregnancy and until their child is one year of age.

      a. Description of intervention

      The approach to promoting appropriate infant and young child feeding was through a programme
      of home-based peer counselling by trained, local women from the mothers' community. The peer
      counselling education and psychosocial stimulation intervention delivered to the mothers, by
      Peer Counsellors. The stimulation intervention included age-appropriate developmental
      messages and handmade toys provided by the Counsellors during home visits at regular
      intervals along with feeding counselling. The mothers were shown age appropriate stimulation
      activities for their child. There was at least 13 visits by the Counsellors: 2 visits before
      delivery; 2 visits during the 1st month; 7 monthly visits between age 2 to 8 months; and 2
      visits at age 10 and 12 months and bi-weekly group meetings. The integrated programme
      included social mobilization activities to help families adapt improved child care practices
      to achieve optimum child growth and development.

      i) Selection and training of peer counsellors Women with personal breastfeeding experience,
      at least 6 years of schooling, residing in the same area, and motivated to work were selected
      to become peer counsellors. The WHO/UNICEF Breastfeeding Counselling Course adapted to the
      local language and culture, which has already been validated in a previous study, was used
      for training of peer counsellors. The training was given for 40-h (4-h daily for 10 days).
      Counselling skills was taught mainly by demonstrations and role play and included: listening
      to mothers, learning about their difficulties, assessing the position and attachment of
      babies during breastfeeding, building mother's confidence, giving support and providing
      relevant information and practical help when required. During the training course antenatal
      and postpartum counselling wase practiced with pregnant women, mothers with newborns and
      infants aged 1-12 months in the field site. The counsellors were also be taught how to use
      locally available foods for complementary feeding of infants and young children, and how best
      to demonstrate these food preparation skills to mothers.

      The stimulation intervention included age-appropriate developmental messages, flip charts and
      handmade toys that will be provided by the Peer Counsellors during home visited at regular
      intervals along with feeding counselling. The mothers were shown three to four age
      appropriate stimulation activities with child and how to make toys using recycled materials.
      As children grow up, mothers were also be taught how to make simple one page books, suitable
      for use by less literate mothers.

      The short version of the Stimulation Curriculum will take 30-40 minutes and included the
      following activities during home visits

        -  Explaining 2-3 stimulation messages (e.g. how to show love, how to respond, how to
           facilitate communication etc) along with their benefits on child-development

        -  Explaining 1 Pictorial Stimulation Calendar containing 3 to 4 age appropriate activities
           with the child until next visit

        -  Teaching mothers and other family members how to make toys from recycled materials The
           performance of the counsellors was monitored at least four times during the course of
           the study by the Senior Infant Feeding Counsellors and stimulation supervisors.

      ii) Counseling schedules: There was a schedule of at least 13 visits by the peer counsellors:
      two before delivery; two during the first month; seven monthly visits between age 2 to 8
      months; and two visits at age 10 and 12 months. The counselling took place at home to ensure
      key family members (e.g. mother-in-law and fathers) can also be included in the counselling
      sessions. The duration of each visit was from 30 to 40 minutes.

      Antenatal visits: The peer counsellors during the two antenatal contactswould prepare the
      mothers, and other members of the family who would support her at delivery, about the
      importance of holding the baby within a few minutes of delivery and how to initiate
      breastfeeding within one hour of delivery.

      In addition, they would provide some guidelines on the importance of feeling well and happy
      during pregnancy, singing to the baby in the womb, avoiding any harmful practices like use of
      tobacco. Fathers and other household members was be briefed on the importance of keeping the
      mother happy and joyful and avoiding subjecting her to violence or any harsh treatment. ECD
      messages like playing, chatting and singing to the newborn will be provided in the
      psychosocial stimulation arm along with feeding messages.

      Visits in the first month of life: The mothers were contacted twice by the peer counsellors
      (within 48 hours of delivery and at 10-14 days). At these visits exclusive breastfeeding was
      encouraged and the mother's specific needs addressed. Issues that could be covered include
      sore nipples, problems with attachment to the breast, the baby's position during feeds,
      family pressure to start other foods and mothers' doubts about the adequacy of their breast
      milk. I Age-appropriate ECD messages was provided and mothers will be prepared for child's
      developmental requirements as s/he grows.

      Visits 2 to 8 months of life: The mothers were contacted monthly by the peer counsellors.
      Specific problems will be addressed and continued support for breastfeeding provided
      especially how to deal with pressures to introduce other foods and concerns about the
      adequacy of the growth of the infant. From 6 months of age, specific messages that include,
      the importance of complementary feeding, demonstration and preparation of complementary foods
      introduction. Mothers will be given measuring cups and spoons and appropriate complementary
      foods were demonstrated and use of usual foods in the home will be encouraged.

      Similarly other age-appropriate ECD messages was provided and PCs will try to include other
      family members in these sessions.

      Visits at 10 and 12 months of life: The mothers contacted at 10 and 12 months by the peer
      counsellors. The mothers were encouraged to continue breastfeeding and support will be given
      for adequate frequency of complementary feeds and appropriate diversity foods.
    
  