
    
      The gold standard for TB diagnosis, mycobacterial culture, is limited by a slow turnaround
      time, the need for skilled technicians and biosafety level 3 facilities. Another diagnostic
      test, Xpert MTB/RIF, produces same-day results, boasts a specificity of 98%, but is limited
      in the HIV population by its sensitivity of 67% (with a single sputum sample). High costs
      associated with this test have presented a major obstacle to its routine use (US$65,500 for a
      16-module instrument, and US$9.98 to US$18.00 per cartridge). The urine lipoarabinomannan
      (LAM) Ag test has a specificity of 98.6% and a sensitivity of 66.7% in patients with a CD4
      count below 50. LAM is a 17.5kD glycolipid and virulence factor of mycobacteria. The test's
      sensitivity improves in advanced HIV cases because of the higher bacillary burden, more
      frequent disseminated TB, and greater concentration of urine antigen due to less
      antigen-antibody formation, and HIV nephropathy. The test strip contains its own positive and
      negative controls for quality assurance, and can utilize fresh urine samples stored at room
      temperature for up to 8 hours after collection. In the right clinical setting, the urine LAM
      Ag test could have an important additive benefit in TB diagnosis in HIV individuals when
      combined with the current standards of care.

      This study is investigating how physician management and patient outcomes change when the
      urine LAM test is added to the current TB diagnostic tests (mycobacterial cultures and
      occasional use of Xpert MTB/RIF). The national referral hospital in Panama, Hospital Santo
      Tomás, is an ideal study site given its dedicated HIV inpatient service and high TB and
      histoplasmosis burden. Histoplasmosis diagnosis is often based on clinical symptoms alone,
      and less frequently confirmed by skin or bone marrow biopsy. Due to diagnostic uncertainty,
      40% of HIV patients with fever and cough receive dual TB and histoplasmosis therapy. Their
      current standard of TB care includes sputum AFB microscopy and culture. However, rapid
      results are only available for the sputum AFB, which has a sensitivity of approximately 30%.
      The urine LAM Ag test is not presently used there. When combined with the urine LAM Ag test,
      sputum AFB has a sensitivity of 25% (if CD4>200) to 72% (if CD4<50). Over the next year,
      investigators plan to study changes in physician diagnostic classification and management
      decisions before and after the introduction of the urine LAM Ag test. This information would
      not only aid in TB diagnosis, but also in the investigators understanding of how physicians
      integrate new information.

      The main objective is to determine the effect of urine LAM Ag test results in reducing dual
      TB/histoplasmosis therapy, by comparing the rate and duration of dual therapy in the urine
      LAM group to a retrospective control group. The investigators second objective is to
      investigate barriers to incorporating the urine LAM Ag test and how the results impact
      physicians' approaches to treatment using a physician questionnaire.

      A clinical trial study will be conducted using HIV positive patients from June 2016 to June
      2017 who present with pertinent clinical criteria at Hospital Santo Tomás. Following urine
      LAM Ag test administration, results will immediately be provided to the treating physicians.
      The control group will consist of retrospectively selected patients from the Hospital Santo
      Tomás database who fit the same inclusion and exclusion, matched for age, sex, and clinical
      severity. Patient outcome data will be collected from the day of hospital admittance to their
      time of discharge. Following the conclusion of data collection, consenting physicians will be
      interviewed on benefits and barriers to incorporating the urine LAM Ag test within their
      practice.
    
  