
    
      Chart review of children and young people with Neuromuscular disease or Cerebral Palsy who
      are cared for in the Royal Brompton Hospital and that have been treated with nebulised
      hypertonic saline for at least 12 months.

      To further complement data from hospital records, two questionnaires will be applied. Parents
      of children who meet criteria will be asked to complete the following questionnaires:

        1. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for Hospitalisation and
           access to are - HUQ.010; and

        2. Questionnaire on Hypertonic Saline treatment.

      Children from 10 - 18 years will be asked to complete the Questionnaire on Hypertonic Saline
      treatment.

      AIMS

        1. Explore whether treatment with nebulised Hypertonic Saline in children with
           Neuromuscular disease or Cerebral Palsy decreases respiratory-related complications.

        2. Evaluate whether the treatment with nebulised hypertonic saline in children with
           neuromuscular disease or cerebral palsy improves the ease of airway clearance.

        3. Explore how parents of children with Neuromuscular disease and children with Cerebral
           Palsy perceive the treatment with nebulised hypertonic saline compared with previous
           management.

      Sample Size:

      The investigators aim to recruit 40 participants for each group, including children and young
      people and their parents or legal guardians, as this is a pilot study.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN

        -  Univariate X2 analysis for categorical variables to investigate Courses of antibiotic
           treatment.

        -  Univariate X2 analysis for categorical variables to investigate Number of
           hospitalisations.

        -  Student t testing will be used to analyse nocturnal oxygenation and ventilation outcomes
           comparing one year before and after starting treatment with Hypertonic Saline.

        -  Independent t testing and Mann-Whitney U test to analyse Rate of decline in pulmonary
           function.

        -  Cox proportional hazard model to test differences in primary endpoints for different
           baseline FVC.

        -  Univarate analysis to analyse Ease of airway clearance.

        -  Univariate analysis on perception of treatment.

      Data and all appropriate documentation will be stored for a minimum of 10 years after the
      completion of the study, including the follow-up period.

      ETHICS APPROVAL The Study Coordination Centre has obtained approval from the Yorkshire & The
      Humber - Leeds West Research Ethics Committee (REC) and Health Regulatory Authority (HRA).
      The study also received confirmation of capacity and capability from each participating NHS
      Trust before accepting participants into the study or any research activity was carried out.
      The study will be conducted in accordance with the recommendations for physicians involved in
      research on human subjects adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly, Helsinki 1964 and
      later revisions.

      CONSENT Consent to enter the study must be sought from each participant only after a full
      explanation has been given, an information leaflet offered and time allowed for
      consideration. Signed participant consent should be obtained. The right of the participant to
      refuse to participate without giving reasons must be respected. After the participant has
      entered the study the clinician remains free to give alternative treatment to that specified
      in the protocol at any stage if he/she feels it is in the participant's best interest, but
      the reasons for doing so should be recorded. In these cases the participants remain within
      the study for the purposes of follow-up and data analysis. All participants are free to
      withdraw at any time from the protocol treatment without giving reasons and without
      prejudicing further treatment.

      CONFIDENTIALITY The Chief Investigator will preserve the confidentiality of participants
      taking part in the study and is registered under the Data Protection Act.

      PUBLICATION POLICY Data ownership rights will lie with the institution. Findings of this
      study will be presented as a Dissertation and will be available through Open Access. The
      investigators aim to publish findings in peer-review journals.
    
  