
    
      The medico-economic objective of this study is to assess an organizational innovation for
      patients treated at the hospital for dental substance loss. The intervention study is the
      availability of such information for the management of patients, not that of its systematic
      use.

      The economic evaluation of this innovation consists of several parts:

        1. A costing study seeking to determine the costs of compensation for dental substance loss
           by conventional technique and CAD/CAM per patient ;

        2. Evaluate the cost from an hospital perspective to substitute CAD/CAM to conventional
           dental treatment equipments;

        3. To built a cost-effectiveness ratio comparing the conventional technique and the CAD/CAM
           on the criterion of proportions of effective restorations obtained .

      Assess the medical and medico-technical impact of prosthesis availability from CAD/CAM:

      Modifications of treatment plans (some indications of plastic fillings could shift toward
      CD/CAM restorations?) and/or their chronology (order of execution phases).

      The patient cohort is cared for in a hospital Department of Dentistry for oral
      rehabilitation.

      There is indication of at least a partial or total dental crown restoration either by
      conventional methods or by CAD/CAM (equipoise).

      Directly assessable elements are:

      at the individual restoration level: Effective restoration time between indication and
      effective restoration, quality of the restoration, number of clinical sessions required,
      unitary cost of the restoration at the patient level: compliance, overall duration of
      treatment, duration of the restoration phase, number of clinical sessions (global and
      restoration phase) , criteria of quality of life (OHIP, SF36), treatment costs (global and
      restoration phase) at the hospital level: number of patients cared for per unit of time,
      number of restorations, revenues, expenses

      Patients seeking dental restorations in one of the study centers an needing at least one
      fixed restoration feasible either by CAD/CAM or conventional means will be selected during
      their first consultation (excluding emergency consultations). Quality of life (QOL) indices
      are then recorded.

      Two treatment plans are then created, one using conventional means and another using CAD/CAM
      means as required ; those two plans may differ in steps order. The last treatment step where
      these plans are identical is the randomization point.

      The treatment plans are maintained during the pre-prosthetic phases of the treatment, and
      updated in case of intercurrent events.

      The patient is formally included at the randomization point, and the plan selected by the
      randomization is carried out. The resource consumptions entailed by the prosthetic steps are
      recorded.

      At the end of treatment, patient satisfaction and QOL indices are recorded. An identical
      record is made 6 months after the end of treatment.

      Further long-term follow-up of the patients included in this study is planned, but will be
      the object of another protocol.
    
  