
    
      Pertussis is an acute respiratory infectious disease caused by bordetella pertussis. Although
      it is a vaccine-preventable disease, outbreaks and epidemic cases of whooping cough worldwide
      have been reported from time to time. Bordella parapertussis, Bodella bronchiseptica, and
      bordetella hosei can cause pertussis-like diseases with symptoms similar to those of whooping
      cough. The clinical manifestations are difficult to distinguish, and they are easily reported
      as cases of whooping cough through the infectious disease network.

      The diagnosis of the infectious diseases caused by the four pathogenic bodella mainly relies
      on laboratory pathogenic testing. At present, the laboratory tests of bordetella that can be
      carried out in the clinical microbiology laboratory include culture, bordetella pertussis
      specific antibody (PT-IgG) serological detection, and bordetella pertussis nucleic acid PCR
      detection. However, none of them meet the requirements of early diagnosis.

      Cross primer constant temperature amplification (CPA) is nucleic acid constant temperature
      amplification technology with independent property rights. The fully automated nucleic acid
      detection platform equipped with CPA technology would make the detection of four pathogenic
      bordetella easy, quick and safe and accurate.

      As pathogenic bodella is difficult to cultivate and there is no standard for drug
      susceptibility test. Studies have shown that 57.4% of the isolated clinical isolates of
      bordetella pertussis have MIC value for erthomycin ≥256 μg/mL , and 23s rRNA 2047 site
      adenine (A) were mutated to guanine (G).CRISPR/Cas is an immune system in bacteria that can
      specifically recognize invading nucleic acids and shear them. The CRISPR technology developed
      based on the CRISPR/Cas principle can detect single point mutations in genes.

      The hypothesis that 4 pathogenic bordetella and their erythromycin resistance would be
      detected in one testing platform simultaneously. The accuracy, reliability, predictive value
      of this platform would be checked through prospective diagnostic test evaluation methods.
      Bordetella pertussis isolation culture and identification would be as the gold standard
      method.
    
  