
    
      PDPH is described as severe "searing and spreading like hot metal" distributed over the
      occipital and frontal areas radiating to the neck and shoulders. 90% of headache will occur
      within three days of the procedure, and 66% within the first 48 hours. The PDPH rarely
      develops between 5 and 14 days after the technique however it may immediately occur after
      dural puncture but it is rare and should pay attention of the physician to alternative
      causes. The pain is increased by head movement, upright posture and relieved by lying down.
      It resolves either spontaneously within 7 days or within 48 h after effective treatment which
      is usually consists of fluid therapy, analgesics, sumatriptan and caffeine. Epidural blood
      patch remained the gold standard therapy but it is an invasive technique.

      The exact etiology of PDPH is unknown; there is two hypothesis attempts to explain the cause.
      First it's known that dural tear leads to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak and decreased volume
      of CSF result in intracranial hypotension which cause on pain sensitive intracranial
      structures that become stretched when assuming upright position result in pain. Second,
      intracranial volume is constant and equal to the sum of intracranial blood, CSF, and brain
      matter. After loss of CSF a compensatory reflex vasodilatation occur in the same pain
      sensitive blood vessels and this result in pain.

      The association of common risk factors like female gender, particularly females during
      pregnancy, age groups of 20 - 40 years, a prior history of chronic headache, and a lower body
      mass index expose the patient to PDPH. The identification of factors that predict the
      likelihood of PDPH is important so that measures can be taken to minimize this painful
      complication resulting from spinal anesthesia.

      Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) is a portable, safe, noninvasive and real-time tool for
      assessing intracranial blood hemodynamics. The first description of the technique was by Rune
      Aaslid in early 20th century and it has gained increasing acceptance as an accurate
      diagnostic and therapeutic tool in both cerebrovascular disease and neurocritical care. TCD
      enables measurement of the blood flow velocity in intracranial arteries and several Studies
      have shown that its parameters are affected by both fluctuations in intracranial pressure and
      changes in cerebral vessel diameters. So, as PDPH may be resulted from significant changes in
      cerebral blood flow, it could be visualized by TCD.

      The possibility of equipment mobilization, the opportunity of repeated bedside technique
      together with the noninvasive nature, makes TCD measurements attractive in the attempt to
      estimate CBF and offers potential application to predict and follow patients with PDPH.
    
  