
    
      Phase I Study Design

      • Phase I will follow a 3+3 dose escalation design to determine the RPTD of ixazomib in
      combination with ONC201 and Dexamethasone.

      The dose escalation rules for the phase I portion of the study are as follows, escalating in
      cohorts of 3 patients per dose level including a de-escalation option in case of early
      toxicity. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as any grade 3 or higher toxicity seen
      during the first 28 day cycle of the triplet regimen (ONC201, ixazomib, and dexamethasone).
      Of note, grade 3 and higher absolute lymphopenia and hematologic toxicities without clinical
      sequelae (eg. neutropenia without fever/infection, anemia without symptoms, thrombocytopenia
      without bleeding) and also responsive to growth factors/transfusions will not be considered
      DLTs. AST or ALT values of ≥ 3x ULN AND with serum total bilirubin level of > 2x ULN or
      international normalized ratio (INR) > 1.5 without signs of cholestasis and with no other
      clear alternative reason to explain the observed liver-related laboratory abnormalities is
      also considered a DLT. Three patients will be treated at the current dose level. If at least
      2 patients are observed to have a DLT, the prior dose level is defined as the RPTD unless
      only 3 patients have been treated at that level, in which case it is the tentative RPTD. If 0
      of the 3 patients are observed to have DLT, the dose level is escalated one dose level for
      the next cohort of 3 patients, and the process continues as above. If exactly 1 of the 3
      patients treated show DLT, 3 additional patients are treated at the current dose level. If
      none of these additional 3 patients show DLT, the dose level is escalated for the next cohort
      of 3 patients, and the process continues as above; otherwise, the prior dose level is defined
      as the RPTD (unless only 3 patients have been treated at that level, in which case it is the
      tentative RPTD). A tentative RPTD becomes final when a total of 6 patients are treated with
      less than 2 showing DLT.

      If, unexpectedly, at least 2 patients are observed to have DLT at the initial dose level 0,
      then the next dose level evaluated will be the lowest dose level, -2, and further dose
      escalations to dose level -1 will proceed as outlined above from that dose level. If there is
      no RPTD declared, there will be no expansion to the phase II portion of the study. The phase
      I portion of the study will include between 9 and 12 patients depending upon the number of
      dose levels evaluated.

      Phase II Study Design Phase II will follow a Simon's Optimal two-stage design to indicate
      proof of concept regarding the PFS rate of ixazomib in combination with ONC201 and
      Dexamethasone at the RPTD established in phase I. Once the RPTD for combination therapy has
      been established, an additional 24 patients will be enrolled for a total of 30 evaluable
      patients (24 + 6 from phase I at RPTD).

      In considering a Simon's Optimal two-stage design, the plan is to look at each patient at 2
      months after initiating study treatment (3 drug combination) and classify each patient as
      responder or non-responder at the 2 month time point. A responder is a patient who has stable
      disease or better (not progressed) since initiating study treatment; a non-responder is
      someone whose disease has progressed according to IMWG criteria. The population of relapsed
      and refractory MM patients in this study will likely all have progressed on standard therapy;
      therefore the null hypothesis being tested is that the disease control rate at 2 months is
      5%. As per IMWG criteria, if patients show progression after 1 cycle of triplet therapy, they
      will continue on therapy and a repeat assessment will be performed after cycle 2 in order to
      confirm progression of disease.

      Stage 1:

        -  Enroll 9 patients including the 6 patients being evaluated from the phase I portion of
           the study

        -  Evaluate patients at 2 months post initiation of treatment

        -  If 0 have responded (progression-free), i.e. if all 9 have progressed, then stop trial
           for futility and conclude that the proportion who will be progression-free at 2 months
           is less than 5%.

        -  If 1 or more have responded (progression-free) at 2 months, then proceed to Stage 2.

      Stage 2:

        -  Enroll an additional 21 patients

        -  Evaluate patients at 2 months post initiation of treatment If 4 or more of the 30
           patients have responded (progression-free) at 2 months then the null hypothesis is
           rejected and further investigation of this treatment combination is warranted.
    
  