
    
      This is a single-institution, open-label, single-arm Phase II study to determine the efficacy
      and safety of anlotinib in combination with Toripalimab compared with historical controls as
      first-line treatment in patients with Unresectable or Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic
      Sarcoma.

      Since the primary endpoint is survival outcome, progression-free survival (PFS) sample size
      calculation is based on a single-arm survival design. The investigators will employ early
      stopping rules for lack of efficacy, based on previously reported historical controls
      progression-free rate at 3 months was 57% in MFH and This study predicts that as the
      First-Line treatment of Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma, progression-free rate at 3
      months is expected to reach more than 80%.

      Patients will be treated with once a day dosing of anlotinib alone for the first 7 days,
      followed by concurrent anlotinib administered once a day at 12mg orally (PO), plus
      intravenous administration of toripalimab every 21 days. Patients will be assessed every six
      weeks for toxicity. After the first five patients are enrolled, the investigators will assess
      safety of the combination. If 2 or fewer patients exhibit dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the
      investigators will then proceed with intrapatient titration of anlotinib dosing at each cycle
      based on the presence or absence of predefined toxicities.

      Correlative studies characterizing T-cells in tumor tissue and in peripheral blood will be
      performed at three timepoints: 1. pre-treatment, 2. on-treatment on cycle 3 day 1, and 3.
      off-study. Additional exploratory imaging investigations, and assessment of circulating tumor
      cells are included for all patients.

      Trial therapy will last until withdrawal of consent, disease progression and/or unacceptable
      toxicity, whichever occurs first.
    
  