
    
      RATIONALE:

      The investigators hypothesize that decision-making in the retail sector is influenced
      primarily by price (or profit) supplemented by individual beliefs or preferences. Information
      from a diagnostic test, when available, plays only a minor role in the decision-making
      landscape. In response to this, the investigators propose to test a scalable, policy-relevant
      strategy that integrates testing and treatment subsidies and makes ACT subsidies available
      only to customers with a positive malaria test. Differential pricing based on the results of
      the diagnostic test will align consumer and provider incentives (price and profit) with
      testing and appropriate ACT use. This approach will also ensure that public subsidies are
      directed at confirmed malaria cases thereby enhancing the sustainability of such programs. By
      allocating subsidy dollars across both testing and conditional treatment (rather than
      universal, treatment-only subsidies), the investigators can reduce the cost of subsidizing
      malaria treatment and improve targeting of ACTs without compromising access.

      OBJECTIVES:

      This goal of the proposed work is to improve antimalarial stewardship in the retail sector,
      which has the largest market share of antimalarials in sub-Saharan Africa. In this study (Aim
      2) the investigators will use a cluster randomized controlled trial to measure the impact of
      two innovative interventions - a provider-directed incentive for offering malaria rapid
      diagnostic tests to suspected malaria cases and a consumer-directed diagnosis dependent ACT
      subsidy (conditional ACT subsidy). The investigators will test both interventions singly and
      in combination. The unit of randomization will be the private medicine outlet (cluster).

      STUDY DESIGN:

      The study will be a cluster-randomized controlled trial with four arms based on a factorial
      design. See Section 4.4 Statistical Design and Power for complete details.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      The study will be conducted in Kenya, a country with high malaria burden. Kenya has the
      programmatic goal of universal access to prompt parasitological confirmation before treatment
      and have endorsed the use of malaria RDTs in the public health sector at all levels of care.
      However, very high rates of treatment in the retail sector undermine the explicit policy that
      all malaria cases should be confirmed by parasitological diagnosis. In Kenya, retail outlets
      currently do not conduct RDTs and emphasis has been placed on implementing community case
      management for malaria through public-sector community health workers (including conducting
      RDTs).

      The specific study site will be western Kenya (Bungoma County and Trans Nzoia county).

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      A complete sampling frame of eligible retail outlets will be made for the site. Outlets will
      be eligible if they regularly carry quality-assured, subsidized ACTs. Attendants who dispense
      medicines at each outlet will be trained to correctly and safely perform RDTs. They will
      receive an initial small start-up stock of RDTs and will be given contact information for RDT
      wholesalers who can provide replenishment stocks on demand. In addition, all attendants will
      be trained to use a mobile reporting app that captures basic information about suspected
      malaria cases. This app will not be used to assess outcomes, but will be an important
      monitoring tool and serve as the conduit for all payments according to the arm assignment.

      Following training, shops will be randomized to one of the four arms:

        -  Arm 1 (control): RDTs available at study-recommended price, providers trained on mobile
           app

        -  Arm 2 (provider-directed intervention): providers receive a small reimbursement
           (~10cents) for each RDT that they perform and report on the mobile app, RDTs available
           at study-recommended price

        -  Arm 3 (client-directed intervention): ACT subsidy to client conditional on positive RDT,
           RDTs available at study-recommended price

        -  Arm 4 (consumer-directed and provider-directed intervention): providers are reimbursed
           for each RDT and consumers with a positive test are eligible for a subsidy on a
           quality-assured ACT. RDTs are available at study recommended price.

      Customers who come to a participating outlet in any arm with fever or suspected malaria are
      eligible for an RDT at the study-recommended price and, in arms 3 and 4, a conditional ACT
      subsidy when the RDT is positive. Attendants will be trained to recognize danger signs and
      refer those individuals to a health facility for immediate care. Customers purchasing
      medicine on someone's behalf or those who have already had a malaria test will not be
      eligible for RDT testing or conditional subsidies.

      Study outcome measures will be collected by interviewing a random sample of customers leaving
      participating shops (exit interviews). A team of field interviewers will be trained in each
      site and will be assigned to participating outlets on random days in a month. Both the day of
      the month and the interviewer assigned to the specific outlet will be randomized in order to
      balance data collection across interviewers and arms and to minimize the observer effect.
      Each outlet will be visited thrice in a month and the interviewer will enroll eligible
      participants in succession until they have completed 3-4 interviews. Ten customers per month
      per outlet are needed to reach a sample size of 170 interviews per outlet in 17 months of
      data collection. Exit interviews will capture information about customer demographics,
      symptoms of their current illness, whether they had a malaria diagnostic test at the outlet
      or elsewhere, how much they paid for the test, the results of the test, and the drug(s) they
      purchased. Customers will be eligible to participate in the exit interview if s/he was
      seeking drugs for him/herself or their minor child older than one year of age and the child
      is physically present, s/he had a febrile illness or suspected malaria, and s/he agrees to be
      interviewed.

      Study monitoring will be continuous throughout the study period using the mobile app. Study
      staff will regularly review reporting data captured by the mobile app. In particular,
      pictures of RDTs will be reviewed alongside results reported by outlet attendants to ensure
      correct use and interpretation of the RDTs. In addition, exit interviews will be summarized
      monthly by outlet and compared to the data submitted via the app. This monitoring step will
      allow us to identify major discrepancies between actions reported by the shop and those
      reported by the customers such as testing rates, RDT positivity rates, dispensing of
      qualified ACTs and prices charged for RDTs and ACTs.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND POWER:

      The investigators calculated power based on a cluster randomized two-sample two-tailed t-test
      for the comparison of two proportions. The investigators calculated power for differences in
      the primary outcome for each of the three comparisons of interest noted above. With a sample
      of 170 exit interviews per outlet (40 outlets in Kenya), the investigators will have >90%
      power to detect a minimum difference between Arms 1 (control) and 4 (combined interventions)
      in the primary outcome of 23 percentage points. The investigators will also have >89% power
      to detect a minimum difference of 16 percentage points for the secondary comparisons of
      interest.

      The sample size estimates correspond to a total of 6800 exit interviews with clients in
      Kenya. Since not everyone interviewed will have purchased an ACT, estimates account for the
      fact that only a subset will enter into the analysis for the primary outcome. The
      investigators will have a team of 8 data collectors and each data collector will conduct
      approximately 50-60 interviews per month. Exit interviews should take 15 months to complete.

      See Section 4.4 Statistical Design and Power for comprehensive description of sample size,
      power and statistical analysis.

      SUBJECT CONFIDENTIALITY:

      Customers leaving the shop will be approached by the field interviewer to ask if they are
      interested in participating in a short interview. If they agree, then they will be taken to a
      private area and the study will be explained to them. Once they provide consent, the
      interviewer will record the details of their illness and treatment at the outlet. No
      participant identifiers will be recorded in the electronic data collection form. This limits
      the possibility of identifying the source of any health information (See Protection of Human
      Subjects Section 3.3).
    
  