
    
      Uncontrolled asthma disproportionally impacts Black and poor adults. Adherence to inhaled
      corticosteroids (ICS), which plays a significant role in asthma control, is relatively low in
      poor and minority populations. Non-adherence to ICS is associated with erroneous personal
      health beliefs regarding asthma care and with negative beliefs regarding ICS. Despite this,
      no intervention concurrently addresses beliefs regarding asthma self-care and ICS. Shared
      decision-making interventions have not been tested in underserved Black adults, despite this
      model's success in pediatric populations and in White, privately insured patients with
      asthma. Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) have unique challenges to helping patients
      achieve asthma control but are overlooked in asthma intervention research. Process
      evaluations are often lacking during intervention development. We will address these
      treatment and methodological gaps.

      Objectives: This pilot study will (1) develop a brief shared decision-making intervention
      delivered by primary care providers (PCPs) to improve asthma control in Black adults
      receiving care in FQHCs; (2) evaluate the intervention's feasibility and acceptability; and
      (3) assess preliminary evidence of intervention effects on asthma control, ICS adherence,
      forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) - an objective lung function measure - and
      asthma quality of life (QOL) over a 3-month follow-up period.

      Hypotheses: (1) The intervention will be feasible and acceptable, and (2) over 3 months,
      relative to controls, patients whose PCPs are trained in the intervention will have
      significant improvement on asthma control (primary outcome), ICS adherence, FEV1 and asthma
      QOL (secondary outcomes).

      Methods: Using community-based participatory research and including a Patient Advocate, we
      will develop the intervention, Brief Evaluation of Asthma Therapy (BREATHE). Intervention
      development is guided by patient and family/support persons of asthma patients input, as well
      as PCP feedback. We will then conduct a randomized trial of the intervention with 8 PCPs from
      2 FQHCs in Philadelphia, PA; for each PCP we will enroll 10 Black adults (N=80) with
      uncontrolled asthma, and with erroneous asthma care beliefs and negative ICS beliefs. PCPs
      will be randomized within FQHC to intervention and control; patients will be followed for 3
      months. Process evaluation interviews with patients and PCPs will obtain feedback regarding
      intervention procedures.

      Significance: This study has high public health significance because it (1) targets a highly
      vulnerable population for poor asthma control - Black poor adults with erroneous asthma care
      beliefs and with negative ICS beliefs; (2) adapts a model-based intervention to develop a
      novel intervention delivered by PCPs that simultaneously targets erroneous asthma beliefs and
      negative ICS beliefs, and which has the potential to amplify intervention effects and
      increase the likelihood of sustainability; and (3) includes a process evaluation, bridging
      the gap between science and practice, and aiding in the design of a full-scale randomized
      controlled trial (RCT).
    
  