
    
      The non-variceal upper gastrointestinal bleeding is defined as gastrointestinal bleeding
      located proximal to the angle of Treitz, whose cause is not related to esophagogastric
      varices or gastropathy of portal hypertension.

      Despite all therapeutic guidelines and innovations introduced in recent decades, the
      incidence varies between 50 and 160 cases/100000 inhabitants / year and recent data show a
      mortality rate of approximately 10% in hospitalized patients. In the United States the upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding (HDA) promotes 300,000 hospitalizations per year.

      The etiologies of non-variceal, HDA remains virtually unchanged over the past 20 years,
      peptic ulcer disease accounts for 40-50% of cases. Other less common causes are vascular
      ectasia, Mallory-Weiss lacerations, acute gastroduodenal mucosal lesions, Dieulafoy lesions,
      tumors and other rarer.

      The HDA is manifested most often by hematemesis and / or melena. In a smaller proportion of
      patients can only be observed a drop in hemoglobin levels, and hemodynamic instability
      possible, without externalization of blood. There is also a smaller chance of rectal bleeding
      occur, which should indicate a bleeding of major consequence.

      The management of patients with HDA should be systematized and as early as possible. Due to
      the unpredictability of the evolution of bleeding, all patients should be kept in the
      hospital environment and in the presence of hemodynamic and / or comorbidities should be
      considered high risk instability.

      Hemodynamic stabilization is the initial step in the management of patients with HDA. Recent
      studies show that early and intensive resuscitation measures result in decreased length of
      hospitalization and mortality.

      Following the hemodynamic maintenance, you should evaluate the presence of active bleeding,
      because when present, besides translating more severe, requiring a more rapid therapeutic
      intervention.

      There are some findings predictive of severity of bleeding that can be evaluated from a
      clinical standpoint, they are: hemodynamic instability, need for continued transfusion,
      hematemesis with "fresh blood", rectal bleeding, bleeding that began during hospitalization,
      rebleeding during hospitalization in patients older than 60 years and presence of
      comorbidities.

      Endoscopy (EDA) is the test of choice for the initial evaluation of bleeding of the upper
      digestive tract. The goals of endoscopic examination is to recognize the point of bleeding,
      hemostasis proceed when indicated and recognize stigma that suggest impending rebleeding. In
      peptic ulcers, using the classification of Forrest, the following findings are relevant:
      active arterial bleeding, visible vessel, and adherent clot. The risk of rebleeding these
      three groups without endoscopic treatment is estimated at 90%, 50% and 25%, respectively.

      Endoscopic treatment has modified the natural evolution of non-variceal upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding. Several studies have shown that performing endoscopic therapy
      significantly reduces the risk of rebleeding and the length of hospital stay, need for
      surgical intervention and mortality.

      Are risk factors for rebleeding: chronic renal failure, liver cirrhosis, low hemoglobin
      levels, the need for high doses of epinephrine for hemostasis and inexperienced endoscopist.

      Endoscopic techniques in the treatment of existing HDA can be divided into three major
      groups: injection methods, thermal and mechanical.

      In several clinical trials using two methods therapy (combination therapy) was more effective
      than using only one method.

      The injection method is the use of sclerosing substances in the four quadrants of the lesion.
      The mechanism of action of hemostasis associated with the local tamponade, vasoconstriction
      and platelet aggregation. Among the available solutions for injection can be mentioned:
      adrenaline, ethanolamine, polidocanol, absolute ethanol and sodium chloride.

      In the thermal heat production method causes protein denaturation tissue, collagen shrinkage
      and therefore obstruction of the vessel perivascular contraction. Thermal methods are used:
      Mono and bipolar electrocoagulation, argon plasma, laser and heater probe.

      The treatment with mechanical methods has been developed in recent decades with the
      improvement of the devices used. In endoscopic practice who have proved effective are
      endoclipes and ligation.

      The endoclip when compared to isolated therapeutic injection of adrenaline was superior in
      reducing rebleeding in peptic ulcers.

      In a recent study, the use of argon plasma endoclip in ulcers with active bleeding were
      compared. The result demonstrated efficacy in both methods, no significant difference
      estastistica.

      A new method developed for use in upper gastrointestinal bleeding and that proved to be safe
      and effective in clinical trials already done is dust adsorption (Hemospray ®). This new
      technology consists of a syringe containing the Hemospray ® powder, inorganic property
      comprises a group of minerals, highly adsorptive when in contact with blood, it becomes a
      cohesive powder and form a stable mechanical cap that covers the bleeding site. The powder is
      sprayed by means of a catheter connected to a container of carbon dioxide. The catheter tip
      should be positioned 1-2 cm from the site of bleeding and then short bursts of 1 to 2 seconds
      should be fired to stop the bleeding.

      Studies in animals showed no absorption in the GIT and elimination within 48 hours of
      application, and no reported cases of obstruction. Recently, a prospective study involving 20
      patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, showed that the application of hemospray ®
      promoted hemostasis in 95% of cases, confirmed by endoscopic revision 72h after application
      without any complication.
    
  