
    
      Mental health professional helpers including psychiatrists, nurses, psychologists, social
      workers and occupational therapists often call upon to maintain a good working attitude and
      enthusiasm, especially in the face of the evaluators of credential systems as well as
      supervisors' authorities. The symptoms of work-related stress of professional helpers
      developed day by days and affected their physical and mental health. Gradually, the
      professional helpers burned out. Philip Burnard (1991) mentioned professional helpers might
      self-neglect while helping others. These would lead to over work related stress that directly
      affects the physical and mental health of the professional helpers, and indirectly affects
      the organization to take care of the patients and their families.

      According to researchers and personal experience, colleagues of mental health care developed
      work-related stress symptoms, such as insomnia or sleep disorder, the physiological
      disorders, weight fluctuations, irritable or depressed while taking care of psychiatric
      patients. They might take tranquilizers in order to maintain the quality of work. On the
      other hand, in April 2012, the researchers engaged in yoga teaching, assisting mental health
      care to help others of engaging in yoga practice showed that members perceived positive
      feelings after the yoga practice: "the mood is more relaxed," "tight body become more relaxed
      and soft resulting in awareness of tension and unease. This helps to modify long-term adverse
      stances and reduce body aches and/or sitting." For this reason, researchers began to apply
      yoga to the release work-related stress and enhance stress adaptation. Professional health
      helpers look forward to practice yoga exercises to relax work-related stress and improve
      stress adaptation.

      It is a parallel-arm randomized control trial compare the outcome of participants assign to
      the experimental treatment group (yoga, with 30 participants) with those assign to a control
      group for 3 months (12 weeks). Experimental group receive regular 60-minutes yoga classes
      twice a week. We confer the difference of work-related stress relief and stress adaptation
      and biofeedback improvement after yoga.
    
  