
    
      Dynamic hyperinflation limits exercise tolerance in patients with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD). Recently, several innovative approaches have been developed to
      reduce the burden of dynamic hyperinflation. Two such innovations, ventilation-feedback
      training and Heliox supplementation during exercise show great promise and posit a reduction
      in dynamic hyperinflation as a key to their effectiveness. In our recently completed trial,
      when age, FEV1 and RV/TLC were controlled, exercise plus VF (E+VF) was superior to E training
      alone (E only) or VF training alone in improving exercise tolerance. The mechanism
      responsible for this difference was, in part, a reduction in exercise-induced dynamic
      hyperinflation secondary to a change in breathing pattern. In additional preliminary studies,
      we determined that exercise tolerance can be increased when patients exercise while inhaling
      Heliox. Similar to VF, the mechanism for exercise improvement with Heliox was a reduction in
      exercise-induced dynamic hyperinflation. Although both interventions are promising, there are
      no definitive data to support use of either intervention as a standard of care for pulmonary
      rehabilitation.

      Hypothesis/Research Questions Overview: The two primary hypotheses are that patients with
      moderate-severe COPD who successfully complete eight weeks of (a) E+VF training will achieve
      longer exercise duration than patients randomly assigned to E only and (b) E+heliox training
      will achieve longer exercise duration than patients randomly assigned to E only.

      Methods: This study was a randomized controlled clinical trial. After baseline testing is
      completed, 103 subjects with moderate-severe COPD were randomized into one of three groups:
      E+VF, E+Heliox and E training only. Follow-up testing was completed at 8 weeks. testing,
      activity monitoring, and dyspnea measurements. After baseline testing was completed,
      randomized subjects trained in the Physical Performance Laboratory three times weekly.
      Exercise prescriptions were standardized and based on data from the exercise stress test.
    
  