
    
      The study will be done in 2 phases:

      Phase I: Development of the SMS text messages

      The SMS messages to be used in the trial will be developed and pre-tested in focus group
      discussions of a convenience sample of subjects similar to the target population for
      understandability and acceptability.

      Phase II: Parallel group, open-label, randomized, controlled trial

      Target Population

      Hypertensive patients being seen at the General Medicine Outpatient Clinic of a public,
      tertiary, university hospital in Manila, Philippines

      Sampling Method

      A criterion sampling strategy will be used in the study. Patients who fulfill the eligibility
      criteria will be recruited consecutively until the desired sample size is reached.

      Randomization and Allocation Concealment

      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of two treatment groups using a
      computer-generated random allocation sequence. Allocation of treatment will be done by a
      third party using sequential, sealed opaque envelopes.

      Blinding

      Given the nature of the intervention, patients will not be blinded to the treatment groups.
      However, measures will be taken to blind the physicians managing the participants at the
      clinic. Outcome assessors will also be blinded to the participants' treatment groups.

      Procedures and Measurements

      Written, informed consent will be obtained prior to enrolment in the study. Once an eligible
      participant has given consent, he will be randomized to either the intervention or control
      arm of the trial by a third party using sequentially numbered opaque envelopes. At the end of
      a 12-week follow up period, participants will be asked to return for a final study visit,
      where blood pressure and medication adherence will be measured. Acceptability of the SMS
      intervention will also be determined using a structured questionnaire. A period of four weeks
      from scheduled date of final visit is allowed before a patient is considered to have been
      lost to follow-up.

      Intervention: SMS reminders

      Patients in the intervention arm will receive 2 text messages per week delivered via SMS on
      randomly chosen days and times during the 12-week study period. The aims of the messages are
      to remind patients to take their blood pressure medications daily, what the target blood
      pressure is, and the benefits of daily intake of anti-hypertensive medications. Successful
      contact will be assumed when "Message sent" is seen on the screen. Otherwise, the same text
      message shall be immediately resent up to a maximum of 3 times. Receipt of the messages will
      be free to the study participants and independent of their telephone service provider.

      Control: Usual Care

      Routine or usual care of hypertensive patients at the General Medicine Outpatient clinic is
      based on the Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection,
      Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure. This consists of physician visits, advice
      and medication prescription by the healthcare provider. It does not include sending SMS
      messages to encourage adherence and provide information regarding hypertension.

      Outcome Measurements

      Blood Pressure

      Blood pressure will be measured using a calibrated digital sphygmomanometer manufactured by
      Omron after the participant has been seated quietly for five minutes. The average of two
      readings taken five minutes apart will be recorded.

      Medication Adherence

      The Adherence Self-Report Questionnaire (ASRQ), a brief, validated, self-administered
      questionnaire, will be used to measure medication adherence. Participants will be asked to
      complete the Filipino translation of the ASRQ.

      Acceptability of SMS Messages

      Acceptability of the SMS messages will be measured using a brief, self-administered
      questionnaire.

      Planned Analysis

      Descriptive statistics for baseline characteristics, adherence scores, and adherence rates in
      both groups (mean, sd, frequency (%), median) will be computed. Between-group comparisons
      will be done at baseline to check for similarity of baseline characteristics, and at the end
      of 12 weeks to test the hypothesis of inequality between two populations. All hypothesis
      tests will be one-sided with a level of significance set at 0.05. Intention-to-treat (ITT)
      analysis will be done, with possible sensitivity analysis for drop-outs. All statistical
      computations will be computed using the Stata statistical software.

      Sample Size

      The NCSS-PASS statistical software was used to compute for the desired sample size.

      The sample size required to fulfill the objectives of the study is 286 subjects per group.
      Allowing for a loss to follow up of approximately 20%, the final sample size is 350 subjects
      per group (total of 700 subjects).

      Ethical Considerations

      Ethics approval will be obtained prior to conducting this study. Written informed consent
      will be obtained from all participants prior to enrolment. Good clinical practice guidelines
      will be followed during the course of the study.

      At the beginning of the trial, it will be emphasised that communication through SMS in this
      study is one-way (provider to patient), so there will be no reply to any and all text
      messages received from participants. The participants will also be advised to consult their
      physicians for any problems they may experience.
    
  