
    
      Little is known about the real-world risk of febrile neutropenia (FN) among subjects
      receiving Udenyca. Udenyca was approved due to the totality of evidence under the new Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) pathway 351 (k), which met all the endpoints of pharmacokinetic
      (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD) and immunogenicity in healthy volunteers. Udenyca is the only
      pegfilgrastim that has not been studied in actual patient cohorts; it has only been studied
      in healthy volunteers. This prospective observational cohort study is designed to estimate
      the risk of FN among subjects who 1) are at high risk for FN while receiving myelosuppressive
      chemotherapy in a real-world outcomes setting and 2) receive Udenyca for FN prophylaxis with
      each cycle of highly myelotoxic chemotherapy.

      Study Plans: After signing the informed consent form, data collection will start at visit
      1/cycle 1 (screening/enrollment [day 1]); subjects who received chemotherapy up to 1 week
      prior to enrollment are eligible to participate in the study.

      Visit 1/cycle 1 is to coincide with day 1 (± 7 days) of the subjects' chemotherapy treatment;
      data collection should start at day 1/visit 1/cycle 1 of chemotherapy. Entries will be
      recorded during a subject's medical chart review to obtain information on demographic
      factors, malignancy characteristics (e.g., malignancy histology, date of initial malignancy
      diagnosis, stage at diagnosis, current malignancy stage, any previous cancer therapy
      [radiation, surgery, or chemotherapy]), relevant comorbidities, laboratory data, and relevant
      concomitant therapies.

      Subjects' socio-demographic and clinical characteristics will be collected on the date of
      enrollment and include age, sex, geographic region, health plan information, socioeconomic
      status (employment status), body surface area, and tobacco use.

      Detailed clinical information and laboratory information will be collected, including
      subjects' medical and treatment history, comorbid conditions, and history of any other
      malignancies (as well as any treatment received for these other malignancies). Additionally,
      subject Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, relevant concomitant
      medications, and any adverse events that occur throughout the study will be recorded.

      Subjects will be followed from study enrollment (Cycle 1, Visit 1) throughout the end of
      their treatment cycle or until the earliest of loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent,
      death, end of study (EOS), discontinuation of chemotherapy regimen prior to 4 cycles, or
      termination of study by the sponsor.

      The study data will be captured using the electronic case report form (eCRF), which will
      contain information collected directly about the subjects and their treatment/outcomes from
      the healthcare study research personnel. Data will be entered into the eCRF by research
      coordinators at the individual sites. The data to be entered into the eCRF will be obtained
      from paper or electronic medical records depending on the technology used by individual
      sites. The short form health survey SF-12 Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) instrument
      will be used for HRQoL outcomes.

      A data management plan will be created and will describe all functions, processes, and
      specifications for data collection, cleaning, and validation. The eCRFs will include
      programmable edits to obtain immediate feedback if data are missing, out of range, illogical,
      or potentially erroneous. Concurrent manual data review will be performed based on parameters
      dictated by the plan. Ad hoc queries will be generated within the electronic data capture
      (EDC) system and followed up until resolution.

      High data quality standards will be maintained, and processes and procedures will be utilized
      to repeatedly ensure that the data are as clean and accurate as possible when presented
      analysis.

      Data quality will be enhanced through a series of programmed data quality checks that
      automatically detect out-of-range or anomalous data.
    
  