
    
      BACKGROUND Older adults with complex care needs constitute a large and rapidly expanding
      group of Veterans receiving care within Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Medically
      complex older Veterans, who often have multiple chronic conditions (MCC) as well as
      interacting functional and psychosocial challenges, account for a disproportionate amount of
      health care resources. Importantly, these Veterans also experience a disproportionate amount
      of suffering; they have worse functional status, higher symptom burden, and spend more of
      their time in acute care settings such as the hospital and emergency department.

      The investigators' experience and recent studies suggest that a substantial proportion of
      older medically complex Veterans have unrecognized cognitive impairment (CI), and this
      contributes to their disproportionate need for care and adverse outcomes. The Cumulative
      Complexity model posits that complexity results from accumulating and interacting clinical
      and social factors that each contribute to a patient's workload (e.g. making appointments and
      managing complicated medicine regimens) as well as impact a patient's capacity to perform
      everyday tasks including those related to health care. Imbalance between the two- i.e.
      workload that exceeds capacity-is a primary driver of disruptions in care and negative
      outcomes. Older patients with MCC, high health care utilization, and CI often find themselves
      in the perfect storm of complexity, simultaneously experiencing escalated workload demands in
      the setting of reduced capacity.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objectives of this pilot study are to:

      Examine the feasibility and acceptability of a 12-week care management program for medically
      complex Veterans with CI, delivered via telephone or through video visits.

        -  Feasibility will be examined by calculating overall rates of eligibility and enrollment,
           as well as rates of attrition, adherence to nurse calls or video visits, and interview
           completion.

        -  Acceptability will be assessed using in-depth interviews with study participants
           (Veterans and Care Partners), primary care providers, and study staff.

      Assess the usability and perceived value of video-enhanced care management, compared to
      telephone-based, among older Veterans with medical complexity and CI.

        -  Usability of the video-enhanced program will be examined using the System Usability
           Scale (SUS).

        -  Perceived value associated with each delivery method will be explored through
           questionnaires and in-depth interviews with study participants and study staff.

      METHODS Veterans aged 65 or older with high medical complexity based on Care Assessment Need
      (CAN) score will be screened for CI using a reliable and valid instrument developed for use
      over the telephone. Veterans with CI, and a self-identified Care Partner, will participate in
      a nurse-led care management program designed to provide structured cognitively-appropriate
      information and support in two key areas: (1) care coordination (reduce workload) and (2)
      protecting cognitive health (build capacity). Evidence-based strategies to improve care
      coordination and promote cognitive health are enhanced by video visits that allow for
      improved communication between the nurse and Veteran/Care Partner, and facilitate expanded
      assessments of the Veteran and his/her home environment. Study measures will include the SUS,
      participant feedback, and measures of intervention effectiveness including health and
      physical function (PROMIS 29), physical activity levels (PASE), depression (PHQ-9), anxiety
      (GAD-7), and acute care days (hospital and ER).

      ANTICIPATED IMPACT Results from this preliminary study will be used to inform the development
      of a randomized clinical trial to evaluate the impact of a 12-month video-enhanced care
      management program for medically complex older adults with CI. Given the large number of
      medically complex Veterans affected by unrecognized CI, it is essential that interventions
      targeting this population be scalable, and technology-enhanced interventions offer a way to
      expand the reach of new care models. Proactive recognition and management of medically
      complex patients is a high priority for VHA, and medically complex Veterans with CI
      constitute one such high risk group. The results of this study will be of high relevance to
      VHA, and outside VA, given the urgent need to develop innovative means of improving care for
      medically complex older adults.
    
  