
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the recommended phase II dose of 5-azacytidine (azacitidine) when combined
      with high-dose cytarabine (HiDAC) and mitoxantrone (mitoxantrone hydrochloride) chemotherapy
      in high-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete remission (CR) rate following the use of induction chemotherapy
      regimen of 5-azacytidine followed by high-dose cytarabine (HiDAC) and mitoxantrone
      chemotherapy in high-risk AML patients.

      II. To determine the toxicity of the combination regimen. III. To determine the disease-free
      survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) of the patient population.

      IV. To determine the gene expression levels of topoisomerase II and deoxycytidine kinase in
      leukemia blasts pre-treatment and following therapy with 5-azacytidine.

      V. To collect specimens for banking for use in future research studies with a view to
      elucidating the predictors of response to epigenetic therapies.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of azacitidine.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes or
      subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 4 hours on days 6 and 10,
      and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on days 6 and 10.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC QD on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients ineligible for allogeneic stem cell transplantation continue
      on to maintenance.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC QD on days 1-5. Courses
      repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  