
    
      Although cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most effective intervention for pediatric
      obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), many people do not receive CBT initially due, in part,
      to the lack of trained providers and geographic barriers (e.g., distance to such providers).
      Rather, the majority of youth with OCD receive psychiatric medication alone or together with
      unproven forms of psychotherapy. While some serotonergic medications have demonstrated
      utility in pediatric OCD, side effects can be common, response rates are modest at best, and
      symptom remission is rare. Storch et al. have shown that CBT can be delivered effectively in
      an intensive format over a 3-week time-span; however, even this shortened treatment approach
      involves considerable time and financial expenditure for those who do not have local access
      to CBT, including three week's time off from work and the cost of local room and board. Given
      this, more efficient ways of providing CBT need to be identified and tested to increase the
      number of people with access to this form of treatment. With this in mind, the proposed
      feasibility study examines the use of videophone technology to evaluate a 5-day
      cognitive-behavioral intervention for youth with OCD administered at multiple sites. A total
      of 30 youth will receive 10 60-75-minute sessions of CBT over 5 days (two sessions a day).
      Cognitive-behavioral therapy will be based on a demonstrated effective treatment protocol,
      and adapted for administration over a one-week time-span. We will utilize a month-long
      waitlist control to estimate treatment efficacy. Comprehensive assessments will be conducted
      by trained clinicians at relevant time-points (i.e., baseline, post-waitlist, post-treatment,
      follow-up) to assess symptom severity and impairment. Should supporting data be found, CBT
      delivered in a 5-day format would have the potential to help many more families who would
      otherwise remain untreated or inadequately treated.
    
  