
    
      Diabetes is the largest cause of leg amputation and kidney failure; 15-20% of people with
      diabetes will have a foot ulcer in their lifetime, with 5-10% having an ulcer at any one
      time. The history of a foot ulcer in a person with diabetes increases the risk of leg
      amputation 2-3 fold. A person with diabetes is 23 times more likely to have a leg amputation
      than a person without diabetes.

      The risk of having a foot ulcer is increased by another four times and the risk of leg
      amputation by a further eight times in people with diabetes and kidney failure on dialysis
      compared to those with diabetes and normal kidney function. Kidney failure in people with
      diabetes increased by 56% between 2006 and 2010.

      Sixty per cent of people who have diabetes and a leg amputation will be dead within 5 years.
      Those with end stage kidney failure and a foot ulcer have an even bleaker outcome: only 50%
      will be alive in 2 years. This reduces to 26% following leg amputation.

      An audit in 2014 of the patients attending the dialysis unit at the hospital showed that half
      had diabetes. Of these, half had had a foot ulcer at some point. Half of these had an ulcer
      at the time of the audit. Less than one quarter of those with a foot ulcer had been reviewed
      by the Diabetes Foot Team. National guidance states that all people with diabetes and a foot
      ulcer should be seen by a diabetes foot team within one working day of the ulcer being
      detected.

      The investigators looked for evidence to show how to reduce the risk of foot problems in
      people with diabetes and end-stage kidney failure on dialysis but were unable to find any
      evidence.

      Regional kidney and diabetes specialist groups have confirmed that there is no such work to
      address this problem anywhere in the North East and neither were aware of such an
      intervention anywhere in the UK.

      None of the leading Consultants in the UK working in the field of diabetes-foot disease are
      aware of the existence of a project like this but were in agreement about the need for one.

      The existing literature shows the severity of the problem but not the solution. The
      investigators plan to provide evidence to show an effective and cost-saving solution to
      reduce the burden of diabetic foot disease in people with diabetes and end-stage kidney
      failure People who require dialysis attend the dialysis unit 3 times a week on fixed days and
      in a fixed session which doesn't tend to change. People with diabetes and kidney failure on
      dialysis will be divided into 2 groups: a treatment group and a comparator group. The
      treatment group will be those that have dialysis on a Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The
      comparator group will be those who have dialysis on a Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday

      The comparator group will continue to receive diabetes foot care using the standard model
      that is in existence at present (i.e. screening at GP practice, podiatry review close to home
      and referral to a hospital diabetes foot team when necessary)

      The treatment group will be reviewed by a podiatrist while they are having dialysis. The
      Podiatrist will examine their feet at the first meeting and look for diabetic foot problems,
      if not present, make a standard assessment of the risk of diabetic foot problems developing.
      Further management will be guided by this assessment.

      The population will fall into two groups :those without active foot problems but at high risk
      of developing foot problems; and those with active foot disease (e.g. foot ulcer). High risk
      patients without current foot problems will receive a package of treatments aimed at
      preventing foot ulcers (including education, removal of hard skin, foot and nail care,
      changes to shoes and the provision of bespoke insoles, creams and further podiatric review.

      Those with active foot problems will have investigations and treatment according to
      individual need, which might include x-rays, tests for bacterial infection, blood tests,
      removal of hard skin, wound dressings and offloading. Treatments to improve blood supply to
      the feet and surgical removal of infected tissue might be needed. This will be lead by the
      podiatrist. However, other members of the diabetes foot care team (MDT) will be involved as
      required, using the existing weekly diabetes foot MDT meetings as a forum for discussion of
      the patients. Other MDT members will then also see the patients on the dialysis unit, thus
      providing patient-centred care.
    
  