
    
      Exparel is a long-acting and sustained release formulation of the local anesthetic,
      bupivacaine HCl. Recent studies have supported its efficacy following total joint
      arthroplasty, but little is known about Exparel's effectiveness in hip fracture patients.
      This investigation will study the effects of Exparel on postoperative pain following hip
      fracture surgery. This is a single center, randomized prospective double blinded study of 50
      patients with hip fractures that will have intracapsular hip hemiarthroplasties and are 65
      years or older. Twenty-five patients will be treated with intraoperative injections of
      Exparel. Current standard of care does not include any injection of pain medication during
      hip hemiarthroplasty. There is no 'standard treatment', but to use multimodal IV and oral
      analgesia. The control group consisting of the remaining 25 patients will receive 'standard
      treatment' (which is is multimodal IV and oral analgesia). Therefore, saline is the
      appropriate placebo and control injection for this study. There are minimal to no risks
      associated with the injection of saline into the soft tissues about the hip and will take <2
      minutes to complete. The surgeries will be performed by five surgeons who will use their
      standard treatment or in the interventional group participants will relieve 20 cc of Exparel
      diluted with 40 ml 0.25% bupivacaine into the surrounding hip capsule: external rotators,
      gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, gluteus maximus, tensor fascia lata, vastus lateralis, and
      subcutaneous tissues.

      Both the patient and the researcher following the patient postoperatively will be blinded.
      While the treating surgeon will be able to notice the difference between the placebo and
      Exparel, the outcomes outlined below will be recorded by the blinded Orthopaedic Research
      Resident who has no clinical responsibilities during his/her year of research and does not
      participate in operative procedures

      There are two overall aims of this investigation. The first aim is to identify whether
      Exparel has an impact on postoperative pain and function following open treatment of hip
      fractures. The hypothesis is that injecting Exparel into the hip capsule and surrounding
      tissues will decrease narcotic use, and in turn decrease the risk of associated side effects
      including medically induced delirium, constipation, and decreased alertness. The second aim
      of the study is focused on examining whether increased pain control leads to better
      postoperative outcomes? When pain is better controlled via non-narcotic measures, overall
      patient comfort will improve while sparing cognitive function, decreasing time to ambulation,
      and accelerating progress with physical therapy. Quicker recovery times will then produce
      shorter hospital stays, which would yield better overall patient satisfaction and overall
      improved outcomesPatients with intracapsular hip fractures will undergo hip hemiarthroplasty
      using a bipolar prosthesis placed via a posterior approach. Primary outcome measures include
      postoperative visual analogue scale (VAS from 0-10) pain scores at 12, 24, 36, 48 hours after
      surgery, time to ambulation with physical therapy, need for postoperative total morphine
      equivalent, and delirium scale measurements. Secondary outcomes measures will compare length
      of stay, discharge disposition (home or skilled nursing facility), 30-day readmission rates,
      and adverse events leading to ICU care or reoperation. All patients in both groups will have
      access to breakthrough pain medication which will either be Immediate acting Oxycodone for
      moderate to severe pain (pain scale of 4-10, Acetaminophen or Toradol for mild to moderate
      pain (pain scale of 2-4).
    
  