
    
      This is a single center, open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation study, to be conducted
      in two phases:

        -  a dose-escalation (DE) phase, to evaluate the safety, tolerability, MTD, and PD of
           MIS416 administered IV once weekly for 4 doses; and

        -  a dose-confirmation (DC) phase, which will be a cohort expansion at or below the MTD
           (i.e., the RTD) of MIS416, dosed once weekly for up to 12 doses.

      Subjects will be treated with a weekly IV dose of MIS416 in 28-day cycles: 1 cycle in the DE
      phase, and up to 3 cycles in the DC phase. Subjects will be evaluated and dosed weekly each
      cycle in each phase. Subjects will return for a follow-up visit 7 days after completion of
      the last dose of study drug.

      The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. To determine the safety and tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), maximum
           tolerated dose (MTD), and recommended therapeutic dose (RTD) of intravenously (IV)
           administered MIS416 weekly in patients with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis
           (CPMS); and

        2. To assess the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of MIS416, including effects on serum
           cytokine levels and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) composition,
           cytokine/chemokine expression and function.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        1. To document any changes in MS clinical status occurring during the 12-week MIS416 dosing
           period in the dose-confirmation phase, as determined by the Multiple Sclerosis
           Functional Composite (MSFC), Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Short Form Health Survey
           (SF-36), and Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS); the frequency of clinical
           relapses; and signs of clinical activity on serial cranial MRI scans; and

        2. To evaluate, in exploratory fashion, any correlations between clinical, radiological and
           PD outcomes.
    
  