
    
      Intestinal translocation of Gram-negative bacteria occurs in patients with advanced
      cirrhosis. Long-term oral administration of 400 mg/day of norfloxacin (a fluoroquinolone
      antibiotic) is known to induce selective intestinal decontamination against Gram-negative
      bacteria. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral norfloxacin (400
      mg/day for 1 year) has been conducted in a small series of patients with advanced cirrhosis
      and low ascitic fluid protein concentrations <1.5 g/dL. This trial showed that norfloxacin
      therapy significantly increased the 1-year probability of being free of a first episode of
      spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) and improved 3-month survival. In this previous
      study, oral norfloxacin therapy was also found to decrease the risk of development of
      hepatorenal syndrome, a very severe complication of cirrhosis. It has been suggested that
      bacterial translocation, through the release of bacterial byproducts, results in systemic
      inflammation and subsequent systemic vasodilation which precipitates hepatorenal syndrome.
      Since systemic vasodilation plays a role in the development of ascites, bacterial byproducts
      via circulatory alterations may contribute to mechanisms leading to ascites formation. It is
      important to note that a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral
      administration of the quinolone ciprofloxacin (500 mg/day for 1 year) has been conducted in a
      small series of patients with moderately severe cirrhosis, low ascitic fluid protein
      concentrations (<1.5 g/dL) and no prior history of SBP. However, ciprofloxacin therapy did
      not significantly increase the 1-year probability of being free of SBP. Taken together the
      findings of these 2 previous small-size trials suggest that long-term oral quinolone therapy
      is effective mainly in patients with severe cirrhosis. This is why we decided to perform a
      large multicenter, randomized, parallel, placebo-controlled trial assessing the effects of
      norfloxacin on survival in patients with cirrhosis and severe liver failure (Child-Pugh grade
      C). In addition, the effects of norfloxacin on the development of main complications of
      cirrhosis will be investigated.

      The primary outcome measure will be 6-month survival. The secondary outcome measures will be
      the proportion of transplanted patients, the occurrence of complications (bacterial
      infection, renal failure, hepatic encephalopathy and gastrointestinal bleeding). All adult
      patients with severe cirrhosis might be randomized after written consent. Pregnant persons;
      patient who has been treated with a quinolone in the month before the inclusion, allergy to
      quinolones, hepatocellular carcinoma, or HIV infection will not be included. Patients receive
      either norfloxacin or placebo once a day for 6 months. Three hundred and ninety-two patients
      are necessary to decrease 6-month mortality rate from 40% in the placebo group to 25% in the
      norfloxacin group with a beta risk of 90% and an alpha risk of 5%. Patients will be
      followed-up every month during 6 months and at 9 and 12 months.
    
  