
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Venous disease is commonplace, more prevalent in women, increases with age, and is a major
      cause of morbidity. Between 6 and 30 percent of all medical expenditures for cardiovascular
      disease are for venous disease. Despite these facts, the basic epidemiology of venous disease
      has received limited attention. Even the definition of peripheral venous disease varies
      widely, often confusing symptoms and signs with demonstrable pathophysiologic abnormalities.

      This study provided estimates of the extent of peripheral venous disease, contributed to more
      efficient diagnosis, allowed insight on how to prevent or ameliorate this condition through
      risk factor modification, and provided quantitative estimates of the daily burden this
      disease imposes on patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The overall, and age, sex, and ethnic-specific, prevalence of peripheral venous disease was
      determined in a stratified multiethnic random sample of 2,408 men and women aged 29 to 91
      years. Three specific categories of venous disease were defined including: telangiectasias
      and flat reticular veins; superficial venous disease without deep valvular incompetence or
      obstruction; deep venous disease, with valvular incompetence or obstruction. Varicose veins
      were typically but not invariably present in the latter two categories. These three
      categories were diagnosed by an ordered non-invasive evaluation, including visual inspection,
      with photographic documentation of abnormal findings, and duplex color sonography to diagnose
      valvular incompetence and venous obstruction.

      An evaluation was made of the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of each of the
      traditional signs and symptoms of venous disease for each of the three categories of venous
      disease. Signs and symptoms evaluated included aching, itching, swelling and edema,
      heaviness, cramps, nocturnal restless legs, pigmentation, induration, ulcers, and the
      Trendelenburg test. Risk factors were evaluated for each of the above three categories-of
      venous disease. Risk factors assessed included age; sex; ethnicity; socioeconomic status;
      height; weight; obesity; exercise; blood pressure; standing versus sitting in daily
      activities; family history of venous disease; cigarette smoking; alcohol consumption; diet;
      constipation; constrictive clothing; aspirin use; use of selected other medications; history
      of hernia, flat feet, or other conditions associated with connective tissue laxity; parity;
      use of estrogens or progestins; age at menarche; age at menopause; and concomitant arterial
      disease. Finally, an evaluation was made of the degree of morbidity and interference with
      daily activities resulting from venous disease, using the Quality of Well Being (QWB) scale
      developed at University of California at San Diego.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  