
    
      The analysis of the effects that listening to music may exert during exercise has been the
      topic of a number of scientific articles. Overall, these studies documented how music
      influences performance and they generally observed positive effects. The majority of the
      investigations were carried out in the aerobic/endurance domain where music was found to
      enhance running performance and is also likely to accelerate heart rate recovery after
      strenuous exercise, albeit not all the authors agree on this point. It has been also reported
      that loud music not only enhances optimal exercising, but also interacts with music tempo to
      yield significant additional performance benefits.

      Despite such interesting findings, the focus of these investigations was restricted to
      characterize the physiological responses that individuals exhibit when listening to music
      during physical activity, mainly running. Thus, the studies ended up with positive results,
      that is, increased performance, or failed in showing any effect.

      Beside the above reported positive effects of music some potentially negative effects should
      be considered. First, regardless of whether running is included or not in the experimental
      condition, exposure to high levels of noise/sound even for short periods of time can be
      damaging for the auditory system, possibly resulting in hearing loss or impairment. This
      topic has been scrutinized by a number of studies, with a specific attention to adolescent
      populations who are exposed to high risk of hearing problems due to the massive usage of
      listening devices. Although this is a crucial issue, such source of hazard can be adequately
      controlled for by firmly sticking to the guidelines on the recommended exposure limits (REL),
      which is recommended by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
      The REL has been set at 85 decibels (dB) for a maximum of 8 hours. Increasing the volume by
      rate of 3 dB increases the risk exponentially. For instance, a noise corresponding to an
      intensity of 88 dB should not exceed an exposure of 4 hours, then 91 dB 2 hours, 94 dB 1
      hour, 97 dB 30 minutes, 100 dB 15 minutes, 103 dB 7.5 minutes, 106 dB 3.7 minutes and so on,
      up to 140 dB, which must not be provided at all.

      Surprisingly, to date and to our knowledge, the influence that listening to music with
      portable devices and earphones may exert on the amount of vertical force upon impact loading
      during running has not been investigated yet.

      Unlike the considerable number of previous works which were focused on the physiological and
      psychological responses to music during exercise, no references that attempted to address the
      biomechanical consequences of music listening on impact loading and jogging/running mechanics
      could be traced in the literature. Therefore, our main goal is to fill this gap in the
      existing literature.

      Considering the universal widespread and popularity of running and that approximately 47
      million Americans participated in running activities in the last decade, the findings
      generated by this research would be highly relevant to the broad field of sports medicine and
      exercise science.
    
  