
    
      Intravenous iron replacement has become quite common in cases where oral iron therapy is
      insufficient or poorly tolerated. Various intravenous iron preparations have been used in
      patients on dialysis and with chronic kidney disease for many years, however, these patients
      have severely reduced glomerular filtration rate and are generally hyperphosphatemic.

      Although generally safe, certain iron preparations have been associated with severe
      phosphorus and calcitriol deficiency, caused by elevation in serum levels of fgf23, a
      phosphaturic humoral factor derived from osteocytes. Fractional excretion of phosphorus is
      indeed raised in these patients. In some cases phosphorus deficiency, or high fgf23 levels,
      are so severe that osteomalacia can result . This phenomenon has been observed with
      saccharated ferric oxide , a preparation commonly used in Japan, and in iron polymaltose . It
      has also been observed with iron carboxymaltose , a newer iron preparation, now available in
      Israel. These reports propose that iron causes elevated fgf23 levels, which in turn decreases
      phosphorus absorption and inhibits 1α-hydroxylase activity. Patients with deficient vitamin D
      have greater tendency to develop hypophosphatemia.

      This phenomenon of phosphorus deficiency has not been documented in the commonly used
      preparations of iron sucrose (venofer) and ferric gluconate (ferrlecit). These non-dextran
      iron preparations have a very low rate of allergic reactions and adverse events. They are
      used in various cases of iron deficiency anemia with normal renal function, such as patients
      with Inflammatory bowel disease , diabetics or in people who cannot tolerate oral iron
      therapy. Moreover, certain oral iron preparations are under investigation at present for
      their role as phosphorus binders.

      The purpose of this study is to measure phosphorus, parathyroid hormone and vitamin D levels
      in patients prior to and after intravenous iron therapy in patients with iron deficiency
      anemia with normal and reduced Glomerular Filtration Rate . We hypothesize that iron therapy
      with ferric gluconate and iron sucrose will induce hypophosphatemia and low levels of 1,25
      hydroxide Vit D. We will try to ascertain whether the hypophosphatemia is clinically
      significant or merely a low laboratory value, and whether patients with vitamin 25 hydroxide
      -D deficiency have a greater propensity to develop it.
    
  