
    
      The treatment of locally advanced rectal cancer is primarily radiotherapy (+/- chemotherapy)
      followed by surgery. The reason for radiotherapy is to reduce the risk of recurrence after
      surgery or to shrink the tumour first so that when surgery is done all the cancer will be
      successfully removed otherwise some will be left behind to grow. More than 80% of patients
      require a stoma after their surgery, some get reversed by two years after surgery but a third
      has it lifelong. About 15% of patients after radiotherapy have no disease left (clinical
      complete response) and can be monitored closely after radiotherapy and will not need to have
      surgery or stoma. Surgery carries a risk of death and complications, having a stoma have a
      lot of complications and have an effect on patient's quality of life, most end up not going
      out much and withdraws from friends and family due to the risk of accidents in public places.
      This study is aimed at looking at ways to increase the number of patients that do not require
      surgery after radiotherapy by looking at the differences between those that responded well to
      radiotherapy and the ones that did not by comparing their diagnostic and treatment scans. The
      main question to answer is why some patients have complete response to radiotherapy and
      others don't. Is there a way to increase the number of these patients through changes in
      radiotherapy? The study will be looking at the diagnostic images and radiotherapy planning
      scans to compare these two groups. Is there a way of predicting who will respond to
      radiotherapy treatment? If there is, modifications could be made to the type of treatment
      given. This study will be looking to radiomics techniques to develop this. This retrospective
      study will only make use of scans that patients have already had for their diagnosis and
      treatment so no patient intervention is required. Patients will be recruited using the
      clinical and research database of the Christie hospital which is the largest cancer centre in
      the UK. The study is funded by the charitable fund of the Christie Hospital NHS Foundation
      Trust.
    
  