
    
      This study had two stages. Stage 1 involved an opportunistic screening and Stage 2 involved
      in RCT. This registration focuses on the RCT but both stages are described here.

      Stage 1. The opportunistic screening for hypertension was conducted around the 2018 Beirut
      Marathon. Screening tents were set up at the marathon village during the four days leading up
      to the marathon (7-10 November), where runners collected necessary materials for the run and
      could take up the screening. An additional two tents were set up during the marathon day were
      spectators could take part. Participants indicated their consent for the screening before
      taking part. During their participation they completed surveys about their demographics and
      health information (including whether they were hypertensive). After they completed the
      survey, nurses and trained team members measured their blood pressure using calibrated
      equipment. Those participants whose measurements indicated hypertension were invited to
      participate in the RCT.

      Stage 2. For the RCT participants were randomly assigned to either a intervention or control
      group in a 1:1 fashion. Participants in the intervention group were sent a WhatsApp message
      25 days after the marathon reminding them to seek help for their hypertensive condition.
      Participants in the control group were not sent this message. Then one month later the
      researchers called all these participants to ask wither they sought further medical
      attention. The main outcome was whether participants self-reported seeking further medical
      attention.

      The research objectives were as follows:

      Stage 1 screening: Evaluate if the opportunistic screening increased people's awareness of
      their hypertensive condition.

      Stage 2 RCT: Evaluate if the intervention increased the proportion of participants who sought
      further medical attention.
    
  