
    
      Investigator hypothesize that the combination of CON and ECC forms of endurance exercise will
      potentiate peripheral muscle and cardio-circulatory adaptations. All sessions, regardless of
      the modality, will be performed at the same percentage of the concentric peakVO2. Sessions
      performed in ECC mode will induce a mechanical overload. The ECC training of such intensity
      and duration seemingly having little or no effect on mitochondrial muscle adaptations, the
      maintenance of conventional training will allow stimulation of the aerobic endurance
      component. A synergistic effect is expected from the combination of the two modalities; the
      muscle strength gain induced by ECC allowing to sustained greater cycling workloads yet
      compatible with the cardio-circulatory capabilities of patients with CHF and more
      specifically their exercise cardiac output adjustment.

      Investigator chose to assess the extent of benefits through functional capacity tests
      reflecting adaptation of both the aerobic (endurance capacity) and anaerobic (muscle
      strength) components of adaptive response, namely, 1) 6 min. walk test (6-WT), 2) time up and
      go test (TUGT), 3) quadriceps isometric muscular strength (IMS) and gait speed test.

      The study is a prospective, open, controlled and randomized study in two parallel groups
      carried out in a single center. Patients will be included in the study if: i) they are
      referred to the cardiac rehabilitation center for the 5-week training program, ii) they meet
      the inclusion criteria and iii) they provide their signed consent.

      Patients will be followed for 5 weeks, the duration of the cardiac rehabilitation program.
      They will benefit from the standard evaluation of any CHF patient referred for rehabilitation
      including an initial 12-lead ECG, a trans-thoracic cardiac ultrasound assessment and a
      cycling exercise stress test with gas exchange analysis and non-invasive measurement of
      cardiac output using a bio-impedance device. A standard biological blood analysis will be
      performed for NFS-platelets, blood electrolytes, CRP, NTproBNP, nutritional status with
      albumin and pre-albumin.

      All subjects will perform 5 exercise sessions per week on a cycle ergometer. As per
      randomization outcome, the "intervention" group will perform three of the five weekly
      sessions in ECC mode (the other two in CON) while the control group will perform the five
      weekly sessions in CON mode.

      The intensity of the cycling will be the same in both groups as determined from the initial
      cycling incremental test targeted to correspond to the VO2 associated with the ventilatory
      threshold.
    
  