
    
      Overview.

      This is the second phase of a two-part study. In the first phase (Protocol ID: R34AT009170),
      the investigators adapted an existing resiliency intervention, the Relaxation Response
      Resiliency Program (3RP), to the needs of women ages 50 and over who are living with HIV. The
      investigators conducted preliminary testing of the refined group intervention via an open
      pilot study (N=13 enrolled) across two sites, MGH and Boston Medical Center), and conducted
      individual exit interviews to solicit feedback on the intervention. Based on these
      qualitative data, as well as qualitative work conducted previously with this population, the
      goal of this phase of the project is to conduct a small, randomized pilot of the intervention
      in groups of up to 10 women with HIV (total N=up to 60) to assess feasibility and
      acceptability of all study procedures.

      Study Procedures.

      Participants will be women living with HIV (N=up to 60) age 50 or over, who are recruited via
      flyers and provider referral from Boston area hospitals and health care settings, as well as
      community organizations serving individuals living with HIV. Once an individual expresses
      interest in the study, they will be screened by a study staff member, either by phone or in
      person, in order to assess study eligibility. Eligible and interested individuals will be
      invited to sign informed consent and complete an in-person baseline assessment. Participants
      will be randomized to either a 10-week intervention group (adapted 3RP intervention) or a
      10-week control group (supportive psychotherapy program). Participants will then complete a
      post-treatment assessment, an individual in-depth exit interview to provide feedback on their
      experience in the study, and a 3-month follow-up assessment. Data from this second phase of
      the study will inform the eventual development of a full-scale randomized controlled trial.

      Adapted 3RP Intervention.

      Once randomized into the intervention condition, participants will complete 10, 90-minute
      weekly group sessions of the adapted 3RP intervention. Sessions will focus on developing an
      understanding of stress sources and physiology, and on developing a regular practice of
      eliciting the relaxation response (RR) and learning cognitive behavioral and positive
      psychology skills to enhance resiliency to long-term stress. Participants will be encouraged
      to practice skills (RR practice, thoughts records to learn adaptive thinking) between group
      sessions.

      Supportive Psychotherapy Control Program.

      The control condition will be a supportive therapy program that is matched to the
      intervention for number and length of sessions. Basic principles of supportive psychotherapy
      will be followed, and the interventionist will facilitate discussion around what it is like
      to live with HIV as an aging woman.
    
  