
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the US, and represents a significant
      burden on health care resources. Accumulated evidence suggests that there are genetic
      susceptibility components in lung cancer, and that gene-environment interactions are
      important. While major breakthroughs have been made in understanding the genetic
      susceptibility basis of other cancers, studies to identify specific major loci affection lung
      cancer risk are notably lacking. The high case fatality rate (14 percent 5-year survival
      rate) and low resection rate (25 percent) makes the study of lung cancer families
      particularly challenging because it is difficult to collect adequate numbers of biospecimens
      for DNA analysis. Only a collaborative effort to identify, accrue, and genotype familial lung
      cancer (FLC) families will be successful in characterizing the genetic basis of familial lung
      cancer.

      This project is part of a multi-center, multi-investigator, interdisciplinary team highly
      experienced in genetic epidemiology, gene mapping, lung biology, and cancer molecular
      genetics, known as the Genetic Epidemiology of Lung Cancer Consortium (GELCC) formed to
      identify a lung cancer susceptibility gene(s) and to estimate gene-environment interaction in
      the etiology of this neoplasm in order to elucidate a strategy for the prevention, control
      and clinical management of this disease through identification of genetically high-risk
      individuals.

      Confirmation of a genetic predisposition for lung cancer may be possible by using linkage
      analysis to localize the putative susceptibility gene to a specific chromosomal region. The
      strength of linkage analysis is dependent upon the recruitment of multiple large kindreds for
      which tissue samples are available and the history of tumor incidence exists for two,
      preferably more, generations. Our strategy is to combine the most informative pedigrees but
      preferably eventually up to 500 pedigrees. This strategy yields a substantial increase in
      power and cost-effectiveness over the usual strategy of each site working independently and
      genotyping many marginally informative families. To date this strategy appears successful, in
      that results from our first 52 genotyped families resulted in significant evidence in favor
      of linkage to a region on chromosome 6q and suggestive evidence for several other regions. We
      believe that ongoing data collection and analysis of these preliminary results will also be
      fruitful. Recently, the National Cancer Institute funded this ongoing project in a
      competitive renewal (5 years) of our multi-center R01 that supports data collection and work
      at all sites besides NHGRI and NCI.

      All data collection is under the direction of each P.I. at the data collection sites and
      funded by their respective grants and contracts. NHGRI investigators do not have any contact
      with study subjects and no NHGRI employees receive any funds from these grants. Because this
      disorder is complex and has a high likelihood of being caused by multiple loci, multiple
      parametric and non-parametric methods of analysis will be employed. Heterogeneity will be
      taken into account during these analyses, as will environmental covariates, such as the
      effect of smoking. Only statistical analyses are performed at the NHGRI site, but laboratory
      work ranging from genotyping, sequencing, array CGH, model organism experiments and other
      methods occurs at other sites as part of this collaboration.
    
  