
    
      This study is a five-year project to develop and test an intervention to reduce risk among
      people at high vulnerability for HIV infection: patients who present repeatedly at sexually
      transmitted infection clinics. Repeat bacterial sexually transmitted infections (STI) such as
      chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis, and syphilis, and repeat visits to STI clinics for
      exposure and potential infection, indicate persistent high-risk sexual behavior. Recidivist
      patients further represent a significant proportion of public STI clinic visits. Repeat STI
      can increase the likelihood of HIV transmission during exposure and some recidivist patients
      may serve as "core transmitters," propagating an ongoing epidemic or endemic chain within a
      community. Repeat STI patients also face serious health risks from STI complications. In sum,
      STI repeaters present significant public health risks and place a large financial and
      resource burden on treatment systems.

      Patients with repeat STI, by definition, are not adequately served by the prevention services
      currently provided by STI clinics. Thus, additional clinic-based services to reduce patients'
      risk of future infections of STI and HIV are warranted. Adequately addressing the needs of
      repeat STI patients will allow limited resources to be more heavily invested in services for
      first-time STI patients who are more likely than recidivist patients to be amenable to
      standard clinic-based risk-reduction interventions.

      The HIV prevention field has largely been silent about assisting patients who present
      repeatedly with STI and STI risk; there are no published studies testing interventions
      specifically for repeat STI patients. In addition, most risk-reduction intervention research
      based in STI clinics has focused directly on the presenting problem of sexual risk behavior
      or addressed a single co-existing factor (substance use, depression). However, research
      suggests that repeat STI is related to a wide-ranging and complex configuration of contextual
      factors that varies by patient. Indeed, repeat STI is highest among communities with the
      highest rates of STI in general, which are characterized by myriad contextual challenges
      (unemployment, poverty).

      Novel intervention approaches are needed to help repeat STI patients reduce their risk for
      HIV infection and for infecting others. Investigators propose to address these gaps in the
      HIV and STI prevention literature by focusing on a high-risk group of recidivist patients:
      economically disadvantaged urban African Americans. The intervention will help patients
      address broader, "risk-regulating" social and contextual factors identified by each patient
      (employment, housing, domestic violence, substance abuse). Investigators also will address
      individual risk behavior and affective and self-regulatory factors (fatalism, problem solving
      skills), that contribute to continued risk behavior and interfere with maintenance of risk
      reduction after an STI.
    
  