
    
      Anamnesis and clinical diagnosis of patients, with indication of extraction, will be
      performed by the Emergency Department of the School of Dentistry of the University of São
      Paulo (SDUSP). Of these, 80 patients with mandibular molar teeth extraction, with and without
      apparent apical lesion radiographically identified in the initial imaging examination will be
      included. They must be over 16 years old, with good judgment and good general health, who
      have availability of return to the clinic for postoperative follow-up and aware of the Term
      of Consent.

      After the anamnesis, clinical and radiographic examinations for diagnosis and inclusion in
      the study, they will receive information on the procedure to be submitted, mainly on the
      quality of the local anesthetic block, quantification of pain and / or discomfort, and what
      will occur on the days after the procedure, such as guidelines and post-operative care (PO).

      The clinical procedure (extraction) will follow the protocol of attendance of the Emergency
      Department of SDUSP, which is consistent with the surgical practice in force in this School
      and in other Dentistry Schools. In clinical care, patients will be questioned about the
      presence of discomfort and / or pain, indicated on the visual analogue scale (VAS score 0,
      score 1, score 2 or pain score 3). They will be informed about the effects of anesthesia, the
      use of the pulptest sensitivity test, absence of sensitivity in soft tissue and pulp after
      anesthesia, and the need for complementation with more local anesthetic (Mepivacaine and
      Noradrenaline) and / or incorporation of other anesthetic techniques.

      To obtain basal tooth responsiveness patterns, prior to anesthesia, the pulptest will be
      applied to vital teeth of the quadrant that will receive intervention. The same will be
      reapplied after the injection of the anesthetic, in order to verify the installation of the
      blockade. Only after the anesthetic blockade has been confirmed and installed, both pulp
      ("Pulptest"), and soft tissues, the patient will be included in the research, initiating the
      surgical procedure. Any discomfort or complaint that the patient may have during the
      transoperatory period will be considered and, if necessary, we will use anesthetic
      complementation, which is recorded. In the postoperative period, these patients will have the
      opportunity to report some discomfort and pain, through a questionnaire, which will be filled
      and returned on the day of removal of suture, as well as intercurrence and / or need to use
      the suggested medication in case of pain.

      The information obtained in this study will be inserted in Excel spreadsheet for descriptive
      analysis, statistics and comparison.
    
  