
    
      The St. Jude Pediatric SCD Program has developed a comprehensive plan of care that spans the
      ages of 0 to 25, and provides the structure for screening and monitoring disease progression
      and complications in infancy, childhood, and young adulthood. From age 0 to 18, SCD patients
      are followed at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. At age 18, their care is typically
      transferred to either the Methodist Adult Comprehensive Sickle Cell Disease Center in
      Memphis, TN, or the Regional One Health, Diggs-Kraus Sickle Cell Center in Memphis, TN, where
      they are routinely followed from age 18 to 25 years. After age 25, participants will be
      followed and invited to return to St. Jude every 6 years for study related tests until
      participants elect to come off study or until death.

      St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, the Methodist Adult Comprehensive Sickle Cell Disease
      Center and the Regional One Health Diggs-Kraus Sickle Cell Center, in Memphis, TN serve as
      enrolling centers for the SCCRIP protocol.Three St. Jude Affiliate locations will also be
      sites of enrollment for this protocol for patients age 0 to 18 years. These include St. Jude
      Affiliate sites located in: Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Peoria, Illinois; and Charlotte, North
      Carolina. Approximately 500 additional participants are expected to be enrolled from these
      affiliate sites. This protocol will collect data on SCD participants from birth to end of
      life.

      The SCD plan of care provides the specific sequence of laboratory and imaging studies that
      are performed according to the patient's age and expected course of illness. The following
      health outcomes are systematically monitored in patients with SCD: hematologic indices,
      pulmonary function, cardiac function, renal function, cognitive function, cerebral
      vasculopathy, vitamin D deficiency and bone health, parvovirus B19 immune status,
      ophthalmologic status, and splenic function. These tests are used to direct the patient's
      clinical management and initiate therapies when necessary.

      Participants who reach 20 (± approximately 1 year) years of age and are enrolled on SCCRIP
      Amendment 6.0 or above, may participate in a neuropsychological screening. The screening will
      include a series of verbal and nonverbal problem-solving activities, pencil & paper tasks,
      and will include a computerized component.

      Quality of Life evaluations (Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL™) will be offered.

      In this study, the results of these tests will be collected and entered into the study
      database, providing longitudinal data that will inform health outcomes research regarding SCD
      and how the course is altered by disease-modifying therapy, in addition to facilitating
      future interventional projects.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To establish a longitudinal clinical cohort of patients with sickle cell disease (SCD)
           to serve as a research resource to facilitate evaluation of health outcomes in SCD from
           pediatric care into adulthood.

        -  To facilitate the collection of biological samples from patients with SCD to be used in
           future studies investigating genetic and epigenetic contributions to disease severity,
           response to treatment, and morbidity and mortality.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the incidence, prevalence, and severity of SCD complications and adverse
           health conditions within the SCD cohort during five stages of development and adulthood:
           the newborn period (birth to 5.9 months), the infant/pre-school stage (ages 6 months to
           5.9 years), the early school stage (ages 6 to 11.9 years), the adolescent stage (ages 12
           to 17.9 years), young adulthood (ages 18 to 24.9 years) and mature adulthood (ages 25
           and above).

        -  To identify and evaluate risk factors for premature mortality and long-term morbidity in
           patients with SCD, including those related to disease-modifying therapies, end-organ
           damage, genetics, neurocognitive deficits, psychosocial factors, and behavioral causes.

        -  To investigate the long-term effects of hydroxyurea and other therapies on preservation
           of organ function, growth and development, and frequency and severity of disease
           complications, and their long-term medical, neurocognitive, and psychosocial toxicities.

        -  To determine the functional aspects of the Transition to Adult Care Program within a
           clinical research cohort by evaluating disease specific health literacy and readiness in
           relation to healthcare utilization during adult care.

        -  To explore the long-term alterations of prolonged antibiotic exposure on the microbial
           community composition among people living with SCD through the collection of swabs as
           guided by the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) Manual of Procedures.

      Other Pre-Specified Objective:

        -  Define the drug-exposure to clinical response relationship of HU therapy in children
           with SCD.
    
  