
    
      Consecutive patients of both sexes, age more than 18 years attended the outpatient department
      of Gastroenterology meeting the inclusion Criteria of IBS-C will be initially enrolled for
      the study. Their clinical history, examination & initial investigations with Complete Blood
      Count , C-Reactive Protein, Tissue Transglutaminase antibody, Oral Glucose Tolerance Test,
      Thyroid Stimulating Hormone will be done from respected department of BSMMU. Report will be
      noted in the standard data sheet. Any alternative diagnosis if proven by clinical examination
      or laboratory investigation will be excluded from the study. All participants will be advised
      to maintain their usual dietary practices throughout the study. The subject will be recruited
      according to sample size. Total study population will be divided in to Prucalopride and
      placebo group. An independent treatment code will be generated and allocated according to
      sample size in each group. Randomization into two groups will be performed by lottery. The
      independent treatment codes and allocation will be maintained, which will be locked until all
      analyses will have been completed. Thus, the clinical trial will be performed double-blind
      with all patients and investigators will unaware of which treatment is allocated.

      One group will receive tab Prucalopride 2 mg once daily 30 minute before breakfast, while the
      other group will receive identical looking placebo one tab once daily at same time. The
      tablets will be administered for a total of 6 weeks. Before starting treatment each
      individual will undergo a baseline assessment during which demographic data, base line
      investigations, IBS symptoms by IBS-SSS and QOL data will be recorded. Patients will be
      followed-up at 2 weeks, then at 6 weeks by IBS-SSS questionnaire and IBS-QOL questionnaire.
      Patients will be asked to return with the strips of the ingested drugs at the end of the
      treatment to count & ensure compliance. Any adverse effect due to drugs will also be
      monitored by base line ECG, calculation of corrected QT interval and ECG monitoring (2 weeks
      and 6 weeks) during the course of treatment. Any adverse event will be responded quickly and
      documented at the same time.

      IBS-SSS is a 5 item tools. It is primarily a measure of IBS symptoms including abdominal pain
      and distension as well as bowel satisfaction. This scale evaluates IBS symptoms: abdominal
      pain, abdominal distension, stool frequency and consistency and interference with life in
      general. The IBS-SSS calculates the sum of these 5 items scored on a visual analogue scale
      from 0-100. Determination of severity of each symptom is determined by the patient. The
      nature of the items on IBS-SSS is appropriate to be used in clinical trials. The items are
      summed and thus the total score can range from 0 to 500 points. IBS severity has the
      following defined ranges: mild 75-174, moderate 175-300, and severe > 300.

      The IBS-QOL questionnaire is a 34-item instruments which assess QOL impairment due to IBS
      symptoms. Each item is scored on a five-point scale (1 = not at all, 5 = extremely) that
      represents one of eight dimensions (dysphoria, interference with activity, body image,
      health-related worries, food avoidance, social reactions, sexual dysfunction, and
      relationships). After scoring by the patient, responses will be transformed to reverse code
      system (5= not at all, 1= extremely). Items are scored to derive an overall total score of
      IBS related QOL. To facilitate score interpretation, the summed total score is transformed to
      a 0-100 scale ranging from zero (poor QOL) to 100 (maximum QOL). The QOL instrument will be
      given to each patient before treatment is started. The patient will complete the form
      according to schedule and all data will be recorded and entered onto a data sheet.
    
  