
    
      Background Fractional flow reserve (FFR) measurement has become the gold standard for
      establishing ischemia in the intermediate lesion detected at angiography. As such, it is a
      Class IA indication in the European Guidelines and IIA in the ACC/AHA Guidelines.
      Furthermore, an FFR guided strategy for selecting percutaneous revascularization has been
      shown in multiple randomized trials and numerous large registries to confer favorable long
      term clinical outcomes. Importantly, the cost effectiveness and the consequent efficient
      resource utilization of an FFR guided approach have been rigorously established. Despite this
      solid evidence base, data from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR ®) NCDR
      CathPCI Registry evaluating current practice (2009-2010) in >61000 patients with intermediate
      coronary stenosis (40-70%) undergoing PCI showed that only 6.1% patients underwent FFR
      evaluation while 20% underwent intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) evaluation; the majority of
      intermediate lesions underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) based on coronary
      angiography alone.

      While it has been shown that "deferring PCI" for FFR >0.80 is safe, factors affecting the
      negative predictive value of FFR and hence the prognostic utility are not fully elucidated.
      The biology of disease is not the same in all patients as was shown by a recent meta-analysis
      which found that FFR threshold for intervention was influenced by factors such as the
      presence of left main disease and diabetes . In the light of this information it is
      conceivable that the warranty period of any given value of non-ischemic FFR will differ in
      patients with and without such factors. The concept is not new and has previously been
      applied to myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) where it was determined that the warranty
      period for event free survival after a negative MPI was lower in those with diabetes and CKD.

      Despite the robust efficacy of PCI in relieving angina, a substantial proportion of patients
      continue to experience clinical events including death, myocardial infarction, or recurrent
      angina necessitating repeat revascularization; even in the drug eluting stent (DES) era.
      Accumulating evidence over the past 15 years has shown that as much as angiographic
      evaluation is significantly limited in assessing lesion severity, likewise angiographic
      evaluation of PCI results is also severely limited. Data from FFR, optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) and IVUS based studies have shown that based on angiography alone, a
      significant proportion of patients undergoing PCI and stenting have suboptimal results which
      in turn translate into downstream adverse outcomes. Whereas FFR has been shown to determine
      the hemodynamic significance of a coronary stenosis and FFR guided PCI proven to
      significantly improve clinical outcomes, a significant proportion of patients even in the FFR
      guided PCI group continue to experience significant events. For instance, in the pivotal FAME
      trial, the one year major adverse cardiac events (MACE) event rate was 13.2% in the FFR
      guided PCI arm (albeit 30% lower than the angiographically guided PCI group) and 20% at 2
      years.

      Multiple factors including stent under expansion/ malapposition, geographic miss of the
      culprit lesion or placement in diseased bed, diffuse atherosclerosis are not frequently
      missed on angiography. In this context, the utility of FFR for assessing the "effectiveness
      of PCI" has emerged as an attractive strategy. Studies dating back to 1999, have demonstrated
      the robust utility of post PCI FFR in evaluating the efficacy of PCI. Post PCI FFR has been
      shown to correlate with optimal stenting and PTCA as determined by IVUS. Additionally, post
      PCI FFR has been shown to be a predictor of major adverse events including death, myocardial
      infarction (MI), and target vessel revascularization (TVR).

      Methods This project will be a retrospective chart review of all consecutive patients who
      have undergone FFR evaluation at the CAVHS between 3/2009 till 3/2015. Demographic data (age
      and gender), risk factor profile, clinical presentation , baseline lab data, ejection
      fraction (EF) will be retrieved from the VA CPRS system. Details of coronary angiography
      including number of diseased vessels, pre and post stenosis (% luminal diameter), stent
      number, type and size will be recorded. Additional variables related to the PCI will be
      recorded as shown below and attached Excel sheet.

      Follow up and Clinical endpoints This is a RETROSPECTIVE CHART REVIEW. All follow up
      information and clinical endpoints will be collected from CPRS. There will be NO DIRECT
      PATIENT CONTACT. In-hospital events will include major adverse events, such as Q wave
      myocardial infarction (MI), need for emergency surgery, or death during hospitalization.
      Clinical outcomes including death, myocardial infarction, instent restenosis (ISR) and target
      vessel revascularization.) will be recorded at 30 days and at last follow up (retrieved from
      CPRS). This information will be retrieved from inpatient and outpatient electronic records
      for patients (CPRS).

      Statistical Analysis Comparison of baseline, angiographic, procedural and outcome variables
      for patients with FFR>0.9 and <0.9 will be done using unpaired Student's t-test for
      continuous variables and the chi square test( χ2 ) for categorical or dichotomous variables.
      Unadjusted annual event rates for those with and without FFR>0.9 will be calculated by first
      estimating overall event rates for these groups through calculation of Kaplan-Meier(K-M)
      curves, then dividing the event rate by the mean follow-up time for each of the groups.
      Additionally, median pre and post FFR, (%) diameter stenosis will be calculated for patients
      with and without clinical outcomes.

      Univariate predictors of post PCI, FFR,and MACE will recorded. Multivariate stepwise logistic
      regression analysis will be applied to identify independent predictors (adjusted OR with 95%
      CI) for a) Post PCI FFR>0.9 and b) MACE.

      Receiver operator curve analysis will be performed to assess the optimal "cutoff" value of
      post PCI FFR for predicting MACE in our population.

      The level of statistical significance will be a priori set at <0.05, and a 2-sided
      probability value used for the analyses. All statistical calculations will be performed using
      MedCalc Statistical Software.
    
  