
    
      The prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2D) in the Netherlands is 600.000-800.000 and
      each year ~70.000 new patients are diagnosed. This increasing number of patients with T2D is
      closely correlated with the obesity epidemic.

      Obese patients with T2D are also at risk to develop dyslipidemia and hypertension. This
      clustering of cardiovascular risk factors leads to an increased risk of micro-and
      macrovascular long-term complications. In fact, patients with T2D have a 2-4 times increased
      risk for cardiovascular disease. These complications seriously decrease the quality of life
      and life expectancy of T2D patients. The burden of this disease affects our society as well.
      Health care costs with respect to diabetes amounted 814 million euro in 2005 in the
      Netherlands and indirect costs because of absence of work are unknown but thought to be
      substantial.

      Weight loss is perhaps the most important therapeutic intervention in obese patients with
      T2D. Weight loss intervenes in the underlying pathophysiology and restores insulin
      sensitivity and sometimes even insulin secretion. In addition, it improves dyslipidemia and
      hypertension. In contrast, most pharmacological interventions only relieve the symptoms of
      the complex disease process underlying T2D whilst the disease process itself is not addressed
      and even progresses in the course of time. Unfortunately, the effect of weight loss
      interventions such as diet and lifestyle or even drugs (orlistat, sibutramine) is often
      modest (3-5 kg) and short-lived.

      Bariatric surgery and T2D remission Weight reducing surgery, i.e. bariatric surgery, is the
      only intervention that leads to persistent weight loss and is superior above conventional
      (non-surgical) treatment. Bariatric surgery can be divided into restrictive (gastric band or
      sleeve) and malabsorptive (biliopancreatic diversion, BD) procedures or a combination of both
      (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, RYGB). Currently, RYGB is the most performed bariatric procedure.
      The international indications for bariatric surgery are BMI > 40kg/m2 or BMI > 35 kg/m2 with
      co-morbidities (e.g. T2D).

      Besides weight loss, spectacular metabolic improvements after bariatric surgery are seen. In
      patients with T2D, normalization of fasting plasma glucose and/or HbA1c without medication
      (referred as "resolution of T2D") was observed in 48% and 83% after gastric banding and RYGB,
      respectively. Recently, randomized controlled trials showed the superiority of bariatric
      surgery in glycemic control above conventional medical treatment. Furthermore, the
      improvement in glycemic control is higher in RYGB compared to purely restrictive bariatric
      procedures.

      The mechanism of diabetes resolution after RYGB is not completely understood and there is
      evidence that it might not be dependent on weight loss only. Improvements in glycemic control
      have been found within days after surgery, while significant weight loss has not yet been
      achieved at this time. There are several hypotheses concerning the weight-independent effects
      of bariatric surgery on insulin secretion. The most popular are the 'hindgut-hypothesis',
      which states that expedited delivery of nutrients to the distal intestine enhances the
      secretion of intestinal peptides like glucagon-like-peptide 1 (GLP1) and peptide YY and the
      'foregut hypothesis', which states that the exclusion of the duodenum and proximal jejunum
      from the transit of nutrients results in changes in secretion of intestinal peptides.
      However, several other mechanisms, both in- and outside the intestines might play a role.

      The beta cell function improves after RYGB in individuals with and without T2D, however it is
      unclear whether the actual beta cell mass is subject to change after bariatric surgery.
      Examination of the beta cell mass on autopsy specimens of persons who did not have bariatric
      surgery, showed a decrease in beta cell mass in persons with T2D in one of the studies a
      decrease was found in persons with pre-diabetes as well.

      Few studies were performed that assessed beta cell mass after bariatric surgery. In
      Goto-Kakizaki rats duodenal jejunal bypass was found to increase pancreatic concentrations of
      vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2). VMAT2 was used as a biomarker for beta cells,
      however later VMAT2 was found to be expressed on pancreatic polypeptide cells (PP cells) as
      well. Furthermore, an increase in beta cell mass, beta cell number and extra islet beta cells
      was found after RYGB in a porcine model and GK rat model. Studies in humans showed
      conflicting results. Long term after gastric bypass, cases of hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia
      have been described, which are related to pancreatic islet hyperplasia or nesidioblastosis,
      while this does not occur after purely restrictive surgery. However, beta cell mass was
      assessed in six patients after gastric bypass by histological analysis of the pancreas after
      pancreatectomy and did not find an increase in beta cell mass. These studies were performed
      on pancreas specimen and not in vivo.

      The benefit of RYGB on glycemic control in morbid obese patients (BMI > 35 kg/m2) with T2D is
      confirmed and the Diabetes Surgery Summit Consensus Conference accepted bariatric surgery as
      alternative therapy of obesity related T2D. They also consider expanding the indication for
      bariatric surgery in obese patients with T2D who currently don't meet the international
      guidelines for bariatric surgery. In this regard it would be helpful to identify
      preoperatively which T2D patients would benefit from RYGB. Prognostic factors that were
      described previously are the duration of diabetes, age, preoperatively HbA1c levels and
      fasting C-peptide. However, the underlying cause of T2D resolution and the prognostic value
      of these factors are not completely understood. Possibly, T2D resolution depends on the
      preoperative available beta cell mass and function and increased beta cell failure or reduced
      beta cell ass might decrease the chance of T2D resolution. Therefore, more information on the
      effects of bariatric surgery on beta cell function and beta cell mass will be helpful to
      further understand T2D resolution and the role of the beta cells. Thereby, preoperative beta
      cell mass might be a prognostic factor of T2D resolution and helpful in identifying obese T2D
      patients that will benefit from RYGB and expanding the indications for bariatric surgery for
      those patients. For this purpose reliable, sensitive and specific visualization of living
      pancreatic beta cells in vivo is important.

      GLP-1 receptor imaging by PET For specific non-invasive imaging of beta cells, we have
      developed a highly beta cell-specific radiolabeled exendin-based GLP-1 analog which, after
      radiolabeling, can non-invasively be detected in the human body. GLP-1 is an incretin hormone
      that specifically binds to beta cells and is responsible for post-prandial insulin-secretion.
      Its specificity for beta cells has been shown and a linear correlation of the beta cell mass
      and the signal obtained with this tracer has been established.

      GLP-1R imaging has been shown to be suitable for imaging of insulin producing pancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumours (IPPNET). Furthermore, the feasibility of visualization of
      transplanted beta cells with GLP-1R imaging has been shown by imaging of autologous islets
      transplanted into muscle.
    
  