
    
      Detailed Description: A series of patients with central visual defects were identified and
      their names were given to the unblinded clinical coordinator. The clinical coordinator
      contacted the patients, described the study, arranged the appointments to come to the clinic
      one-at-a-time for a dedicated visit to participate in the study. Each patient experienced the
      same study process for their visit:

        1. Met with the unblinded Clinical Coordinator who had the patient sign the informed
           consent after detailed explanation.

        2. Had the Clinical Coordinator put a number tag on the patient, and this was the number
           that the blinded participants of the study were to use for these subjects. Additionally,
           random numbers were used on the test forms.

        3. Patients met with blinded test trainer where the patient was provided standardized
           instruction for use of Amsler grid on-paper test, the Amsler grid on EyeQTester device,
           visual acuity and color sensitivity on paper and on the device. The instruction was
           enhanced between Cohort 1 and Cohort 2 as approved by the IRB for the different
           instruction protocol (see below discussion). Also, patients were given a test which they
           must pass in order to enter the trial.

        4. Patients then met with the blinded test administrator where the patient took the tests
           with no coaching. The test admin confirmed that the environmental parameters were
           similar across all patients over the course of the study.

        5. The patient completed test and re-test sequences.

        6. All test results with assigned random numbers were reported by the test administrator to
           the Clinical Coordinator who provided batches of blinded results to the Data
           Coordinator.

      The investigators knew from prior clinic experience that the patients required a new and more
      detailed educational experience than was standard in order to have more reliable results for
      both the paper and app Amsler Grid test, in order to measure the central visual fields. The
      investigators focused on carefully training the patient through both written material and a
      video where the educational administrator was there to review this with the patient. The
      education focused on:

        1. What are "defects" and how to identify and report them.

        2. How to draw the above defects with attention to distance from the fixation point, size
           of the defect as well as its density.

      Training enhancement was prompted midway through the trial, when the unblinded sponsor and
      clinical coordinator reviewed patient test results. Initial conclusion was that the patients
      exhibited defect identification on both paper and app that could possibly be enhanced by
      improving the educational protocol. An updated educational protocol was provided which the
      sponsor discussed with the educational team which was implemented to test if this updated
      patient education would result in more reliable results. It was decided to utilize updated
      educational approach for all patients on both paper and the app. Additionally, the
      investigators, added a stylus for the app (replacing the patient's finger) in order to more
      closely simulate a pen which is utilized for the paper. This updated approach was submitted
      and approved by the IRB.

      As a result of the above, a decision was made to have two cohorts in the study, the early
      education cohort 1 and the later education cohort 2. Patients in cohort 1 were trained on the
      device to draw a defect on the screen with the tip of their finger but on paper to use a pen.
      Patients in cohort 2 were trained on the device to draw a defect on the screen with a stylus
      and on paper with a pen. The result in Cohort 2 was that consistency of the patients test
      results were better for both test and re-test for both the Amsler grid on-paper and the
      EyeQTester device.

      The statistical analysis in this report shows the overall results and also the improved
      results in Cohort 2 that likely is attributed to these educational enhancement and stylus
      additions.

      The full protocol for the trial including the training is available in the WIRB trial
      documentation.

      Sample Size Calculation by our statistician was verified to be the sample size used was
      statistically acceptable.
    
  