
    
      This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), double blind
      (neither physician nor participant knows the treatment that the participant receives),
      placebo (an inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a
      real effect in a clinical trial)-controlled study to compare the efficacy and safety of
      ibrutinib given in combination with bendamustine and rituximab (BR) with BR alone in
      participants newly diagnosed with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who are 65 years of age or
      older. Approximately 520 participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio and stratified
      by simplified Mantle Cell Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (MIPI) score (low risk
      [0-3] versus intermediate risk [4-5] versus high risk [6-11]). The treatment phase will
      extend from randomization until discontinuation of all study treatment or the clinical cutoff
      for the end of study. A cycle is defined as 28 days. All participants will receive open-label
      (identity of assigned study drug will be known) BR background therapy for a maximum of 6
      cycles; participants with a complete response or partial response will continue to receive
      open-label background therapy with rituximab maintenance every second cycle for a maximum of
      12 additional doses. In addition to the background therapy, all participants will receive
      blinded study drug (ibrutinib or placebo). Participants randomized to treatment Arm A will
      receive placebo capsules and participants randomized to treatment Arm B will receive
      ibrutinib capsules. Study drug will be administered daily and continuously until disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or study end. Participants with stable disease after
      initial chemoimmunotherapy (BR+ibrutinib/placebo) should continue treatment with
      ibrutinib/placebo until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or study end.
      Participants with progressive disease must discontinue all study treatment. For participants
      who discontinue background therapy and do not have progressive disease, treatment with study
      drug will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity or the clinical cutoff
      for the final analysis of progression-free survival (PFS). Participants receiving BR,
      rituximab, or ibrutinib at the clinical cutoff for the final analysis of PFS will continue
      open-label treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Placebo will be
      stopped when the study is unblinded for the clinical cutoff for the final analysis of PFS.
      The posttreatment follow-up phase will begin once a participant discontinues bendamustine and
      rituximab and study drug. Participants who discontinue for reasons other than disease
      progression must continue to have disease evaluations as outlined in the protocol.
      Participants who discontinue due to disease progression will be followed for survival and
      subsequent anti-MCL therapy. The posttreatment follow-up phase will continue until death,
      lost to follow up, consent withdrawal, or study end, whichever occurs first. Four clinical
      cutoffs are planned. The first 3 clinical cutoffs will occur when approximately 134, 180, and
      265 PFS events have been observed, respectively. The interim analyses and the final analysis
      of PFS will take place at these 3 clinical cutoffs, respectively; participant treatment
      assignment will be unblinded and placebo treatment will be stopped at the clinical cutoff for
      the final analysis of PFS. Treatment unblinding and stopping of placebo treatment could occur
      before the planned final analysis of PFS if recommended by the independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC) after an interim analysis. The last cutoff will occur at the end of study,
      when 60% of the randomized participants have died or the Sponsor terminates the study,
      whichever comes first. Efficacy assessments will be conducted in accordance with the Revised
      Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Safety will be monitored throughout the study and
      summarized. Blood samples will be drawn for assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters. Blood
      and bone marrow will be collected for assessment of minimal residual disease and biomarker
      studies.
    
  