
    
      Hard-to-reach groups such as those attending addiction and homeless services are particularly
      at risk for HCV-associated liver disease progression as they do not engage in treatment, have
      poor attendance records for appointments, and are at risk of progression to cirrhosis without
      evaluation and detection. These patients are therefore "silently" progressing in the
      community and may be close to decompensation. Once a patient goes over that critical stage
      from compensated to decompensated cirrhosis, the cost to the patient in terms of their
      health, and the cost to the state in terms of the management of cirrhosis related
      complications are great.

      As part of this investigator-led community-based treatment protocol we aim to demonstrate the
      utility of an integrated community-based care partnership between primary and secondary care
      to best evaluate and treat such hard to reach populations.

      We aim to actively find fibrosis levels of HCV related liver disease using the FibroScan
      diagnostic tool, and support patients to be treated for their HCV with the newly available
      DAAs and be cured of their HCV infection and disease through:

        1. Active case finding by travelling to the services used by 'at risk' groups as opposed to
           giving appointments to the patient to attend hospital.

        2. Locating HCV patients (with positive RNA or HCV antigen) that are 'lost to follow up'.

        3. Staging and risk-stratifying HCV patients locally to support access to therapy.

        4. Educating HCV patients around new assessment tools and treatments.

        5. Setting up and supporting the initiation of treatment in the community e.g. daily
           dispensing of medication/treatment with methadone.

        6. Providing on-going harm reduction advice on preventing reinfection.

        7. Work in partnership with Methadone prescribing GP practices and Drug Treatment Centres
           from the North and South Dublin catchment area
    
  