
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity of lapatinib ditosylate and radiotherapy in patients with locally
           recurrent breast cancer or chemotherapy-refractory, locally advanced or metastatic
           breast cancer.

        -  Determine the impact of this drug on inhibition of receptor and downstream signal
           transduction pathway activation in tumor tissue, in the context of inhibitor dose
           escalation with or without radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of lapatinib ditosylate and radiotherapy in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate response in these patients with inhibition of downstream signaling.

        -  Assess gene expression changes in tumor biopsy samples from patients treated with
           lapatinib ditosylate alone or in combination with radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, parallel group, dose-escalation study of lapatinib
      ditosylate. Patients are stratified according to prior radiotherapy (yes vs no).

        -  Group I (prior radiotherapy): Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 8 of
           lapatinib ditosylate therapy, patients undergo concurrent radiotherapy 5 days a week for
           up to 5 weeks.

        -  Group II (no prior radiotherapy): Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate as in group
           I. Beginning on day 8, patients undergo concurrent radiotherapy 5 days a week for up to
           7 weeks.

      In each group, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lapatinib ditosylate until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during the first course.

      Patients undergo skin punch or core biopsy at baseline* and on day 8 and day 15. Tumor biopsy
      samples are examined by IHC for evaluation of EGFR, phospho-EGFR, HER2, phospho-HER2,
      phospho-Akt, and phospho-MAPK. Samples are also examined for cell proliferation by Ki-67,
      apoptosis by TUNEL, and angiogenesis by microvessel density. Additionally, mRNA is extracted
      from fresh frozen samples and examined by microarray analysis.

      NOTE: *Archival tissue acceptable for baseline sample, if available
    
  