
    
      The treatment of stable CAD is largely based on a paradigm that gives epicardial coronary
      stenoses a central role in the generation of myocardial ischaemia. However, coronary
      microcirculatory dysfunction (CMD) is a major and frequently ignored cause of ischaemia that,
      according to retrospective studies, influences the outcomes of patients with CAD. In
      addition, patients with CMD may not experience symptomatic relief with myocardial
      revascularization or pharmacological treatment. This constitutes one of the causes of
      persistent angina despite successful revascularization, causing not only an impairment of the
      quality of life and higher consumption of healthcare resources, but potentially affective
      disorders like depression, which has been found to be associated with CAD and with prognosis.

      It also remains largely unknown whether CMD in stable CAD is organ-specific only or rather
      indicative of involvement of other vital organs. While this seems to be the case in the
      kidney and the retina, the relationship between CMD in the heart and the brain has not been
      studied. Beyond classical cardiovascular risk factors linked to the development of ischemic
      heart disease, systemic endothelial dysfunction could constitute a link between
      microcirculatory involvement in both organs: the heart and the brain. Additionally, the
      relation between chronic inflammatory status and microvascular disease in both the heart and
      the brain is not known.

      The principal hypotheses and sub-hypotheses are as follows:

      Principal hypotheses: 1. Patients with CMD have worse prognosis compared to those ones with
      normal coronary microcirculation. 2. Patients with CMD have a higher prevalence of CSVD. 3.
      Chronic systemic inflammation status is an independent predictor of CMD and CSVD.

      Sub-hypotheses: 1. The presence of CMD is associated to recurrent/persistent angina. 2. The
      presence of CMD is associated to higher prevalence of depressive disorders. 3. CMD and CSVD
      are associated to systemic endothelial dysfunction.

      Primary Objectives associated to Principal hypotheses: 1. To investigate the relationship
      between the presence of CMD and the development of patient-focused outcomes at 1 year of
      follow-up. 2. To determine the prevalence of CSVD in patients with CAD with and without CMD.
      3. To investigate the relationship between systemic inflammation and CMD.

      Primary Objectives associated to Sub-hypotheses: 1. To determine the prevalence of persistent
      or recurrent angina in patients with and without CMD in whom revascularization of CAD is
      guided by FFR. 2. To determine the prevalence of depressive disorders in patients with and
      without CMD. 3. To investigate the relationship between the status of systemic endothelial
      function and the presence of CMD and CSVD.

      Methods: Patients with CAD undergoing FFR-guided revascularisation will be prospectively
      enrolled. FFR, coronary flow reserve (CFR) and the index of hyperemic microvascular
      resistance (HMR) will be measured with the Doppler guidewire (Combowire, Volcano - Philips
      corporation) under steady state hyperemia (intravenous adenosine infusion, 140 mcg/Kg/min).
      CMD will be defined according to CFR and HMR, and will be used to classify the overall
      population in two groups: the study group (presence of CMD) and the control group (absence of
      CMD). Coronary revascularization will be decided according to result of FFR (cutoff ≤0.80).

      After the procedure the patient will undergo baseline clinical assessment: • Neurological
      clinical assessment and Transcranial Doppler Ultrasound. • Psychiatric clinical assessment. •
      Stress Cardiac MRI and Cerebral MRI. • Peripheral endothelial function test with
      plethysmography-based device EndoPat. • Laboratory blood tests for systemic inflammation
      markers, platelet function and endothelial progenitor cells. • Baseline assessment of angina
      status by the Seattle Questionnaire of angina (SAQ).

      Clinical follow-up will be performed at 1-month, 6-months and 1-year, and will include: •
      clinical cardiology and psychiatric assessment, assessment of angina status by the SAQ. •
      stress test (1-year). • peripheral endothelial function test with plethysmography-based
      device EndoPat (1-year). • neurological clinical assessment and Transcranial Doppler
      Ultrasound (1- year). • laboratory blood tests for systemic inflammation markers, platelets
      function and endothelial progenitor cells(1-year).

      Type of blinding: Data regarding coronary microcirculation invasive assessment, neurologic
      and psychiatric clinical assessment, cardiac and cerebral MRI, Trans-cranial Doppler
      Ultrasound, laboratory blood tests, systemic endothelial function and follow-up will be
      collected in a blinded fashion, so that patient and the other investigators, apart from the
      invasive cardiology team responsible for patient enrollment and study coordination, could not
      access to them. Primary events rate (major adverse cardiovascular events, incidence of CSVD,
      systemic inflammation status, depressive disorders, recurrent angina and systemic endothelial
      dysfunction) will be analyzed and correlated to CMD in a blinded fashion.
    
  