
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an ongoing global pandemic caused by the severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), and at present with no approved or proven
      antiviral treatment.

      Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has been approved for treatment of many
      hematologic and solid neoplasm. Imatinib is a weak base that compared to the extracellular
      compartment is enriched over 1000-fold in the lysosome within several hours as a result of
      its lysosomotropic property. Imatinib as a weak base accumulates in lysosomes resulting in
      some antiviral activities by lysosomal alkalization required for virus/cell fusion.

      Imatinib demonstrates in vitro activity against SARS-CoV viruses. Imatinib inhibit SARS-CoV
      and MERS-CoV with micromolar EC50s (range, 9.8 to 17.6 μM) with low toxicity. The mechanism
      of action studies suggested that ABL-1 tyrosine kinase regulates budding or release of
      poxviruses and Ebola virus, demonstrating that the c-ABL-1 kinase signaling pathways play an
      important role in the egress of these viruses. It is also reported that kinase signaling may
      also be important for replication of two members of the Coronaviridae family, SARS-CoV and
      MERS-CoV. In vivo studies performed in the mouse model of vaccinia virus infection showed
      that imatinib was effective in blocking dissemination of the virus.

      Imatinib has anti-inflammatory activity including its effectiveness in a "two-hit" murine
      model of acute lung injury (ALI) caused by combined lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI). Imatinib significantly decreased bronchoalveolar
      lavage protein, total cells, neutrophils, and TNFα levels in mice exposed to LPS plus VILI,
      indicating that it attenuates ALI in this clinically relevant model. In another experiment,
      imatinib attenuated ALI when given 4 hours after LPS, suggesting potential efficacy when
      given after the onset of injury. Overall, these results strongly suggest the therapeutic
      potential of imatinib against inflammatory vascular leak and a potential role of imatinib
      combination therapy for patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on
      mechanical ventilation.

      The investigators hypothesize that addition of imatinib to the best conventional care (BCC)
      improves the outcome of hospitalized adult patients with COVID-19. This hypothesis is on the
      bases of 1) intralysosomal entrapment of imatinib will increase endosomal pH and effectively
      decrease SARS-CoV-2/cell fusion, 2) kinase inhibitory activity of imatinib will interfere
      with budding/release or replication of SARS-CoV-2, and 3) because of the critical role of
      mechanical ventilation in the care of patients with ARDS, imatinib will have a significant
      clinical impact for patients with severe COVID-19 infection in Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
    
  