
    
      Background:

      Zanolimumab is a human monoclonal antibody (mAb) that specifically recognizes CD4 protein
      expressed on a subset of T lymphocytes and on monocytes from humans, and non-human primates.

      Ongoing clinical studies have identified a 14 mg/kg dose of zanolimumab weekly as a safe and
      efficacious dose. Toxicities of zanolimumab included headache, influenza-like illness,
      injection/infusion site reaction, nasopharyngitis, pyrexia, diarrhea, fatigue, and cytokine
      release syndrome at the time of infusion.

      The current protocol is based on the hypothesis that transient elimination of CD4+
      T-regulatory cells with zanolimumab will enhance the clinical effectiveness of aldesleukin
      (IL-2) administration by decreasing T-regulatory cell generation.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      Determine the ability of a combination of aldesleukin and zanolimumab (anti-CD4 mAb)
      administration to mediate tumor regression in patients with metastatic melanoma and
      metastatic kidney cancer.

      Secondary objectives:

      Determine the rate of depletion and repopulation of CD4+ cells.

      Determine the toxicity of this treatment.

      Determine the potential for pharmacokinetic interaction between zanolimumab and aldesleukin.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have:

      measurable metastatic melanoma or metastatic kidney cancer;

      clinical performance status of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0, or 1.

      Patients may not have:

      previously received high dose aldesleukin.

      Design:

      Patients will receive zanolimumab at a dose of 14 mg/kg as an intravenous (i.v.) infusion
      weekly for 9 weeks. After the fifth and seventh dose of zanolimumab, aldesleukin will
      administered as an i.v. bolus at a dose of 720,000 IU/kg every 8 hours for a maximum of 15
      doses.

      Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, computed
      tomography (CT) and clinical laboratory evaluation 2 weeks after zanolimumab administration.
      If the patient has stable disease (SD) or tumor shrinkage, repeat complete evaluations will
      be performed every 1-3 months. After the first year, patients continuing to respond will be
      followed with this evaluation every 3-4 months until off study criteria are met.

      If patients have stable disease or a partial response to treatment after the initial
      evaluation, or if a patient recurs or progresses after a clinical response, they may be
      eligible for re-treatment.

      Patients will be entered into one of two strata: metastatic melanoma or metastatic renal
      cancer. Each of the strata will be conducted using an optimal two-stage phase II design to
      rule out an unacceptably low 15% clinical response rate, in favor of a modestly high response
      rate of 35% (p1=0.35).
    
  