
    
      Acute ischemic events caused by atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) are primarily
      due to plaque rupture/erosion determined by plaque morphologic characteristics, local
      composition and inflammation, which can be directly assessed using magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI). Prospective carotid MRI studies have demonstrated: (1) plaques with thin or ruptured
      cap, intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH), neovascularization, or larger lipid-rich necrotic core
      (LRNC) are strongly associated with occurrence of cerebrovascular and coronary events, (2)
      increased LRNC size is significantly associated with increased risk for systemic ASCVD events
      after adjusting for LDL-C or Non-HDL-C levels, (3) increased permeability of adventitial vasa
      vasorum is associated with presence of IPH which increases plaque burden and LRNC progression
      that appears to be resistant to conventional doses of statins, (4) intensive lipid therapy
      decreases carotid LRNC and vascular inflammation, (5) multicenter carotid studies can be
      conducted with good reproducibility and feasibility.

      Unlike previous clinical trials evaluating carotid artery disease using ultrasound based
      technology that showed a weak relationship to systemic and coronary vascular events, recent
      studies have demonstrated predictive value of carotid plaque tissue characteristics for
      subsequent systemic ASCVD events including coronary events. Hellings and colleagues found
      that carotid plaque composition by histology in 818 patients who underwent endarterectomy is
      an independent predictor of future cardiovascular events during long-term post-operative
      follow-up. Specifically, those with carotid IPH and increased neovascularization were at
      significantly higher risk for ASCVD events. The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study
      investigators reported that carotid LRNC (HR=1.9, p=0.014) and minimum cap thickness
      (HR=0.67, p=0.03), as identified by MRI, were significantly associated with development of
      ASCVD including coronary events after adjusting for all clinical risk factors, treatment
      variables and biomarkers. The carotid MRI sub-study in AIM-HIGH showed that higher Lp(a)
      levels are associated with high-risk plaque features which are prevalent in subjects with
      established vascular disease and "well-controlled" LDL-C and blood pressure. Thin or ruptured
      cap and a larger LRNC are predictive of systemic ASCVD events that include 83% (15/18) of the
      coronary events in AIM-HIGH, meanwhile, none of the clinical risk factors and lipids were
      predictive of future events.

      Alirocumab has shown substantial lowering in LDL-C, non-HDL-C and Lp(a), with or without
      concomitant statin treatment [43]. It has the potential to be a therapy that can improve
      plaque characteristics leading to reduction of ASCVD events. We propose to conduct a carotid
      MRI pilot study to demonstrate that adding alirocumab for 12 months, in comparison to
      pre-alirocumab therapy, in 30 subjects with documented carotid artery plaques who are not
      able to tolerate high intensity statin therapy and have LDL-C ≥70 mg/dl would improve
      atherosclerotic plaque characteristics by reducing Ktrans and LRNC size.
    
  