
    
      This (LEDOXY) trial is designed as a randomized, controlled, observer-, provider- and
      patient-blinded multicenter superiority trial with two parallel groups and a primary endpoint
      of change in grade of lymphedema at 24 months. The population will be stratified according to
      the Grade (Early Grade 1-3; Late Grade 4-6). Randomization will be performed as block
      randomization within each center in blocks of (N=4-10) for each of the groups (Early and
      Late).

      The effect of a 6-week course doxycycline on lymphedema without active filarial infection has
      been demonstrated in a single setting in Africa (Ghana). In order to expand the benefits of
      this observation, similar studies need to be carried out in other endemic settings. Lymphatic
      filariasis is endemic in many countries of Africa and Asia that are yet to implement
      morbidity management programmes. In addition, the components of the proposed hygiene package
      are likely to vary depending on the availability of material and human resources. The conduct
      of this trial as a multi-center study will not only allow the evaluation of the efficacy of
      the drug in a variety of settings but also facilitate its rapid adoption by the respective
      control programmes of endemic countries, if proven to be useful.

      The choice of study sites in endemic countries has been made based on the availability of a)
      adequate numbers of patients with various grades of lymphedema and b) clinical trial teams
      familiar with lymphedema management procedures and past experience with similar trials.

      All screened patients will be enrolled into a programme of hygiene (described below) and will
      be required to demonstrate ability to use established standardized methods of hygiene and
      effectively applying it prior to the initiation of the drug treatment. Eligible patients will
      be randomized to receive either daily doxycycline or placebo. Doxycycline and placebo will be
      provided by Medopharm (India). Re-labeling and packaging of the drug and the placebo will be
      done by Piramal Healthcare, Morpeth, UK

      Additionally, after un-blinding and data analysis, the placebo group will be offered
      doxycycline treatment if the intervention proves to be more effective in ameliorating LE.

      Both doxycycline and placebo will be administered under supervision (directly observed
      treatment) for 6 weeks. The first dose of doxycycline (two 100 mg tablets for those over 50kg
      body weight and one 100 mg tablets for those between 40 and 50 kg body weight) or placebo
      will be given after all the investigations have been completed and informed consent has been
      obtained and the patient has been initiated into the programme of basic hygiene (Appendix 2
      and 3, Study Schedule). Patients will be encouraged to eat before swallowing the tablets
      whole with a glass of water. Vomited doses will be replaced.

      Ideally, patients will be required to come every day to the closest community health center
      to take their drugs under supervision. Subjects living in villages at a distance from any
      health center will be treated by the community health care provider or the local caregiver
      living in this village who will be informed and trained in the possible adverse events
      related to the drug.

      Since some study sites may be village based without a health centre, patients may be treated
      in their village and required to attend daily at a fixed meeting point. The trial clinician
      and the research team with the help of trained community health workers will normally
      administer the treatment. They should come to the clinic every week with the patient and
      collect the drugs for one week. The provider will keep a diary where he or she will mark down
      the time of intake of the drug. A health worker may make surprise checks at the patient's
      residence by looking at the diary and also by counting the remaining drugs to estimate
      compliance.
    
  