
    
      The effect of TKR instability on gait is poorly understood. How does revision TKR surgery for
      instability alter gait and is there an associated change in patient satisfaction? Are there
      differences in gait between patients with an unstable TKR and a stable TKR? The objectives of
      this study are:

        1. To investigate the effect of a revision TKR operation on gait kinematics, in patients
           who have a primary TKR and instability.

        2. To investigate the association between changes in gait kinematics and patient
           satisfaction, before and after revision TKR surgery for patients with instability.

        3. To investigate differences in gait kinematics between dissatisfied patients with an
           unstable primary TKR, satisfied patients with a stable primary TKR and people who do not
           have a knee replacement.

      The first part of the investigation will tackle the first two objectives and follow patients
      who are having a revision TKR due to an unstable knee before and after their operation. The
      second part will then compare these patients to those with a primary TKR and no instability
      and to a control group of participants who do not have knee replacements ('native knees') and
      do not have difficulty walking. This will determine the difference in kinematics between a
      native knee and a TKR with and without instability.

      Age, height, weight, leg lengths, measurements of the TKR position on imaging (taken as part
      of routine clinical practice) and patient reported outcome scores will be documented.

      The gait assessments will be carried out in the outpatient clinic or physiotherapy
      department. These patients will have their walking gait assessed using a treadmill-based
      portable 3D infrared camera system (Vicon Ltd, Oxford, UK). The raw data will be processed by
      Run3D (Run3D Ltd, Oxford, UK) and Visual3D (C-motion Inc, MD, USA) to calculate knee joint
      angles.

      Analysis will focus on within subject (part 1) and between subject differences (part 2). The
      questions are novel and data will be largely exploratory. Measures, differences and
      correlations will be presented using descriptive statistics and, where appropriate,
      correlation and regression coefficients. Where possible, inferential statistics (such as
      t-tests) will formally test differences in knee kinematic measures and associations with
      PROMS. Statistical parametric mapping will be applied to analyse continuous quantities over
      the gait cycle. Published research indicates an effect size of 1.0 may be expected. This
      suggests sample sizes between 11 and 42 should be sufficient to determine statistically
      significant two-tailed differences (alpha=0.05, beta=0.2) within subjects or between groups,
      according to the comparison being assessed. A sample of 42 patients is targeted.

      In the longer term, this study will enable a better understanding of the functional
      biomechanics of TKR instability and potentially develop an alternative quantitative
      measurement of outcome and instability.
    
  