
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by the excessive accumulation of
      triglycerides in the liver and is often associated, in the absence of significant alcohol
      consumption, to insulin resistance and to the metabolic syndrome of which it shares the most
      frequent clinical manifestations (hypertension, dyslipidemia, visceral adiposity, glucose
      intolerance). Because of the pandemic spread of obesity and diabetes and by virtue of the
      best control of viral hepatitis, in western countries NAFLD is the most common cause of liver
      injury with prevalence that is around 20-30% of the general population.

      NAFLD encompasses a broad spectrum of liver conditions associated with fat accumulation that
      ranges from benign fatty liver (FL), non-progressive liver fat accumulation to severe liver
      injury, cirrhosis, and liver failure. The histological signature ballooning degeneration
      (with or without Mallory bodies) and/or inflammation and/or fibrosis is typical of
      nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), that may progress to: i) cirrhosis and contribute to one
      category of cryptogenic cirrhosis (CC), in which steatosis may be present or absent; ii)
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Furthermore, the correct indication of subjects with
      significant fibrosis in the highest risk populations could also contribute to reducing the
      increasing prevalence of cirrhosis secondary to NAFLD as an indication to liver
      transplantation. Moreover, the expected impact of NAFLD and its complication on public health
      is quite impressive worldwide.

      Hepatic steatosis is emerging as an early and common determinant of many of these diseases
      and co-morbidities, as reported also by our research group. Fatty liver, in fact, may cause
      lipid accumulation, inflammation, and oxidative stress at the hepatic level leading to NAFLD,
      and facilitating the occurrence of additional clinical co-morbidities by the activation of
      common molecular and cellular mechanisms. In fact, NAFLD is correlated to several metabolic
      diseases, such as Metabolic Syndrome (MetS), Cardiovascular Diseases (CVD), Chronic Kidney
      Disease (CKD), Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), Polycystic
      ovary syndrome (PCOS) and Chronic Plaque Psoriasis NAFLD is considered the liver
      manifestation of metabolic syndrome and beyond effects on the liver (risk of cirrhosis and
      HCC), can also increase the risk of morbidity due to CVD, CKD, psoriasis, PCOS, OSA, and
      mortality related to T2DM, coronary heart disease, even in absence of well-known risk factors
      (i.e. smoking, hypertension, T2DM, dyslipidaemia). In this regard, interventions such as
      lifestyle modification (proper nutrition and exercise), along with pharmacological agents are
      vital to reduce co-morbidities. Interestingly, the role of the liver seems to be central in
      the onset and progression of its co-morbidities. However, there are still insufficient
      information regarding the disease pathways and mechanisms common to these disorders
      co-occurring with NAFLD.

      Within this scenario the appropriate management of NAFLD may have a beneficial effect also on
      the co-morbidities. At today, the investigation of the common pathogenic mechanisms of the
      abovementioned inter-related diseases has been approached rather ineffectively, leaving major
      holes and undermining the development of appropriate management programs for NAFLD/NASH and
      its related co-morbidities. In order to fill the gap and increase the quality of data for a
      multi-omic approach we decided to set up a certified local repository. Therefore, the
      understanding of the pathogenesis of NAFLD and its relevance in the development of related
      co-morbidities is crucial to guide the development of future treatments and to inform
      European Union health and economic policies. The clinical impact of NAFLD is considerable and
      represents a real driver of the major clinical outcomes that impact on the health of the
      individual, consequently creating a real burden of disease, especially in those populations
      considered at higher risk of fibrosis such as diabetics or obese. The global burden of
      NAFLD/NASH and CC require a multi-omic approach in order to prevent and to provide health
      plans for avoid implications for the population.

      Despite the high epidemiology impact, there are still significant areas of unmet clinical
      need in NAFLD: i) the lack of knowledge on molecular mechanism leading to progression of
      liver disease; ii) a poor understanding of disease sub-phenotypes; iii) the lack of
      biomarkers of disease progression that allow risk stratification.

      The current availability of the -omics technologies generating libraries of genome-wide data,
      metabolomes, proteomes and microbiome will allow a precision medicine approach in order to
      improve the knowledge of disease and to generate a personalized approach to improve the
      clinical practice and optimize the public health plans for prevention programs and NAFLD
      management.
    
  