
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death in patients with diabetes.
      Patients with diabetes are known to have silent myocardial ischemia more frequently than
      those without diabetes. Furthermore, CAD in patients with diabetes frequently manifested in
      advance stage, and morbidity and mortality are higher than those without diabetes. Early
      screening and treatment of CAD in asymptomatic patients with diabetes might reduce high
      morbidity and mortality.

      Myocardial perfusion single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) is known as a
      gold standard method in detecting silent myocardial ischemia in asymptomatic patients with
      diabetes. Despite of the power of detecting myocardial ischemia functionally, there are
      limitations of SPECT in diagnosing subclinical coronary atherosclerosis anatomically. In
      recent advance in technology, coronary CT angiography (CTA) could detect subclinical coronary
      atherosclerosis. However, there is a paucity of information comparing the diagnostic power
      between SPECT and CTA.

      Therefore in our study, we compare the difference of diagnostic efficiency between coronary
      CT angiography and myocardial perfusion single photon emission computerized tomography in
      asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      In this study, we will recruit asymptomatic patients with diabetes. At the time of
      enrollment, all patients will undergo two imaging studies (SPECT and CTA) within a few days
      apart. When patients had positive result in either study, they will undergo coronary
      angiography for confirmation. We will evaluate the results of two studies comparing with
      coronary angiography. When the patients are eligible for study, investigators will give
      information about the study and obtain written consent. The presence of chest pain symptom
      will be screened with Rose questionnaire. Medical history and physical examination will be
      performed, and baseline laboratory work-up will be performed. Investigators will evaluate the
      status of diabetic complication (retinopathy/nephropathy/cardiac autonomic neuropathy).
    
  