
    
      Primary cross-sectional study. The study will be conducted in all Jordanian governorates
      (Amman, Irbid, Madaba, Zarqa, Balqa, Mafraq, Ajloun, Jerash, Karak, Tafileh, Maan, and Aqaba)
      The inclusion criteria for this study include females between the age of 18 and 25, living in
      Jordan only, medically free. We will not regard ethnicity and religion as part of our
      inclusion criteria since they are out of the scope of our research and can be specifically
      studied in future researches. The exclusion criteria will be; males, females beyond the age
      limit which is (18-25), women not living In Jordan, women having any chronic illnesses or
      gynecological illnesses. Moreover, participants that were unable to provide consent will be
      excluded from the study. The sampling technique will be simple random sampling by filling the
      structured self-reported online questionnaire.

      A Structured self-report questionnaire which we had the approval to take it, edit it and
      translate it to Arabic from a research conducted in Spain(1) .It's the main tool used in this
      research, there will be no interviews or direct contact with the participants.

      Links to the questionnaire:

      Pdf version:
      https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K7KRLsdRbCRfdklS0wwjQv-A-Yi8le4z/view?usp=sharing Google
      form: https://forms.gle/8juxuMc8y3BeX9io9 Word document:
      https://drive.google.com/file/d/168oryAAXa1S1zvz-7KYK0p2sOob2jQxJ/view?usp=sharing The
      questionnaire will be sent online by using different social media panels and emails, it will
      be also printed out and distributed in different areas, including the university of Jordan by
      our team of 5th year medical students.

      After data collection, data will be checked and entered. It will be analyzed using the
      statistical software package for the social sciences (SPSS).

      We will ensure participant's privacy by not asking about their names, phone number or their
      address. The questionnaire will be totally anonymous. Any participant has the right to
      withdraw from the questionnaire at any time without repercussions.
    
  