
    
      We plan to identify all Division I athletes, male and female, at the University of Arizona
      that are currently being treated for either EIB or asthma by review of preparticipation
      physical forms or identified by the medical staff. In addition, athletes that were prescribed
      inhalers through Campus Health Services will be identified through review of electronic
      pharmacy records. Each athlete identified will be matched with two control athletes (ie, not
      currently using asthma medications) from the same sport. Subjects will be tested for EIB
      using eucapnic voluntary hyperventilation, the gold standard for making this diagnosis.

      Subject Recruitment Potential subjects will be identified as described above. Subjects will
      be approached by one of the co-investigators, the study explained and an opportunity to
      review the consent form and ask question provided. Subjects who consent will then be
      scheduled for testing.

      Questionnaire Subjects, once enrolled, will be asked to complete a 27 item questionnaire
      including questions about prior history and treatment of asthma, as well as history of
      respiratory symptoms. In addition, subjects will be asked to complete the Asthma Control Test
      (ACT).

      EVH and Spirometric Testing All subjects will undergo baseline assessment of lung function
      using the KoKo Legend Portable Spirometer. The subjects will then undergo eucapnic voluntary
      hyperventilation testing. EVH testing will require the subject to hyperventilate dry air
      containing 5% carbon dioxide at room temperature for six minutes at a target ventilation of
      30 times the subject's forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1). The EVH test will be
      considered positive if a fall in FEV1 of 10% or more from baseline is recorded after a 6
      minute period of hyperpnea. To overcome the problem of any post-test respiratory muscle
      fatigue, the FEV1 will be recorded at least three minutes after challenge and then repeated
      at three-minute intervals through 21 minutes.

      Spirometry will be carried out according to American Thoracic Society standards. Both
      absolute and percent-predicted spirometric values will be recorded. Predicted values will be
      calculated from validated, published, race-specific regression equations. (Hankinson, et al.
      Spirometric reference values values from a sample of the general US population. Am J Respir
      Crit Care Med 1999; 159:179-187.) Asian-American athletes will be evaluated using norms for
      whites.

      To provide the optimal test circumstances, some medications will be withheld for 8 to 96
      hours before the bronchial provocation test: no short-acting bronchodilators, sodium
      cromoglycate, nedocromil sodium, or ipratropium bromide for 8 hours; no long-acting
      bronchodilators or antihistamines for 48 hours; no leukotriene antagonists for four days.
      Steroids should not be inhaled on the day of the test. No caffeine should be taken on the
      morning of the test. Vigorous exercise will be avoided for at least four hours prior to the
      start of the test as well as any exercise on the day of testing. Subjects will be scheduled
      for testing to allow at least 6-8 hours to elapse between previous vigorous activity and
      testing.

      Exhaled Nitric Oxide (eNO) Measurement

      Measurement of eNO will be obtained prior to measurement of pre-EVH spirometry. Exhaled NO
      will be measured employing a technique modified after Silkoff et al (1997) and following
      American Thoracic Society guidelines for eNO assessment (American Thoracic Society, 1999). In
      brief, this technique utilizes a resistive device that provides a constant low expiratory
      flow rate and ensures vellum closure. The combination of vellum closure and low flow rates,
      specifically 50 ml/s, assures accurate measurement of specific pulmonary derived eNO, while
      excluding potential contamination by nasal and paranasal sinuses NO (which can be a large
      source of eNO). Nitric oxide concentrations will be measured using a rapid-response
      chemiluminescent analyzer (NIOX™ System, Aerocrine, Sweden), which has a response time of <
      700 ms for 10-90% full scale. The Food and Drug Administration has approved this device for
      clinical application in asthma management. The measurement circuit will consist of a
      mouthpiece-filter connected to a resistor/flow meter and collection bag. The participant will
      inhale to total lung capacity (TLC), insert the mouthpiece, and then immediately exhale
      slowly. During expiration, the participant will attempt to maintain a target flow of 50
      ml/sec. The target period of exhalation time will be 10 seconds. However, for participants
      that are not able to perform the 10 second exhalation, the time requirements may be decreased
      to 6 seconds. Dietary history by recall for the 4-6 hours prior to testing will be obtained
      to screen for dietary sources of NO.

      Data Collection Spirometric values and quality control measures for EVH testing will be
      recorded on forms specifically designed for this purpose and, for spirometry, already in use
      in the Pediatric Pulmonary Function Laboratory. Data will entered into a computer spreadsheet
      and double-checked by a second person to assure accuracy. It will then be transferred to a
      statistical package (STATA) for subsequent analysis.

      Data Analysis For this observational study summative and descriptive statistics will be
      carried out. If opportunities for comparative analysis are identified, parametric and
      nonparametric analysis will be carried out as appropriate.

      A fall occurring early in the post-EVH period, especially in conjunction with documented
      pre-exercise elevation in eNO, will be taken as being more suggestive of poorly controlled
      asthma, while a fall 9-12 minutes after EVH, especially in the absence of an elevated eNO,
      will be interpreted as being more indicative of true EIB.
    
  