
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic relapsing-remitting systemic inflammatory disease,
      affecting any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Patients frequently present with abdominal
      pain, fever, and symptoms of bowel obstruction or diarrhea with passage of blood or mucus, or
      both. It can lead to significant morbidity and disability in some cases. Population-based
      studies revealed that up to 50% of CD patients required surgery within 10 years from
      diagnosis.Only 24% remain in remission over their lifetime disease course.

      Biological therapy with anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha is the established treatment
      of choice for the management of moderate to severe Crohn's disease. However, its efficacy in
      an individual patient is the unpredictable and long-term outcome is still suboptimal. Almost
      one-third of CD patients showed no response to anti-TNF and two-thirds do not achieve
      remission.The rate of loss of response after 1 year of infliximab therapy ranges between 23%
      and 46%.4 Identifying biomarkers which can predict treatment response is thus of utmost
      importance and can allow personalized management.

      Several biomarkers have been identified in predicting treatment response. C reactive protein
      (CRP) is an acute phase reactant with a short half-life of only 19 hours. CD Patients with
      elevated baseline CRP levels (>3mg/L) responded to infliximab treatment better and early
      normalisation of CRP correlated with sustained long-term response to infliximab therapy.
      Similar results were shown in adalimumab therapy. CD patients who had achieved normalisation
      of CRP (<3mg/L) at both week 4 and week 12 were less likely to discontinue adalimumab and had
      sustained clinical benefit.

      Fecal calprotectin (FC) is a calcium and zinc binding protein largely confined to the
      neutrophil granulocytes and macrophages and is a very sensitive marker for detection of
      inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. FC levels dropped significantly in CD patients
      who responded to infliximab therapy. A decrease in FC level after therapy has been
      demonstrated to be associated with clinical, endoscopic and histological improvements.
      Moreover, a study has demonstrated that combination of CRP and FC represented a good
      predictor of relapse of CD among patients on anti-metabolite therapy after infliximab was
      stopped.

      In inflammatory bowel disease , altered fecal microbiota signatures have been consistently
      reported which included a reduction in biodiversity with lower proportions of Firmicutes and
      increases in Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes phylum members.Moreover, overall bacterial
      diversity is consistently decreased during intestinal inflammation. Besides, CD patients have
      richer fungal species and higher microbiome diversities in mucosal biopsies. Several fungal
      species, including Candida spp., Gibberella moniliformis, Alternaria brassicicola and
      Cryptococcus neoformans, are increased in tissues from CD patients. CD patients may harbor
      increased numbers of bacteriophages in inflamed tissue and feces, though no specific viruses
      have been associated with human IBDs to date.

      Few studies have studied the longitudinal changes in the gut microbiome with drug treatment
      in IBD. Shaw et al. characterized 19 children with CD and 4 with ulcerative colitis (UC),
      showing that dysbiosis at baseline correlated with the degree of inflammatory burden of
      luminal disease. An improvement in fecal diversity was seen with clinical response in UC but
      not CD.Restoration of gut diversity has been reported previously with anti-TNF therapy.
      However, a more diverse microbiome has not been previously shown to be predictive of
      treatment response in children. Recent study by the Massachusetts group including 85 IBD
      patients (43 UC, 42 CD) who initiated treatment with vedolizumab revealed that baseline
      microbiome was significantly higher and Roseburia inulinivorans and a Burkholderiales species
      were more abundant at baseline among CD patients achieving week 14 remission. Patients
      achieving remission at week 14 demonstrated persistency in the microbial composition at both
      week 30 and week 54, suggesting that attainment of remission at week 14 is associated with
      durable changes in microbiomes. Thus, early changes in microbiome could help identify
      patients who will likely to achieve and maintain response to treatment.

      The investigators hypothesize that faecal microbial signatures in conjunction with faecal
      calprotectin and CRP may have a role in predicting response to biological therapy in CD
      patients.
    
  