
    
      Despite the existence of evidence-based treatment methods, a significant treatment gap
      remains for major depression. While in acute psychiatric treatment of severely depressed
      patients a pharmacological treatment is usually applied, depression-specific
      psychotherapeutic (group) concepts are rarely part of the treatment, though recommended in
      clinical guidelines. A main reason is that present group concepts were designed primarily for
      outpatient settings and do not meet the structural requirements of inpatient care (i.e.,
      short residence time, continuous admissions and dismissals).

      Metacognitive Training for Depression (D-MCT) is a new low-threshold, modular group
      intervention which was designed to fill this treatment gap by addressing contextual and
      structural shortcomings of existing concepts for the use in inpatient treatment. The training
      targets depressive symptoms by changing (meta-) cognitive biases identified in both cognitive
      models of depression and basic research. D-MCT was positively evaluated with regard to
      feasibility and acceptance in a non-randomized pilot study.

      Aim of the present randomized-controlled trial is to investigate the efficacy of D-MCT as an
      add-on intervention in inpatient treatment of depressed patients compared with a standard
      add-on group therapy (Positivity Training, PT). Based on a power analysis, the investigators
      target a sample size of 60 depressed patients, who will be randomized either to D-MCT or PT.
      Blind to diagnostic status, symptom level as well as cognitive biases will be assessed pre-
      and post-treatment (8 group sessions) as well as 3 months later (follow-up). Primary outcome
      parameter is severity of depressive symptoms measured with the HDRS total score (17-item
      version). Secondary outcome measures are self-assessed depression (BDI), dysfunctional
      beliefs (DAS), metacognitions (MCQ), self-esteem (RSE), and quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF).
    
  