
    
      Despite the recent years advance in rapid acting insulin analogues early postprandial
      hyperglycemia and late post prandial hypoglycemia are still common in insulin treated
      diabetic patients. It appears that even with these rapid acting insulins there is still a
      significant delay time and variability in the delay time between the changes in blood glucose
      levels following the meals and the absorption kinetics of insulin injected subcutaneously.
      Past studies using regular human insulin have demonstrated that using local stimulation at
      the injection site can dramatically improve regular insulin kinetics. The assumption was that
      local stimulation induces local increase in blood perfusion which improves insulin absorption
      from the injection site.

      Following the above Insulin has developed the InsuPatch device. The intended use of the
      InsuPatch device is to improve insulin delivery into the blood when the insulin is infused
      using an insulin-infusion pump by controlled heating of the area surrounding the point of
      infusion.

      The InsuPatch device consists of two components:

      I) InsuPatch single-use, flat, heating pad with electrical wire which is attached by adhesive
      to the bottom of the Medtronic MiniMed Quick-set® infusion set. The user attaches the device
      to the infusion set prior to insertion of the infusion set catheter.

      II) The InsuPatch case is used as a case for the Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm insulin infusion
      pump. The InsuPatch case contains an electronic unit and batteries.

      The effect of the device on the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of the
      injected insulin were tested in Euglycemic clamp and meal tolerance test (MTT) studies. The
      effect of the device on insulin PK was evaluated by comparing insulin concentration in the
      meal MTT study with and without operation of the device. The effect of the device on insulin
      PD was evaluated using Euglycemic clamp protocol with and without operation of the device.
      The effect of the device on postprandial glucose excursions was tested by comparing the post
      meal glucose levels with and without operation of the device.

      The main results of the study were:

        1. An increase of 49% in the available insulin in the blood during the first 30 minutes
           post injection and 37% in during the first hour post injection (PK).

        2. A reduction of 25% in the average glucose level during post-meal first two hours (PD).

        3. A reduction of 43% in the time to peak action of insulin (PD).

      The aim of this study is to test the performance of the InsuPatch device in daily life. The
      primary target of the study is to evaluate safety aspect of daily device use. Additional
      aspects to be evaluated in the study are: the effect of the device on post prandial glucose
      level.
    
  