
    
      The study will be conducted on a dental unit in postgraduate clinic of Pediatric Dentistry
      and Dental Public Health Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University, Egypt.The
      primary hypothesis of this study is that a resin infiltration and microabrasion combined
      treatment will result in better clinical outcomes than using resin infiltration alone. All
      treatment procedures will be carried out by the principal investigator.

      36 patients will be included in the study. The teeth will be randomized into two groups
      according to the intervention. The study involves two types of interventions:

      Group 1 (resin infiltration):

      The treatment will follow the manufacturer's instructions (Icon, DMG, Hamburg, Germany). The
      procedure involves the application of Icon-Etch, Icon-Dry as well as Icon-Infiltrant.
      Followed by removal of excess and then polishing of the treated surfaces.

      Group 2 (Micro-abrasion followed by resin infiltration):

      The Micro-abrasion agent (Opalustre, Ultradent, South Jordan, UT, USA) will be applied to the
      tooth for 60 seconds using a standard rubber cup attached to a low speed hand piece followed
      by rinsing the tooth surface with water for 20 seconds. This procedure will be repeated up to
      5 times.

      Resin infiltration will then be carried out as discussed before.

      Vita Easyshade Advance® spectrophotometer (Vita Zahnfabrik, Sackingen, Germany) will be used
      to evaluate the masking color of the teeth selected in the study.

      Measurements will be taken before, immediately after, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12
      months after treatment.

      A standardized Photograph will be taken at 5 different times (before treatment, immediately
      afterwards, one month, 6 months and 12 months after treatment with the exact same camera and
      conditions. The images collected will be analyzed and evaluated by 2 different dentists.
    
  