
    
      Functional disabilities such as functional constipation, and congenital anomalies such as
      anorectal malformations (ARM) and Hirschsprung disease (HD), are the leading indications for
      colon surgery in children. While these diseases have low mortality rates and surgical
      techniques can effectively restore anatomy, these patients have persistent and significant
      post-operative morbidity around fecal soiling and/or constipation. In addition to impairing
      growth and development, this affects all domains of health related quality of life (HRQoL).
      Patients, families, and healthcare providers of children with these diseases consistently
      report that bowel management strategies that prevent soiling comprise one of the most
      important areas for high quality outcomes research.

      Engaging patients and families to take an active role in their healthcare leads to improved
      outcomes. Providing physicians and families with near real-time data on outcomes in children
      with similar medical conditions can allow families to form realistic expectations and take an
      active role in their child's health. It also provides physicians with near real-time feedback
      on patient-reported outcome measures to guide both conversations and recommendations for
      therapy at the point-of-care. A rapid learning healthcare system (RLHS) is a system that
      merges clinical research and clinical care. It is designed to collect data during routine
      patient care and then utilize the data to rapidly generate evidence to improve patient care,
      provide information to patients and families, and track quality measures.

      The investigators created a RLHS that integrates pre-specified data elements and validated
      surveys within the clinical workflow in order to operationalize automated research data
      collection and integrate predictive analytics into the electronic health record (EHR). To
      date, we have over 800 patients enrolled in the colorectal RLHS. Patients, caregivers, and
      physicians can access data in order to make informed, shared decisions about care and align
      expectations about outcomes.

      The primary and secondary objective of this trial are as follows:

      Primary Objective: To assess the ability of a RLHS to improve healthcare satisfaction in
      pediatric patients with complex colorectal diseases.

      Secondary Objective: To assess the ability of a RLHS to improve patient-centered outcomes in
      pediatric patients with complex colorectal diseases.To characterize the usability of the RLHS
      by patients and caregivers.
    
  