
    
      The extraction of mandibular impacted wisdom teeth is the most widespread surgical procedure
      performed in oral surgery. There are many situations indicating the extraction of those teeth
      as well as risks and protective factors that may contraindicate it. A reliable classification
      predicting the complexity of the surgical procedure and the related risk of complications
      would greatly help the surgeon in the diagnostic phase.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate if the classification proposed by Juodzbalys and Daugela
      in 2013 could be effective in predicting the complexity of impacted mandibular third molars
      surgical extraction, and to compare its effectiveness with commonly used Pell and Gregory,
      Winter classifications.

      A blind expert surgeon will assess postoperatively all CBCTs (Cone beam computed
      tomographies) and OPGs (orthopantomographs) not older than 12 months, and will assign the
      score for each extracted tooth for the three classification (Juodzbalys and Daugela - Pell
      and Gregory - Winter). Duration of the surgical procedure, assessment of the surgical
      technique and of intra- and post-operative complications will be considered as the main
      parameters to evaluate surgical difficulty. VAS (Visual Analogue Scale) pain score and NSAID
      (Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug) pills count taken by each patient of the 7 days
      postoperative period will be also evaluated.

      Statistical unit analyzed will be the single tooth. It should be noted that if a single
      patient has a bilateral impacted tooth to be extracted it will be randomly selected only one
      to be analyzed. Patients will be divided into two groups according to Juodzbalys and Daugela
      classification score (x<9≤y), two groups according to each predicted extraction difficulty to
      Pell Gregory (x<Class 2B≤y) and Winter (x<Horizontal impaction≤y) classifications.
    
  