
    
      Soft tissue sarcomas (STSs) account for 1% of all human cancers and consist of at least 50
      different histological subtypes which have different clinical behavior and response to
      chemotherapy. Patients with advanced disease (locally advanced or metastatic) have a somber
      prognosis with a median OS between 12 and 15 months.

      Palliative chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment in the metastatic setting, although in a
      small subset with limited metastases local treatment may be curative. First-line treatment
      for advanced soft-tissue sarcoma includes doxorubicin hydrochloride, alone or in combination
      with other chemotherapy agents (e.g., ifosfamide), or olaratumab. Beyond first line several
      agents have shown activity, including gemcitabine/docetaxel, trabectedin and pazopanib,
      though no standard regimen has been established.

      Promising antitumor activity in patients with metastatic STS has been reported with
      gemcitabine alone or in combination with taxanes including docetaxel and paclitaxel in
      pre-treated patients.

      Nab-paclitaxel is a 130-nm albumin-bound formulation of paclitaxel particles (Abraxane®,
      Celgene, Summit, NJ) which was designed to eliminate the toxicities associated with Cremophor
      EL®. Nab-paclitaxel at equal dose of paclitaxel showed increased antitumor activity, enhanced
      endothelial cell transport and 33% higher intra-tumor paclitaxel concentration in preclinical
      models of solid tumor xenografts promising an advantageous pharmacokinetic profile In
      sarcoma, nab-paclitaxel demonstrated preclinical antitumor activity in rhabdomyosarcoma
      xenograft model. Local relapsed tumors following paclitaxel treatment proved to be
      paclitaxel-resistant but remained responsive to nab-paclitaxel.

      These findings provide the rationale for further evaluation of nab-paclitaxel in combination
      with gemcitabine for soft tissue sarcoma treatment.

      Phase Ib objective:

        -  To assess the safety and feasibility of combining nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine

      Phase II objective:

        -  To determine whether or not gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel regimen exhibits antitumor
           activity that is worth testing further in STS.
    
  