
    
      The new test being studied measures the presence or absence of each of 12,000-15,000 human
      genes in the cancer using "DNA chip" technology. All of the therapeutic treatment that you
      will receive is part of the standard of care. Only the biopsy and Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      testing is investigational.

      Before and during chemotherapy, you will need to have routine clinical and lab tests that are
      part of your standard of care. These tests may include x-rays such as computed tomography
      (CT) scan of the liver or lung, bone scan and mammograms, or ultra sonograms of the breast to
      find out the extent of the cancer at the time of diagnosis. Blood tests (1-2 tablespoon) will
      be performed before each FAC (5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide) or FEC
      (5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide) chemotherapy end at least once every 2 weeks
      during weekly paclitaxel therapy to make sure that it is safe to receive further treatment.
      All of these tests are part of good clinical care and are not considered investigational.

      During treatment with FAC or FEC chemotherapy, you will be seen by your physician every 3
      weeks. During the weekly paclitaxel treatment you will be seen by your physician every 4-6
      weeks. Additional visits may be necessary depending on your clinical course.

      During this study, you will be asked to have a fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the cancer in
      your breast or lymph nodes. The FNA procedure involves insertion of a small needle into the
      tumor to suction out (aspirate) cells from the cancer 3-4 times in one session. A physician
      who is trained in this method will perform the procedure. It could be done at the same time
      when the diagnosis of your cancer is made or it may be done at later time point. The needle
      aspiration will have to be done before you start any chemotherapy for your cancer. A DNA chip
      test called transcriptional profiling will be performed on the FNA specimens at M. D.
      Anderson in Houston (TX, USA). The test will be done to try to predict if an individual is
      likely to have response to paclitaxel/FAC chemotherapy or not. This study is done to see how
      accurate this test is. The chemotherapy response prediction test was developed by
      investigators at Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cambridge, MA, USA) and clinical scientists
      at M. D. Anderson. This research may lead to the development of a commercial diagnostic test.

      Only patients who need chemotherapy to improve their chance of cure may participate in this
      study. Whether you would benefit from chemotherapy or not will be decided by your physician.
      During this study 18-24 weeks of chemotherapy will be given to you before surgery. It is
      clear from several large clinical studies that chemotherapy works equally well regardless of
      whether you receive it before or after breast surgery. By giving chemotherapy before surgery,
      researchers can study why some cancers respond so well to treatment. You may expect that
      80-90% of the time the cancer will shrink and about 15-30% of the time the cancer will
      completely disappear from the breast or lymph nodes by the time you finish chemotherapy. Many
      of the patients who experience the complete disappearance of cancer will be cured. The
      purpose of this research is to find out who these individuals are and develop a test that
      could identify them at the time of the diagnosis. About 5-10% of patients do not experience
      any shrinkage of the cancer and may experience growth of the tumor. If the tumor grows during
      treatment, you will be switched over to another chemotherapy, you may receive radiation
      treatment, or you may have surgery. What is the best option for you will need to be decided
      by your treating physician.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.

        -  Participants in the first group will receive weekly treatments with the chemotherapy
           drug paclitaxel by vein. After completion of 12 paclitaxel treatments, you will receive
           4 additional treatments with FAC or FEC combination chemotherapy. The FAC or FEC
           treatments are given once every 3 weeks. You and your physician will decide together if
           FAC or FEC is the more appropriate treatment for you. Both of these treatments are
           believed to be equally effective but FAC is a longer treatment that requires 72-hour
           infusion whereas FEC can be given in one day. The total length of treatment is 24 weeks
           after which you will have breast and lymph node surgery.

        -  Participants in the second group will receive 6 treatments (6 times 3 = 18 weeks) with
           FAC or FEC before surgery. Those patients who still have cancer in their breast or lymph
           nodes at the time of surgery may receive additional chemotherapy after the surgery with
           paclitaxel or a similar drug called docetaxel. One large clinical study showed that
           addition of 4 courses of paclitaxel after 4 treatments with AC (doxorubicin,
           cyclophosphamide) chemotherapy improved survival. This is the reason why you may be
           recommended to receive paclitaxel or docetaxel treatment after surgery. Whether you need
           additional postoperative chemotherapy or not will need to be discussed between you and
           your physician.

      After you completed all your treatments, you will be contacted (on the phone or by letter)
      every 6 months for 10 years to find out how well you do and if the cancer has come back.

      This research will generate a large database of molecular abnormalities found in breast
      cancer. Researchers will study the presence or absence of 12,000-15,000 human genes in the
      cancer of each patient who participates in this study. This information along with the
      clinical features of the cancer will be stored in the database. The age and race of patients
      as well as the long-term outcome of treatment will also be included in the database. Other
      information about your health and family history of cancer may be added to the database in
      the future. However, your name, address or date of birth will not be part of this research
      database. The molecular data and the clinical information will be used to learn about the
      causes of breast cancer and to develop the best individual therapy for future patents.

      This is an investigational study. The chemotherapy that you will receive is not experimental.
      Paclitaxel, FAC or FEC and their combination are commercially available drugs and are all
      approved by the FDA to treat newly diagnosed breast cancer. A total of up to 273 patients
      will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 150 may be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  