
    
      In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the effectiveness of Fecal
      Microbiota Transplant (FMT) treatment in high-risk acute GVHD. The investigators are
      evaluating the effectiveness of FMT (also known as 'stool transplantation' or 'fecal
      transplant') in being able to transfer gut organisms from a healthy donor to the patient.

      The investigators are also evaluating the ability of this treatment to improve or completely
      resolve the clinical symptoms (diarrhea, abdominal pain, rash, liver inflammation) that can
      occur with acute GVHD.This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time
      investigators are examining this intervention for treatment of acute GVHD.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved FMT for this use. The FDA
      has classified human stool as a biological agent and determined that its use in FMT therapy
      should be regulated to ensure patient safety. To use FMT to treat recurrent Clostridium
      difficile infection, the most common indication for FMT, does not require an investigation
      new drug permit. To use FMT for research or to treat any condition other than recurrent
      Clostridium difficile infection requires an investigation new drug permit. An investigation
      new drug permit has been obtained for this study.

        -  After HCT, the body's microbiome (the natural existence of various bacteria and
           organisms) in the intestinal tract may be affected, in that the number and types of good
           bacteria is reduced (also called a reduction in microbial flora diversity). Studies have
           shown that the number and types of good bacteria in the gut can impact whether or not
           graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is developed. GVHD occurs when donated bone marrow
           cells attack the body with an immune response.

        -  FMT is a process utilizing microbial components which are the good, healthy bacteria
           that would otherwise naturally occur the body. Since may have decreased microbial flora
           diversity after HCT, these microbial components are taken from a stool donor. They are
           extracted from fecal matter (stool) and put into a capsule to ingest.
    
  