
    
      In order to assess potential acute beneficial effects of flavanols in patients with ESRD, 10
      patients undergoing dialysis will be recruited. Subjects will receive a cocoa drink with 16
      mg, 250 mg, and 500 mg (in 100 mL water each) flavan-3-ols (40% epicatechine/catechine und
      60% procyanidine), respectively, on three consecutively days. The functional/hemodynamic
      parameters (flowmediated dilation (FMD), venous-occlusion-plethysmography (VOP), blood
      pressure, heart rate), the biochemical marker of the circulating NO pool (nitrite, nitrate,
      RNOs), and the plasma levels of flavanols (epicatechine and catechine) will be determined
      before and after ingestion of the respective cocoadrink.

      It is expected that flavanols dose-dependently improve vascular function and that this is
      associated with an increase in the circulating NO pool.

      In order to assess long-term effects of flavanols on vascular function in patients with ESRD.

      To characterize potential vascular long-term effects of flavanols in patients with ESRD, a
      placebo-controlled double-blinded randomized control study will be performed in 40 patients
      randomized in two groups. Patients will daily receive either a flavanol-poor cocoa drink or a
      flavanol-rich cocoa drink over a period of three months.

      The flavanol-dosis that is necessary to affect vascular function will be assessed as
      described above. At the beginning of the study, after the first intake of the cocoa (in order
      to identify nonresponders) and monthly for a period of three months the vascular function
      will be assessed applying innovative imaging techniques to the brachial artery to assess
      endothelium-dependent regulation of physicomechanical properties and vascular tone and thus
      blood flow at the level of the macrocirculation. In parallel new techniques will be applied
      to assess perfusion at the level of the microcirculation. In particular, measurement of
      flow-mediated dilation, intima-media-thickness,compliance and stiffness indices will be
      performed in the macrocirculation of the brachial artery.

      Considering the microcirculation, new diagnostic approaches such as Laser-Doppler Flow and
      peripheral arterial tonometry next to diagnostic approaches such as the venous occlusive
      plethysmography will be performed. Moreover, the circulating NO pool, markers of inflammation
      and of oxidative stress, the uremic toxin pcresol and the plasma levels of flavanols will be
      determined. The exams after month 1, 2, and 3 will be performed in the morning before intake
      of the cocoa drink. In order to examine potential sustained effects, an additional
      examination day will take place after 4 month (one month after stopping the flavanol-intake).
      It is expected that the flavanol-rich cocoa will improve vascular function, which is
      associated with an increase in the circulating NO-pool and a decrease in inflammatory markers
      and the marker for oxidative stress.
    
  