
    
      The study duration is 4 weeks long, during which subjects will undergo a 1 week run-in period
      followed by 3 randomized weeks of observational study. During the 1 week run-in period,
      subjects will familiarize themselves with the CGM and the other data collection procedures.
      Following the run-in week, the subject will be randomized to a specific order of observation
      weeks. The three observation weeks are a resistance training week, an aerobic exercise week
      and a control week with no explicit exercise. During the observation weeks, there will be 4
      interventions planned, two during both the aerobic exercise and the resistance training week.
      See Schematic below for details. During both the aerobic exercise week intervention visits,
      subjects will exercise for ~45 minutes on a treadmill and during the resistance training
      week, subjects will perform strength training exercises for 1-3 sets per exercise at a weight
      that can be lifted for 8-12 repetitions (~60-80% of 1-repetition max). The duration of the
      resistance training period is expected to be ~45min. Subjects will continue to perform daily
      activities during each of the weeks.

      During each week, the subject will wear one subcutaneous DexcomTM G4 or DexcomTM G4 Share
      continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system, one activity monitor- ActiGraph wGT3X-BT or
      ActiGraph GT9X, one insulin pump (subject's own pump) and one Samsung Galaxy S4 phone loaded
      with two applications- meal memory and moves. The CGM system will provide sensed glucose data
      every 5 minutes. The CGM data will be blinded to the patient to prevent any abrupt changes in
      behavior. The accuracy of the sensed data will be obtained by reference measurements of
      capillary blood glucose. The activity monitor will be secured on the dominant wrist and uses
      an accelerometer to collect movement data at a high frequency (80Hz). The activity monitor
      measures both motion and ambient light, this data would be used to determine the various
      sleep quality measures. The subject's insulin dosage information from the pump will be
      downloaded for data analysis purposes. The subject's daily meal intake (photographic log and
      note diary) and daily movement pattern information will be downloaded from the phone. During
      the 4 exercise intervention visits, subject's heart rate, accelerometry information from the
      torso and oxygen consumption measured breath by breath may be collected for data analysis
      purposes.
    
  