
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obesity has reached epidemic proportions nationwide among children, adolescents, and adults
      and is considered one of the most serious health problems facing Americans today. There is a
      higher prevalence of obesity among ethnic minority groups and those with a lower family
      income. American Indian children and adults are among those with the highest rates of obesity
      and related diseases. Young American Indians have high rates of type 2 diabetes, and the
      rates appear to be increasing substantially. Obesity in American Indian children has serious
      implications for their immediate and long-term health. Unless this trend is reversed,
      American Indian populations will be burdened by an unprecedented increase in the incidence of
      chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

      The high prevalence of obesity among American Indian children and the associated health and
      financial burdens warrant strong and effective prevention efforts. While the prevention of
      childhood obesity has risen to the top of the list of public health priorities, relatively
      little research has focused on childhood obesity prevention, especially for high-risk
      populations. The development and evaluation of innovative, culturally appropriate, and
      effective strategies to prevent excessive weight gain is critical, particularly for American
      Indian youth. Early prevention efforts are especially important given the substantial
      evidence that eating and physical activity habits are established in early childhood and
      continue into adulthood. Adopting healthy eating and physical activity habits early in life
      is an effective way of preventing obesity and related diseases. The best intervention to
      prevent obesity in children should target the two most prominent influences on the young
      child's eating and physical activity behaviors: the school and the family. Obesity in
      American Indian children begins very early in life, which suggests that interventions need to
      begin early. Research has shown that 43% of American Indian 5-6 year olds in South Dakota are
      already overweight. Thus, targeting children in this young age group may be advantageous.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study involves 14 schools on the Pine Ridge and Rosebud reservations, which are two
      Lakota reservations in South Dakota. Seven schools will be randomly assigned to the
      intervention condition and 7 schools to the control condition. Schools will be assigned to
      one of the two groups after baseline measures have been completed. The focus of this
      intervention, the Ohiyu lyojanjan - Bright Start Program, is to create dietary and physical
      activity environmental change at school and home. The intervention will follow 500 children
      in kindergarten for 16 months through the end of 1st grade. There will be 4 schools on the
      Rosebud reservation and 10 schools on the Pine Ridge reservation assigned to two groups. The
      two groups will begin the study one year apart; the first group will have baseline measures
      assessed in the fall of 2005 and begin the intervention in January 2006, and the second group
      will have baseline measures assessed in the fall of 2006 and begin the intervention in
      January 2007. This staggered design will allow for more contact with participating schools
      and families by key study staff, increased monitoring and control of the intervention within
      schools, and decreased staff costs. The intervention will focus on changing the school and
      home environments related to physical activity and food. The school physical activity
      environmental intervention component will incorporate 60 minutes of daily physical activity
      at school for kindergarten and 1st grade students through a combination of physical education
      classes, a classroom walking program, in-class activity breaks, and active morning and
      afternoon recess. The school food environment intervention will focus on improving school
      meals (breakfast and lunch), classroom snacks, and teacher classroom food practices. The
      intervention will target the school food service to decrease availability of high-fat and
      high-sugar foods, regulate portion control of foods served, and increase fruits (not juice)
      and vegetables served. The family intervention will address the household food and physical
      activity environment and family dietary and physical activity behaviors. Because parents of
      kindergarten children in the selected schools will be recruited for participation prior to
      the school treatment assignments, it may be problematic to engage all parents without
      providing anything to those who are assigned to the control condition. To foster parent
      interest in study participation, parents in the control group will be mailed monthly
      newsletters with general family recommendations for prevention of excess weight gain.

      The major hypothesis is that by the end of the 16-month study, children in the intervention
      schools will have significantly lower body mass index (BMI) and body fat percentage after
      adjustment for baseline values, as compared to children in the control schools. The primary
      outcome measures in children are BMI and percent body fat. Secondary measures include child's
      total daily physical activity, nutrient and food-group analysis of school meals and snacks,
      and assessment of classroom food and physical activity practices. Child measures will occur
      at the beginning of kindergarten, at the end of kindergarten (BMI only), and at the end of
      the 1st grade. Parents will be surveyed at the beginning of their child's kindergarten year,
      and when their child is at the end of 1st grade. Parent assessments will include measures of
      household food availability and reports of their own and their child's eating and physical
      activity behaviors.
    
  