
    
      Methamphetamine abuse and dependence have become a major health problem. The lifetime
      prevalence rates for these disorders may be as high as 2-3% and can lead to significant
      medical, psychiatric, and dental problems and can increase morbidity and mortality.
      Methamphetamine abuse is a pattern of use that leads to problems in one or more areas of
      life. Methamphetamine dependence is a more severe disorder, often involving biological
      adaptations to the effects of methamphetamine, such as tolerance to or physical dependence on
      methamphetamine, loss of control over its use (as noted by several failed attempts at
      quitting, preoccupation with the next high, etc.), and maladaptive consequences secondary to
      its excessive use, including the medical, legal, and social consequences of methamphetamine
      intake. The lack of any FDA-approved medications for methamphetamine dependence has resulted
      in an increased demand for research in the area of pharmacotherapy of this disorder. While
      some medications have been studied in an exploratory fashion, there is still a great need for
      more research in this area. The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of
      aripiprazole (at a relatively low dose of 5-15 mg per day), as compared to placebo in a
      prospective, double blinded study in participants with methamphetamine dependence, in
      reducing the use and craving for methamphetamine. We expect that aripiprazole will
      significantly reduce the use of methamphetamine as measured by the changed in the proportion
      of participant's methamphetamine-free weeks. Secondary outcomes include; urine for
      quantitative methamphetamine, self-report of methamphetamine use (as measured by the Time
      Line Follow Back Scale - TLFB, and Brief Substance Craving Scale -BSCS), caving and use of
      other substances over the course of the 12 week active treatment portion of the trial. A
      secondary goal of this study will be to test the efficacy of the Interactive Voice Response
      (IVR) technology to gather data from participants, and its correlation with the data on
      methamphetamine and other substance use, craving, and medication adherence collected during
      the weekly visits. Patient's mood and anxiety will be measured through the course of the
      study using the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A), Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D), and
      Quality of Life Index (QOLI). Safety measures will include the Abnormal Involuntary Movement
      Scale (AIMS), Side Effects Checklist (SEC), Barnes Akathisia scale, Fasting Blood Glucose
      Monitoring, and patient weight monitoring.
    
  