
    
      Advantages of the primary care database include the ability to link to secondary care,
      Hospital Episode Statistics (HES), and to examine risk factors for pneumonia included in the
      UK Quality Outcomes Framework for COPD that are not collected routinely in most other
      observational healthcare data sources (e.g., BMI, lung function, smoking history, MRC dyspnea
      score). Another advantage of this study is the new-user design, as it minimizes biases that
      can be caused by alternative designs which compare events between prevalent user groups
      (e.g., survivor bias, covariates altered by prior exposure).

      There are also known limitations of observational database analyses where treatments are not
      randomized, including the potential for confounding by severity that may not be fully
      accounted for in the analysis. ICS-containing medications may be dispensed to patients who
      have more severe COPD than patients who are receiving long-acting bronchodilators alone. In
      this study, we will adjust for disease severity and patient characteristics in the period
      prior to initiation using propensity scores. Medication use in CPRD-GOLD is based on
      prescribed medications recorded by the primary care physician, which might not have been
      dispensed at the pharmacy or ultimately utilized by the patient. Finally, diagnostic
      practices for pneumonia may be different in the UK compared with other countries limiting the
      generalizability.

      As with any outcome of interest, identifying pneumonia in databases is imperfect and there
      may be confusion between diagnoses of pneumonia and influenza or serious exacerbation. To our
      knowledge, the relationship between pneumonia recorded in these primary and secondary care
      databases have not been investigated. In addition, there is lack of agreement between
      pneumonia classification in the absence of chest x-rays, sputum, etc.

      Despite the limitations, this study will provide insights into risk factors for serious
      pneumonia, including whether ICS modify the effect of established risk factors for serious
      pneumonia. The results may identify specific patient groups that are at greatest risk of
      serious pneumonia and may identify where risk minimization and/or medical recommendations may
      be appropriate.
    
  