
    
      The world is currently in the midst of the Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic that is
      caused by a novel coronavirus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
      According to published cohort studies on COVID-29 infected patients, the most prevalent
      symptoms consist of fever, dry cough, dyspnoea, sputum production, myalgia, arthralgia,
      headache, diarrhoea, and sore throat. Recently, there have been concerns of significant viral
      transmission through asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic or even mildly symptomatic patients.

      There is increasing anecdotal evidence from patients and healthcare professionals
      highlighting isolated loss of sense of smell (anosmia) and taste disturbances (dysgeusia) as
      atypical symptoms of COVID-19 infection in otherwise asymptomatic patients. In parallel,
      expert statements from the British Association of Otorhinolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery
      (ENT UK), British Rhinological Society, and the American Association of Otolaryngology-Head &
      Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) have suggested that olfactory and taste disturbances could be a
      clinical feature of COVID-19 infection.

      Rapidly emerging evidence from Europe, the United Kingdom and the United States have found
      olfactory and taste disturbances to be highly prevalent in patients diagnosed with COVID-19.
      In contrast, there is currently limited evidence from Asia on the prevalence of these
      symptoms in COVID-19 infection. Additionally, there is also limited evidence on the
      predictive value of screening for olfactory and taste disturbance in COVID-19 patients with
      subclinical symptoms.

      The aim of this case-control study is to study the predictive value of screening for
      olfactory and taste disturbance in patients with COVID-19 infection in Malaysia. The cases
      will be selected from the cohort of COVID-19 positive patients recruited from participating
      Malaysian Ministry of Health-designated COVID-19 treating hospitals across the country (from
      Phase 1 of the Malaysian COVID-19 Anosmia Study). Controls will be recruited from healthy
      volunteers who will will answer the an online questionnaire to evaluate and characterise
      their olfactory and taste symptoms. This is the same questionnaire that is answered by the
      COVID-19 patients in case cohort.
    
  