
    
      Rationale: Levosimendan, a calcium-sensitizer, is a relatively new inotropic drug with the
      benefit over conventional inotropes that it does not increase myocardial oxygen demand or
      lead to arrhythmias. Levosimendan has a relatively unique pharmacokinetic profile, after a 24
      hour infusion its clinical effects remain for several days. This is achieved through the
      continuing haemodynamic effects of its active metabolites, which have a half life of
      approximately 80 hours compared to 1 hour of Levosimendan itself. Levosimendan has been
      extensively studied in adults and is used in ischemic heart disease, acute heart failure,
      chronic heart failure, following cardiac surgery, and in septic shock. Due to the inotropic
      properties and its strong pulmonary vasodilatory effect, Levosimendan could also be very
      useful as perioperative therapy in children with congenital heart disease, low cardiac
      output, or pulmonary artery hypertension.

      Although experience with levosimendan in children is still scarce in the literature, initial
      reports have been promising and Levosimendan is used more and more often as a (rescue)
      therapy in children with heart failure. However, current dosing regimens in children are
      based on adult pharmacokinetic evidence. One pediatric report suggests that the
      pharmacokinetic profile of a single loading dose of Levosimendan is probably similar in
      children older than 6 months compared to adults. The pharmacokinetic profile of a 24-hour
      infusion of Levosimendan has not yet been studied in children. It is very important to study
      the pharmacokinetics of this useful drug in different age groups because of the diversity of
      the population due to age, volume of distribution, ontogeny of the metabolizing enzymes, and
      the influence of disease state on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics.

      Objective: To describe the pharmacokinetic profile of a 24 hour infusion of levosimendan and
      its active metabolites in children with acute or chronic heart failure.

      Study design: Observational study of Levosimendan levels in children treated with
      Levosimendan because of heart failure.

      Study population: Children (< 16 years) admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit, with
      acute or chronic heart failure.

      Intervention (if applicable): no intervention Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary
      endpoint of the study is to describe the pharmacokinetic profile by determining plasma levels
      of levosimendan and its metabolites during 12 days following a 24-hour infusion in children
      with heart failure in different age groups. Secondary endpoints are the clinically measured
      hemodynamic variables (heart rate, bloodpressure, lactate, troponin, pro-BNP, venous
      saturation) and echocardiographic variables (ejection fraction, shortening fraction, tissue
      Doppler) of all patients.
    
  