
    
      The Adverse Childhood Experiences Study examined the physical health and psychosocial
      consequences of ACE across the lifespan. This study demonstrated adverse childhood
      experiences (ACE) prevalence to be high and a direct correlation between ACE scores (a tally
      of different types of abuse, neglect, and household dysfunction experienced under the age of
      18) and prevalence of physical health and psychosocial problems in adulthood. Adults with >3
      ACE are more likely to experience social underachievement (e.g. lower educational achievement
      and economic productivity), physical and mental health problems (e.g. depression, heart
      disease, suicide attempts, substance abuse) and unhealthy lifestyle behaviours (e.g. smoking,
      physical inactivity). Worldwide, ACE have been shown to be prevalent, independent of social
      and economic factors, and highly interrelated. 12.5% of subjects reported >4 ACE. Among
      post-secondary students, studies determined high ACE scores to be associated with higher
      prevalence of risk behaviours and physical health and psychosocial problems. Failure to
      support the physical and mental health of students can lead to increased attrition,
      deterioration of well-being, and intentional self-harm.

      Recognition of ACE prevalence and its consequences has been paralleled by the development of
      interventions for mitigating the lifetime health and social consequences of ACE. A 2016 study
      examining interventions believed to improve the mental health of adults with significant ACE
      (>3) identified mindfulness-based therapies (MBT) as being effective. Mindfulness is a form
      of cognitive training that cultivates self-regulative ability and enhances resilience.

      As no Canadian post-secondary institution has comprehensively investigated the prevalence of
      student ACE, the objective of this study is to understand the prevalence of ACE in students
      and to determine whether MBT is effective for promoting mental health in students with high
      ACE scores (>3).

      A double-blind randomized control study will examine the efficacy of MBT, specifically
      Mindfulness-based Stress Resilience Training (MBSR), in promoting positive change in measures
      of hope, rumination, forgiveness and distress. Interventions that positively effect these
      measures are known to enhance quality of life. First year students enrolled at Dalhousie
      University will be recruited. Subjects will complete an ACE questionnaire and those with >3
      ACE prior to age 18 will be invited to participate in this study. Students with prior MBT
      training will be excluded. Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups: MBSR or an
      established active control (Health Enhancement Program (HEP)). We selected MBSR because it is
      secular, codified, and the most scientifically studied mindfulness-based intervention to
      date. Power analyses determined 25 subjects per group is sufficient to detect a significant
      difference in outcomes across the groups. Interventionists and subjects will be blinded.
      Students will be led in group based MBSR or HEP for 4 weeks. Prior to and after the 4-week
      intervention subjects' outcomes will be determined using the: Perceived Stress Scale;
      Rumination and Reflection Questionnaire; Heartland Forgiveness Scale and; Adult Dispositional
      Hope Scale.

      Development of evidence-based programs that support the identification of ACE in students and
      identification of interventions that mitigate negative lifetime consequences of ACE outcomes
      is needed. This pilot study will increase understanding of Canadian student ACE and assess
      the effectiveness of MBSR as a tool for supporting the mental health of students who have
      experienced significant ACE.
    
  