
    
      If participant agrees to take part in this study, the following will be done at the first
      visit (called the Baseline Visit):

        -  The study staff will give participant advice about quitting smoking. Participant will
           then set a quit date, after which they will plan to not smoke anymore.

        -  Participant will receive a 10-week supply of nicotine patches and instructions on how to
           use them.

        -  Participant will complete questionnaires on a laptop computer about their smoking
           habits, how much tobacco they use, how many times they have tried to quit, how ready
           they are to quit, and how dependent they are on nicotine. The questionnaires will take
           about 30 minutes to complete.

      Participant will then be assigned to 1 of 2 study groups. Participant will have a 1 in 5
      (20%) chance of being assigned to Group 1, and a 4 in 5 (80%) chance of being assigned to
      Group 2.

      If participant is in Group 1:

        -  Participant will receive a telephone number to a hotline for them to use to call and
           talk to someone about quitting. Participant can call the hotline anytime they need
           support in their effort to quit smoking.

        -  Participant will also receive 11 phone calls from the study staff over a 6-month period.
           During each call, participant will be given support to help them quit. Each call will
           last about 15 minutes.

      If participant is in Group 2:

        -  Participant will receive text messages for support about quitting smoking. In the first
           week, participant will get about 20 text messages. Each week, participant will receive
           fewer text messages, until they get 1 message per week by week 4. Participant will then
           get 1 message each week after that through month 6.

        -  Participant will also receive another text message 1 time each week from the study staff
           asking if they have smoked within the past 24 hours. Participant will be asked to
           respond to this text message either by sending a text back to the study staff or calling
           the study staff. If the study staff does not receive participant's response they may
           receive a phone call from the staff asking about their smoking status over the past 24
           hours.

      Follow-Up Visits (Both Groups):

      Three (3) and 6 months after the Baseline Visit, you will complete questionnaires on a laptop
      computer and participant will be asked for more information about their smoking status. At
      this visit, participant will also be asked to blow into a cardboard tube to check for
      byproducts of smoking. These visits will last about 20 minutes each.

      Length of Study:

      Participant will be on study for about 6 months.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 1000 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at Legacy Community
      Health Services Clinic.
    
  