
    
      The study will be conducted in 2 Parts using a staggered parallel design. Part A will include
      patients with MELD scores of 11-20, and Part B will include patients with MELD of scores
      21-30.

      Within each Part, the study will be conducted using a starting dose level of 30 mg with
      sequential dose escalation following review of safety results of the prior dose level by the
      sponsor, the principal investigators. The planned subsequent doses of DUR-928 after the
      starting dose are 90 mg and 150 mg.

      Patients with a MELD score of 21-30 (Part B) receiving the 30 mg dose level will only be
      enrolled once safety review of the 30 mg dose of DUR-928 in patients with MELD score 11-20
      (Part A) has been completed. The subsequent dose escalation in Part B will not proceed until
      the sponsor, and the principal investigators, and the medical monitor complete the review of
      safety of the 30 mg dose level and determine it is safe to do so.

      At each dose level within a Part, 4 patients will be treated. If no SUSAR is observed, dose
      escalation to the next dose cohort within the Part will proceed. If 1 of the 4 patients
      demonstrates a SUSAR in a given dose level, an additional 2 patients will be treated at that
      dose level. If only 1 of the 6 patients demonstrates SUSAR, the next cohort of four patients
      will enter at the next dose level. If 6 patients are dosed and 2 or more demonstrate SUSAR at
      that dose level, the study will deescalate to a lower dose (but higher than the previous
      dose). At subsequent dose levels, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose
      level where no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences a SUSAR.

      If no SUSAR is observed, dose escalation to the next dose cohort will proceed. All patients
      will be followed up to Day 28 (Total duration of patient engagement is 33 days).

      Trial Population:

      Patients with AH will be enrolled at Louisville associated hospitals in the US. The target
      number of participants to complete the study is 24-36. During the trial, patients should
      receive standard of care as determined by the PI (e.g. pentoxifylline or corticosteroids).
    
  