
    
      Sleep complaints are amongst the commonest in medical practice, and insomnia, the commonest
      of these affecting transiently 1/3 of the population at some point in the year and 1/3 of
      this population that is 1 in 10 persisting as chronic insomnia. There are significant
      consequences on the quality of life for individuals and significant economic burden for
      society.

      Insomnia disorder is characterized as persistent difficulty in falling or staying asleep with
      resulting daytime dysfunction. Once physical and psychiatric causes have been excluded,
      current treatment guidelines include pharmacological and behavioural approaches. Hypnotic
      therapy will reduce sleep latency and increase total sleep time, but there are concerns about
      drug dependency and side effects (residual day time sleepiness and road traffic accidents and
      impaired balance). Behavioural treatment (CBTi) has been shown to be effective, but
      availability is scarce and less than 50% of patients achieve full remission, making
      alternative approaches desirable.

      To optimize availability and to improve outcomes, approaches have included group sessions,
      single treatment sessions and internet sessions, but these are still limited in the NHS by
      availability of resources or by expense. Mindfulness meditation, focused non-judgmental
      awareness and attention on the present moment experience, can promote calmness and
      relaxation. Several health benefits have been shown across stress related conditions,
      including sleep disturbance, and its universal availability and ease of application make it
      an attractive alternative to conventional CBTi.

      A randomized controlled trial compared Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR),
      Mindfulness-Based Therapy for Insomnia (MBTI), and Self-monitoring (SM) in the treatment of
      chronic insomnia . Results indicate that those receiving mindfulness-based interventions
      (MBSR or MBTI) had significant reductions in total wake time and pre-sleep arousal from
      baseline-to-post compared to SM. The study concluded that mindfulness meditation appears to
      be a viable treatment option for adults with chronic insomnia and could provide an
      alternative to traditional treatments for insomnia.

      A recent meta-analysis of 6 randomised controlled trials demonstrated that mindfulness
      meditation may contribute to improving sleep in subjects with insomnia compared to a control
      group. Specifically, mindfulness meditation was found to significantly reduce total wake
      time, sleep onset latency and sleep quality .

      The present study builds upon this work, using a small-scale randomized controlled trial to
      gather preliminary evidence for the treatment efficacy of a brief mindfulness intervention
      delivered through a mobile application. Headspace (www.headspace.com) mindfulness app will be
      used to deliver the meditation content. Headspace currently has over 7 million users
      worldwide and was recently rated in a systematic review as being the highest quality
      mindfulness app on the market . Participants are adults with insomnia recruited through a
      sleep centre, recruited for management of their insomnia.

      The potential risks of the study are low, as participants will be exposed to a low dose of
      mindfulness (10 minutes daily). Adverse effects of meditation have been reported in people
      with a predisposition to psychiatric illness that underwent extensive mindfulness training,
      such as a 10-day silent retreat. Negative effects have not been reported from 8-week
      mindfulness interventions. The benefits from this study include improvement in or resolution
      of insomnia.
    
  