
    
      Aim:

        1. To understand the prevalence of symptoms of Depression and Anxiety in general population
           during COVID-19 in India

        2. To understand correlation between COVID-19 related factors and mental health
           symptomology in the general population in India

      Hypothesis:

      There is likelihood of significant symptoms of depression and anxiety among general
      population in India during the current COVID-19 outbreak.

      Procedure:

      The participants would be selected with their informed consent. The objective of the study
      would be clearly written on Page 1 of the survey. The test would be administered
      electronically by all the participants individually only when consented to the study. The
      data collected will be kept strictly confidential and the identity of the participants will
      not be disclosed at any point of the research

      Measures:

        1. Demographic Information Demographic variables included Gender, Age, Place of Stay,
           Marital Status, Highest Level of Education, current living arrangement (e.g. staying
           alone or with family) and Occupation. It further includes regular employment status and
           current employment status(e.g, Work from home, temporary leave, termination etc)

        2. History of illness (Present or past) History of physical ailment specified (diabetes,
           hypertension, heart ailment or being on any steroid or any other chronic ailment)
           Previous history of H1N1/ Influenza like illness

        3. COVID-19 Information This section includes time spent focusing on COVID related
           information, current stressors with respect to COVID-19 and coping mechanisms used. This
           further includes information on resources available to participants near their place of
           stay and information of any known diagnosed case of COVID-19.

        4. Standardized Scales to be used Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7); Patient
           Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)

      Primary outcome To understand the prevalence (magnitude) of depression and anxiety of general
      adult population during COVID-19 using Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7) and Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Rise in Anxiety and Depression will be noted.

      Through the analysis of the results, help device psychological intervention/mental health
      programs geared towards general and specific symptoms and management of emotional needs can
      be provided to the general population during and post-crisis.

      Secondary Outcome Through the analysis of the results, it will help device psychological
      intervention/mental health programs geared towards general and specific symptoms and
      management of emotional needs can be provided to the general population during and
      post-crisis.
    
  