
    
      HIV-infected patients have an increased incidence of emphysema compared to non-HIV-infected
      patients, and it has been hypothesized that this accelerated disease progression is the
      result of one or more latent infections that amplifies the pulmonary inflammatory response.
      We will examine the prevalence and progression of emphysema in subjects with and without HIV
      and determine risk factors for emphysema in this population.

      Subjects will be 300 HIV+ subjects and 300 HIV- controls selected by random sampling
      stratified by age and smoking history. Subjects will be recruited from the University of
      Pittsburgh and the University of California Los Angles (UCLA) MACS sites. The University of
      California San Francisco (UCSF) will serve as the recruiting center for the WIHS cohort.
      Because we are interested in an unbiased estimate of the extent of this disease in HIV
      infection, we will not select subjects based on lung function or current diagnosis of COPD.
      The HIV- subjects will be matched to the HIV+ subjects in terms of age and smoking history to
      the extent possible. Those with symptoms of acute respiratory disease such as fevers, acute
      change in cough or shortness of breath, or weight loss will be excluded. There will be no
      exclusions based on HAART use or opportunistic infection (OI) prophylaxis and no exclusions
      based on previous lung disease as we are trying to obtain a comprehensive evaluation of
      emphysema in this population as well as identify associated risk factors.

      All subjects will undergo spirometry, diffusing capacity and quantitative CT scanning. These
      measurements will allow us to determine differences in the prevalence of emphysema in HIV+
      and HIV- and determine risk factors associated with emphysema. For longitudinal studies
      testing the hypothesis that emphysema is accelerated in HIV infection, we will select HIV+
      and HIV- subjects with documented emphysema in each group as defined by diffusing
      capacity<80% predicted, post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC<70% without significant reversibility,
      or at least 10% of lung with a density less than -910 Hounsfield units (HU). These subjects
      will have CT scans and PFTs at baseline and at 18 months and 36 months after baseline. At
      each visit, clinical data and biological samples will be collected.
    
  