
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common type of heart disease, and it is the leading
      cause of death worldwide in both men and women. CAD happens when the coronary arteries become
      hardened and narrowed, which is due to the buildup of cholesterol-containing deposits-plaque
      on the inner vessel wall. As the plaque grows, less blood can flow through the arteries due
      to the vessel narrowing. Decreased blood flow can then lead to chest pain (angina), shortness
      of breath, or even a heart attack.

      Fractional flow reserve (FFR), a measure of blood flow reduction caused by vessel narrowing,
      is accepted as gold standard for assessing the functional significance of stenotic lesions.
      Multiple randomized trials have demonstrated that FFR has excellent diagnostic value in
      identifying functionally significant lesions and guiding coronary revascularization
      procedures. However, FFR is measured invasively through a pressure wire-based cardiac
      catheter procedure in the catheterization lab. Current guidelines recommend assessing
      myocardial ischemia of stable patients with CAD through non-invasive functional testing
      before considering invasive coronary angiography (ICA) or conducting myocardial
      revascularization.

      DEEPVESSEL FFR (DVFFR) is a software medical device that is designed to extract three-
      dimensional coronary tree structures and generate computed tomography -derived FFR values
      from coronary CT angiogram (CTA) images. It uses deep learning neural networks that encode
      imaging, structural, and functional characteristics of coronary arteries and learn complex
      mapping between FFR values and the encoded information. The quantitative FFR analysis based
      on the coronary CTA images can help clinicians assess the physiological function in patients
      with CAD non-invasively.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of DVFFR
      software in identifying patients with significant obstructive CAD causing myocardial
      ischemia, using invasively measured ICA FFR as the reference standard.
    
  