
    
      Autoimmune bullous diseases are a variety of skin diseases that are characterized by the
      presence of bullae or blisters. Most of these diseases are associated with substantial
      morbidity and mortality. They are classified according to the site of blister formation into
      intraepidermal as pemphigus valgaris and foliaceus, and subepidermal as bullous pemphigoid
      and dermatitis herpetiformis. These lesions commonly affect the scalp and manifest as
      blisters, erosions and crustations.

      Pemphigus is a group of potentially life-threatening intraepidermal vesiculobullous
      autoimmune diseases that affect the skin and mucous membranes. It is characterized by the
      presence of circulating and tissue-bound autoantibodies directed against desmogleins, which
      attaches adjacent epidermal cells via desmosomes. When autoantibodies attack desmogleins, the
      cells become separated from each other and the epidermis becomes "unglued", a phenomenon
      called acantholysis. This causes blisters that slough off and turn into sores.

      In pemphigus vulgaris (PV) blisters and erosions occurs in the skin and/or mucous membranes,
      and circulating autoantibodies are directed against desmoglein 3 and 1. In pemphigus
      foliaceus, there is mainly skin involvement and antibodies are exclusively directed against
      desmoglein 1. Histologically, both subtypes exhibit intraepidermal blister formation with
      loss of keratinocytes' adhesion. However, in Pemphigus vulgaris, the split occurs just above
      the basal cell layer, whereas in pemphigus foliaceus it occurs in the upper part of the
      epidermis, at the level of the granular layer.

      Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is a chronic, autoimmune, subepidermal, blistering skin disease that
      rarely involves mucous membranes. It is characterized by the presence of immunoglobulin G
      (IgG) autoantibodies specific for the hemidesmosomal BP antigens BP230 (BPAg1) and BP180
      (BPAg2). The lesions of BP may initially start as an urticarial eruption, which over a course
      of weeks to months, develops into bullae. The lesions are usually prurutic. Once formed,
      blisters are large and tense, with a round or oval shape. Discrete lesions arise on normal or
      erythematous skin and are scattered throughout the body.

      Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is an autoimmune blistering disorder associated in most
      patients with a gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE). DH is characterized by pruritic
      erythematous clusters of multiforme lesions, frequently in herpetiform pattern.
      Histopathologically, there are neutrophilic micro-abscesses in dermal papillae, dermal
      infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils, and the formation of subepidermal vesicles.
      Blisters form within the lamina lucida.

      Diagnosis of these diseases is based on clinical, histopathological, immunofluorescence and
      immunoserological tests. Because of the limited resources in our institution, diagnosis
      relies mainly on clinical and histopathological evaluations.

      Trichoscopy (hair and scalp dermoscopy) is a non-invasive technique in which either a
      handheld dermoscope or a digital videodermoscope can be used to visualize hair and scalp
      structures. The method has well-established position as an ancillary tool in the diagnosis of
      many disorders such as, tinea capitis, alopecia areata, androgenetic alopecia, discoid lupus
      erythematosus, lichen planopilaris, folliculitis decalvans and other hair and scalp diseases.
      Few studies have reported that immunobullous diseases present characteristic trichoscopic
      patterns. So, Trichoscopy can be used as a rapid in-office preliminary diagnostic tool in the
      differential diagnosis of these diseases.
    
  