
    
      Glaucoma has long been recognised as a leading cause of blindness, and that the scale of the
      problem will only increase with future population growth and increasing life expectancy (1).

      The epidemiological information available in 1993 in the World Health Organization's (WHO)
      global data bank on blindness was reviewed by Thylefors and Négrel (1). They developed a
      simple model estimating the number of glaucoma blind people in each World Bank region.
      Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) was judged to be responsible for three million blind,
      primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) for two million, and for congenital glaucoma the figure
      was 200 000, giving a total of 5.2 million blind. This represents 15% of global blindness.
      The number of people affected by glaucoma was estimated to be about 20 million.

      In 1996, Quigley used 111 published reports of glaucoma prevalence to construct a statistical
      model of the number of people affected by glaucoma worldwide (2). Data were included only if
      the study design, methods, and reported results met certain specific criteria. The countries
      of the world were arranged in seven groups according to similarities in ethnicity and
      presumed characteristics of glaucoma. For each region, the available age specific prevalence
      of OAG and ACG were applied to population projections for the year 2000. It was estimated
      that 66.8 million people were affected by OAG and ACG, with nearly equal numbers of people
      affected by each disease. Few prevalence studies described secondary glaucoma separately, but
      an estimate of six million for secondary glaucoma was reached, making a total, without
      childhood glaucoma, of around 73 million affected. Of these, 6.7 million were thought to be
      blind (2).

      There was reliable epidemiologic evidence to suggest that PACG is more common among Eskimos
      (3) and Chinese (4). As POAG was common in the western countries, there was a large
      population at risk in Asia (5). PACG among Asians was more frequently chronic and has few
      symptoms (6). Therefore, persons might not be motivated by symptoms to present to medical
      attention until significant visual damage has occurred in this region. A population-based
      study of screening techniques for PACG was performed in the township of Jin Shan in rural
      Taiwan (7). This joint US-Taiwanese project, published in 1996, identified a target
      population of 5441 people aged 40 years and older, of whom 562 were examined. A gonioscopic
      examination was carried out on all subjects. PACG was diagnosed in people with a "narrow"
      angle and either an IOP >18 mm Hg, an increase in IOP 8 mm Hg on dark prone provocation test,
      or a previous "acute" episode of angle closure with an iridectomy. The diagnosis did not
      depend on the presence of a visual field defect or structural optic neuropathy. There were 17
      people diagnosed as suffering PACG (3.0%). Only 35% of cases gave a history of symptoms
      characteristic of "acute" angle closure. Two of these 17 people (12%) were blind in both eyes
      (7). As aforementioned, Taiwan has a high prevalence of PACG, which usually leads to
      blindness ultimately. There are many reported studies on genes of POAG and normal-tension
      glaucoma from Asia, including Japan (14,21,29), China (25), and Korea (24). However, studies
      about genetics of PACG were lacking. Hence, in this study, we use the model of genomewide
      microsatellite genotyping with method of linkage disequilibrium to study the possible
      candidate gene of PACG. Then, we will further sequence the cDNA forPAX6 to find out the
      possible mutation in the family with well-defined pedigree.
    
  