
    
      This study will compare the efficacy of incorporating dynamic exercises into the surgical
      procedure, to determine if the exercise intervention will decrease surgeon's perceived
      physical discomfort and fatigue and enhance self-reported performance during surgical
      procedures. All attending surgeons (Cardiothoracic, Colon and Rectal, General, Gynecology and
      Obstetrics, Ophthalmic, Orthopedic, Otolaryngology-Head and Neck, Neurology, Urology, Plastic
      and Maxillofacial, Rural, Urology, Thoracic and Vascular ) or surgeons in training that are
      board certified or board eligible, performing open or minimally invasive surgery within the
      scope of their practice in the house of surgery at Mayo Clinic Rochester, Arizona and Florida
      will be eligible to participate. Surgeons who have provided informed consent to participate
      will be asked to complete a preliminary baseline survey that will provide information
      regarding baseline participant characteristics and demographics.

      The intervention is a web based application which will include a short video with verbal
      cues, available on computers in the Operating Rooms (ORs). This video will lead surgeons
      through the stretch exercises and include a timer to remind them when it is time to stretch.
      They will be able to set the time interval between stretches (between 20-55 minutes) and may
      activate a snooze on the timer to postpone the stretch to a more opportune time during the
      procedure. The stretches can be performed without breaking scrub, in the sterile field and
      can be completed in approximately 1 minute.

      Surgeons will be asked to participate in this study for approximately 12 weeks , completing a
      baseline survey and three end of day surveys. They may use the intervention as much or as
      little as they choose during their participation, and will be free to use the application
      following study participation. The web application does track participant use, providing date
      and time stamps to enable the research team to track surgeon web app utilization. The
      application will also record how often the "snooze" was used to delay a stretch, or end
      stretches. After surgeons have accessed the web application, they will receive an email with
      a quick survey about their experiences with stretches, to assess the impact of the web app.
    
  