
    
      The relative distribution of the various amounts of lipids in the membranes of the adipocytes
      plays an important role in lipid metabolism and energy homeostasis. Sitosterolemia, a rare
      genetic disease is caused by a defective ABC transporter in the gut and biliary tract, which
      results in increased absorption and decreased excretion of plant sterols, ultimately leading
      to accelerated atherosclerosis and premature death.

      Very recently, a mutation of the ABCG8 gene, very rare in the general population, has been
      described in 4% of the Old Order Amish, a well-characterized founder population in Lancaster
      County, Pennsylvania. Preliminary data indicate that otherwise healthy carriers
      (heterozygotes) of the mutation showed, as compared to controls, reduced body mass index,
      more large buoyant LDL cholesterol, decreased carotid intima media thickness (IMT), and a
      trend toward lower insulin and glucose levels, consistent with an improved metabolic syndrome
      profile. These data suggest that a mild excess in plant sterols could play a role in the
      modulation of the energy metabolism, and that dietary sitosterol may improve lipid profile
      and other aspects of the metabolic syndrome in genetically normal subjects.

      In order to characterize mechanistically the effects of sitosterol, the most abundant plant
      sterol in the diet, on the development of the metabolic syndrome, we propose to study in
      greater detail the carriers of the ABCG8 gene mutation; that will provide the opportunity to
      analyze new insights into dietary sitosterol and its role in lipid and energy metabolism. We
      hypothesize that sitosterol in the diet will affect metabolic syndrome indices differentially
      in carriers of the mutation as compared to non-carriers.

      We will perform a nutrigenomics intervention on 15 ABCG8 mutation carriers and sex-matched
      unaffected persons (age +/- 5 years). They will be treated with high-, low- sitosterol
      iso-caloric diets. Study subjects will be then evaluated in the NIH Clinical Center for
      changes in the following parameters: circulating lipids and free fatty acids, glucose
      disposal, resting energy expenditure and RQ, and endothelial vascular function. The Division
      of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Nutrition at the University Of Maryland School of Medicine
      will carry out the genotyping, study volunteer recruitment, cell membrane lipid content
      analysis, and ex-vivo adipocyte analysis.

      We hypothesize that carriers of the ABCG8 gene mutation will further improve metabolic
      syndrome indices when challenged with a high-sitosterol diet, and will regress toward the
      non-carrier controls when treated with a low-sitosterol diet. Non-carrier controls will
      remain unchanged or show modest improvement in metabolic syndrome indices when challenged
      with a high-sitosterol diet, which will worsen, compared to baseline and carrier sibs, when
      treated with a low-sitosterol diet.

      These clinical data, combined with the in vitro analysis of the effects of sitosterol on cell
      membranes and adipocyte metabolism will advance knowledge in the field of lipid metabolism on
      the relation of lipid composition to common disorders such as the metabolic syndrome. Data
      obtained from this project could then potentially be translated into nutritional and
      therapeutic interventions in the general population.
    
  