
    
      This is a multi-center Phase 1/2 open label trial of intratumoral G100 in participants with
      low grade NHL. Eligible participants with NHL will be enrolled and receive G100 to an
      accessible tumor mass. Clinical response will be evaluated in the injected tumor and systemic
      (abscopal) responses will be evaluated in distal areas involved with tumor.

      The study will be conducted in 5 parts. In Part 1, Dose Escalation, 2 sequentially enrolled
      cohorts of participants will be treated at one of 2 dose levels of G100 using a standard
      escalation design. In this portion of the study, both follicular and marginal zone NHL will
      be eligible. In Part 2, 2 groups of participants with follicular NHL may be examined. One
      group will be randomly assigned to receive either single agent G100 intratumorally at the
      maximum safe dose determined in Part 1 following local radiation or will receive the same
      treatment regimen sequentially administered with pembrolizumab. A second treatment group may
      be explored if the safety profile in Part 1 is acceptable. In this optional group,
      participants with injectable tumors of 4 cm or greater would be enrolled and treated with a
      higher dose of G100. In Part 3, expansion of a higher dose (20µg of G100) in participants
      with follicular NHL will be enrolled to receive local radiation therapy and intratumoral
      G100. In Part 4, Dose Escalation and Expansion, a dose of 20µg of G100 will be examined as a
      treatment of 1 or more tumors (up to 4) with pembrolizumab in order to establish safety and
      examine clinical and biomarker responses in participants receiving increasing total systemic
      doses of G100 and Part 5, will evaluate standard induction therapy with rituximab (anti-CD20)
      in combination of escalating doses of intratumoral G100 in single tumors.

      The primary goal of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of different doses
      of G100 when administered by intratumoral injection. The development of anti-tumor immune
      responses and preliminary evidence of clinical responses in local and distal tumor sites will
      also be examined.
    
  