
    
      The pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) is a commonly used device that provides hemodynamic data
      to guide care of the critically ill, such as patients with acute lung injury or the acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS/ALI). Clinicians believe PAC use improves decision-making
      and patient outcomes but evidence is lacking and recent data suggest the PAC may increase
      mortality as well as considerably increasing costs. In response, the NHLBI funded a large
      multicenter trial (Fluid And Catheter Treatment Trial (FACTT) (N01-HR-46054-46064)) where
      ARDS/ALI patients were randomized to receive a PAC or the less invasive central venous
      catheter (CVC) and received a liberal or conservative fluid management protocol in response
      to data provided by the PAC or CVC. The primary end-point is in-patient mortality.

      We are complementing FACTT with a concurrent economic analysis of the PAC. Our aims are to:
      1.) compare differences between study arms in long-term survival, quality of life, and
      quality-adjusted survival; 2.) compare differences between study arms in acute care and
      long-term costs; 3.) calculate the cost-efficacy of PAC use (i.e., the balance of costs and
      effects under the controlled environment of the FACTT trial), and; 4.) estimate
      cost-effectiveness under more "real-world" conditions and produce life-time
      cost-effectiveness ratios, thereby facilitating comparison of our results to other
      cost-effectiveness analyses.

      We are achieving Aims 1-3 by augmenting FACTT data collection with detailed information on
      hospital costs, extended survival follow-up for a minimum of one year, and post-discharge
      patient interviews to determine quality of life and resource use in the first year. We will
      achieve Aim 4 by constructing a microsimulation model first calibrated by results from FACTT
      and published data on life-expectancy and costs and then adjusted to reflect the broader
      patient case-mix and clinical effects of PAC use in routine clinical practice. We are using
      patient-level data from the King County Lung Injury Project epidemiology study (NHLBI
      HL-96-014) to adjust case-mix and patient-level data from a large pragmatic trial of PAC use
      in the United Kingdom to adjust the clinical effects of PAC use.

      The results of our adjunct to FACTT will substantially amplify the value of the data being
      collected and provide, for the first time, robust estimates from randomized data of the
      economic effects of the widespread application of this important technology.
    
  