
    
      Hemi facial spasm (HFS), a term described in 1905 by Babinski but first reported by Schultz
      in 1875, is a highly morbid movement disorder characterized by intermittent involuntary
      movement of muscles innervated by the facial nerve.

      (HFS) affects roughly 10 in 100,000 individuals in fifth or sixth decades of life.

      Primary HFS is commonly attributed to vascular loops compressing the seventh cranial nerve at
      its exit zone from the brainstem. The facial nerve compression is thought to lead to ephaptic
      transmission and to hyperactivity of the facial nucleus, resulting in the involuntary facial
      movements.

      Secondary HFS frequently follows peripheral facial palsy or may arise from facial nerve
      damage produced by tumours, demyelinating disorders, traumatisms, and infections accounting
      for 1-2 & of HFS.

      Over four in five primary HFS cases involve either anterior or posterior inferior cerebellar
      artery as the primary offender although vertebral artery, multiple vessels and veins may be
      involved.

      EMG recordings confirm the diagnosis by showing a typical electrophysiological signature:
      clonic facial muscle contractions, hyperactivity, and synkinesis, lateral spread evoked
      responses.

      Imaging can be useful for confirming that HFS is primary in nature and due to a neurovascular
      compression. In most cases (95% of the patients) the compressive vessel, generally an artery,
      is seen on MRI combined with MR-Angiography (MRA). High resolution T2-sequence is to be used
      to get good delineation of the facial nerve.

      Many treatments for HFS have been reported, including pharmacological agents, botulinum toxin
      injection, facial nerve blockage, physical therapy, radiofrequency ablation, acupuncture, as
      well as facial nerve combing and microvascular decompression (MVD).

      However, while MVD is effective, there are still significant postoperative complications.
    
  