
    
      Sufentanil, unlike morphine and hydromorphone, avoids the issue of active metabolites that
      can lead to prolonged, untoward effects, which can complicate postoperative care and affect
      patient discharge. One study found that sufentanil SL 30 mcg was well tolerated, with no
      unexpected adverse events, no clinically meaningful vital sign changes, and a safety profile
      that was as expected for this postoperative patient population. In addition, the use of
      sufentanil SL in the emergency department indicates that sufentanil SL was a potentially
      feasible option for managing moderate-to-severe acute pain in that setting. Another study of
      adult patients undergoing major surgery in five hospitals in the Netherlands who received the
      sufentanil SL for postoperative pain relief as part of multimodal pain management showed that
      sufentanil SL effectively managed postoperative pain in abdominal and orthopedic surgeries.
      Finally, a randomized, open-label non-inferiority study that enrolled patients scheduled for
      elective major open abdominal or orthopedic surgery assessed the proportion of patients who
      responded "good" or "excellent" at the 48-hour timepoint on the Patient Global Assessment of
      method of pain control. The results showed that 78.5% vs. 65.6% of patients achieved
      "success" for sufentanil SL vs. intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (morphine),
      respectively, demonstrating non-inferiority as well as statistical superiority for treatment
      effect. Patients using sufentanil SL reported more rapid onset of analgesia and patient and
      nurse ease of care and satisfaction scores were higher than intravenous patient-controlled
      analgesia (morphine). Adverse events were similar between the 2 groups, and sufentanil SL had
      fewer patients experiencing oxygen desaturations below 95% compared to intravenous
      patient-controlled analgesia (morphine). Future studies are needed to determine patient
      populations that benefit most from the sufentanil SL, assess the added values versus
      intravenous patient-controlled analgesia, and determine the pharmacoeconomics of the system.

      Purpose:

      In this study the investigators plan to examine the perioperative use sufentanil SL in the
      analgesic regimen for spine surgery, one of the most common surgeries performed in the United
      States. Patients undergoing spinal fusion surgery often experience severe pain during the
      first three postoperative days. Currently, no data are available for this patient population
      which routinely experiences moderate to severe acute pain. The investigators will analyze
      whether sufentanil SL is associated with lower opioid consumption, number of fentanyl boluses
      given, post-anesthesia care unit and hospital length of stay, side effects of opioid use
      (i.e., nausea, vomiting, constipation), and hospitalization costs (i.e., pharmacoeconomics).

      Hypotheses:

        1. The perioperative use of sufentanil SL 30 mcg in a prospective cohort of patients
           undergoing spine surgery will be associated with lower postoperative numeric rating
           scale pain scores (numerical rating score (NRS); primary outcome) than observed in two
           historical control groups that did not receive sufentanil SL: one group that received
           intraoperative remifentanil infusion and one that received intraoperative sufentanil
           infusion.

        2. The perioperative use of sufentanil SL will be associated with lower opioid consumption,
           number of fentanyl boluses given, post-anesthesia care unit and hospital length of stay,
           side effects of opioid use (i.e., nausea, vomiting, constipation), and hospitalization
           costs (i.e., pharmacoeconomics) than observed in two historical control groups of
           patients receiving remifentanil or sufentanil infusions without perioperative sufentanil
           SL.

      Methods:

      The study design is a prospective cohort study with historical controls. There will be 1
      prospectively recruited study arm (20 patients receiving the study drug sufentanil SL) and 2
      historical control arms (one that received an intraoperative remifentanil infusion, 80
      patients, and the other that received an intraoperative sufentanil infusion, 80 patients,
      both without sufentanil SL).

      Inclusion criteria include patients undergoing spine surgery (≥ 2 levels) who are
      opioid-naïve, ≥ 18 years old, considered American Society of Anesthesiologists class 1-4 and
      also includes patients with impaired renal function. Exclusion criteria include those with
      microdiscectomy or single level surgery, have chronic opiate use, liver disease,
      allergy/hypersensitivity to sufentanil as well as patients with baseline dementia.

      Outcomes:

      Primary:

      postoperative pain scores in post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) postoperative pain scores
      (inpatient)

      Secondary:

      opioid consumption (morphine milligram equivalents, PACU and inpatient) Number of fentanyl
      boluses given Post-anesthesia care unit length of stay (LOS, days) hospital LOS (min) nausea,
      vomiting, constipation sedation level (PACU) quality of recovery hospitalization costs
      patient satisfaction score utilization of prescription opioids following discharge

      As shown above, the following secondary outcomes will also be collected in the prospective
      cohort to obtain estimates that can be used to power future randomized controlled trials:
      sedation level, quality of recovery, patient satisfaction score (satisfaction with the level
      of pain control, 6-point scale), and utilization of prescription opioids following discharge.

      Safety assessments will include adverse events and use of concomitant medications, periodic
      monitoring of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate), and continuous
      monitoring of oxygen saturation in the post-anesthesia care unit.

      Intraoperative Management:

      The prospective study arm will receive general endotracheal anesthesia consisting of total
      intravenous anesthesia maintained with continued infusions of propofol (80-200 mcg/kg/min)
      and sufentanil (0.2-0.3mcg/kg/hr). Anesthesia induction will be achieved with propofol
      (1.5-2.5mg/kg), succinylcholine (1mg/kg), and sufentanil (10-20 mcg). The study group will
      receive sufentanil SL 30 mcg at surgery end, but prior to emergence from anesthesia, and
      after the patient is turned supine. Antiemetic prophylaxis will be administered
      (ondansetron).

      Postoperative Management:

      Note that sufentanil SL will be ordered as q1hr prn, meaning that repeat doses must be
      administered at least 1 hr apart.

      In the post-anesthesia care unit, patients will be ordered to receive sufentanil SL 30 mcg
      prn 1 hr for breakthrough pain (for numerical rating scale, NRS > 3) as the 1st line
      analgesic, with fentanyl as the rescue analgesic if the patient is still experiencing pain
      (NRS >3). The following opioid administration schema will be used for pain management in the
      post-anesthesia care unit:

        -  1st line: sufentanil SL 30mcg (NRS >3). 2nd line: Fentanyl 25-50mcg (NRS >3)

        -  If upon arrival to the PACU the patient is still experiencing pain with NRS >3 but
           cannot yet receive a repeat dose of sufentanil SL (because of having received 1st dose
           in the operating room less than 1 hour ago), then the patient can receive fentanyl
           25-50mcg prn until eligible to receive sufentanil SL.

        -  If at any time the patient's NRS >3 after 20 min following an administration of either
           sufentanil SL or fentanyl, the patient can receive a repeat dose of fentanyl until again
           eligible to receive sufentanil SL.

      Once the patient is transferred to the floor, both groups will receive the standard of care
      postoperative pain management orders (ie oral and intravenous prn analgesia for NRS > 3).

      Sample Size/Statistical analysis:

      Assuming a within-group standard deviation in post-anesthesia care unit NRS pain score of 2.5
      points, enrollment of 20 patients in the prospective group and inclusion of at least 80
      patients in each retrospective control group will provide at least 80% power at a two sided
      alpha level of 0.025 (0.05/2 pair-wise comparisons) to detect a minimal clinically important
      difference of 2 points between the prospective group and each of the retrospective groups
      using linear regression.

      All outcomes will be compared between the prospective group and each of the retrospective
      groups using linear regression weighted by inverse probability of treatment weights.
      Probability of treatment (i.e., propensity scores) will be calculated using logistic
      regression with the following covariates: age, sex, body mass index, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists class, surgical invasiveness tier, reoperation, history of anxiety,
      anxiolytic use, history of depression, and antidepressant use.
    
  