
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Success with lung transplantation has largely been due to the introduction of cyclosporine
      which has proved effective in controlling lung allograft rejection. Nevertheless, acute and
      chronic rejection are prevalent in spite of immunosuppressive drug regimens based on oral
      cyclosporine. In fact, rejection is more common in recipients of lung allografts than those
      who receive other solid organs. Acute rejection is treated with pulsed methylprednisolone and
      anti-lymphocyte globulin and consequently recipients are subject to increased risk of
      infection and drug toxicity. The hypothesis tested in the study was that delivery of
      cyclosporine to the transplanted lung by aerosol inhalation would achieve higher
      concentrations of cyclosporine in the graft than when it was delivered via the bloodstream
      and that higher concentrations in the graft would prevent rejection more effectively than
      systemic immune suppression with the same or reduced toxicity.

      Cellular rejection occured in over 90% of the patients within the first year and often
      progressed to obliterative bronchiolitis (OB) which was the most common cause of death one
      year after transplant. In 1988, the lung transplant group at the University of Pittsburgh
      decided to pursue cyclosporine aerosol for the treatment for acute rejection. After animal
      testing, initial human experiments were performed, which suggested that cyclosporine aerosol
      decreased the prevalence of acute rejection and the development of obliterative
      bronchiolitis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This prospective double blind randomized trial was designed to evaluate the efficacy of
      cyclosporine aerosol versus placebo aerosol as an adjuvant to oral immunosuppression with
      tacrolimus, prednisone, and azathioprine. The hypotheses tested included: 1) acute rejection
      would be lower in the patients receiving cyclosporine aerosol, 2) maintenance cyclosporine
      aerosol would result in reduced incidence of OB, 3) cytokines and chemokine release would be
      suppressed, 4) patients receiving cyclosporine aerosol would require less systemic
      immunosuppression and 5) there would be a lower incidence of opportunistic and bacterial
      infections as a consequence of more effective immunosuppressive therapy. Another specific aim
      of the study was to determine the optimal dose of cyclosporine aerosol that reduced rejection
      and/or OB and to correlate radioisotopically labeled inhalation studies with more easily
      measurable indices that affected the deposition of aerosolized medications.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record
    
  