
    
      Walking with age becomes both slower and less 'automated', requiring more attention and
      prefrontal resources. As a result older adults have a greater risk of adverse mobility
      outcomes and falls. Walking disturbances in the elderly have been linked to changes in both
      cerebral, in particular small vessel disease (cSVD), and peripheral systems. There is an
      urgent need to identify factors that can help compensate for these harmful factors and reduce
      walking impairments, as there are currently no effective treatments available. Although
      effective mobility is the end result of the functional capacity of both central and
      peripheral systems, the brain's unique modulatory and adaptive capacity may provide clues for
      novel interventions. For example, investigators have recently discovered that ~20% of older
      adults maintain fast walking speed even in the presence of age related cSVD and peripheral
      system impairments, thus appearing resilient to these harmful factors. The investigators work
      suggests that the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system may be a source of this resilience. As
      investigators recent findings suggest, DA neurotransmission positively predicts walking
      speed; it also attenuates the negative effects of age related cSVD and peripheral system
      impairments on walking speed. These findings are consistent with post-mortem evidence that a
      combination of loss of nigral DA neurons and cSVD best predict age-related walking
      impairment. The nigrostriatal DA system plays a critical role in motor control;
      nigrostriatal. DA neurotransmission regulates the automated execution of overlearned motor
      tasks via its connections with sensorimotor cortical and subcortical areas.

      The investigators hypothesize that higher nigrostriatal DA neurotransmission drives
      resilience to cSVD and peripheral system impairments, via higher connectivity of sensorimotor
      networks, thus increasing automaticity of walking and reducing prefrontal engagement while
      walking. Unlike cSVD and brain structural impairments, DA neurotransmission is potentially
      modifiable, thereby offering novel approaches to treat non-resilient elderly in a targeted
      fashion. This translational pilot study will use a biomechanistic target engagement study in
      older adults with slow walking and/or other parkinsonian signs.

      The study will include elderly men and women age 60 or older with evidence of mild
      parkinsonian signs (MPS, slow gait (< 1m/s)) and/or additional sCVD on brain MRI.
    
  