
    
      A substantial proportion of patients on antiretroviral therapy do not achieve sustained
      suppression of HIV viral load. Developing strategies to improve responses to subsequent
      regimens is an important objective for the management of patients with HIV infection.
      Increasing the potency of regimens by using a pharmacoenhancer such as RTV is of interest.
      RTV is used widely to increase plasma concentrations of PIs, but there is little efficacy and
      tolerability data about different RTV-enhanced PIs. The efficacy and tolerability of a triple
      PI regimen will be compared to dual PI regimens; dual PI regimens will also be compared to
      each other.

      In Step 1, patients will be selectively randomized (based on prior exposure to the study
      drugs) and enrolled into 1 of 3 study arms. Patients in Arm A will receive lopinavir
      (LPV)/RTV in combination with TDF and 1 or 2 other NRTIs; patients in Arm B will receive
      fosamprenavir plus RTV in combination with TDF and 1 or 2 other NRTIs; Arm C patients were to
      receive LPV/RTV plus fosamprenavir in combination with TDF and 1 or 2 other NRTIs. Because
      interim study results indicated that mean PI levels for patients in Arm C were unacceptably
      low, Arm C patients will now either drop LPV/RTV and add RTV or drop fosamprenavir from their
      regimens.

      The study will last 24 to 48 weeks. Medications and clinical assessment and blood collection
      will be performed at 2 weeks prior to entry, entry, and Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 32, 40,
      and 48. Blood samples to test for amprenavir (APV) and LPV pharmacokinetics will be collected
      at Weeks 12, 24, 48, and at confirmed virologic failure visits. In substudy A5147S, intensive
      12-hour pharmacokinetic sampling for APV, LPV, and RTV will be conducted. The first 20-25
      patients enrolled in each arm will be enrolled in the substudy 14-28 days after starting
      study treatment.
    
  