
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To obtain epidemiological information and biological material on a population-based
           series of endometrial cancer cases.

        -  To define the proportion of endometrial cancer incidence attributable to mutations in
           known predisposing genes such as MSH2 and MLH1.

        -  To determine the risk associated with these predisposing mutations by examining the
           cancer risk in relatives of patients who are shown to be carriers.

        -  To examine the effect of nongenetic risk factors in mutation carriers.

        -  To determine the pathological and clinical characteristics of endometrial cancers
           occurring in mutation carriers as compared with that in noncarriers.

        -  To establish whether mutations at other loci may predispose to endometrial cancer by
           comparing the frequency of alterations in endometrial cancer patients with the
           corresponding frequency in cancer-free controls identified through the European
           Prospective Investigation of Cancer (EPIC) study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients complete an epidemiological questionnaire. The questionnaire will request
      identifying information about the patient's first-degree relatives.

      Blood samples are collected from patients. DNA is extracted from these blood samples and from
      samples collected from cancer-free control participants in MREC-SEARCH-CONTROL as well as
      from additional controls through the European Prospective Investigation of Cancer (EPIC)
      study (a population based study of diet and health based in Norfolk, East Anglia). DNA
      samples are analyzed for polymorphisms of low penetrance cancer susceptibility genes.

      In addition to the endometrial cancer patients recruited for this study, patients with
      breast, ovarian, prostate, colorectal, bladder, kidney, pancreatic, brain and esophageal
      cancer, malignant melanoma, and lymphoma cancer are recruited in the following related
      clinical trials: MREC-SEARCH-BREAST, MREC-SEARCH-OVARIAN, MREC-SEARCH-PROSTATE,
      MREC-SEARCH-COLORECTAL, and MREC-SEARCH-CANCER.
    
  