
    
      The study involve 150 healthy volunteers with functional constipation.The sample size was
      based on literature reviews of the probiotics' effect comparing the differences between
      means.

      After confirmation of eligibility and obtaining written informed consent, the patients will
      be randomized (stratification for blocks) to recivied the interventions. The patients and the
      phisician will be blinded to the treatment received. The eligible patients will be allocated
      (1:1:1) to treatment with either the probiotics supplements or placebo. Subjects will be
      instructed to ingest one sachet before breakfast, by mixing the powder in water and drinking
      it. The sachets will be stored at room temperature.

      Data handling and record keeping Case report forms will be used to record data for all
      participants, and will be completed by the research doctor, who will also enter the data into
      an electronic database.

      Study schedule and location After inclusion, all further treatments will be managed at the
      primary care center where the subject was recruited. A research doctor and a research
      pharmacist will be responsible for all contacts with patients.

      Local of study development Recruitment of patients to this study will be made by
      collaboration with the Gastroenterolgy Clinic at Avenue Dr Armando Sales de Oliveira 371,
      Trujilo, Sorocaba, State of S達o Paulo, Brazil from March 2020 to April 2020. Sorocaba is a
      Brazilian municipality in the interior of the state of S達o Paulo. It is the fourth most
      populous in the interior of S達o Paulo in the Southeast of the country, and the most populous
      in the southern region of S達o Paulo, with a population of 671,186 inhabitants, estimated by
      IBGE for July 1, 2018.

      For comparison of three groups, an independent t-test will be applied for continuous
      variables and Mann-Whitney for non-continuous variables. Analysis of adverse events (if any)
      will be performed using Chi-Square test and Fisher's exact test following assumptions of
      randomness, independence and size. Significance differences will be set at p<0.05.
    
  