
    
      The combination BRAF (B-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1) inhibitor plus
      mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) inhibitor seems to be more effective in the V600 BRAF
      mutated advanced melanoma patients compared to treatment with the BRAF inhibitors alone. In
      fact, a phase I-II study showed a better overall response rate (ORR) and progression-free
      survival (PFS) in the combination arm (dabrafenib plus trametinib) respect to the single
      agent treatment (dabrafenib): 76% and 9.4 months versus 54% and 5.8 months respectively.
      Another phase I study with a similar combination (vemurafenib plus cobimetinib) showed an ORR
      of 85% in vemurafenib-naïve patients.

      Recently, the results of a phase I study about the combination ipilimumab plus nivolumab have
      been reported. In this study at the selected schedule (ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and nivolumab 1
      mg/kg), 53% of patients had an objective response, all with tumor reduction of 80% or more.
      Reponses were durable, although longer follow-up is needed.

      A recent phase I study has shown a high rate of liver toxicity with the combo ipilimumab plus
      vemurafenib . which makes difficult a combination with these two different drugs. Moreover, a
      better efficacy of the sequencing treatment BRAF inhibitors/ipilimumab vs. the single agent
      treatment was also observed; for this reason it was also suggested to start immunotherapy
      treatment in the BRAF V600 mutated melanoma population as first option, in order to increase
      the percentage of patients who can benefit from the sequencing, considering the possibility
      of a fast progression of the disease after the BRAF inhibitors treatment.

      Taking into account these considerations, it seems impossible to think to combine all the
      four compounds (the target agents and immunomodulating monoclonal antibodies). The risk of a
      high rate of toxicity is realistic and would render this approach inapplicable.

      Sequencing with these different combinations seems to be more feasible. However, also in this
      case it would be important to start with the best combination in order to give to the
      patients the best chance to increase the overall survival.

      The aim of this prospective randomized phase II study is to evaluate the sequencing of these
      two different combinations and evaluate which is the best of these approaches.
    
  