
    
      Although rising levels of obesity heavily influences the increasing rates of obstructive
      sleep apnea (OSA), detailed analysis of more basic etiology suggests a possible craniofacial
      origin. Specifically, modern humans' facial structures a slowly shrinking, which can narrow
      the upper airway. This is evidenced by the fact that rates of malocclusion and impacted (or
      non-existent) wisdom teeth are increasing in modern, Westernized countries.

      Obstructive sleep apnea is a commonly seen condition characterized by multiple episodes of
      obstructed breathing during sleep, with intermittent hypoxia. Untreated OSA is associated
      with significantly higher rates of high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease, heart
      attack, stroke, sudden death, and car accidents. The gold standard treatment for OSA is
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), but compliance is poor. Initially, out of 100
      patients, 20 will refuse CPAP. After one year 50% of the 80 remaining patients will be using
      CPAP, but only 50% will be using it effectively, leaving only 20 patients who are using CPAP
      effectively. (personal communication, Stepnowski).

      An alternative option in people with mild to moderate OSA is a mandibular advancement device,
      which functions by pulling the genioglossus muscle forward. Long-term use of CPAP and
      mandibular advancement devices have been shown to aggravate malocclusion. Numerous surgical
      options are available for select patients, but only as a last resort.

      In children, one uncommonly used, but effective form of treating OSA is by application of a
      palatal expander by an orthodontist. In theory, this option is effective due to the fact the
      palatal suture line is not completely fused in children. The general consensus in dentistry
      is that adults have fused midline palatal suture line and the hard palate cannot be expanded.

      Recent work by numerous investigators suggests that palatal expansion can occur to
      significant degrees, even in adults. Case reports have been published with the AHI
      diminishing significantly after therapy. Not only can the hard palate widen, there can also
      be significant growth of new maxillary bone growth and anterior mandibular bone growth. Jaw
      development is linked to airway development.

      The Homeoblock is once such appliance that is based on principles of epigenetics. Mechanical
      stimulation by the device is thought to initiate gene transcription within the periodontal
      ligament, creating dental movement and new bone formation.

      Our study aims to determine the efficacy of the Homeoblock in patients with obstructive sleep
      apnea with regards to changes in polysomnographic parameters, functional quality of life
      measures, and upper airway anatomy size using low-dose CT imaging.
    
  