
    
      This protocol will take a systems biology approach to understand in humans a major new area
      of vaccine biology: the mechanism whereby adjuvants, acting on defined pattern recognition
      receptors [PRR], enhance T and B cell immunity. Our focus is on synthetic double stranded
      RNA, or poly IC and its more RNase resistant form, called poly ICLC, which is available for
      studies in humans. The PRRs are the cytosolic helicase, MDA-5, and the endosomal toll like
      receptor, TLR3. The Steinman lab has pioneered in mice and monkeys that dsRNA is a superior
      adjuvant for T cell mediated immunity relative to several PRR agonists (Longhi et al., 2009;
      Stahl-Hennig et al., 2009). A major mechanism is that poly IC is a superior inducer of
      systemic type I interferon [IFN], which in turn acts on type I IFN receptors [IFNAR] to
      mature immune stimulatory function of dendritic cells [DCs]. An adaptive Th1 type T cell
      response is induced, but it is independent of IL-12 and IFN-g.

      Multiparameter approaches now provide the means to understand adjuvant action. We hypothesize
      that DCs undergo changes that are adjuvant-specific and then link innate to select forms of
      adaptive immunity. Transcriptional arrays of splenic DCs in mice show that dsRNA induces a
      massive response with ~1000 splenic DC genes changing >2 fold in 4 hrs. These changes are
      driven primarily via type I IFN, produced systemically via MDA-5 in non-bone marrow derived
      cells and then acting on DC IFNAR. IFNAR mediate most changes termed "DC maturation" and
      acquisition of immune stimulating activity, e.g., high CD86, CD40, IL-15, and mechanisms to
      restore homeostasis. In other words, IFN rather than PRR per se, accounts for the bulk of the
      poly IC response in DCs.

      In a recently completed phase I study (protocol MAC-682), poly ICLC was found to be safe and
      well tolerated when administered as a single dose of 1.6 mg subcutaneously (s.c.) and
      intranasally (i.n.) to healthy volunteers. Preliminary innate immune response data shows,
      similarly to preclinical studies in mice, marked upregulation of gene expression in whole
      PBMCs following s.c injection of poly ICLC. At day 1 following poly ICLC injection, over
      2,000 genes are upregulated (> 1.3 fold change of expression at day 1 versus at baseline) and
      these responses are specific to the study drug. Importantly, gene changes are homogenous
      among the 8 volunteers who received poly ICLC. The top upregulated genes are
      interferon-stimulated genes as it would be predicted since poly ICLC is known to induce type
      I interferons. In addition, genes associated with dendritric cell (DC) activation such as
      CD40 and CD86 are also upregulated at day 1 after poly ICLC injection, as well as genes
      involved in signaling pathways such as IRF 5, IRF 7 and STAT1. Poly ICLC induced secretion of
      small amounts of types I and II interferons in plasma and these levels peaked at day 2 post
      injection. Lastly, FACS analysis of PBMCs demonstrated that poly ICLC induced upregulation of
      activation markers on different subsets of blood dendritic cells. Evaluation of later
      timepoints are currently taking place but analyses of samples from day 7 show that genes
      involved in the generation of T and B cell responses are upregulated and the early
      interferon-stimulated genes are trending down to baseline levels of expression. These results
      so far show that subcutaneous injection of poly ICLC led to systemic innate immune responses,
      dominated by the induction of type I interferons. Assays have been performed in whole PBMCs
      however genetic expression patterns of different subsets of blood leukocytes in response to
      poly ICLC remain to be defined. We now propose to extend the analysis of systemic immune
      responses after poly ICLC to the characterization of its transcriptional effects on specific
      FACS sorted blood cell types, such as DCs, monocytes, NK cells as well as T and B cells. By
      analyzing individual cell subsets we expect to better dissect how poly ICLC modulates innate
      immune responses that can in turn affect adaptive immune responses when given in combination
      with an antigen.

      Significant regulation of interferon genes (both type I IFNs and IFN-gamma) was not evident
      by gene array analysis of whole PBMC's, despite measurement of small amounts of both
      IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma in plasma. It may be that the platform used was not sensitive enough
      to detect regulation of IFN genes and we plan to perform RT-PCR to verify these findings.
      However, it may be that when we restrict our analysis to peripheral blood, we miss the early
      events that take place following poly ICLC administration. In order to understand how poly
      ICLC activates different cell populations, it is important to characterize its
      immunoregulatory effects both locally and systemically.

      The cutaneous immune environment is particularly amenable to PRR ligand modulation as
      evidenced by imiquimod, which acts on TLR 7. Indeed, use of imiquimod to stimulate immune
      responses against both infectious agents (HPV) and malignancy (squamous and basal cell
      carcinoma) has been documented. Migratory DCs, which traffic from the skin to the skin
      draining LN, have been shown to cross prime immune reponses to self and viral antigens. As
      such, it is possible that skin DCs may migrate into skin draining LNs or blood following poly
      ICLC administration. However analysis of blood populations alone will likely miss the window
      of immune alteration if these events are occuring locally in the skin. Analysis of genetic
      expression and of cellular infiltrates at the site of poly ICLC injection, both early on (at
      6 hours) and when skin infiltration is evident clinically (at day 1), will likely add to our
      understanding of its adjuvant effects. Genomic expression profiles of skin samples have been
      successfully used for disease classification and to predict response to treatment in skin
      diseases such as psoriasis and squamous cell carcinoma (Zaba L et al., 2007; Suarez-Farinas
      et al., 2010). Analysis of genomic expression profile in skin after poly ICLC may prove
      useful to understand how innate immune responses are initiated by PRRs ligands and perhaps by
      other vaccine adjuvants.

      Most studies of poly ICLC in humans used the intramuscular route of administration.
      Subcutaneous administration of poly ICLC has not been studied extensively and protocol
      MAC-682 was the first study to use this route of administration in healthy volunteers.
      Following poly ICLC s.c. injection, 8 out of 8 volunteers developed a well-defined area of
      erythema, with some degree of induration and tenderness. This injection site reaction usually
      peaks at day 2 and is completely resolved by day 7. Histologic data characterizing this
      infiltrate is not available in humans. However, data is available in non-human primates.

      A GLP-compliant toxicology study was performed in cynomolgus macaques to investigate the
      safety of anti-DEC-205 (3G9) - HIV gag p24 (DCVax-001) in combination with the adjuvant
      Hiltonol (poly ICLC) subcutaneously. In this study, macaques were administered a total of
      four doses of 10 mg of anti-DEC-205-HIV gag p24 antibody in combination with 2 mg of poly
      ICLC, 10 mg of poly ICLC alone or placebo, over 8 weeks. With regard to reactogenicity
      (modified Draize scoring), there was evidence to indicate that poly ICLC (10 mg) induced very
      slight and transient injection site reaction in the form of erythema; however, the reaction
      was reduced or absent with repeated dosing, indicating that it was of minimal toxicological
      significance. A number of gross lesions including dark area, dark discoloration or gelatinous
      material were present in the most recent site of administration prior to euthanasia, 1 day
      after poly ICLC injection. At least one of these findings occurred in all animals of both
      genders receiving 10 mg poly-ICLC. Microscopically, these were associated with hemorrhage
      and/or presence of extracellular or intracellular (within macrophages) foreign material
      presumed to represent predominantly adjuvant/test article. The lesions were therefore
      considered consistent with an expected local reaction to foreign material at the injection
      sites. Upon recovery (4 weeks after injection), no macroscopic findings related to the
      administration of poly-ICLC were noted. Despite differences between the skin of non-human
      primates to human skin, we expect to find similar transient cellular infiltration at the site
      of poly ICLC s.c. injection.

      In addition to its role in anti tumor and viral immunity mentioned above, topical imiquimod
      has been used as an adjuvant in combination with intradermal NY-ESO-1 protein in melanoma
      patients. This combination induced dermal mononuclear cell infiltrates in all patients. The
      infiltrates were composed primarily of T cells, monocytes, macrophages, myeloid DCs, NK
      cells, and, to a lesser extent, plasmacytoid DCs (Adams et al., 2008). Poly ICLC however acts
      on different PRRs, MDA-5 and TLR-3, and likely induces secretion of type-I IFNs locally. In
      situ immunomodulatory effects of poly ICLC are likely to differ from the effects of
      imiquimod. Combining immunohistochemistry evaluation of the cellular infiltrates induced by
      poly ICLC along with gene array analysis of its transcriptional effects on whole skin from
      the injection site may help elucidate the local events and mechanisms whereby poly ICLC
      exerts an adjuvant effect.

      By working with our collaborator, Rafick Sekaly, who has used systems biology to monitor
      innate and adaptive responses to yellow fever vaccine and other patient cohorts (Gaucher et
      al., 2008), we can understand adjuvant perturbation of immune function. Blood and skin
      samples collected from the study volunteers will be sent to Dr. Sekaly's lab at the Vaccine
      and Gene Therapy Institute, where transcriptional arrays and high order bioinformatics
      analyses will be performed to obtain a global understanding of the innate immune responses to
      poly ICLC.

      The proposed study is an open label study to evaluate the innate immune responses induced
      poly ICLC in healthy volunteers. The objectives of the study are to characterize the
      transcriptional changes induced by subcutaneous administration of poly ICLC on different
      blood cell types and to characterize the cellular infiltrates and transcriptional changes at
      the site of poly ICLC injection.

      Primary Hypothesis Administration of poly ICLC to healthy volunteers will induce distinct
      transcriptional changes in different blood cell types, including different subsets of DCs.

      Secondary Hypothesis Administration of poly ICLC to healthy volunteers will induce distinct
      transcriptional changes, and T cell and myeloid cell infiltrate in the skin at the site of
      injection.

      Primary Aim:

      To evaluate the innate immune responses to poly ICLC in different blood cell types, including
      three subsets of dendritic cells after subcutaneous administration to healthy volunteers.

      Secondary Aims:

        -  To evaluate the innate immune responses to poly ICLC at the injection site.

        -  To evaluate the reproducibility of innate immune responses in whole PBMCs after a second
           dose of poly ICLC, in volunteers who participated in protocol MAC-682 and now return to
           participate in this proposed study.

      Primary Outcome(s):

        -  Transcriptional arrays in whole PBMCs and in 8 subsets of blood leukocytes (naïve and
           memory T, NK, B, monocytes and three different subsets of dendritic cells (BDCA1+,
           BDCA3+ and BDCA2+ plasmacytoid DCs) following s.c. administration of poly ICLC.

        -  Flow cytometric analysis of activation markers in different subsets of blood leukocytes.

        -  Measurement of cytokines in the serum and/or plasma following s.c. administration of
           poly ICLC.

      Secondary Outcome(s):

        -  Routine histology and immunohistochemistry to evaluate cellular infiltrates following
           subcutaneous injection of poly ICLC.

        -  Transcriptional analysis of skin samples from study drug injection site and from a
           non-lesional site of skin.

        -  Transcriptional analysis of whole PBMC samples at different timepoints following the
           first dose and the second dose of poly ICLC in volunteers who participated in protocol
           MAC-682 and are now returning to participate in this proposed study.

      Methods and Procedures:

      Pre-Screening Questionnaire Potential participants will first undergo pre-screening by
      telephone to assess medical history and qualification for the study (Appendix C -
      Pre-screening Questionnaire). Potential volunteers will have the opportunity to discuss the
      study and ask questions of the study recruiter at this time. Those who are eligible and
      interested in participation will attend a screening visit at the Rockefeller Hospital
      Outpatient Clinic.

      Screening Visit

      During the screening visit, study personnel will answer any questions about the study.
      Written informed consent will be obtained prior to conducting any study procedures. To ensure
      informed consent, the principal investigator or designee will discuss the following processes
      and explanations individually with each volunteer:

        1. Pre HIV-test counseling.

        2. Sexually active volunteers should use a reliable form of contraception from screening
           until 6 weeks after drug administration.

      If the volunteer consents to participate, site personnel will:

        -  Perform complete medical history (including concomitant medication);

        -  Perform a general physical examination including height, weight, vital signs (pulse,
           respiratory rate, blood pressure and temperature), examination of skin, respiratory,
           cardiovascular and abdominal systems, and an assessment of cervical and axillary lymph
           nodes;

        -  Collect blood and urine specimens for all tests as indicated in the Schedule of
           Procedures (Appendix A);

        -  Perform a pregnancy test for all female volunteers.

      Screening laboratory test(s) may be repeated at the discretion of the principal investigator
      or designee to investigate any isolated abnormalities.

      If the screening visit occurs more than 45 days prior to date of drug administration, then
      study procedures for the screening visit must be repeated. However, the complete medical
      history may be replaced by an interim medical history and the informed consent form may be
      reviewed without signing again.

      Drug Administration Visit (Day 0)

      Prior to the study drug administration, site personnel will:

        -  Answer any questions about the study;

        -  Review interim medical history (including concomitant medications);

        -  Review safety laboratory data;

        -  Review the informed consent form administered at screening visit with volunteer;

        -  Perform a directed physical examination including vital signs (pulse, respiratory rate,
           blood pressure and temperature) as well as an assessment of axillary lymph nodes and any
           further examination indicated by history or observation;

        -  Collect blood and urine specimens for all tests as indicated in the Schedule of
           Procedures (Appendix A);

        -  Perform a pregnancy test for all female volunteers (blood will be sent stat) and obtain
           results prior to drug administration

        -  Perform baseline assessment of the site of study drug and evaluate and record any
           systemic symptoms;

        -  Administer study drug (sites of injection may be upper arms, thighs or buttocks)

        -  For volunteers who have agreed to undergo skin punch biopsies, two skin punch biopsies
           will be performed: one at a skin site contralateral to the injection site and the other
           at the injection site, 6 hours after study drug administration. The two selected skin
           sites for biopsy will be cleaned with povidone-iodine and anesthetized by injection of
           1-2% of xylocaine. L.M.X.4 (Lidocaine 4%) a topical anesthetic cream may also be
           applied. Two punch biopsies of skin (6 mm) will be removed. The wounds will be sutured
           and sterile dressing applied. This procedure leaves a small and permanent scar.

        -  The volunteer will have the option to stay in the hospital overnight the night before
           study drug or placebo administration and/or the day of study drug administration for
           convenience ("boarders") or be scheduled as a day patient

      Volunteers will be closely observed for at least 30 - 45 minutes after drug administration.
      Vital signs (pulse, respiratory rate, blood pressure and temperature) will be monitored at 30
      - 45 minutes after vaccination and recorded. Any local and systemic reactogenicity events, as
      well as any other event that occurs, will be recorded at 30 - 45 minutes. Volunteers will be
      given a diary card (Appendix B) and asked to record any reactogenicity events that occur in
      first day after drug administration and between days 1 and 3 and between days 3 and 7. Site
      staff will explain to the volunteer how to record reactogenicity events.

      Medical photography will be done to document the injection site and changes post injection,
      if any. The volunteer's identity will be kept confidential.

      Day 1 Post-Drug Administration Visit

        -  Review of interim medical history and use of concomitant medications;

        -  If symptoms are present, perform a symptom-directed physical examination;

        -  Assess local and systemic reactogenicity as well as any other adverse events;

        -  Collect blood and urine specimens for all tests as indicated in the Schedule of
           Procedures (Appendix A).

        -  For volunteers who have agreed to undergo skin punch biopsies, one additional skin punch
           biopsy will be performed 1 day after study drug administration, at the injection site.
           The selected skin site for biopsy will be cleaned with povidone-iodine and anesthetized
           by injection of 1-2% of xylocaine. L.M.X.4 (Lidocaine 4%) a topical anesthetic cream may
           also be applied. One punch biopsy of skin (6 mm) will be removed. The wound will be
           sutured and sterile dressing applied. This procedure leaves a small and permanent scar.

      Post-Drug Administration Visits

      Volunteers will be asked to return to the clinic 2, 3, and 7 days after study drug
      administration. On those days the following will be conducted:

        -  Review of interim medical history and use of concomitant medications;

        -  If symptoms are present, perform a symptom-directed physical examination;

        -  Assess local and systemic reactogenicity as well as any other adverse events;

        -  Collect blood and urine specimens for all tests as indicated in the Schedule of
           Procedures (Appendix A);

      Follow Up Visit

      At Week 2, volunteers will be asked to return to the clinic for an additional assessment of
      safety and immunogenicity. The following will be conducted at this visit:

        -  Review of interim medical history and use of concomitant medications;

        -  If symptoms are present, perform a symptom-directed physical examination;

        -  Assess any adverse events;

        -  Collect blood and urine specimens for all tests as indicated in the Schedule of
           Procedures (Appendix A);

        -  Suture removal after optional skin biopsies, if biopsies are performed.

      Samples will not be shipped to our collaborator, Dr. Rafick Sekaly until his IRB approval is
      accepted and reviewed by Rockefeller's IRB.
    
  