
    
      This is a randomized, multicenter, open-label clinical trial comparing two strategies of
      reperfusion in STEMI. Patients will be randomly allocated to: primary angioplasty or
      post-thrombolysis angioplasty. A clinical follow-up will be performed at 12 months. In this
      trial, 1444 patients with STEMI will be randomized to primary angioplasty with immediate
      stent implantation in at least the infarct related artery (IRA) under bivalirudin protection,
      or to a combined strategy of immediate thrombolysis with tenecteplase (TNK) and enoxaparin
      followed by cardiac catheterization and adequate revascularization when indicated during the
      next morning after randomization.

      Primary endpoint:

      To compare the clinical efficacy (incidence of the composite endpoint formed by death,
      reinfarction, new revascularization, rehospitalization or severe hemorrhage within 12 months)
      of primary angioplasty versus thrombolytic treatment followed by percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) the next day in patients with STEMI.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Components of the composite endpoint individually analysed at 12 months (death,
           reinfarction, new revascularization, rehospitalization and severe hemorrhage).

        -  Cardiovascular mortality and its different components (pre-specified in the case report
           forms, CRF) at 12 months.

        -  Incidence of the composite endpoint formed by death, reinfarction, new
           revascularization, rehospitalization and/or hemorrhage at 30 days.

        -  Incidence of major bleeding events during hospitalization and at 30 days.

        -  To compare the clinical efficacy of both treatments according to the timing of
           presentation after symptom onset (0 to 3 hours, >3-6 hours, and >6-12 hours), to the
           patient´s age (> or < 75 years), to the infarction localization (anterior or inferior),
           to gender (male or female), to the presence of diabetes mellitus and to the
           characteristics of the recruiting center (with or without 24-hour catheterization
           facilities).

        -  Incidence of the composite endpoint formed by death, reinfarction, new
           revascularization, rehospitalization and/or hemorrhage at 3 years.

        -  Components of the composite endpoint individually analysed at 3 years (death,
           reinfarction, new revascularization, rehospitalization and severe hemorrhage).

        -  Analysis of stent thrombosis according to the Academic Research Consortium (ARC)
           definition (http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/ac/06/transcripts/2006-4253t2.rtf.) within
           30 days, 12 months and 3 years.

        -  To compare the combination of death, reinfarction, revascularization, rehospitalization
           and/or major hemorrhage of patients treated with primary angioplasty versus those
           assigned to the postrombolysis angioplasty who underwent catheterization the following
           day within 30 days, 12 months and 3 years.

        -  To compare every indivicual components of the combine endpoint (death, reinfarction,
           revascularization, rehospitalization and major hemorrhage) of patients treated with
           primary angioplasty versus those assigned to the postrombolysis angioplasty who
           underwent catheterization the following day within 30 days, 12 months and 3 years.

        -  To compare the cost-effectiveness relationship (cost of maintaining a patient alive and
           without adverse cardiovascular events within the first year post-infarction) of both
           strategies.
    
  