
    
      Participants. To gather pilot data on the effects of BMBI, the investigators will aim to
      enroll up to 60 participants (up to 30 in each condition). Participants will be adults with
      chronic non-cancer pain (daily pain for at least 3 months).

      Outcomes. Outcome measures were selected based on existing recommendations, including IMMPACT
      guidelines, for efficacy trials in chronic pain.

        -  Aim #1: Test the effects of BMBI, relative to control, on central pain processing using
           quantitative sensory testing. Quantitative sensory testing (cold pressor test and
           pressure algometer) will be used to characterize pain processing: pain threshold (i.e.,
           when pain is first detected), pain tolerance (i.e., the duration of time that pain can
           be tolerated), and pain severity (i.e., intensity of pain). In the cold pressor test, a
           participant will be asked to place his or her hand in an ice bath until the pain is too
           great to remain in the water. Consistent with past research, a 15 liter refrigerated
           circulator (Polyscience MX15R-30-A11B) with water temperature set as low as 1°C will be
           used. In the pressure algometer test, the algometer will be used to apply pressure to
           the skin until the pain can no longer be tolerated. The investigators will utilize a
           device widely used in alogmeter pain research (Wagnder Force One Alogmeter FIPX).

        -  Aim #2: Test the immediate effects of BMBI, relative to control, on state self-report
           measures of pain, negative affect, and decentering. State self-report outcomes include:
           state decentering (7-item Decentering Subscale of the Toronto Mindfulness Scale), state
           pain intensity (1 item from the Brief Pain Inventory), state pain unpleasantness (1-item
           rated on 0-10 scale), state anxiety (1-item rated on 0-10 scale), state distress (1-item
           rated on 0-10 scale), state relaxation (1-item rated on 0-10 scale), and outcome
           expectancies (5-item Outcome Expectancies Questionnaire).

        -  Aim #3: Test longer-term effects of BMBI, relative to control, on trait self-report
           measures of pain, negative affect, trait mindfulness, and well-being. Trait self-report
           outcomes include: pain intensity and interference (9-item Brief Pain Inventory), anxiety
           and depression (14-item Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), trait mindfulness
           (15-item Mindful Attention Awareness Scale), psychological well-being (10-item Schwartz
           Outcome Scale), and home practice over the 4-week follow-up period (TLFB method).

      Procedure. Participants will be recruited primarily via flyers and postings in newspapers and
      on the Internet. Prospective participants will be screened by phone (about 30 minutes).
      Provisionally eligible participants will be asked to attend a 1-hour appointment, which will
      begin with informed consent procedures (5-10 minutes) and a pre-intervention assessment
      (about 20 minutes; includes demographics questionnaire, self-report outcome measures, and
      quantitative sensory testing).

      Eligible participants will be randomized to a condition, complete a 20-minute session of
      either BMBI or Control, and undergo a postintervention assessment (about 10 minutes; includes
      self-report outcome measures and quantitative sensory testing). Following the assessment,
      participants will be encouraged to practice the technique associated with their intervention
      (i.e., practicing mindfulness technique in BMBI, preparing healthy meals in Control) 20
      minutes/day for 1 week at home and to track their practice and opioid use during the
      follow-up period; the follow-up assessments will be conducted over the phone by a research
      assistant and include the self-report outcome measures (no quantitative sensory testing). All
      study procedures are anticipated to last 2 hours and 30 minutes (30 minutes for screening, 1
      hour for in-person appointment, and 30 minutes for each follow-up assessment).

      Interventions: The BMBI is be based on a BMBI which demonstrated analgesic effects in a
      previous study. Relative to full-length interventions, the investigators will employ a brief
      intervention (i.e., one, 20-minute session) that could be delivered in routine clinical care,
      e.g., in primary care, and that could overcome cost and time/effort barriers associated with
      longer treatments. The 20-minute BMBI session will include education on the foundational
      concepts of mindfulness and its relevance to chronic pain (5 minutes) and a guided
      mindfulness practice involving focused attention on the breath and monitoring of thoughts,
      feelings, and body sensations (15 minutes). BMBI participants will be encouraged to practice
      the taught mindfulness technique at home at least 20 minutes/day for 1 week (a handout and
      link to an online guided mindfulness practice will be provided).

      The Control intervention will involve nutrition education, adapted from an existing manual of
      cognitive-behavioral therapy for opioid-treated chronic pain. Control intervention protocol
      will match the BMBI in terms of time / structure to control for the non-specific,
      non-mindfulness effects of BMBI. The 20-minute Control session will include education on the
      relationship between diet and pain (10 minutes) and recommendations for a healthy diet (10
      minutes). Control participants will be encouraged to prepare healthy meals at home at least
      20 minutes/day for 1 week (a handout and link to online resources will be provided).
    
  