
    
      Identified possible subjects will be approached for Consent to participate by the Study
      coordinator. Subjects who have previously completed the study, and are re-admitted can be
      approached for participate if they meet eligibility. If the subject consent is approved, the
      subject is given a research number that will correlate to their name on a list locked in a
      separate location by the study coordinator.

      The Study coordinator will issue a Fitbit Charge 2 watch for heart rate tracking purposes.
      The study coordinator will fit the subject with the watch ensuring proper fitting on the
      non-affected wrist in the event of hemiparesis of the patient in order to collect appropriate
      movement data and have decreased risk for skin breakdown due to possible impaired sensation
      on the paretic side. Tests and measures are the same for all patients on the rehab unit and
      will not vary based on participation in the study. The research coordinator will gather tests
      and measures performed by clinical staff and compile the data in an organized manner. The
      research coordinator will amass data in Redcap with tests and measure scores aligned with the
      subject number. This site is password protected and only available to delegated research
      staff. The most detailed data collection will be with the wearable heart rate monitoring
      Fitbit Charge 2 devices.

      The device will require battery recharge approximately every 3-5 days, during this time data
      will also be downloaded. The Fitbit Charge 2 has a charging time of 2 hours, therefore every
      3-5 days there will be an approx. 2-3 hour missing data piece during charging and downloading
      time, charging days will be compared with all other non-charging days to average data. It is
      acceptable for there to be up to 48 hours of missing data, in which charging and downloading
      data will take place as well as any procedures the subject may need that would require the
      Fitbit Charge 2 to be removed. Each subject will have a watch designated to them and each
      device will have a separate profile within the Fitbit Charge 2 dashboard. Data will be
      downloaded from the Fitbit Charge 2 dashboard to excel formatting. Profiles of each patient
      will not include protected health information and profiles will be set up using subject
      number, birth year, gender, height and weight in order to obtain accurate health metrics.
      Encrypted data will be stored in the Redcap system.

      Fitbit Charge 2 files will be downloaded weekly (every 3-5 days) utilizing .csv file format
      in summary array. Included metrics are minutes sedentary, minutes lightly active, minutes
      fairly active, minutes very active, minutes asleep, minutes awake, and time in bed. The
      research coordinator will keep the timestamp array data for the .csv files organized in
      Redcap.

      Rehab processes will not change based on participation in the study. Within 24 hours of
      discharge the study coordinator will re-administer the SF-36 quality of life measure, collect
      equipment, thank the subjects for participation, and assess for any skin breakdown related to
      the usage of the watch, if not previously done within 24 hours. The study coordinator will
      ensure data subset is organized and properly stored for the statistician including Fitbit
      Charge 2 and functional mobility measures.
    
  