
    
      The quality improvement strategy being assessed in this study will be applied to the
      healthcare team, thus any intervention that is not well established in the literature will
      not be prescribed to the patients. Thus, this trial does not imply any additional risk for
      patients.

      Furthermore, if this strategy is proved to be effective, it may be offered as a new clinical
      practice that might benefit brazilian patients.

      BRIDGE-CV consists of a quality improvement project by the incorporation of evidence based
      interventions in public and private hospitals in Brazil. The chosen setting is cardiovascular
      prevention in high risk patients since cardiovascular diseases represent the major cause of
      death in Brazil.

      It will be developed a cluster randomized trial, where hospitals will be allocated to receive
      or not the multifaceted intervention.

      The patients will be followed for 12 months in order to assess if the multifaceted
      intervention can increase the evidence based prescriptions. If this is the case, this tool
      package may be offered as a quality improvement intervention for all hospitals.

      Sites will be selected through the HCor investigators network. Invited sites must complete a
      screening form in order to verify eligibility and feasibility of application of the BRIDGE CV
      tools.Clusters will be randomized and allocated 1:1 to the Multifaceted Intervention Group or
      to the Control Group. Once the hospital/center is allocated to one of the groups every
      patient at that institution must be assisted following the same procedures.

      The randomization list will be created considering a random function with equal probability
      of being allocated to each of the groups. Each site will receive a code number and just this
      numbers will be used during randomization. This procedure will be performed by the HCor
      statistician ensuring allocation concealment. The study coordinator will inform the site what
      procedures must be taken, without revealing to the statistician which hospitals are allocated
      to the intervention group.

      The sample will be stratified considering primary care centers and secondary/tertiary
      outpatients' clinics.

      Considering the open nature of the study, treatment allocation will not be blinded to the
      investigators, health care providers and patients.

      However, clinical outcomes will be assessed and validated by a blinded committee.
    
  