
    
      Breast cancer is the most fre¬quently diagnosed cancer and the chief cause of cancer death
      among women worldwide, with an es¬timated 1.7 million cases.

      Breast cancer alone accounts for 25% of all cancer cases and 15% of all cancer deaths among
      females .so, Its high incidence has led to research on new diagnostic imaging techniques for
      early diagnosis and to improve patient's mortality rate[1].

      Application of imaging techniques together with other investigation would help clinical
      decision making. the most important factor in reducing mortality of certain cancers is an
      early diagnosis of cancer via screening based on imaging[2].

      US is an accurate method for detection of breast masses ; however, US has a low accuracy in
      differentiating between benign from malignant breast masses . US could suggest a malignancy
      likelihood criteria of a breast mass, such as hypoechogenicity, irregular margins,
      microcalcifications, increased vascularity by Doppler and us elastography [3].

      Ultrasound elastography provides a non-invasive evaluation of the "stiffness" of a lesion.
      Recent studies show that ultrasonographic elastogra¬phy (USE) provides higher diagnostic
      accuracy together with Doppler application compared with conventional B-mode ultrasonography
      during breast cancer diagnosis, which eventually helps to reduce false-positive results (ie,
      increased specificity) and therefore is useful in avoiding breast biopsy[4].

      US elastography has been used to detect the nature of breast lesions , by measuring the
      tissue stiffness non invasively. It depends on tissue deformation strain that is caused by
      external compression. it is complementary to gray scale findings particularly in lesions with
      indeterminate US findings, also US elastography could be used to guide the follow up of
      leisons diagnosed as benign at ( FNA) fine needle aspiration.[5][6]
    
  