
    
      Septic arthritis of the native hip poses significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges as
      it is considered an orthopedic emergency requiring urgent surgery. Early diagnosis remains
      difficult as the golden standard is based on microbiological confirmation of bacteria in
      synovial fluid or solid tissue biopsies, which can take up to a minimum of 3-5 days or
      longer. Inadequate or delayed treatment is disastrous, resulting in irreversible destruction
      of the joint. Initial treatment usually comprises of arthroscopic or open debridement. In
      comparison to septic arthritis of the knee, patients are more often less fit and the joint is
      less accessible for arthroscopic intervention. Initial surgical debridement should be
      performed within 24 hours of occurrence. According to literature 25-38% of first debridement
      fail, requiring a second or third intervention or even a staged procedure with femoral head
      resection and a temporary antibiotic-loaded cement spacer.

      Understanding who will succeed and who will fail after a single surgical debridement of a
      septic hip joint could improve shared decision-making and could help decide which patient
      would benefit from resection arthroplasty straight away. Factors such as a history of
      inflammatory arthritis, diabetes, a synovial-fluid nucleated cell count of > 85.0 x 10^9
      cells/L, S. aureus, delay to surgery and positive cultures of drain fluid were associated
      with failure of initial debridement, but have not been validated. Considering the increased
      use of MRI and nuclear imaging in the work-up of these patients, there might be additional
      useful risk factors, such as extra-articular manifestation of the infection, AVN of the
      femoral head, severe degeneration of the joint, multi-joint involvement, SUV-max values on
      FDG-PET-CT and so on.

      Most literature surrounding this subject is limited to case reports and case series with
      small sample sizes. Due to the sizable amounts of tertiary references, a large population of
      transplant patients treated at the institution UZ Leuven Gasthuisberg, and the own experience
      of the investigators, the investigators are convinced that the population size at is
      substantially larger.

      In order to gain more insight in clinical factors associated with failure of a single
      surgical debridement in septic arthritis of the native hip, a retrospective cohort study will
      be conducted. There are no detailed guidelines for the treatment of septic arthritis of the
      native hip. Therefore, treatment today is similar to treatment 10 years ago (i.e. the
      treating surgeon does what he thinks is best for the patient). This lack of a structured
      approach is the reason for this retrospective study and we aim to come up with principles to
      guide treatment of future patients.
    
  