
    
      It has been commonly accepted that there is considerable geographic variation in the
      prevalence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and much less prevalent in Asia.
      However, a tendency of increasing the prevalence of GERD has been observed in Taiwan with
      four folds of growth (attached 1 & 2), Japan and Singapore. GERD is a chronic, relapsing
      disease, causing a poor quality of life lower than that of CAD and a greater burden with
      exhausting socioeconomic and medical resource much higher than peptic ulcer disease. Thus,
      thoroughly elucidating the mechanisms of GERD, in combination of basic science and clinical
      characteristics, to well and correctly clarify these diseases will be greatly helpful in
      clinical application.

      Reflux of duodenal contents is believed to contribute to esophageal injury, Barrett's
      esophagus and esophageal cancer. HCL and bile acid, particularly conjugated form at low pH,
      has now been considered playing a more important pathogenetic role in the reflux esophagitis;
      on the contrary, low gastric acid status may increase the risk of dysplasia and
      carcinogenesis on Barrett's esophagus due to increased pulse of bile acid. While, only
      limited reports focusing immune mechanism in the complex populations of GERD. In few
      preliminary literatures showed that cytokine and tumor necrosis factors are associated with
      GERD and Barrett's esophagus; it is worthwhile to further investigate. The effect of benefit
      or harm of presence of Hp infection in GERD is debated; most are epidemiologic study, lacking
      evidence- based data; whether need to eradicate Hp in the patients with reflux disease or not
      is difficult to conclude. The current theory of transient relaxation of LES (TLESRs) as the
      major pathophysiologic mechanism of GERD has been challenged after pooling mass clinical
      experiences. Particularly after recent development of endoscopic therapy of GERD, we found
      that current understanding of integration of anatomy and physiology of motility of LES and
      related components in GERD is still insufficient. It will be important to integrate evidence-
      based basic and clinical data of esophagus, in order to enter new era of the treatment of
      GERD.

      Recently, Fass R et al., proposed a new conceptual framework of GERD; they suggest that it
      should be divided into three categories, instead of a linear relation in the same spectrum,
      including NERD, reflux esophagitis and Barrett's esophagus. In our clinical observation, we
      also have got the same concept; TLESR alone cannot fit all of the clinical characteristics
      and fails to explain all mechanisms of GERD. Based on currently advanced concepts from the
      top of world and our observations, we propose the following hypotheses: (1). LES and cruel
      diaphragm are the equally important barriers of lower esophagus in prevention of reflux.
      TLESR alone is insufficient to causing these reflux diseases; on the contrary, hiatus hernia
      is believed playing an important role in the beginning and late stage of GERD than previously
      known; so called small hiatus hernia (< 2 cm) and dynamic abnormality of crual diaphragm with
      'physiologic' hernia with transient sac should not be neglected, particularly in the patients
      of 'minimal esophagitis' and NERD and maybe also in those of Barrett's esophagus. (2). Once
      dysfunction of LES and cruel diaphragm with loss of both intrinsic and extrinsic sphincters,
      there should be an indirect or intermediate defense or mediator before resulting in NERD,
      reflux esophagitis or Barrett's esophagus; immuno-inflammatory reaction and COX-2 expression
      are the firstly candidates. (3) The mechanism of NERD is dysfunction of both sphincters with
      a physiologic hernial sac, but without immunological abnormality. (4). NOS is the major
      modulator of the LES and cruel diaphragm. (5). Benefit or harm of Hp infected stomach to
      esophagus probably depends on the resulting intragastric acid status rather than the
      simplified concept of the presence of Hp itself. (6). Via different patterns of expression of
      NOS, COX-2 and immuno-inflammatory reaction, the refluxed HCL and bile acid in the lower
      esophagus can make lower esophagus expressed as three categories: (a). Symptom -NERD, (b).
      Inflammatory necrosis- reflux esophagitis, (3). Cell cycle abnormality with metaplasia-
      Barrett's esophagus; no linear relationship between these three.

      The above hypotheses are mainly based on the following evidences or speculations:
      prostaglandins (PGs) possess dual effects of pain sensation and motility in the
      gastrointestinal tract. It is believed that PGE2 release during inflammation initiated by
      acid injury is a key component of LES dysfunction and reflux damage. Gastric and duodenal
      juice can induce production of ROS, thereby damaging esophageal mucosa, which is strongly
      associated with reflux esophagitis. ROS may induce DNA modifications and act as carcinogens.
      ROS can induce apoptosis in cultured gastric cells. Apoptosis is believed to occur in these
      conditions; and suppression or inhibition of apoptosis contributes to carcinogenesis and its
      progression. However, this is still lacking sufficient related data in bile acid related
      esophagitis and esophageal carcinogenesis with ROS and apoptosis. Therefore, it will be
      valuable to elucidate the role of ROS in the HCL and bile acid related esophagitis and
      carcinogenesis with relation to apoptosis. Recently, COX-2 is believed to highly contribute
      to esophageal carcinogenesis. And ROS can up-regulate COX-2 in bovine luteal cells.
      Therefore, we believe to elucidate the role and mechanism of PGs and COX-2 in the reflux
      esophagitis. Additionally, NO produced from nNOS can relax lower esophageal sphincter and
      play a role in the NANC modulation in the LES. However, pervious hypothesis "cNOS is
      beneficial and iNOS is harmful to gastrointestinal tract" has been highly questioned
      recently. While, the interaction of COX-2 and NOS has been known to effect on the modulation
      of the function and inflammatory activity in the cardiopulmonary system and kidneys. So, we
      can believe that in order to elucidate the mechanisms of esophageal function and esophagitis,
      simultaneous investigation of the effects and roles of COX-2 and NOS is necessary and very
      import. NO modulating agents and COX-2 inhibitor is believed to of the most promising in the
      treatment of reflux esophagitis and its related metaplasic or neoplastic complications in the
      future. Unfortunately, there is still lacking sufficient integrated clinical and molecular
      biologic data in this task.

      It has been preliminarily known that IL-8 and IL-1β (TH-1cytokines) play a role in the early
      inflammatory stage in reflux esophagitis; IL-4 and L-10 (TH-2cytokines) may play an important
      role in the development of Barrett's esophagus; and TNF-αand p53 mutant are closely related
      with dysplasia and carcinogenesis of Barrett's esophagus, but its clinical application
      remains to be further testified, particularly in correlating with COX-2 and NOS expressions.
      It has been known that IL-1β is an extremely potent acid suppressant. Hp- infected stomach
      with mucosal inflammation can up-regulate the IL-β expression and result in gastric atrophy
      with hypoacidic status and increase in the risk of gastric cancer; we speculate this low acid
      status may decrease the acid injury to esophagus with lower risk of NERD and reflux disease;
      on the contrary, the risk of Barrett's esophagus, dysplasia and carcinogenesis may increase
      by increasing bile acid pulse. This hypothesis is worthwhile to be testified to elucidate
      these dates.

      By using combination of the expression of COX-2 and NOS and immunologic reaction in the
      esophagus with manometry of LES and cruel diaphragm and 24 hr esophageal pH monitoring to
      investigate the mechanisms and to make a new and more clinically applicable clarification of
      these reflux diseases will be valuable in the clinical management and prevention. We will
      perform the following works and complete the objectives: 1) comparing the difference of
      immuno-inflammatory reactions among NERD, reflux esophagitis and Barrett's esophagus; 2) the
      different expression of PGs & COX-2 in functional heartburn, hiatus hernia, NERD, reflux
      disease and Barrett's esophagus; determining the subtype of EP receptor (EP1~4); 3)
      determining and comparing the expression of NOS in the esophagus; 4) investigating the role
      of ROS in the esophagus; 5) in correlating cytokine, COX-2 and NOS with LESP, TLESR,
      diaphragm EMG and 24-hour esophageal pH ; 6) the difference of expression of cytokine,
      atrophic gastritis and Hp in gastric mucosa, in correlating with intragastric acid status,
      among functional heartburn, hiatus hernia, NERD, erosive esophagitis and Barrett's esophagus;
      to determine whether should eradicate Hp in reflux esophageal disease; 7) the effects of
      lipid peroxidation related immunologic reaction, with relation to COX-2 and NOS, in the
      inflammatory activity and esophageal carcinogenesis of esophagus; 8) the effects of
      cytokines, COX-2 and NOS on the apoptosis in these reflux esophageal diseases; 9) integrating
      immuno-inflamatory reaction, COX-2, NOS with manometry of LES and diaphragm, and 24-hour pH
      monitoring and intragastric pH to newly clarify GERD into evidence based categories.

      I. Patient selection by GERD symptom questionnaire with score of severity and frequency, and
      quality of life (QoL).

      II. Panendoscopic examination: the patients were clarified into NERD, reflux esophagitis or
      Barrett's esophagus (each n=20), with additional group of hiatus hernia (n=20 for each those
      > 2 cm and < 2 cm, respectively; the patients are free of symptom and endoscopically erosive
      esophagitis); another group of functional heartburn (%time of pH < 4 less than 4 and
      DeMeester score < 14.72; n =50).

      III. Endoscopic biopsy: specimens of esophagus, cardia and antrum will be obtained for
      histology (H&E stain for inflammatory activity, atrophic gastritis and Hp, and special stain
      for Barrett's esophagus).

      IV. Immunological and molecular study of esophageal and cardia specimens: EIA,
      immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, RT-PCR of COX-2, NOS and cytokine. EIA for PGs.

      V. Immunological and molecular study of antral specimens of stomach: EIA,
      immunohistochemistry and Western blotting of IL-1β.

      VI. Blood sampling for plasma: EIA for cytokines, PGI, PGII, PGI/II, gastrin and Hp titers.

      VII. Esophageal manometry: LESP will be divided into hypertensive, normotensive and
      hypotensive; calculate TLESRs at the same time. VIII. Diaphragm EMG: DEMG will be divided
      into hypertensive, normotensive and hypotensive. IX. 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring:
      recording total numbers of reflux episodes, total duration of pH < 4 and DeMester score;
      record intragastric pH.

      X. In vitro esophageal tissue culture: endoscopic biopsy specimens of esophagus from the
      patients. 1) adding HCL or bile acid into tissue culture to measure the expression of
      cytokine, COX-2 and NOS; 2) adding cytokine into tissue culture to measure COX-2 expression;
      3) adding PGs, arachidonic acid, L-arginine and ROS, respectively or in combination, into
      incubated esophageal specimens to measure cytokine and COX-2 expression ; 4) instill PGs
      antagonists, COX inhibitors, NOS inhibitors or ROS scavengers, each alone or in combination,
      into incubated esophageal specimens to measure cytokine COX-2 expression.

      This is a study of an integrated clinical anatomy-physiology, immunology and molecular
      biology in gastroesophageal reflux disease. Starting from clinic to bench and back from bench
      to bedside, detailed mechanisms of GERD will be obtained and a new clarification will be
      provided to further clinical application in the treatment and prevention of GERD. The role of
      Hp will be elucidated and to determine whether should eradicate Hp in the reflux esophageal
      diseases.
    
  