
    
      Increasing prevalence of obesity and tendency to become pregnant later in life can explain
      rising prevalence of gestation diabetes (GDM) (1). Diabetes in pregnancy is a major public
      health issue: it has been shown that the mother's glycemic levels correlates perfectly with
      child's birth weight, death in utero, perinatal mortality and hypoglycemia (2). Therapeutic
      management is relatively simple and based on correction of hyperglycemia by carbohydrate
      restriction and energy-controlled diet adapted to pre-pregnancy BMI (3).

      Although restriction of dietary carbohydrate has been the cornstone for treatment of GDM
      (4,5) with ACOG and The Endocrine Society recommendation for carbohydrate intake to 33-40% of
      total daily calories, the paucity of RCT evidence supporting safety of carbohydrate
      restriction still exist and actual dietary composition that optimizes perinatal outcomes is
      unknown (3).

      Carbohydrate restriction in GDM comes with the potential increases in dietary fat intake and
      consequently a strong association between maternal lipids (i.e., triglycerides and free fatty
      acids) and excess fetal growth (6). Moreover, restrictive caloric and carbohydrate diet
      increases ketogenesis and ketone bodies (acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) cross
      well the placental barrier.

      Gestational ketogenic diet in mouse deleteriously affects the offspring growth and brain
      development (7), an early postnatal exposure to a ketogenic diet results in significant
      alterations to neonatal brain structure and can be accompanied by functional and behavioral
      changes in later postnatal life (8).

      In the second half of pregnancy, under the influence of increasing placental hormones and
      cytokine concentration, lipolysis become dominant and use of free fatty acids as the energy
      material for the mother's body in place of glucose that is consumed mostly by the fetus.

      These mechanisms are responsible for increased ketogenesis during pregnancy and are three
      times higher at night among pregnant women than among nonpregnant women (16). Human studies
      focused mostly exclusively on ketonuria; and a negative correlation between ketonuria and
      intellectual quotient in children born to diabetic mothers have been reported (9). Rizzo et
      al. did not confirm this correlation, although the authors did reveal a negative correlation
      between maternal β-hydroxybutyrate concentration in blood and the child's mental development
      (10).

      On the other hand, evaluating ketone production in early pregnancy with type 1 diabetes by
      measuring blood BHB, the Jovanovic et al. found that despite the significantly elevated blood
      BHB level (2.5-fold higher than nondiabetic pregnant at 6th week gestation, and 1.6-fold at
      12th week gestation), there was trend to lower BHB level in diabetic and nondiabetic mothers
      with malformed infants and pregnancy loss. The level of BHB was lower also in diabetic
      mothers of macrosomic infants (11).

      Recently, inexpensive quantitative test of BHB became available using small capillary blood
      sample. Therefore, we would like to evaluate the levels of BHB in GDM patients treated by two
      different carbohydrate restricted diets in order to add an evidence on safety and proper
      caloric and carbohydrate restriction recommendation during pregnancy in order to optimize
      maternal and perinatal outcomes.
    
  