
    
      Specific Aim 1: Test if initiation of the rapid FiO2 optimization protocol following ROSC
      from cardiac arrest is associated with the degree of in vivo oxidative stress during the
      post-resuscitation phase of therapy.

      Approach: We will conduct a multicenter interventional study (FiO2 optimization protocol) of
      adult patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest. We will record data pertaining to
      oxygenation parameters and other factors and measure biomarkers of oxidative stress
      [isoprostanes (IsoPs) and isofurans (IsoFs)] in the plasma at 0 and 6 hours after ROSC using
      gas chromatography negative ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry. We will compare plasma
      IsoPs/IsoFs at each time point between subjects enrolled in REOX II (i.e. receive the study
      intervention, rapid FiO2 optimization) and REOX I (i.e. do not receive the study
      intervention) using t-test or Mann-Whitney U as appropriate with corrections for multiple
      comparisons.

      Specific Aim 2: Test if initiation of the rapid FiO2 optimization protocol following ROSC
      from cardiac arrest is associated with a decrease in neurological disability at hospital
      discharge.

      Approach: In the study described above, we will determine the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at
      hospital discharge. We will compare proportions of good neurological outcome [defined as a
      mRS ≤ 3] between subjects enrolled in REOX II (i.e. receive the study intervention, rapid
      FiO2 optimization) vs. those enrolled in REOX I (i.e. do not receive the study intervention),
      using binomial test.

      Specific Aim 3: Test if initiation of the rapid FiO2 optimization protocol following ROSC
      from cardiac arrest is associated with neuropsychological outcomes among survivors at 180
      days.

      Approach: In the study described above, we will assess neuropsychological outcome among
      survivors at 180 days. Neuropsychological testing will use validated instruments across five
      cognitive domains (attention, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV-digit span; (2) reasoning,
      Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV-similarities; (3) immediate and delayed memory, Wechsler
      Memory Scale-III-logical memory I and II; (4) verbal fluency, Controlled Oral Word
      Association Test; and (5) executive functioning, Hayling Sentence Completion Test). Among
      survivors, we will compare the 180-day neuropsychological measures (composite z-scores for
      each cognitive domain) between the same two groups using t-test or Mann-Whitney U as
      appropriate with corrections for multiple comparisons. We will also compare the proportions
      of patients able to return to work between the two groups using binomial test
    
  