
    
      The patients for this study will be recruited from the diverticular disease clinic at King's
      College Hospital. The clinic is the first and the largest specialist diverticular clinic in
      the UK and attracts referrals directly from GP's, internal referrals from gastroenterology,
      in and outpatients and increasingly from Gastroenterology and Colorectal Surgery clinics in
      the South East of England. Eligible patients who meet fulfill the entry criteria will be
      invited to participate. They will receive a patient information sheet, which they take home
      with them for reading. They will then be seen again (usually within 2 weeks, or after any
      confirmatory tests have been completed) to discuss any questions that they may have and for a
      decision for inclusion into the trial.

      Each will undergo a full blood count and conventional biochemistry and they will provide a
      stool sample for assessment of intestinal inflammation by a calprotectin estimation. They
      will also complete a baseline symptoms-based questionnaire. They will then be randomized to
      treatments A or B, both investigator and patient will be unaware of whether it is the active
      treatment (Symprove) or placebo. Each patient will complete the symptom-based questionnaire
      every 30 days while on on the 90 day treatment (Day 30, Day 60, and Day 90). The primary
      outcome measure will be a change in symptoms score from Day 0 to Day 90.

      Also every 30 days while on treatment, stool tests will be repeated for faecal calprotectin.
      An additional sample will be frozen for eventual microbiota assessment. The secondary outcome
      measure will be change in the faecal microbiota between Day 0 and Day 90.

      Patients will be seen in clinic 30 days after cessation of the trial (Day 120), at which time
      those patients on placebo will be offered a 90 day free treatment with the active ingredient
      if they so wish.
    
  