
    
      An esophageal motility disorder is when muscular contractions become discoordinated or weak
      and interfere with movement of food down the esophagus. Some esophageal motility disorders
      persist long enough to cause severe problems requiring surgical intervention. Achalasia, one
      subtype of esophageal motility disorder that is a rare disease, can be defined by the
      esophageal sphincter and muscle unable to relax or dilate. Left untreated, symptoms such as
      difficulty swallowing, regurgitation, heartburn, and chest pain may easily turn into
      complications such as severe weight loss, malnutrition, coughing, pulmonary infection,
      pneumonia, and perforation of the esophagus. Diagnosis of esophageal achalasia can be
      determined by esophageal manometry and/or barium swallow esophagram. Treatment for achalasia
      includes balloon dilation, botulinum toxin injection and surgical intervention. Balloon
      dilation is performed by inserting a balloon through the esophageal sphincter, inflating the
      balloon, disrupting the esophageal muscle. Botox has also been known to successfully relax
      spastic muscle contractions of achalasia through direct injection into the esophageal muscle.
      Unfortunately, each alternative to surgical treatment often requires repeated administration
      to improve the symptoms of achalasia. Traditional treatment of achalasia has included open
      abdominal or thoracic surgical procedures to cut valve muscles between the esophagus and
      stomach (Heller Myotomy). Laparoscopic multi-port Heller myotomies have become the preferred
      approach, requiring 4 smaller abdominal incisions for placement of laparoscope equipment.
      Results of this laparoscopic technique have proven that although 2/3 of the patient
      population was successfully treated, a subset of this group still need repeat surgical
      procedures or balloon dilation. Recently, single-incision laparoscopic Heller myotomies have
      produced favorable results, with a single umbilical incision preferential to
      multiple-incision laparoscopy. We propose adoption of a new, incisionless approach to
      performing a Heller myotomy for the surgical treatment of achalasia. The method, the Peroral
      Endoscopic Myotomy (POEM) is expected to provide a less-invasive treatment for esophageal
      achalasia, ideally providing similar if not better outcomes as the Heller myotomy and can be
      adopted safely and effectively at Penn Medicine.
    
  