
    
      This pilot-study will be a prospective, single-centre, observational study including 100
      critically ill patients consecutively admitted to the medical intensive care unit (ICU) of
      the University hospital of Zurich, Switzerland, to assess and validate the use of MR-proADM
      and the CT-proET1/MR-proADM-ratio as prognostic markers in critically ill patients. After
      obtaining informed consent of the patient or approval of a legal representative and meeting
      of the inclusion, as well as missing exclusion criteria the patients will be enrolled.

      At study enrolment patient health status will be assessed by health related diagnosis and the
      Charlson comorbidity index. This information is obtained routinely in every patient in our
      ICU. The Charlson comorbidity index is calculated based on the medical history of the
      patient. The values of MR-proADM and CT-proET-1 will be measured daily over the first 7 days
      of the ICU stay. If a patient is discharged before day 7, no further measurements will be
      performed. The blood samples will be collected together with the routine blood check on
      admission, as well as each morning. Clinical evaluation of the patients will take place each
      morning including the evaluation of the hemodynamics, organ dysfunction, microcirculation and
      the need for vasopressors.

      The severity of illness of the patient will be assessed using the SAPS II score and the SOFA
      score. SAPS-II reflects the physiological status of the patient within the first 24 hours
      (admission severity) and the SOFA score the number of failing organs (respiration,
      coagulation, liver, cardiovascular, CNS, renal). The SAPS-II will be assessed on Visit 3 and
      the SOFA daily using the information obtained during the routine clinical examination and the
      laboratory results of the day. SAPS II and SOFA scores are part of the routine assessment of
      all our patients in the ICU and are used as quality indicators.

      The status of the microcirculation is assessed using clinical signs (mottling score,
      capillary refill time and sublingual microcirculation functional status) and laboratory
      parameters reflecting the degree of tissue oxygen extraction such as SaO2-SvO2 gap, Pv-aCO2
      gap and the arterial lactate concentration. All these parameters are delivered by the blood
      gas analyser located in the ICU from an arterial and a venous blood sample of 1.5 ml each
      drawn via the arterial and central venous line respectively. These catheters and blood
      samples are part of the routine hemo-dynamic monitoring and assessment of the critically ill
      patient in our ICU.

      The patients' survival status will be assessed on day 7 and day 28 after study enrolment. In
      addition, ICU and hospital mortality are recorded. If the patient is still in the hospital on
      day 28, survival data will be taken from the medical record. In the case the patient is
      dismissed from the hospital the study team will contact him by phone call. If he is not
      reachable (documented attempts) the study team will contact his general practitioner. To be
      in line with data protection requirements the patient gives the consent to contact the
      general practitioner in the informed consent form. No other information than the survival
      status will be collected at this stage. Data collection for the study ends 28 (± 3 days) days
      after enrolment.
    
  