
    
      PLANNED STUDY: This randomized study will compare 8 weeks chest physiotherapy with 8 weeks
      chest physiotherapy plus pulmonary rehabilitation.

      PLAN OF INVESTIGATION: Patients will be recruited from NHS Lothian with 15 randomized to
      chest physiotherapy and 15 to chest physiotherapy plus pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Protocols:

      Chest physiotherapy Physiotherapy will be aided using a positive pressure airways device
      (Acapella) that aids sputum expectoration. They will be asked to do 10 breaths, followed by 3
      huffs and a cough. This will be repeated 3 times and repeated twice a day. Expected tiime
      10-15 minutes twice daily.

      Pulmonary rehabiliation Will be an 8-week programme twice a week in hospital with a third
      session (unsupervised) at home. It will include both cardiovascular training and upper limb
      and lower limb strengthening exercises.

      Each patient will have a baseline exercise test. Calculation of the patient's 80% peak heart
      rate will be recorded and then used to ensure that patients are working to this level during
      the pulmonary rehabilitation cardiovascular sections.

      The session will include: 5 minute warm up; 10 minutes treadmill; 10 minutes bicycle; 10
      minutes stepper; 10 minutes upper limb and lower limb strengthening exercises; 5 minutes cool
      down.

      Throughout the 8-week programme the resistance and intensity of each activity will be
      increased as they improve.

      Following commencement of their first class they will be provided with a diary for a walking
      programme at home, which they will do once a week unsupervised.

      Endpoints: Assessments below will be done at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and 3 months.

      Microbiology: A fresh sputum sample will be submitted for micobiological culture.

      Systemic inflammatory markers: 10mls venous blood for full blood count, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate, C reactive protein, urea, electrolytes and liver function tests.

      Pulmonary physiology: Pre bronchodilator spirometry (FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC), mouth
      pressures, followed by an incremental shuttle walk test.

      24 hour sputum volume: This will be collected the day before each clinic visit. Sputum
      colour: Graded as mucoid, mucopurulent or purulent. Health related quality of life: Leicester
      Cough Questionnaire and St George's Respiratory Questionnaire.
    
  