
    
      Objective of this study The investigators' study objectives are to see if additionally
      providing a written document along with the discussion of surgical risks improves risk recall
      for patient seen in consultation for open carpal tunnel release, and if this has any effect
      on overall satisfaction after the procedure.

      To accomplish this goal, the investigators intend to provide patients with a written document
      outlining the same risks as are discussed in consultation and investigate if their recall of
      the risks is improved compared to patients who receive discussion alone. The investigators
      will also see whether risk recall is affected if patients participate in a group format
      informed consent discussion compared to a standard individual discussion. The investigators
      propose to do this as a two-part prospective randomized control trial of patients who are new
      referrals to the Halifax Infirmary Plastic Surgery Clinic.

      Background The informed consent process The risks and benefits of an operation or procedure
      are typically discussed as part of the informed consent process for an initial surgical
      consultation. Informed consent is a legal requirement for surgery and is based on the
      components of disclosure, comprehension, competence and voluntary choice. Despite this,
      patients are often unable to recall the specific risks that were reviewed. Additionally,
      failure to understand the possible risks and failure of communication are more common reasons
      for patients to seek legal action. Patients have historically reported that they wished they
      had received more information about their operation prior to surgery.

      Increased understanding of a procedure and its risks has been shown to give patients more
      realistic expectations, increase cooperation and result in higher satisfaction.
      Traditionally, obtaining informed consent for surgical procedures has involved an oral
      discussion, but this may be insufficient as oral information tends to be poorly retained.

      Previous research in the field of otolaryngology has shown that written documentation in
      addition to oral discussion increases recall of both general knowledge of a procedure and of
      the specific risks of a procedure. Siau et al. (2010) found that this effect was even more
      pronounced for recall of the risks associated with the operation and that subjectively
      patients were found to be happy to have received a pamphlet and found it helpful. Early
      research into this subject in general surgery suggested that the optimal time to provide
      additional information regarding a procedure is at the time of the initial consultation or at
      least one week prior to surgery.

      The investigators' research is important as it could show that providing a written document
      in conjunction with the standard oral discussion improves patients' risk recall in the
      informed consent process for open carpal tunnel surgery. In addition, the investigators wish
      to look into whether this in turn increases satisfaction with the procedure. Though past
      research has drawn a link between comprehension and satisfaction, very little research has
      been conducted specifically on this topic. In the future this research could be extended to
      other surgical practices.

      Due to large volumes of patients requiring open carpal tunnel release, wait times following
      referral can vary from 30 to 151 days in Nova Scotia, with an average wait time of 59 days
      (Patient Access Registry NS, July-September 2013). While open carpal tunnel release surgery
      is a very brief procedure with an extremely low rate of post-operative complications (Ono et
      al., 2010), the presurgical consultation with each patient takes a large proportion of the
      time spent by both patient and surgeon addressing the disease. To address a similar problem
      involving extensive information required prior to surgery, the UHN breast reconstruction
      program in Toronto is in the process of piloting an educational group intervention, which
      includes seminar-style lectures and group discussion, in order to improve shared decision
      making in women undergoing post-mastectomy breast reconstruction (Platt et al., 2013). We
      seek to implement a similar program for patients scheduled to undergo open carpal tunnel
      release.

      According to the Weiss model of medical stigma (Weiss et al., 2006), Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
      could be considered a disease with minimal stigma attached. As one would correspondingly
      expect, when offered the opportunity to participate in a group seminar style presurgical
      consult, many patients have expressed a positive opinion and willingness to participate.

      If there are no differences between risk recall or general satisfaction in patients who are
      part of a group consultation compared to a traditional consult, group consultation may be a
      viable tool to shorten wait times for patients undergoing specific kinds of medical and
      surgical procedures.

      Hypothesis The investigators are testing whether providing a written document in conjunction
      with the standard oral discussion improve patients' risk recall in the informed consent
      process for open carpal tunnel release and increase patients' subjective satisfaction with
      their operation. In addition, the investigators will test whether a group consultation format
      provides a model for large-volume, low-variation, low-urgency surgery without reducing
      ability to recall risks of surgery or overall satisfaction.

      Patient Selection

      The investigators study will be a two-part prospective randomized study, each of 100
      consecutive patients being seen for open carpal tunnel release consultation at the Halifax
      Infirmary. Inclusion criteria will be:

      The sample size was chosen based on previous studies investigating risk recall and a power
      calculation with the hypothesis of a mean of 4 items recalled, a standard deviation of 2.5
      (alpha 0.05, beta 0.95), giving us a sample size given our hypothesis (n = 40 per study
      group).
    
  