
    
      T1D is commonly treated with the administration of insulin, either by multiple insulin
      injections or by a continuous supply of insulin through a wearable pump. Insulin therapy
      allows long-term survival in individuals with T1D; however, it does not guarantee constant
      normal blood sugar control. Because of this, long-term type 1 diabetic survivors often
      develop vascular complications, such as diabetic retinopathy, an eye disease that can cause
      poor vision and blindness, and diabetic nephropathy, a kidney disease that can lead to kidney
      failure and thus kidney transplant. Some individuals with T1D develop hypoglycemia
      unawareness, a life-threatening condition that is not easily treatable with medication and is
      characterized by reduced or absent warning signals for hypoglycemia. For such individuals,
      pancreas or pancreatic islet transplantation are possible treatment options. Rejection of
      these islets by the recipient's immune system, however, can make the treatment ineffective.
      An immune response known as instant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction (IBMIR) results in
      the disruption of islet integrity and islet loss within an hour of transplantation. LMW-SD
      inhibits IBMIR by preventing the cascade that triggers it, when combined with pancreatic
      islets. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of LMW-SD improving
      the outcome of islet transplantation by preventing IBMIR.

      Once a preparation of islets becomes available, participants will be randomly assigned to
      either the low molecular weight sulfated dextran (LMW-SD) Arm or to the Control
      Group/Standard of Care Arm. Participants in the LMW-SD Arm will receive LMW-SD before, with
      and for 5 hours after islet transplantation. Participants in the Control Group will receive
      heparin with the islet transplantation. All participants will also receive the oral
      medications, mycophenolate mofetil or sirolimus and tacrolimus or cyclosporine throughout the
      study. In addition, they will receive either intravenous daclizumab on the day of islet
      transplantation and at Week 2, 4, 6, and 8 or intravenous basiliximab on the day of islet
      transplantation and on Day 4. The islet transplantation will occur at the hospital and will
      be given via the portal vein. All participants will be eligible to receive second and third
      islet transplantation(s) if previous transplants fail. After each islet transplantation,
      study visits will occur on Days 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 75, and Months 6 and 12. At these
      visits, physical exams and blood collection will occur. At some visits urine collection will
      also occur.
    
  