
    
      This is an open-label study in which PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) will be given on a weekly basis
      starting at a dose lower than is currently approved by the U.S. FDA because treatment is
      beginning at a higher hemoglobin than usual. There is recent evidence to suggest that
      problems with disability occur in persons over 65 at higher hemoglobins than previously
      recognized. Currently, PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) is prescribed for patients with chronic kidney
      disease three times a week at a dose of approximately 5,000 and 10,000 units per injection
      depending on the patient's weight. This study is starting with a lower dose because treatment
      is beginning earlier than it normally would. Currently, doctors usually do not begin PROCRIT®
      (Epoetin Alfa) in patients with chronic kidney disease until their hemoglobin is <10 g/dL.

      In this study PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) will be given on a weekly basis starting at 5,000 units
      per injection if hemoglobin is <12 g/dL. Each week hemoglobin will be checked and if after
      four weeks of treatment it is < 13 g/dL, the PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) dose will be increased
      to 10,000 Units. After another four weeks of treatment if the hemoglobin is <13 g/dL,
      PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) will be increased to 20,000 units. After another four weeks of
      treatment if the hemoglobin is <13 g/dL, PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) will be increased once more
      to a final dose of 40,000 units. In this study, patients will be treated with doses higher
      than currently approved for patients with chronic kidney disease. The primary measures of
      efficacy will be assessed using two disability tests to measure physical function compared
      from baseline to Week 5, Week 9, Week 13, Week 17/ Early Withdrawal and Week 20/Follow-up.
      The first test is called the "Short Physical Performance Battery" (SPP) which will test how
      well someone sits, stands and walks. The second test is called the "Six Minute Walk Test"
      (6MWT) which measures how far someone can walk during a six-minute period. Normal walking
      aids are allowed during this test. The study will also evaluate hemoglobin levels, number of
      transfusions, safety, incidence of anti-erythropoietin antibodies, Quality of Life and
      cognitive function (a measure of how clearly one is thinking). The study hypothesis is that
      physical function will improve when the hemoglobin level is increased. Patients will receive
      PROCRIT® (Epoetin Alfa) on a weekly basis starting at 5,000 units per injection (up to a
      maximum of 40,000 units).
    
  