
    
      1. Introduction:

           Platelet reactivity is closely involved in the pathophysiology of acute coronary
           syndromes (ACS). However, despite the development of newer and more effective
           antiplatelet drugs (among other therapeutic interventions), the risk of ischemic events
           recurrence after an episode of ACS is still high.

           On the other hand, acute and strenuous exercise, a known trigger of ACS, when performed
           by untrained individuals, leads to sympathetic hyperactivity and increased platelet
           aggregability. Contrary to these findings, regular supervised exercise training leads to
           regulation of the autonomic system with consequent decrease in the incidence of ACS, as
           shown in previous studies. However, the relationship between regular supervised exercise
           training on platelet activity in patients post-AMI on dual antiplatelet therapy, has not
           been previously studied and is the main goal of the present project.

        2. Objectives:

           This project aims to evaluate, in recent post-AMI patients on dual antiplatelet therapy,
           the impact of regular exercise training on platelet aggregability, analyzed by
           VerifyNowP2Y12® test. Secondary exploratory analysis includes: 1) the influence of acute
           and strenuous exercise on platelet aggregability measured immediately after the two
           cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) that patients will be submitted; 2) the
           correlation between the level of platelet aggregability and MSNA in trained and control
           groups; 3) the influence of exercise training on platelet aggregability measured by
           Multiplate® adenosine diphosphate (ADP) test and Multiplate® aspirin (ASPI) test; 4) the
           influence of exercise training on the mean platelet volume (MPV) and platelet count; 5)
           the influence of exercise training in other laboratorial parameters as lipids, blood
           glucose and inflammatory activity; 6) finally, the primary endpoint of the study will be
           evaluated in different prespecified subgroups such as diabetics, elderly, obese and
           patients with chronic kidney disease.

           2.1. Primary endpoint of the study: Evaluate the influence of regular supervised
           exercise training for 3 months on platelet aggregability, analyzed by VerifyNowP2Y12®
           test, in patients with recent AMI utilizing dual antiplatelet therapy.

           2.2. Main secondary analyses:

           A. Evaluate platelet aggregability immediately after acute exercise before and after the
           exercise training period; for this propose, blood sample will be drawn immediately after
           the first and second cardiopulmonary exercise testings, in trained and control groups.

           B. Correlate the platelet aggregability level, evaluated by VerifyNowP2Y12®,
           Multiplate-ADP®, Multiplate-ASPI®, with the level of MSNA.

           2.3. Other exploratory analyses:

           A. Evaluate the primary endpoint of the study utilizing Multiplate-ASPI® and
           Multiplate-ADP®;

           B. Evaluate the MPV in trained and control groups, and its correlation with platelet
           aggregability;

           C. Analyze, in trained and control groups, the following parameters:

           Platelet count; LDL-cholesterol; HDL-cholesterol; Triglycerides; Lipid transference for
           HDL; Fasting glucose; Glycated hemoglobin; C-reactive protein (CRP) ultrasensitive;
           B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP); Troponin and Creatine Kinase MB-mass peak obtained
           during hospitalization; Genetic polymorphisms; Heart rate variability and spontaneous
           baroreflex control.

           D. Analyze the primary endpoint within the following subgroups, taking into account the
           parameters obtained during hospitalization:

           Sex (male / female); ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-STEMI;
           Basal heart rate (<70 or ≥ 70 bpm); History of arterial hypertension (presence or
           absence); LDL levels (<100 or ≥ 100 mg/dL); Age ≥65 years and <65 years; Body Mass Index
           <30 or ≥ 30 kg / m2; Creatinine clearance (MDRD) <60ml / min / m2 or ≥ 60 ml / min / m2;
           Current or not smoking; History of diabetes (present or absent); HbA1c <6.5 or ≥ 6.5%;
           GRACE risk score ≥140 and <140; Beta-blocker use.

        3. Methodology:

      This is a prospective, randomized study. Patients with stable AMI admitted to a Coronary Care
      Unit, eligible to participate, will be randomized to a supervised exercise training program
      for three months at a rehabilitation unit or to a control group not formally trained.
      Patients who agree to participate will be included after the necessary explanations and the
      signature of the informed consent form.

      3.a. Sample size calculation: To perform the sample calculation, previously published data
      wich showed platelet agreeability average of 32.9 ± 16 P2Y12 reactions units (PRU) in
      post-AMI patients on ticagrelor was utilizes. For an expected 35% decrease in platelet
      aggregability at trained group, and taking into account power of 80% and alpha index of 0.05,
      including 31 patients in each group is required. Admitting a percentage of losses of 40%
      given the difficulties inherent in the assessment of the sympathetic activity and adherence
      to the training program, the initial plan contemplates the inclusion of 90 patients in the
      study.

      4. Study design: Prospective study in which eligible patients with uncomplicated AMI admitted
      to a Coronary Care Unit will be randomized to performing a exercise training program by three
      months or for an untrained control group, at a 1:1 or 1:2 rate, in order to adjust for more
      frequent early follow-up interruptions in exercise training group. All patients included
      after the necessary explanations and after signing the informed consent form. The patients
      will be submitted to the collection of material for laboratory evaluation including platelet
      aggregability tests, the assessment of a CPET in 01 and 04 months of the follow-up (end of
      treatment). The MSNA will be performed at the end of followup.
    
  