
    
      Postoperative pain is often undermanaged in surgical patients. In the outpatient surgery
      population, such as breast reduction surgery, postoperative pain can lead to increased
      narcotic use, increased nausea, surgical complications and unplanned hospital admission, in
      addition to patient discomfort or dissatisfaction. Tumescence is a method of infiltrating
      tissues, such as the breast, with solutions of very dilute lidocaine and/or very dilute
      epinephrine in order to provide diffuse local anesthesia, hemostasis, and tissue
      manipulation. Both types of solution are considered standard care and both at the University
      of Wisconsin, Madison. There are two main aims to this study. Aim 1 is to determine the
      effect of dilute lidocaine in tumescent solution on post-operative pain following breast
      reduction surgery. Aim 2 of our study is to determine the effect of dilute lidocaine in
      tumescent solution on secondary post-operative outcomes following breast reduction surgery.
      The secondary outcomes that will be measured in this study include average time (minutes)
      spent in the postanesthesia care unit (PACU), average time (minutes) spent in Phase 2, total
      time (minutes) between the end of case and discharge home, occurrence of unplanned hospital
      admission, number of episodes of post-operative nausea (subjective feeling vs. emesis) and
      amount of anti-emetic medication used in pacu, phase 2 and the first 24 hours post-op (mg).
      The investigators hypothesize that tumescence with lidocaine and epinephrine will have
      improved post-operative pain control leading to less narcotic use during the first twenty
      four hours postoperatively. (Aim 1). The investigators also believe that tumescence with
      lidocaine and epinephrine will lead to less time spent in PACU, less time spent in Phase2,
      less time between the end of the case and discharge home, less occurrence of unplanned
      hospital admissions, less episodes of post-operative nausea and less amount of antiemetic
      medication used in PACU, phase 2 and the first 24 hours post-op (Aim 2). The investigators
      propose that such differences could play a significant role in surgical outcomes and patient
      satisfaction in outpatient plastic surgery.
    
  