
    
      1. Data quality assurance: ① all inspections and measurements will be performed by either
           the hospital or the sequencing company personnel according to standard operating
           procedures (SOPs), except for saliva and stool samples, which will be self-collected by
           patients. For sample collection, we will provide text descriptions of the SOPs as well
           as video instruction. Designated staff will be assigned for support and can be contacted
           if participants have any queries concerning sample collection; ② a case report form
           (CRF) will be prepared according to the current SOPs, and detailed instructions will be
           provided to ensure consistency in data collection. At the same time, each CRF will be
           properly stored at least 5 years for verification and backtracking; ③ all experimental
           data will be logged into the database to ensure information accuracy based on the
           existing data; ④ we will keep the contact information of each participant, remind them
           of precautions during participation, and conduct regular follow-ups.

        2. Sample size determination: The number of participants is based on comparable sample
           sizes in the literature. In this trial, there will be 50 healthy individuals (control
           group) and 150 PCOS (polycystic ovary syndrome) patients. The 150 PCOS patients will be
           randomly assigned to three intervention groups. This sample size accounts for a
           plausible insufficiency of data caused by patient dropouts and withdrawals before the
           study is completed. The participation cycle is of approximately four months, followed by
           a 2-year follow-up.

        3. Metagenomic sequencing technology Metagenomic sequencing is the main technique used in
           this study. Metagenomics, also known as economics, was first proposed by Handelman and
           studies the molecular composition of microbial populations, their interactions, and gene
           functions.

           In medicine, metagenomics compares the structural and functional changes of human
           microbial communities under normal and disease states. It can analyze the diversity and
           the functional differences of microbial communities from healthy individuals and from
           patients with diseases, thus determine how diseases relate to changes in the microbial
           communities and in their respective metabolic networks. Therefore, metagenomics provides
           theoretical evidence for disease prevention, detection, and treatment. At present, the
           internationally renowned Human Microbiome Project (HMP, http://www.hmpdacc.org/) and the
           Metagenomics of the Human Intestinal Tract (MetaHIT) are typical applications of
           metagenomics in medicine.

           [Metagenomic species, genes, and functional annotation]

           ① Data quality control: the sequenced raw data will contain a certain amount of
           low-quality data, so quality control must be performed. Only high-quality data can
           correctly reflect the actual occurrence of microorganisms in the sample.

           ② Metagenome assembly: based on Clean Data, individual samples will be assembled
           separately at first, then reads that do not participate in the assembling above will be
           combined and mixed for assembly. This will increase the sequencing depth of
           low-abundance species in each sample and provide more sequencing information for each
           species.

           ③ Gene prediction: MetaGeneMark will be used for gene prediction based on single samples
           and mixed-assembled scaftigs. The redundancy of all predicted genes will be reduced to
           obtain a Uniq gene set. Then, the Clean Data of each sample will be compared to the gene
           set and the abundance of the gene set will be determined for each sample.

           ④ Species annotation: Clean Data will be used for quality control. It will be compared
           with an annotated according to reference genome databases of bacteria, archaea, viruses,
           and fungi from NCBI. A species abundance table will be obtained for each sample at
           different classification levels.

           ⑤ Functional annotation: functional annotation and abundance statistics will be based on
           the Uniq gene set and the KEGG database.
    
  