
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) of the lower extremities is an extremely prevalent, and
      often times, disabling disorder reaching roughly 8 million people in the United States, and
      up to 20 percent of the population over the age of 60 to 70. Atherosclerosis commonly occurs
      in the superficial femoral artery (SFA) and the popliteal artery limiting blood flow to the
      affected vessels, as well as, the distal lower extremities. PAD of this type causes
      claudication in up to 35% of patients which may progress to critical limb ischemia in up to
      2%.

      Endovascular treatment options have significantly improved over the past decade, allowing a
      multitude of treatment alternatives. In the US, the number of endovascular treatments now
      exceed bypass surgery. Procedural success rates of greater than 90 percent can be achieved by
      stenting, atherectomy, and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty; however, long term patency
      rates have been troubled by elastic recoil or neointimal hyperplasia. Two year patency rates
      have been documented to range from 40-50% following balloon angioplasty. Stenting in the
      femoropopliteal region in attempts to improve restenosis fall short with a primary patency
      rate of 70-80% as seen in the FAST trial. Atherectomy is promising, but has not been studied
      extensively.

      The inability to obtain long term patency has led us to look at our success in the coronary
      field where drug-eluting stents (DES) are often used. Antiproliferative drugs such as
      paclitaxel prevent neointimal growth and have proven patency and long term success. There
      have been initial animal and human studies which have shown potential in preventing
      restenosis by using drug coated balloons and DES. Currently, there is no FDA approved drug
      eluting balloon for use in femoropopliteal disease, leading us to search for alternative
      therapies following femoropopliteal interventions.

      Paclitaxel inhibits microtubule disassembly and disrupts normal cellular processes such as
      protein signaling, mitosis, and migration. It is highly lipogenic and poorly water soluble.
      Paclitaxel has been stated to prevent restenosis through several mechanisms in vitro. These
      mechanisms include inhibiting proliferation and migration of human smooth muscle cells. Use
      of the antiproliferative agent in the peripheral arena has been conducted, but no definitive
      results have been achieved to date. One internal animal study showed promise in the
      deliverability of localized paclitaxel into targeted segments of the vessel using the TAPAS
      device. Concentrations of 0.67 mg/mL, 1.2 mg/mL, and 2.0 mg/mL were infused locally at a
      duration of 2-5 minutes within the iliofemoral segment in pigs, then aspirated from the
      vessel using the device. No differences in drug absorption were found among the three
      concentrations. Drug retention remained greater than 50% in all groups at 3 and 24 hours. The
      average drug concentration in the vessel wall of all groups was 1.73 ± 0.85 µg/g at 3 hours,
      and 1.29 ± 0.47 µg/g at 24 hours after treatment. Approximately 77% of the total drug
      administered was aspirated, with the assumption that the remaining drug was either absorbed
      in the tissue, remained in the catheter, or lost systemically. On average, plasma paclitaxel
      levels after treatment measured 22.5 ± 21.07 ng/mL at 2 minutes, 2.7 ± 0.85 ng/mL at 3 hours,
      and less than 1.2 ng/mL at 24 hours. Histology showed no inflammation, injury, or other
      adverse effect when compared with the contrast group.

      The newly available Targeted Adjustable Pharmaceutical Application System (TAPAS)-TAPAS
      Catheter Therapeutic System (Spectranetics, Colorado Springs, CO, USA)-has a proximal and
      distal occlusion balloon with an adjustable length that allows local drug delivery to a
      targeted arterial segment preventing systemic effects by allowing aspiration following
      delivery.

      The ResTAP study is a prospective, open label, observational study to assess the safety and
      efficacy of the delivery of paclitaxel to prevent recurrent restenosis after percutaneous
      intervention including atherectomy with or without stenting in patients who have restenosis
      after a prior endovascular revascularization.
    
  