
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has been identified in 10-20% of U.S. military service
      members (SMs) returning from Afghanistan and Iraq, and is associated with impaired physical
      health, mental health, and overall functional status. Resilience has often been spoken of,
      yet proven methods for promoting resilience, and protecting SMs from PTSD, have yet to be
      established. One easy and effective way of identifying those at higher risk for development
      of PTSD is through the one-page, 17-item self-administered PTSD Checklist (PCL). The total
      score can range from 17 to 85, and a score of 50 is the best cut-off for making a diagnosis
      of PTSD, but there are many military SMs who have impaired function associated with scores
      below this level. There have also been some high-profile fatal shootings on military
      installations in recent years, including Fort Hood, TX, and the Washington Naval Yard in the
      District of Columbia, and such incidents tend to be followed by persistent symptoms in many
      individuals who were in the vicinity at the time. There is limited recent evidence to suggest
      that lower intensity intervention might be effective in those with subthreshold PTSD, even
      though it does not necessarily successfully treat fully developed PTSD. We will therefore
      conduct a randomized controlled clinical trial involving 144 individuals who are eligible for
      care in the military healthcare system who report subthreshold PCL scores (28 to 49), either
      within five years after their return from Afghanistan or Iraq, or after being affected in
      some significant way by a terrifying incident such as a bombing or shooting, or a major
      natural disaster that results in significant loss of life such as a hurricane, tornado, or
      earthquake. Seventy-two participants will be assigned to the resilience enhancement group,
      which will be initiated with a single 90-minute introduction to both cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) techniques and the use of smart-phone based applications (apps) that promote
      increased resilience through relaxation, biofeedback, psychoeducation and other techniques.
      Over the subsequent 6 weeks, daily text messages to all participants will accentuate the
      positive, including providing recommendations on beneficial activities, fostering behavioral
      changes, and in particular encouraging the completion of smart phone-based applications
      (apps). The control group (n=72) will be provided with an initial informational session
      providing them with details of where they can get help if they have worsened symptoms over
      time. They will receive daily texts with aphorisms for 6 weeks. Symptoms will be re-assessed
      with the PCL by personal computer (PC), tablet or smartphone based access to the NIH Clinical
      Trials Survey System (CTSS) for both the resilience enhancement and control groups at the end
      of each week in the 6-week training period. In addition the GAD, PHQ-9, and PCL will be
      assessed at baseline and 6weeks and at 3, 6 and 12 months. We anticipate that this relatively
      inexpensive resilience enhancement program will reduce the incidence of PTSD over the initial
      6 weeks by 20% compared to the control group, and that this improvement will be maintained
      over the subsequent year. We further expect that the training program will be associated with
      a reduction in the incidence of PTSD by at least 10% over the follow-up period. Our power
      estimates indicate that with 72 participants each in the resilience enhancement and control
      groups, we will have 90% power to identify a significant difference between the two groups
      with 95% confidence (p < 0.05). For approximately 20% of participants (n=30; 15 in each
      group) we will perform psychophysiologic measures and functional MRI of the brain using the
      Affective Stroop paradigm at baseline and again 3-6 months later to assess for changes with
      resilience enhancement.
    
  