
    
      Premature birth is recognized as the single most important health problem in maternal child
      health in the US. Paradoxically, both failure to thrive and obesity are now known to be
      associated with prematurity, as are osteopenia (a condition where bone mineral density is
      lower than normal) and increased risk of fracture, and increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease later in life. We lack cohesive approaches to mitigate these profound threats to
      health. Despite promising new research demonstrating that physical activity can stimulate the
      growth of muscle and bone even during intrauterine life (perhaps through metabolic
      programming), there have been very few attempts to implement and study physical activity
      interventions in the premature baby.

      The challenges are substantial and include:

        -  measuring body composition

        -  assessing physical activity

        -  engaging caregivers as partners in the intervention

        -  identifying plausible and testable biological mechanisms

        -  designing interventions that actually increase physical activity and match the rapid
           pace of motor development early in life

      A developmentally dynamic physical activity intervention has been designed and pilot
      tested-one that engages the caregiver as a partner. Using techniques and tools as far-ranging
      as Dual X-ray Absorbiometry (DXA), smart phones, doubly labeled water, and lightweight,
      wireless accelerometers developed specifically for this purpose, the working hypothesis is
      that the one-year intervention will augment lean body mass (primary outcome variable) and
      improve bone mineralization and the ratio of lean to fat tissue (secondary outcome
      variables). The study will gauge the impact of the physical activity intervention on the
      balance between circulating anabolic mediators (insulin-like growth factor-I and growth
      hormone binding protein) and inflammation-associated cytokines (interleukin-6, and
      interleukin-1 receptor antagonist), which antagonize muscle and bone growth.

      We will additionally:

        1. begin to explore how physical activity influences circulating endothelial progenitor
           cells, which are increasingly viewed as markers of vascular health very early in life

        2. take advantage of this prospective, interventional study to explore potential genetic
           determinants of growth in babies born prematurely.

        3. Finally, any study involving the premature infant and the data associated with it must
           be viewed in light of the critical relationship between the mother and baby.

      The potential broad impact of early life interventions has been recently demonstrated by the
      success of the "Back-To-Sleep" campaign in mitigating sudden infant death syndrome. Should
      the positive effects of augmented exercise on body composition be supported, we would then
      anticipate widespread benefit in preventing long-term health consequences of prematurity at
      relatively low cost.
    
  