
    
      BACKGROUND: Approximately 780,000 people suffer a stroke annually in the United States;
      200,000 are recurrent strokes. The 17,000 veterans who suffer a stroke yearly are at great
      risk for a second stroke and therefore should be targeted for stroke risk factor management
      and prevention interventions.

      Balance and fear of falling negatively impact activity and function. Decreased activity and
      blood pressure (BP) are important modifiable stroke risk factors. These can be addressed
      through a yoga exercise intervention. yoga, like tai-chi, is old world alternative medicine
      that has the potential to greatly impact the lives of older adults.

      OBJECTIVES: Our long term goal is to develop and test a yoga exercise intervention in a large
      VA trial for veterans who have survived a stroke. The objective of this pilot application was
      to obtain necessary information to support such a trial through the following specific aims:
      1) determine the feasibility (including recruitment) of an 8 week yoga based intervention for
      veterans with stroke; 2) establish an appropriate dosing strategy for a post-stroke 8 week
      yoga exercise intervention for a future VA yoga implementation trial (Yoga Group, bi-weekly
      in-person vs Yoga Group Plus, bi-weekly in-person paired with almost daily at home yoga); and
      3) estimate the effect size of yoga on variables of interest to determine the appropriate VA
      trial sample size.

      METHODS: We completed a mixed methods study to address the feasibility, dosing strategy, and
      estimation of effect size for the current pilot study. We recruited 45 people with stroke to
      participate in the Yoga Group or Yoga Group Plus; 15 participants were wait-listed to be used
      as a control. A registered yoga therapist (RYT) taught all classes. Qualitative data include
      semi-structured interviews after completion of the intervention regarding: perceived ability
      to do yoga exercise; satisfaction with the yoga intervention; satisfaction with the RYT;
      general health benefits for the intervention; and whether they would continue yoga practice.
      Quantitative data included compliance and recruitment information as well as multiple
      standardized assessments before and after the 8 week intervention including: blood pressure
      readings; fear of falling; balance; balance confidence; gait and mobility assessments; and
      quality of life. We compared those in yoga to those wait-listed and also completed within
      group analyses to determine change between baseline and 8 week scores.
    
  