
    
      The purpose of this study is to:

        1. gauge patient interest and

        2. evaluate the feasibility of offering opportunistic salpingectomy or
           salpingo-oophorectomy to women undergoing non-gynecologic surgery at UVA medical center.

      Data for this study will be collected in two different ways:

      Part 1: Women, 18 years of age or older, who are scheduled for an abdominal procedure after
      being seen in the General Surgery clinic will be given a handout (attached) by clinic staff
      during routine pre-op counseling informing them that they may be called and asked to
      participate in a research survey. Women age 25 and above who are scheduled for an abdominal
      procedure and were seen in the General Surgery Clinic will be called and asked to complete a
      5-10 minute verbal survey prior to their date of surgery. Some additional information will be
      gleaned from the medical record during the interview. Participation will be voluntary and all
      data collected will be recorded without any identifiers.

      Part 2: A list of women 25 or older who are scheduled for an abdominal procedure after being
      seen in the General Surgery clinic will be generated to include MRN, procedure date, and
      pocedure type. A medical record review will be undertaken of these women and we will collect
      information about conditions that would facilitate or hinder the ability to perform a
      salpingectomy. No patient interaction will occur by the study team and all data will be
      de-identified at the time of collection. Data collected during this chart review will be
      linked and coded. Only coded data will be used during analysis. A separate password
      protected/encrypted file will contain the patient identifiers and the key to the coded sample
      numbers. This file will only be accessible by the PI or study team listed on this protocol on
      UVa premises, and will only be stored on a UVa server behind the UVa firewall, and will not
      be stored or accessed on personal computers. Thus, identified patient information will not be
      accessible to any individual, except the PI or study team listed on this protocol, ensuring
      protection of patient information

      Study data will be analyzed to evaluate for acceptance of the program and acceptance of the
      mode of approaching the patient for counseling/consent. The frequency and types of conditions
      that hinder the ability to perform the suggested procedure will also be analyzed to determine
      how frequently the eligible population could receive a salpingectomy if a program was
      implemented.
    
  