
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Effective perinatal treatment strategies during the past 20 years have increased the survival
      of low birth weight infants. Accompanying this increased survival has been a 4-6 fold
      increase in the number of children surviving with bronchopulmonary dysplasia, although the
      birthweight specific incidence has remained constant or declined. Limited data currently
      available indicate that individuals who had BPD as infants have, as childrearing adults,
      impaired lung growth as well as both fixed and reversible airways obstruction.

      The study was part of an Institute-initiated program on Collaborative Projects in Women's
      Health. The concept was developed by the NHLBI staff and given concept clearance at the
      February 1992 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. The Request for Applications
      was released in April 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was part of a four-grant collaborative project on women's health. Based on
      available data, Dr. Mary Ellen Wohl hypothesized that bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)
      morbidity was related to impaired lung growth in the first year of life, did not improve
      during adolescence and was accentuated in females because of their intrinsically smaller
      lungs. To test this hypothesis, she measured lung size and airway function in teenagers and
      young adults, previously studied at school age, who were born, 1) at term, 2) prematurely, 3)
      developed respiratory distress syndrome of the newborn (RDS) or 4) developed BPD. Children
      born from 1987-89 previously studied at 10 months of age by novel lung function function
      methods developed in this laboratory were restudied at school age. Techniques of measuring
      total respiratory system compliance and resistance and of obtaining forced expiratory flow at
      functional residual capacity were applied to cohorts of born premature infants at 10-18
      months of age to assess outcome of current perinatal strategies.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  