
    
      The measure of 24-hour proteinuria is an important biomarker for multiple myeloma.

      Multiple myeloma is often accompanied by proteinuria overhead of secretion by plasma cells of
      large quantities of immunoglobulin free light chains (FLC) kappa or lambda. This proteinuria
      is composed of monoclonal FLC. The measure of the urinary concentration of FLC is an
      important biomarker for both diagnosis and evaluation of response to treatment of light chain
      multiple myeloma but also in intact immunoglobulins multiple myeloma.

      The 24-hour proteinuria coupled with urine protein electrophoresis is the standard method for
      measuring the concentration of urinary FLC. However, it is difficult to obtain a reliable
      collection of the urine of 24 hours which can make it difficult to assess response to therapy
      in some patients. It would be interesting to assess proteinuria in a single urine sample
      collected at any time of day.

      Contribution of urinary protein/creatinine ratio for assessment of proteinuria of glomerular
      origine.

      For reasons of convenience, the extent of 24-hour proteinuria was increasingly abandoned by
      nephrologists in favor of urinary protein/creatinine ratio (UPCR). The use of UPCR measured
      on a sample of urine overcomes the inaccuracies related to the collection of 24 or variations
      in urine concentration. This report has been validated against the 24-hour proteinuria for
      screening or monitoring of renal glomerular diseases by the French Society of Nephrology. In
      theory, the UPCR is measured on a urine sample, taken preferably in the morning. In practice,
      the precision of a measurement at any time of day is quite acceptable.

      Using the urinary protein/creatinine ratio for assessment of response in multiple myeloma?

      The use of UPCR has been validated in patients with renal glomerular disease and especially
      in diabetic nephropathy. However, the UPCR has not been validated for the assessment of
      proteinuria overload such as those seen in myeloma. Two recent papers have studied the UPCR
      in multiple myeloma. The results of these articles suggest:

        -  That the UPCR is well correlated with the 24-hour proteinuria

        -  The UPCR varies over time depending on the response to treatment and could therefore be
           used to monitor patients on treatment

      However, given their limits, these two articles do not alow to recommend the widespread use
      of UPCR instead of the classic 24-hour proteinuria in clinical practice yet. Prospective
      studies are needed to analyze the correlation between UPCR and proteinuria of 24 hours to
      assess response to therapy.
    
  