
    
      Although numerous therapeutic options exist for the treatment of psoriasis, there is still a
      significant unmet medical need due to the limited effectiveness and/or significant side
      effect profile of current treatment options. Preclinical studies and early phase clinical
      studies suggest that interleukins-12 and -23, two molecules that are part of the
      communication network in the immune system, may play an important role in psoriasis.
      Ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) is a monoclonal antibody directed against interleukins -12 and -23.
      This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance like flipping a coin), double blind
      (neither physician nor patient knows the name of the assigned drug), parallel-group,
      multicenter study to determine the effectiveness and safety of two different doses of
      ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) administered subcutaneously (under the skin) as compared with placebo
      in patients with moderate to severe plaque-type psoriasis (the most common type of
      psoriasis). The hypothesis is that ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) will be more effective in
      treatment of psoriasis than placebo, that the improvement in psoriasis will result in an
      improved quality of life for treated patients and that ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) will be
      generally well tolerated. Patients will receive ustekinumab (CNTO 1275), 45 or 90 mg, or
      placebo administered subcutaneously at weeks 0 and 4 weeks then every 12 weeks thereafter
      until week 52. For patients who partially respond to the starting regimen, the dosing
      interval may be adjusted to every 8 weeks. Patients will enter long term extension portion of
      the study at week 52 during which patients will continue to receive treatment with
      ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) and will be followed for a total of up to 264 weeks from the initial
      (week 0) administration of study agent.

      The dose of ustekinumab (CNTO 1275) will be 45 or 90 mg or placebo administered
      subcutaneously at weeks 0 and 4 weeks then every 12 weeks thereafter. For patients who
      partially respond to the starting regimen, the dosing interval may be adjusted to every 8
      weeks.
    
  