
    
      Background:

      This protocol is designed to meet an unmet need in neuro-oncology by evaluating patients with
      CNS tumors throughout their disease course. The protocol will evaluate patients with tumors
      of the central nervous system (CNS) who appear to be probable candidates for future protocol
      entry, have disease manifestations that are of unique scientific interest, importance, and/or
      educational value, or who have understudied tumors with unknown or unclear natural history.
      Patients with known genetic syndromes at high risk of developing CNS cancers will also be
      evaluated.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate patients with tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) who are probable
           future candidates for NCI Phase I and II protocols

        -  To follow patients with tumors of the CNS that are representative of important
           scientific and/or clinical principles

        -  To follow patients with CNS tumors that are understudied or have indeterminate natural
           history

        -  To evaluate and follow patients with known genetic syndromes at high risk of developing
           CNS cancers

      Eligibility:

        -  All patients greater than or equal to 18 years of age with tumors of the CNS (or a
           history of tumors of the CNS) of interest to the NOB, who may be candidates for an NOB
           trial at some point in the future.

        -  Patients with tumors of the CNS that are of particular interest to members of the NOB
           because they pose important clinical and/or scientific questions and/or shed light on
           important aspects of the disease.

        -  Patients with known genetic syndromes at high risk of developing CNS cancers are
           eligible.

        -  Patients with rare tumors of the CNS who offer an important educational benefit to
           neuro-oncology trainees and staff.

        -  Ability of subject or Legally Authorized Representative (LAR) to understand and the
           willingness to sign a written informed consent document.

      Design:

        -  All patients will undergo an initial evaluation by a member of the NOB or by a health
           care provider participating in the patient s care, where past medical and oncologic
           histories will be obtained as well as relevant data such as neuroimaging and pathology
           review. A total of 10,000 patients will be accrued to this study.

        -  Patients may be seen at the NIH Clinical Center at varying intervals depending on the
           clinical situation. Data related to the natural history of their disease course and
           outcome will be collected at least every visit at the NIH Clinical Center in which
           imaging is reviewed. Patients will be see at a clinic visit or followed remotely at a
           minimum of once every year.
    
  