
    
      This is a two-year randomized placebo-controlled double-blind investigation of the
      augmentation of PREG with L-theanine in the management of patients with SZ/SA. The study will
      consist of two phases: a 2-week continued stability (lead in) phase and an 8-week
      double-blind treatment phase. In the lead-in phase, patients receiving antipsychotic
      medication will remain on their maintenance regimen for at least two weeks. Clinical
      stability is defined as two consecutive weekly CGI ratings with no change in score, and with
      no more than a 20% change in PANSS total score. The treatment phase will be 8-week parallel
      groups, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of adjunctively administered PREG with
      L-theanine or placebo. Assignment to PREG with L-theanine or placebo will be on a random,
      stratified (i.e., FGAs/SGAs, inpatient/outpatient) basis. PREG (50 mg/day) with L-theanine
      (400 mg/day) and placebo will be administered in divided doses in the form of capsules. If a
      patient relapses during the treatment phase of the study, the patient will be removed from
      the study. All attempts will be made to obtain end-of-study ratings. If such measures cannot
      be obtained, four- and six-week data, if collected prior to relapse, will be informative.
      Patients who fulfill the entry criteria will enter the 8-week double-blind treatment phase of
      the study. Assignment to PREG with L-theanine or placebo will be on a random, stratified
      (i.e., conventional/new generation antipsychotic treatment, inpatient/outpatient) basis. PREG
      (50 mg/day) with L-theanine (400 mg/day)/placebo will be administered in divided doses in the
      form of white capsules. If a patient relapses during the treatment phase of the study, the
      patient will be removed from the study. All attempts will be made to obtain end-of-study
      ratings. If such measures cannot be obtained, four- and eight-week data, if collected prior
      to relapse, will be informative.

      Subjects will be assessed at baseline and after 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks of treatment using
      psychiatric rating scales, and self-report questionnaires. Neurobiological (plasma cortisol,
      PREG, dehydroepiandrosterone, BDNF and other biologically active molecules) and immunological
      (the pro-inflammatory cytokines and others) testing will be conducted at baseline, and after
      treatment. The efficacy and safety of augmenting antipsychotic treatment of PREG with
      L-theanine will be analyzed.
    
  