
    
      Objective:

      Paloma Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has developed a non-steroidal, wholly synthetic, small molecule
      drug for application to diseases of aberrant neovasculature, known as Palomid 529.1 Palomid
      529 exerts broad activity as an anti-angiogenic agent by inhibiting the mammalian target of
      rapamycin (Akt/mTor) signal transduction pathway via dissociation of both target of rapamycin
      complexes (TORC1 and TORC2) in the immune system.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of Palomid 529 when
      administered as subconjunctival injections in participants with choroidal neovascularization
      (CNV) secondary to neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD).

      Study Population:

      This study will enroll participants with neovascular AMD who have not responded to
      conventional anti-VEGF treatments. Five participants will be initially accrued; however, up
      to seven participants who meet the eligibility criteria may be enrolled.

      Design:

      This is a 12-week, unmasked, non-randomized study of three serial 1.9 mg subconjunctival
      doses of Palomid 529 in neovascular AMD participants who have not responded to conventional
      anti-VEGF treatments.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is to determine the safety of subconjunctival Palomid 529 for neovascular
      AMD. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of ocular and systemic adverse events.
      Secondary efficacy outcomes include changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), changes
      in fluid status, central retinal thickness and retinal volume as measured by optical
      coherence tomography (OCT), changes in leakage patterns as observed on fluorescein
      angiography (FA), changes in CNV patterns as observed on indocyanine green angiography (ICG),
      changes in autofluorescence patterns as observed on fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging,
      and changes in fundus appearance as observed on color fundus photography. Additionally,
      Complement Factor H polymorphisms will be compared with treatment response and
      pharmacokinetic samples will be collected.
    
  