
    
      Depression is a serious illness that is difficult to diagnose and treat, especially in
      populations that underutilize mental health services. The Latino population is one such
      group. Accommodating patient preferences for care, provider capacities, and administrator
      priorities is essential to the development of effective depression care interventions that
      are sustainable in public sector systems. However, little is understood regarding the
      depression treatment preferences of low-income Latinos who have not received quality
      depression care and who may not feel that they can voice their opinions about their health
      care. In addition, little is known about the preferences, capabilities, and priorities of
      providers and administrators in primary care clinics. This study will determine ways to make
      depression care more responsive to the needs of consumers in primary care clinics serving
      low-income Latinos. The study will also evaluate the effectiveness of various treatments in
      reducing depression.

      Following baseline assessments of depression treatment preferences and resources,
      participants in this open label study will be randomly assigned to receive collaborative care
      either immediately or after a waiting period. Individuals assigned to receive immediate care
      will undergo treatment for 12 weeks. Other participants will receive treatment at a later
      time. All participants will have the option to receive one of the following treatments: (1)
      medication management from the Depression Care Specialist (DCS) and antidepressant medication
      from their primary care provider (PCP); (2) cognitive-behavioral therapy from the DCS; or (3)
      a combination of both treatments. Depression treatment outcomes and preferences will be
      measured post-intervention. Provider and administrator preferences will also be measured
      post-intervention and potential strategies for implementing patient-centered depression care
      programs will be identified.
    
  