
    
      IPC Placement and Placement Follow-Up:

      Before the IPC is inserted, you will complete 2 questionnaires about your quality of life and
      any symptoms you may have. It should take no more than 15-20 minutes to complete. You will
      also have a chest x-ray and you will rate your pain on a scale of 1-10. These tests are all
      part of your standard of care and can be explained to you in more detail by your doctor. You
      will be required to sign a separate consent form in order to have the IPC placed. Your doctor
      will give you detailed instructions about the IPC placement procedure, including its risks.

      After the IPC is placed, the doctor will give you a prescription for a fentanyl patch to help
      control pain. The study staff will tell you how and when to wear the fentanyl patch and about
      any side effects that are associated with fentanyl.

      About 5 days (+/- 2 days) after the IPC has been placed, you will have a clinic visit where
      you will be checked up on as part of your standard of care. It is important that you wear
      your fentanyl patch in the morning before this visit. At this clinic visit, the results of a
      previously performed chest x-ray will be reviewed, you will be asked to rate your pain on a
      scale of 1-10, and you will be asked how much fluid has drained from your catheter.

      Based on the results of the above Day 5 check-up, if you are found to be ineligible to
      receive the study drug, the fentanyl patch will be taken off and you will be followed as part
      of your usual care. However, you will still considered to be on study and you will be
      followed the same as a participant who receives the study drug.

      If you are found to be eligible to receive the study drug, you will receive fentanyl by vein
      over a few minutes, if needed to help control your pain. The study staff will then begin to
      drain your catheter and either doxycycline or saline (described below) will be placed in the
      catheter. The catheter will be capped for 1 hour and then drained again.

      To determine if you will receive doxycycline or saline, you will be randomly assigned (as in
      the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study
      group is better, the same, or worse than the other group.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive doxycycline.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive saline.

      Neither you nor the study doctor will know if you are receiving doxycycline or saline.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You will receive doxycycline or saline 1 time on this study. Your participation on this study
      will be over if you withdraw consent or the study closes, whichever takes place first.

      Follow-Up:

      Between 10-14 days after you have received either doxycycline or saline, you will come to the
      clinic as part of your usual standard of care so the doctor can check your IPC for possible
      leaking, infection, to see how much fluid has drained, and to remove any sutures. The
      catheter may be removed if you have it is leaking or shows signs of infection. You will
      continue to have this visit 1 time each month as part of your standard of care until the
      catheter is removed. During each of these visits:

        -  You will have a chest x-ray to check the status of your lungs.

        -  You will complete the same 2 questionnaires that you completed before your IPC was
           placed.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      One (1) time each month after the IPC is removed, you will be called and asked how you are
      doing, if you are having any side effects, if the disease has come back, and about your
      overall quality of life. Some of this information may be collected from your medical record.
      Each phone call should last about 5-10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Doxycycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of different types of infections and pleural effusions. It is considered
      investigational to compare doxycycline to saline to treat pleural effusions.

      Up to 250 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  