
    
      The research will implement a short battery of two survey inventories to measure student
      outcomes under InSciEd Out Fitness and Nutrition curriculum that is currently administered in
      3rd and 4th grade at Lincoln K-8 Choice School. One is a grade-level adapted version of the
      National Youth Physical Activity and Nutrition Survey (NYPANS) authored by the United States
      Center for Disease Control (CDC). The other is a grade-level adapted version of the Newest
      Vital Sign (NVS) health literacy assessment authored by Pfizer and adapted by Dr. Linda
      Aldoory at the University of Maryland.

      These assessments will help inform the health promotion activities of the InSciEd Out
      partnership within Lincoln K-8 Choice in Rochester, Minnesota (MN) and Moreland Elementary in
      West St. Paul, MN who originally wrote the curriculum. These assessments will be key to
      curricular revision and expansion to other schools that partner with InSciEd Out. As such,
      this study is a single cohort, internally controlled pre-post assessment of an existing
      behavioral intervention. Pending pilot study success, future follow-up studies are projected
      to be parallel-group, nonrandomized clinical trials of a treatment school versus a control
      school with grade levels expansion. This study will inform activities within the InSciEd Out
      network inside Rochester Public Schools (RPS), where grades Kindergarten through 2nd and 5th
      through 8th curricula is currently being built. Previously RPS-approved Mayo Clinic
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) #13-003263 describes the format of InSciEd Out programming
      in detail, but the general framework of this study operates upon an established partnership
      between InSciEd Out researchers and Lincoln K-8 Choice/Moreland Elementary administrators,
      teachers, students, and parents.

      IRB#13-003263 describes the format of InSciEd Out programming in detail, but the general
      framework of this study operates upon an established partnership between InSciEd Out
      researchers and administration, teachers, and students at Lincoln K-8 Choice Elementary.
    
  