
    
      Method Participants The sample will consist of older adults (aged 55 or older). There will be
      30 participants: 15 participants will have healthy cognition, and 15 participants will have
      MCI. The sample size was chosen in consideration to assumptions of robustness for repeated
      measures analysis of variance (ANOVA), and considerations to power (i.e., standard deviation
      and effect size from the pilot project). Participants will be recruited from the Centre on
      Aging participant database and the Alzheimer's Society of Manitoba. Individuals who are in
      the Centre on Aging participant database have given their consent to be contacted by
      researchers about their willingness to participate in specific research projects. The
      participants in the database have healthy cognition, and this should provide ample
      participants for the healthy cognition group for the study. The Centre on Aging participant
      database has been approved by the Health REB (REB #HS14652). The Alzheimer's Society of
      Manitoba will be also be contacted to recruit participants because they have contact
      information of potential participants who have cognitive impairments (i.e., MCI).

      Procedure The study will consist of 3 sessions. The sessions will involve a participant
      meeting with the principal investigator individually for one hour sessions, either at the
      University of Manitoba (Bannatyne campus or Fort Garry campus), or if participants prefers,
      in his or her own home.

      First session - Preliminary Procedures. During the first session, the principal investigator
      will describe the project, provide an informed consent form and answer any questions. Once
      the participant provides written consent, an interview will collect demographics (e.g., age,
      sex) and memory related information (e.g., difficulties, strategies).

      First session - Memory and Goals. Memory assessments will be administered with the MOCA and
      PRMQ. The researcher will then interview the participant about the participant's memory
      difficulties and goals the participant has in regards to memory. The interview will be
      audiotaped and then the goals will be transcribed onto a goals form for the participant's
      record. A memory recall written test will also be performed that asks participants to list
      events that they were involved in during the previous week (i.e., the participant's may
      include events related to goals or any events that they may want to remember).

      First session - Work Folder. The researcher and the participant will collaborate to create a
      daily checklist that the participant will use over the next week. The daily checklist will
      relate to goals of the participant.

      Between Sessions. Between sessions, the participant will use the simple memory tool by using
      the work materials. The participant will perform tasks from a checklist each day. The
      participant will also use the pocket notebook to write down any events that they may want to
      remember (e.g., future tasks that they may want to put on checklists, diary entries that they
      may later want to transfer to the diary form).

      Second Session. The second session will occur 7 days after the first session. Assessments for
      memory (i.e., memory recall test) and goals (i.e., GAS) will be performed again, similar to
      the first session. The MOCA will not be needed in the second session since participants have
      already been assigned to groups (i.e., healthy cognition or MCI). An additional step in the
      second session will involve goal assessment. The work folder will be updated with updated
      goals and checklists (i.e., similar to the first session) for the participant to use for the
      next 7 days.

      Third Session. The third session will occur 7 days after the second session. Memory (i.e.,
      PRMQ, memory recall test) and goals (i.e., GAS) will be assessed, similar to the second
      session. The third session will not include the step for updating work materials with new
      goals, as this is the last session. An additional step will be to administer a feedback
      questionnaire to gather feedback and suggestions from the participant on the study.

      Tailored Intervention. The checklists are tailored individually to the goals of an
      individual. Since the intervention has elements that are unique for each individual, an
      example is included in the appendix to illustrate what the intervention might entail.
    
  