
    
      Several clinical trials documented the efficacy of probiotics in the prevention and treatment
      of acute gastroenteritis, while there is little evidence on the efficacy of the probiotics in
      the prevention of children respiratory infections.

      The biological activity of probiotics is linked, partly, to their capacity to adhere to
      enterocytes. This would avoid the binding of pathogenic bacteria through a competitive
      exclusion mechanism. This inhibition toward pathogen bacteria on epithelial and mucosal level
      (substrate), thanks also to the production of antimicrobial substances, can have a beneficial
      effect on the balance of the intestinal microflora of the host and improve its immunity.

      The adhesion of probiotic bacteria to the enterocyte membrane receptors influences the
      activation of second messengers that induces the production of cytokines. The presence of
      probiotic bacteria influences the commensal microorganisms in the production of lactic acid
      and bacteriocins. These substances inhibit the growth of pathogens and modify the balance of
      commensal bacteria of the intestinal bacterial flora.

      Numerous controlled clinical trials show that L. reuteri DSM 17938 colonizes the human
      gastric and intestinal epithelium and modulates the immune response, particularly through CD4
      + T-helper cells in the ileum. These data confirm the pre-clinical evidence obtained in
      animal models; furthermore these immunomodulatory effects may explain some clinical
      properties of L. reuteri DSM 17938 such as the prevention of diarrhea, inhibition of pathogen
      infectionand the following immune system response of the host to these pathogens, as well as
      the potential modulation of the immune response by the Th1/Th2 balance in the human
      intestinal epithelium, an answer that has been linked to the prevention and treatment of
      allergy. In a recent, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, L. reuteri
      DSM 17938, supplemented for three months to healthy children aged 6-36 months attending
      nursery schools, demonstrated not only a significant reduction of episodes and duration of
      diarrhea but also of respiratory tract infections with consequent reduction of costs for
      society.

      Despite the prevalence of food with vitamin D and multivitamin products, reports regarding
      non-optimal vitamin D levels in adults and children in the world have increased, in
      particular among those subjects overweight and with dark pigmentation of the skin.

      In addition to its well-known effects on bone health, vitamin D is indeed an important immune
      regulator, because it stimulates innate immunity and modulates inflammation. An analysis of
      data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) between 1988 and 1994
      showed an inverse relationship between vitamin D levels and the incidence of upper
      respiratory tract infections (URTI). These results were supported by other studies showing an
      increased risk of acute lower respiratory tract infections in subjects with low levels of
      vitamin D.

      Historically, the association between rickets and the risk of serious respiratory infections
      is well known and vitamin D deficiency has been associated with an increased risk to contract
      the flu.

      These considerations have led to the hypothesis that supplementation with a probiotic added
      with vitamin D3 may influence the composition of intestinal flora by improving the immune
      system and therefore reducing episodes of respiratory infections, particularly frequent
      during preschool age.
    
  