
    
      The current research will identify specific self-reported risk symptoms for psychosis and
      psychiatric hospitalization. Data will be collected in a large (N=1000) intake sample from
      the adolescent outpatients units of three Finnish university hospitals. Besides the central
      psychotic-like experiences, psychosocial protective factors of positive mental health,
      resilience, and social networks will also be simultaneously assessed, as well as potentiating
      risk factors such as trauma, sleep disorders, affective symptoms, borderline personality
      traits, and substance use. The predictive value of psychotic-like experiences, in isolation
      and in interaction with the other measures, will assessed with an inclusive national register
      follow-up of psychosis diagnoses and all-causes psychiatric hospitalization. The study will
      thus produce risk algorithms for everyday use in psychiatric care. For immediate
      applicability of results, tools for computerized self-report and automatic risk calculation
      will be made available for clinical use.

      ANALYSIS PLAN To ensure a strong foundation for the primary predictor of positive
      psychotic-like experience (PLE) intensity, the structural validity of the YEAH questionnaire
      will be assessed with a theory-driven confirmatory bifactor model, taking into account the
      ordinal nature of items. In the case of unsatisfactory fit, exploratory analyses will be
      performed.

      The main pre-planned outcome analysis will be baseline latent positive and negative PLE
      levels on the YEAH questionaire and their interaction predicting the follow-up transition to
      psychosis. Secondary analyses using the same predictors will use all-causes hospitalization
      as the outcome, as an indicator of a general deterioration of mental health. Exploratory
      LASSO analyses of the same outcomes will include as additional predictors all baseline
      assessments of psychosocial health and symptoms, as well as the symptom stability in the
      questionnaire follow-up. Best analysis and reporting practices recommended for the field will
      be followed (Studerus et al, 2017), to minimize chance findings and to allow accurate
      replication.

      Power analyses The expected minimum sample size of 900 questionnaires is conservative for the
      planned main analyses. In our previous Helsinki Prodromal Study with a similar sampling
      strategy (Therman et al., 2014), 3.5% of respondents were diagnosed with psychosis within one
      year. With the consequently expected group sizes of 31 (psychosis) and 869 (others) and error
      probabilities α and β conservatively both set at 5%, a sensitivity analysis for a one-tailed
      t-test indicates a required effect size of 0.60 (Cohen's d) for the outcome-group difference
      in PLE intensity, which is the worst-case scenario. In our previous study, the d for the
      total score on the fairly non-specific Prodromal Questionnaire was 0.50, and the effect sizes
      for the brief questionnaires in the Kline et al. (2015) and Kobayashi et al. (2008) studies
      all corresponded to a d of 1.1 or greater. A d of 0.90 is a thus a conservative expectation
      with the new questionnaire, which would require a sample size of only 420. With a cut-off set
      to 20% test positives, already this effect size would achieve clinical usefulness as an
      initial screen, when the two-year psychosis rate is 5% (sensitivity 50%, positive predictive
      value 13%, diagnostic odds ratio 4.4). With a realistically obtainable d of 1.5 as the
      best-case scenario, the questionnaire screening would under the same conditions be highly
      useful (sensitivity 71%, positive predictive value 18%, diagnostic odds ratio 12).

      DOCUMENTATION AND QUALITY Possibilities for continued use of the data will be ensured by
      carefully documenting data collection methods, external circumstances, as well as the
      contents of the dataset. For documentation, the project will use the Data Documentation
      Initiative (DDI, version 3.2 with lifecycle support) international metadata standard.

      The primary database will contain a change log and previous versions will be archived with
      each revision. Main databases of the full dataset with version numbers and change logs will
      be maintained at the National Institute for Health and Welfare.

      DATA CORRECTNESS The primary questionnaire data will be entered directly by the respondents
      as multiple-choice items on tablet computers. Aggregated and individual responses will be
      reviewed by clinical workers immediately afterwards and discussed with the respondents as
      part of clinical routine. There will therefore not be a separate data entry stage with
      associated data entry errors.

      The secondary coded interview data will be entered by clinical workers directly into the
      database, and will be reviewed by the treating physician as part of clinical practice. Entry
      fields will be multiple-choice or limited to allowed values.

      Correct identification of data will be ensured by the clinical worker entering as primary
      identifier the unique Finnish national identification number, with the full name as secondary
      information. The identification number is subject to immediate automatic checks using the
      builtin check character and the associated age, and it will later be cross-checked with the
      name in local register follow-ups.

      Imported register data will be screened for disallowed values, and dates cross-checked with
      the primary study database to ensure correct person identification. Local and nationally
      aggregated register data coverage will be compared to ensure completeness.

      ADDITIONAL SECURITY OF PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION Personal identifying information will
      be stored separately from other electronic data, and linked to clinical data by a new random
      study identifier (a uuid) generated at THL. A uuid, or universally unique identifier, is a
      128 bit number, ISO/IEC 9834-8:2014). All analyses will be conducted using datasets without
      other identifying information than the study uuid. The file with personally identifying
      information will additionally be encrypted with a study-specific password known only to
      participating researchers.

      DATA SHARING AND LONG-TERM PRESERVATION All materials will be permanently stored in the THL
      archives as per the Finnish Archive Law (23.9.1994/831).

      To ensure maximum discoverability, metadata including codebooks and employed analysis scripts
      will be archived at the Finnish Social Science Data Archive (FSD) and within the EUDAT
      metadata infrastructure B2FIND.

      Open sharing of the data is not possible as consent for publication of the raw data is not
      obtained from the participants and the dataset could pose a threat to the confidentiality of
      their sensitive information.

      Due to the sensitive nature of the data and commitments made to the participants on their
      consent form, the compiled data itself will be managed solely by the National Institute for
      Health and Welfare (THL) and will be made available to other parties only by separate
      agreement and in anonymized, redacted form. This redaction work will be in compliance with
      national guidelines and additionally follow the most restrictive recommended approach among
      the following authoritative resources:

        1. US National Institutes of Health Data Sharing Policy

        2. UK Data Archive Anonymization/Quantitative

        3. Standards published in leading medical journals (e.g. BMJ 2010;340:c181, doi:
           10.1136/bmj.c181)
    
  