
    
      Macular oedema (swelling of the retina) is a leading cause of severe visual loss and
      blindness in patients with diabetes. The oedema is caused by fluid accumulation in the
      retinal tissue from leaking capillaries and leads to an increase in the retinal thickness.
      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) has become the primary technique to estimate the retinal
      thickness objectively, and the scans can be performed without any discomfort to the patient
      after dilation of the pupils.

      According to the Starling equation, a general basic physiologic rule, specific factors
      influence the fluid transport between the capillaries and the surrounding tissue. One of
      these factors is the balance between the large molecules within the vessel lumen and the
      surrounding tissue, e.g. the osmotic pressure balance. By changing the osmotic balance some
      drugs can reduce the fluid content in the tissue by extracting water from the tissue to the
      vessel lumen. Such a drug is galactose.

      In the present study we examine, if treatment with intravenous galactose can reduce the
      retinal thickness in diabetic macular oedema evaluated by OCT during a three-hour monitoring.
      Galactose (0.5 mg/mL) is administered as 1 mL galactose per kg body weight + 10% with a
      maximum of 80 mL, and injection time is 5 min. If reduction of the thickness with galactose
      is found, it then confirms the application of the Starling osmotic forces on diabetic macular
      oedema. In the same time span series of venous blood samples are taken for analysis of plasma
      osmolarity and electrolytes. The systemic blood pressure is also monitored as well as the
      capillary glucose level.

      As diurnal variations in the retinal thickness estimates potentially can influence the
      results, the OCT measurements and blood samples are repeated on a second day for each
      participant, without treatment with galactose for comparison. The order of two visits is
      given by randomisation.

      Interim analysis will take place after inclusion of 15 to 20 patients to evaluate the need
      for inclusion of 45 patients.
    
  