
    
      Chondrosarcomas (CHS) represent 25% of bone sarcomas and are the second most frequent primary
      malignant type of bone tumor. No effective systemic treatment has been identified in advanced
      or adjuvant phases for CHS. As CHS are relatively resistant to chemo- and radiotherapy,
      surgery remains the primary treatment of this tumor type. The aim of tumor resection is to
      obtain complete removal of the malignant lesion with adequate margins taking into account
      tumor control and functional reconstruction. However, considering the particular
      localizations of CHS, a wide resection (i.e. R0 clear margins) is rarely achieved.
      Unfortunately, therapeutic options are limited for patients with incomplete resection. In
      this context, new therapeutic strategies are needed to slow down tumor progression and to
      reduce tumor size before surgery.

      Increasing knowledge of the signal transduction pathways involved in oncogenesis has led to
      speculation that components of signalling pathways could be envisaged as novel targets for
      cancer therapy. Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR), which lies downstream of the
      Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/B kinase protein (PI3K/Akt) pathway, plays a central role in
      the regulation of cancer cell growth, suggesting that mTOR could be an attractive target for
      anti-cancer therapy. The PI3K-Akt-mTOR signaling pathway is intimately implicated in sarcoma
      development and progression. Indeed, mutations and/ or overexpression of one or several
      components of the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway are often observed in sarcoma. These alterations,
      located both upstream and downstream of mTOR, lead to dysregulation of the mTOR pathway. mTOR
      inhibitor evaluation as anticancer agents has began with rapamycin analogues (called
      rapalogs). Currently, mTOR inhibitors under clinical development include temsirolimus
      (CCI-779, Torisel®, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals), everolimus (RAD001, Afinitor®, Novartis
      Pharmaceuticals), and ridaforolimus (AP23573, ARIAD Pharmaceuticals). mTOR inhibitors were
      found to be efficient in various preclinical cancer models, for example in a preclinical
      mouse model of follicular thyroid cancer, everolimus induced a significant decrease in
      proliferation of cancer cells.

      Two sets of recent data suggest that inhibition of mTOR pathway could be an effective
      systemic treatment for chondrosarcoma. The first one is a case report describing an
      impressive tumor response in a patient with myxoid chondrosarcoma treated by rapamycin in
      combination with cyclophosphamide. The second one concerns nonclinical data generated by our
      institution. Using an orthotopic rat chondrosarcoma model, we have shown that monotherapy
      with everolimus inhibits chondrosarcoma proliferation as evaluated by Ki67 expression and
      significantly reduced tumor volume. Importantly, when given in a "pseudo-adjuvant" setting
      following R1 resection of the implanted tumor, everolimus significantly delayed tumor
      recurrence. These preclinical data provide a strong rationale to evaluate the therapeutic
      potential of everolimus in both the neo-adjuvant and adjuvant settings in patients with
      chondrosarcoma.

      In this context, the proposal of the investigators is to perform a multicenter, randomized,
      Phase II study in patients with a primary or relapsed chondrosarcoma in neo-adjuvant setting
    
  