
    
      After obtaining approval by the Institutional Review Board and a waiver of informed consent,
      thirty-five pregnant patients who underwent an ultrasound guided labor epidural between
      August of 2017 and June of 2018, were included in this retrospective review. The ultrasound
      guided labor epidural was used in those in which an anticipated technical difficulty with
      landmark epidural space localization was expected. These included those patients with
      diagnosis of obesity and lumbar scoliosis, as well as those with poorly defined surface
      lumbar bone anatomy. Patients with history of spine surgery were excluded. Patient data were
      obtained from the institutional electronic medical records. Demographic data, intervertebral
      level of insertion, dermatome level, and failure rate of epidural needle placement using
      color flow Doppler were noted for each patient.

      Labor analgesia was obtained via a combined spinal epidural technique. Sterile preparation
      and draping of the area was followed by placement of a curvilinear ultrasound transducer in a
      sterile sheath. The ultrasound was used to identify the interspinous space. The epidural
      needle was guided with the use of real time ultrasound by the use of an out of plane
      technique. A two hand technique was used to manipulate the needle and the ultrasound probe. A
      17G Tuohy needle (B. Braun Medical Inc, Bethlhem, PA, USA) was advanced until loss of
      resistance to normal saline was attained. Confirmation of the epidural space with the use of
      color flow Doppler (CFD) was then obtained after injection of up to 10 mL of normal saline
      through the epidural needle. A 27G pencil-point spinal needle (B. Braun Medical Inc,
      Bethlhem, PA, USA) was then introduced through the epidural needle until cerebro-spinal fluid
      (CSF) was obtained. Use of intrathecal fentanyl or local anesthetic plus fentanyl was then
      used as a bolus in the spinal space. A 21G epidural catheter (B. Braun Medical Inc, Bethlhem,
      PA, USA) was then threaded into the epidural space.
    
  