
    
      Background and Significance In the United States, heart failure is an epidemic affecting
      5,700,000 people, of which an estimated 100,000 to 200,000 suffer from end-stage heart
      failure. Cardiac transplantation has emerged as the definitive therapy for patients with
      end-stage heart failure.

      Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is the major limitation to longevity after heart
      transplant (HTx) and currently there are no effective treatments. It affects up to 45% of
      transplant recipients by year four post transplantation and is detectable on intravascular
      ultrasound in up to 75% at one year. Attempts to prevent cardiac allograft vasculopathy by
      modifying traditional risk factors such as dyslipidemia and hypertension have resulted in
      only modest improvements in outcomes after transplant. The efficacy of these preventive
      measures have been limited by the multifactorial nature of the process and the influence of
      nontraditional, less well-defined risk factors such as immune response, mode of brain death
      of the donor, and cytomegalovirus infection.

      Both traditional and non-traditional risk factors do share a common final pathway, which is
      endothelial injury and subsequent endothelial dysfunction.

      Endothelial dysfunction has been well described as a precursor to cardiac allograft
      vasculopathy in cardiac transplant recipients. While endothelial dysfunction is an integral
      part of the development of CAV and one of the earliest manifestations, it has not yet been
      demonstrated that targeting endothelial dysfunction delays or prevents the onset of cardiac
      allograft vasculopathy. Thus this study seeks to determine whether short-term sildenafil,
      when administered during the first 3 years after transplant, improves endothelial function in
      heart transplant recipients and thereby could prevent or delay cardiac allograft vasculopathy
      (CAV).

      Rationale for using sildenafil Sildenafil has been demonstrated to dilate epicardial coronary
      arteries in patients with coronary artery disease and in those with normal coronary arteries
      who have risk factors for CAD and has been demonstrated to improve endothelial function in a
      variety of cardiovascular diseases including pulmonary hypertension and heart failure. By
      inhibiting PDE-5, an enzyme that metabolizes cyclic guanosine monophosphate (c-GMP),
      sildenafil enhances c-GMP-mediated relaxation and inhibits proliferation of vascular
      smooth-muscle cells. Inhibition of PDE-5 receptors with sildenafil appears to selectively
      improve endothelial function of the epicardial arteries; and in patients with severe CAD,
      sildenafil has been shown to improve coronary flow reserve. Based on these properties, we
      hypothesize that PDE-5 inhibition will improve endothelial function in transplant recipients
      and delay or prevent the onset of vasculopathy

      Study Objectives

      To determine the effect of Sildenafil on endothelial function in cardiac transplant
      recipients by:

        1. Measuring the change in radial artery elasticity in HTx recipients before and after
           Sildenafil therapy.

        2. Measuring change in number of endothelial progenitor cells before and after Sildenafil
           therapy

      Study Design Overview of Study Design This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      16 week crossover designed pilot study to evaluate the effect of oral sildenafil 20mg t.i.d,
      on small artery elasticity (SAE) and endothelial cells in heart transplant recipients.

      Subjects will have pre-randomization and post treatment measurements of peripheral artery
      elasticity and endothelial progenitor cells Visits will occur at 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks. A
      graphic presentation of the study is shown below.
    
  