
    
      Recently a growth in the number of radiology studies across multiple modalities has been
      observed alongside the modest increase in staffing levels. This carries higher risks of
      increased workload and efficiency losses. The integration of computer vision-based services
      into URIS will improve the radiologists' productivity and job performance.

      Existing prerequisites for conducting the study:

        1. Increasing the number of preventive and diagnostic radiological studies entails the
           growing workload for radiologists and increased risk of interpretation errors, which in
           turn leads to the decrease in quality of medical care.

        2. When a radiologist opens a worklist of studies, in the absence of special notes, he/she
           writes a report in the random order, not being able to select from the list the studies
           that require the most attention and prompt response (studies with pathological
           findings), which increases the time of diagnosis.

        3. The absence of the structured pre-filled template of report leads to the increase in
           time for preparing reports.

        4. A radiologist has to spend considerable time evaluating the dynamics of pathological
           changes, which also increases the time to prepare a report as well as the risk of error.

        5. Interpretation of preventive studies requires double reading, which is implemented
           inefficiently due to the staff shortage.

      Study objectives:

        1. Study the diagnostic accuracy of the Services in accordance with the methodological
           guidelines No. 43 "Clinical trials of software based on intelligent technologies
           (diagnostic radiology)" (recommended by the Expert Council on Science of the Moscow
           Healthcare Department, Protocol No. 8 of June 25, 2019).

        2. Audit the studies conducted with Services application in order to determine the number
           of interpretation errors, and compare it with the audit result without their application
           (hypothesis 1).

        3. Conduct timekeeping to estimate time for preparing a report and the total number of
           evaluated studies with and without using the Services (hypothesis 2,3).

        4. Conduct a survey of radiologists who use the Services in their work, in order to
           determine their opinion about the implementation of innovative technologies in the
           diagnostic process.

      METHODOLOGY

        1. The Experiment is carried out by the Moscow Healthcare Department in accordance with
           Regulation No. 43 of January 24, 2020 "On approval of the procedure and conditions for
           conducting the Experiment on the use of innovative computer vision technologies for
           analysis of medical images and further application in Moscow healthcare system".

        2. The experiment is conducted on three types of studies:

      1) Chest Computed tomography and Low-Dose Computed Tomography for lung cancer detection
      (hereinafter referred to as CT/LDCT); 2) Chest X-ray for lung pathology detection
      (hereinafter referred to as XR); 3) Mammography for breast cancer detection (hereinafter
      referred to as ММГ).

      3. For each Service during the Experiment, a certain number of studies is provided for
      processing based on their type:

        1. CT/LDCT - 30 250 studies;

        2. XR - 55 000 studies;

        3. MMG - 48 500 studies.

      4. A methodology for including services in the Experiment has been developed. For each
      Service, the participation process in the Experiment consists of the following stages:

        1. selection;

        2. the preparatory stage;

        3. the main stage;

        4. the final stage.

      During the Experiment, a radiologist will routinely be able to:

        -  work on a sorted list of patients (triage);

        -  work with images processed by the Service;

        -  work with a pre-filled template of the radiological report on each study;

        -  evaluate the work of the Service according to the developed questionnaire. During the
           Experiment, a patient will receive the individual plan of the follow-up support. It
           includes preventive examinations or observation as well as treatment by a specialist.

      Systematization and final analysis of the Experiment results is carried out within three
      months from the completion date of the last Service participation in the Experiment.

      Based on the results of the Experiment, recommendations can be prepared on the possibility to
      register certain services as a medical device (software).
    
  