
    
      The number of elderly patients (>80 years) is increasing and a large proportion of these
      patients will require surgery and anesthesia within the next decades. Elderly patients are at
      higher risk of major morbidity and mortality and are characterized by a reduction in cardiac
      output, liver function and renal function. These physiological changes influence
      pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of drugs administered during anesthesia.

      During anesthesia neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) are administered to facilitate
      intubating conditions and reduce the trauma to the larynx and vocal cords. Studies suggests
      that avoidance of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) increases the risk of difficult
      tracheal intubation and leads to impaired intubating conditions with direct laryngoscopy.
      Furthermore, avoidance of NMBA significantly increases the risk of upper airway discomfort or
      injury. Even low doses of rocuronium may be associated with a significant improvement of
      intubating conditions.

      Remifentanil is a fentanyl analogue commonly used for induction since it also facilitates
      intubation. There is no risk of residual neuromuscular block, nonetheless circulatory side
      effects have been seen.

      The possible benefit in this trial is to investigate whether rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg or
      remifentanil 2 µg/kg provides best intubating conditions in the elderly. This may result in
      different intubating difficulty scores between the two groups of elderly patients. The
      results may help to detect the optimal method for intubation of the trachea in elderly
      patients.

      The aim of this study is to determine the effect on intubating conditions and laryngeal
      morbidity after either rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg or remifentanil 2 µg/kg in patients with age ≥ 80
      years. The hypothesis of this study is that rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg provides a higher proportion
      with excellent intubating conditions compared to remifentanil 2 µg/kg.
    
  