
    
      The functional disability experienced by Veterans after stroke, and the limited
      rehabilitation resources available, highlight the importance of identifying feasible
      treatments acting on more than one recovery target. Currently, there are separate and
      modality-specific treatment pathways for cognitive and motor impairments. These
      modality-specific treatment pathways lead to fragmentation of care, and under-identification
      and under-treatment of invisible disabilities, such as spatial neglect, aphasia and pain. The
      result is longer hospital stays, greater risk of falls, and poor functional outcomes.
      Employing a treatment that simultaneously addresses multiple targets will ensure that the
      investigators provide the needed care for >50% of post-stroke Veterans who have both visible
      and invisible disabilities, during the critical post-acute period of recovery.

      Prism adaptation treatment (PAT) is a 10-day regimen reported to be inexpensive, replicable
      and effective for treatment of spatial neglect, and studies have demonstrated that it also
      enhances everyday activities and motor recovery and reduces chronic post-stroke pain in
      patients with right brain stroke. Additionally, brain mapping methods have shown that in
      patients with right brain stroke, those with frontal lesions respond optimally to PAT. No
      studies have investigated PAT in left-brain stroke patients with language and cognitive
      impairment. To address this research gap, the investigators will address the following aims:

      Aim 1: To demonstrate the feasibility of adapted PAT procedures in patients with aphasia and
      memory impairment. .

      Aim 2: To demonstrate the feasibility of adapted methods for assessing spatial and motor
      function and pain in patients with aphasia and memory impairment.

      Aim 3: To demonstrate the feasibility of using information about lesion location from the
      radiology report to classify frontal vs. nonfrontal lesions.
    
  