
    
      Introduction The anterior stabilizing system for the glenohumeral joint is quite complex and
      may be altered by variable factors: anatomy, anatomic variants, overload and trauma. The
      latter mechanisms affects 1.7% of the general population, making glenohumeral instability the
      most frequent type of all joint instabilities.1 Shoulder apprehension is defined as anxiety
      and resistance in patients with a history of anterior glenohumeral instability. After an open
      or arthroscopic stabilization, 3% to 51% of patients will keep apprehension or will avoid any
      shoulder movement because of fear of dislocation.2,3 This can lead to increased morbidity for
      patients: increased pain, decreased activity level, prolonged absence from work and sports,
      and a general decrease in quality of life.4,5 Currently, the origin of persistent
      apprehension is unknown. Although a bony defect has been recognized as a major cause of
      residual instability,6 some patients remain apprehensive without any proven recurrence of
      dislocation and a clinically stable shoulder. Theoretically, such apprehension after
      glenohumeral stabilization could be related to (1) central nervous system sequelae subsequent
      to a learned negative stimulus,7,8, (2) peripheral neurological lesion consecutively to
      dislocation affecting proprioception,9 or (3) persistent mechanical instability consisting in
      micro-movements (i.e., postoperative form of unstable painful shoulder as described by Patte
      et al.10).

      Using a dedicated and non-invasive patient-specific measurement technique11 based on optical
      motion capture and computed tomography, the purpose of this article was to describe the
      glenohumeral translation in patients suffering from anteroinferior instability, to analyze
      the effect of glenohumeral stabilization on this translation, and consequently determine if
      shoulder stabilization effectively stabilizes shoulders or solely prevents further
      dislocations. The hypothesis was that shoulder stabilizations only partially correct the
      glenohumeral translation in unstable shoulders explaining residual apprehension in certain
      patients.

      Methods Patient Selection Between October 2014 and January 2015, a consecutive series of
      patients evaluated in a shoulder clinic who had a primary anteroinferior shoulder
      stabilization performed by the senior author were considered potentially eligible for
      inclusion in this prospective study. Institutional ethics committee approval was obtained
      before the study began (AMG 12-18), and the subjects signed a written informed consent form
      before participation.

      Operative Technique All operations were performed in the usual semi-beach chair position
      under general anaesthesia with an interscalenic block or catheter. Open Latarjet was
      performed as the standard and well-described Latarjet-Patte procedure with subscapularis
      split and triple locking mechanism.14 The graft was intra-articular in every case, the
      capsule was systematically reattached to glenoid according to Favard's modification,15 and a
      capsular shift was added. Arthroscopic Latarjet was carried out in one case according to a
      modified Lafosse technique.16 In the latter treatment option, no reattachment of the capsule
      was realized. In both arthroscopic and open techniques, the patients were postoperatively
      protected with a sling for ten days and were able to immediately start full active range of
      motion. Return to low-risk sports was allowed at six weeks, and high-risk (throwing and
      collision) sports at three months. The arthroscopic Bankart repair consisted in a
      mobilization of the anteroinferior capsule and the labrum with an arthroscopic elevator. The
      glenoid rim and neck were then prepared with a mechanical shaver device. Two loaded anchors
      were inserted at the 5 and 3 o'clock position, and sutures were shuttled across the inferior
      glenohumeral ligament and labrum, starting at the inferior position and progressing in a
      superior direction. Postoperatively, the arm was protected during four weeks. Return to
      low-risk sports was allowed at ten weeks, and high-risk (throwing and collision) sports at
      4.5 months.

      Radiographic Evaluation and Motion Capture All volunteers underwent a computed tomography of
      both arms and shoulders. The computed tomography examinations were conducted with a
      LightSpeed (LS) VCT 64 rows (General Electric Healthcare, Milwaukee WI, USA). Images were
      acquired at 0.63 mm slice resolution. Based on the computed tomography images,
      patient-specific 3D models of the shoulder bones (humerus, scapula, clavicle and sternum)
      were reconstructed for each patient using Mimics software (Materialize NV, Leuven, Belgium).

      Kinematic data was recorded using a Vicon MX T-Series motion capture system (Vicon, Oxford
      Metrics, UK) consisting of twenty-four cameras (24 × T40S) sampling at 120 Hz. The patients
      were equipped with a dedicated shoulder markers protocol,11 including sixty-nine spherical
      retroreflective markers placed directly onto the skin using double sided adhesive tape. The
      setup included four markers (Ø 14 mm) on the thorax (sternal notch, xyphoid process, C7 and
      T8 vertebra), four markers (Ø 6.5 mm) on the clavicle, four markers (Ø 14 mm) on the upper
      arm - two placed on the lateral and medial epicondyles and two as far as possible from the
      deltoid - and fifty-seven markers on the scapula (1x Ø 14 mm on the acromion and a 7x8 grid
      of Ø 6.5 mm). Finally, additional markers were distributed over the body (non-dominant arm
      and legs) to provide a global visualization of the motion.

      Patients participated in two motion capture sessions: a first session before surgery and a
      second one year after shoulder stabilization. During each session, they were asked to perform
      the following motor tasks (three trials each): (1) internal-external rotation of the arm with
      90° abduction and the elbow flexed 90°, (2) internal-external rotation of the arm with elbow
      at side, (3) flexion of the arm from neutral to maximum flexion, and (4) empty-can abduction
      from neutral to maximum abduction in the scapular plane. Both shoulders (ipsilateral and
      contralateral) were measured during the first session, whereas only the operated shoulder was
      assessed after surgery (second session). The same investigators attached all markers and
      performed all measurements.

      Kinematic Analysis Shoulder kinematics were computed from the recorded markers' trajectories
      using a validated biomechanical model which accounted for skin motion artifacts.11,21 The
      model was based on a patient-specific kinematic chain using the shoulder 3D models
      reconstructed from computed tomography data and a global optimization algorithm with loose
      constraints on joint translations (accuracy: translational error <3 mm, rotational error
      <4°).

      Glenohumeral range of motion was quantified for flexion, abduction and internal-external
      rotations at the maximal range of motion and expressed in clinical terms.22 This was achieved
      by calculating the relative orientation between two local coordinates systems, one for the
      scapula and one for the humerus, based on the definitions suggested by the International
      Society of Biomechanics.23 The local systems were created using anatomical landmarks
      identified on the patient's bony 3D models. The glenohumeral joint center was calculated
      based on a sphere fitting method.24 To facilitate clinical comprehension and comparison,
      motion of the humerus with respect to the thorax was also calculated. This was obtained with
      the same method but using the thorax and humerus coordinate systems.

      Glenohumeral translations were assessed at maximal range of motion during all tested
      movements. Glenohumeral translation was defined as anterior-posterior and superior-inferior
      motion of the humeral head center relative to the glenoid coordinate system.25 This
      coordinate system was determined by an anterior-posterior X-axis and a superior-inferior
      Y-axis with origin placed at the intersection of the anteroposterior aspects and
      superoinferior aspects of the glenoid rim. Subluxation was defined as the ratio (in %)
      between the translation of the humeral head center and the radius of width (anteroposterior
      subluxation) or height (superoinferior subluxation) of the glenoid surface. Instability was
      defined as subluxation > 50%.26

      Statistical Analysis Glenohumeral range of motion, humerus motion relative to the thorax, as
      well as glenohumeral translations were computed at maximal range of motion for all patients
      and for all movements recorded during the two motion capture sessions (before and after
      surgery). Paired Student's t-tests were used to determine if the kinematic data differed
      between the contralateral and ipsilateral pre- and postoperative arms, and between the pre-
      and postoperative pain scores. A significance level was chosen at p < 0.05. Descriptive
      statistics are presented as mean and standard deviations. The statistical software package R,
      v3.1.2 Portable (Free Software Foundation Inc, Vienna, Austria) was employed.
    
  