
    
      FAST-MAS addresses an important problem and critical barrier to progress in Mood and Anxiety
      Spectrum Disorders and if the aims of the project are achieved, FAST-MAS could shift
      scientific knowledge, technical capacity, and clinical practice in a positive direction.

      The Mood and Anxiety Spectrum disorders are both extremely common and associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality and, as such, represent an important public health
      problem in the United States.

      The mood disorders include the following diagnostic entities: major depressive disorder
      (MDD), bipolar disorder (including subtypes of mania, mixed state, and depressed, as well as
      types I and II), and dysthymic disorder. Available epidemiologic data suggest that the
      prevalence of these mood disorders is extremely high among adults in the United States,
      approaching 10%. Among the mood disorders, MDD has high lifetime prevalence, with recent
      estimates up to 16%. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), MDD is currently the
      leading cause of disability with the greatest burden of illness in developed countries and
      the third most common cause of disability worldwide. MDD is life shortening due to both
      suicide and its association with increased mortality from other medical conditions. It is
      also a highly recurrent condition with between 50% and 75% of persons diagnosed with MDD
      experiencing more than one episode. Bipolar Disorder is also a highly recurrent condition.
      The lifetime prevalence of bipolar disorder has been estimated to be approximately 3.4% in
      the World Health Survey Initiative. Approximately 60% of affected individuals experience
      severe or very severe role impairment based on the Sheehan Disability Scale and, like MDD,
      bipolar disorder is associated with significant suicide risk.

      The anxiety disorders are also very common and associated with significant adverse impact on
      affected individuals and society. These disorders include the following diagnostic entities:
      generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, social
      phobia, specific phobias, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). As a group, these
      conditions affect approximately 18% of adults in a given year and they are associated with
      significant co-morbidities and adverse consequences. Of the anxiety disorders, GAD appears to
      be associated with the greatest per patient cost and disability with a degree of disability
      comparable to that of MDD and comparable to chronic medical conditions such as arthritis,
      diabetes, and peptic ulcer disease. It affects approximately 6.8 million adults in the U.S.
      and is a highly chronic condition. Panic disorder affects about 6 million American adults and
      is twice as common in women as men. Panic disorder is also highly disabling and often chronic
      and even mild forms of this disorder are linked to significantly increased impairment in
      function and quality of life as well as a number of comorbidities. Approximately 2.2 million
      adults in the U.S. are affected by obsessive-compulsive disorder and this disorder is often
      accompanied by psychiatric comorbidities. Roughly half of individuals with this condition
      have a chronic unremitting course which is associated with significant disability and
      morbidity. Social phobia, also known as social anxiety disorder, is seen in roughly 15
      million adults in the U.S. and is often associated with MDD or other anxiety disorders. It is
      generally a chronic condition that leads to a great degree of disability due to substantial
      impairment in social, educational, and occupational function. Approximately 8 million adults
      in the U.S. experience PTSD and approximately 12% of the population have PTSD at some point
      in their lives and affected individuals frequently experience associated MDD, other anxiety
      disorders and substance use problems. The level of disability associated with this condition
      tends to be quite high and includes impairment in social and occupational function and
      quality of life. There are also substantial financial and social costs associated with PTSD
      due to increased hospitalization rates, suicidality, and substance use problem.

      Mood disorders and anxiety disorders are highly prevalent conditions, many of which are
      chronic, nearly all of which are associated with substantial comorbidities, disability and
      impairment and some are associated with an increased risk for mortality. Despite the
      availability of many pharmacologic, psychotherapeutic, brain stimulation, and combination
      treatment options available to clinicians, many patients with Mood and Anxiety Spectrum
      Disorders respond poorly to treatment. In light of the impairments, costs, and risks of these
      disorders, the limitations of the available treatments represents an enormous burden to
      public health and speak strongly to the need for new treatments for these conditions as well
      as novel methodologies of treatment development that are not only faster than existing
      methodologies but which also promote new ways of thinking about these disorders and their
      treatment and capitalize on recent and ongoing developments in basic science.

      This study will be a six-site randomized, double-blind, PBO (placebo) -controlled,
      parallel-group mono-therapy study to assess the effects of CERC-501 (formerly known as
      LY2456302) compared to PBO in adults age 21-65 years with mood and anxiety spectrum
      disorders. We will recruit a total of 90 subjects, of which 45 will be randomized to CERC-501
      and 45 to placebo for 8 weeks of treatment
    
  