
    
      Proximity alarm systems are promoted as an approach to reduce falls and decrease use of
      physical restraints in hospitals, but they have not been tested rigorously. This study will
      implement proximity alarms at Methodist-University Hospital (M-UH), a 652-bed urban community
      hospital in Memphis, Tennessee. The hospital provides primary to tertiary care to a diverse
      adult patient population. The group randomized trial will be conducted on 16 25-bed general
      medical-surgical nursing units at M-UH. Nursing units will be randomized within blocks of 2
      based on rates of falls that occur during an initial 3-month observation period. Over a
      15-month intervention, 8 nursing units will be randomized to receive the alarm-based
      intervention, and 8 will utilize existing nursing care methods to minimize falls.
      Intervention units will receive an adequate supply of proximity alarm monitoring systems to
      apply to all patients considered by nursing staff to be at high risk for falls. An
      implementation team, consisting of a nurse-champion, geriatrician and biomedical
      instrumentation specialist, will train and conduct regular follow-up on intervention units to
      address technical issues related to use of the alarms. The primary outcome measure, patient
      falls, will be ascertained prospectively by a nurse-manager using a method developed to
      collect patient (e.g., orientation and postural blood pressure) and environmental data
      collected in a standardized manner. The primary aim of the study is to determine whether
      proximity alarm monitoring reduces falls. The study has been designed to test the hypothesis
      that patient falls will be 25% lower on intervention units compared to control units. The
      secondary aims are to determine whether proximity alarm monitoring reduces the use of
      physical restraints, or decreases patient care costs. This will be the first methodologically
      sound study to evaluate this promising approach to reducing falls in hospitals. Whether or
      not alarms successfully reduce falls, findings from this study have the potential to widely
      impact purchasing decisions and clinical practice related to fall prevention in acute-care
      settings.
    
  