
    
      Septic syndrome caused by bloodstream infections represents a major healthcare problem
      worldwide and is the leading cause of mortality in the non-cardiac intensive care unit (ICU).
      Despite ongoing research efforts in sepsis, the mortality remains as high as 12-30%.

      In severe sepsis, the time to adequate antibiotic therapy has been clearly linked to
      survival. However, in the emergency room, it is challenging to identify the cause behind the
      clinical presentation and identify patients who would benefit the most from antibiotic
      treatment. An indiscriminate use of antibiotics inevitably leads to bacterial resistance and
      unacceptable adverse events. Thus, there is a great and unmet medical need to develop novel
      diagnostic instruments that could inform the clinician about who would need antibiotics and
      who would not benefit from it. Furthermore, early identification of the causal microorganism
      and the inflammatory status of the patients would improve decisions about treatments and
      reduce administration of antibiotics.

      Today the gold standard for diagnosis of bloodstream infections (BSI) is blood culture
      followed by identification of species and resistance pattern by standard laboratory
      procedures. This procedure is associated with a high specificity but also with a low
      sensitivity. Probable reasons for a negative blood culture despite a strong clinical
      suspicion could be insufficient blood volume in the culture bottles or antibiotic treatment
      prior to blood sampling with a subsequent failure of the bacteria to grow in the bottles.

      In recent years Polymerase Chain reaction (PCR) has been proposed as a method to determine
      bacterial DNA based on amplification of specific subunits (16S and 18S) of bacterial
      ribosomal RNA. PCR require very small amount of DNA. Another advantage is the possibility to
      determine bacterial species from non-viable bacteria by multiplex PCRs. However most of those
      multiplex PCRs have shown a limited sensitivity even though they also found clinical relevant
      pathogens that were not detected with blood cultures. Another limitation is that
      multiplex-PCR only detects at maximum 95% of all sepsis causing pathogens. In a recent
      published study the author concluded that a tested multiplex PCR "on whole blood specimens"
      in adjunct to current culture-based methods provided a clinical add-on value. The future role
      of PCR and other molecular techniques in the clinical setting needs further evaluation.

      A new method that could improve the diagnostics of sepsis and also have the possibility to
      follow the bacterial DNA load during antibiotic treatment is Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR).
      This technique enables an absolute quantification of the sepsis causing pathogen targeting
      either a species specific gene or the 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene, present in several
      copies per bacteria. In ddPCR, the sample is divided into about 20.000 water-in-oil droplets,
      and in all of them the PCR-reaction occurs. Following PCR, each droplet is analyzed to
      determine the fraction of PCR-positive droplets giving the amount of bacterial DNA in the
      original sample. The absolute target DNA template concentration can then be calculated, since
      the size of the droplets is known, and by using Poisson distribution statistics for the
      correction of more than one positive reaction in the same droplet.

      To identify the sepsis causing pathogen sequencing of the 16S rDNA gene or a shotgun
      metagenomics approach could be used. In the latter, all DNA in a sample is sequenced using
      Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and the sepsis causing pathogen can be both detected and
      aims to be quantified through bioinformatics data analysis.

      During the septic course the patient go from vasodilation to vascular leakage and finally a
      hypotension. This together with added intravenous fluid treatment will increase the
      distribution volume with an altered pharmacokinetic state for added antibiotics. Furthermore,
      decreased kidney function is common in ICU patients and augmented creatinine clearance during
      the acute phase of sepsis is described with increasing frequency. Therefore, it is difficult
      to anticipate the optimal antibiotic dose for the septic patient. Indeed, it is shown that in
      a considerable portion of ICU patients an adequate antibiotic exposure is not achieved and
      this is associated with negative clinical outcome.

      A dysregulated host response is a cornerstone of the current understanding of sepsis
      pathophysiology. Initially during the sepsis course a proinflammatory response is induced by
      early activation genes, including cytokines associated with inflammation: tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF), Interleukin-1(IL-1), IL-12 and IL-18. Simultaneously an immune suppression is
      induced by anti-inflammatory cytokines i.e IL-10 and transforming growth factor. A disrupted
      homeostasis of the pro- and anti-inflammatory response is suggested to be part of the
      dysregulated host response in sepsis although clinically available biomarkers for its
      identification are lacking. Furthermore, the regulatory mediators involved in this process
      and the association to bacterial clearance during sepsis needs further investigation.

      The gastrointestinal tract may be a source of bacteria and a worsening of the septic
      inflammation in ICU patients, if the epithelial barrier is disrupted. Thus intact
      gastrointestinal function is critical in severely diseased patients. There are no clinically
      available biomarkers of gastrointestinal function; however the recently described acute
      gastrointestinal injury (AGI) score has been shown to correlate with adverse outcome in
      ICU-patients.

      The aim of the study is to investigate whether bacterial DNA in whole blood measured with
      ddPCR can be used for assessment of bacterial clearance in septic intensive care patients. To
      do so the investigators will search for a potential association between bacterial DNA
      clearance and clearance of bacteremia detected by blood cultures.

      Further, the aim is to examine a possible relation between clearance of bacterial DNA,
      biomarkers of dysregulated host response, and clinical outcome in the septic patient. Outcome
      is measured as: mortality on ICU, mortality <28 days, days in the ICU, change in Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment score(SOFA), time in assisted ventilation, lactate clearance, need
      of vasopressors, and severity of gastrointestinal injury. Further, the aim is to study the
      relationship between concentration of beta-lactam antibiotics i.e. the minimal inhibitory
      concentration for the bacteria (T>MIC) detected and the clearance of bacterial DNA. The
      material collected will also contribute to reveal the relationship between ddPCR and shot gun
      sequencing in detecting the sepsis causing bacteria.
    
  