
    
      Participants will be randomized on a one-to-one basis between one of two study arms,
      individualized lot selection (alternative treatment arm) and random lot selection (standard
      treatment arm, current US clinical practice in ITI). Study sites, participants, and
      investigators will be blinded to the treatment status assigned.

      Alternative treatment arm:

      Half of the participants will be randomized to blinded individualized lot selection for ITI.
      The target initial dose of FVIII for ITI is ~200 IU/kg/day intravenously. The suggested
      maximum dose is 20,000 IU/day. Investigators may adjust the dose to a minimum dose of 150
      units/kg if infusion volume is not feasible in patients without central venous access or in
      patients with von Willebrand factor levels >250%. Splitting dose into two infusions per day
      must be approved by the Steering Committee, and if approved, will be considered a protocol
      deviation. Wilate速 will be the VWF/FVIII complex concentrate (Octapharma USA, Inc., U.S.
      License No. 1646) prescribed for ITI.

      Individualized lot selection will be performed according to a modified Oxford method in a
      central laboratory, by testing subject's plasma against 4-6 lots of Wilate速 and selecting the
      one with the highest residual FVIII (lowest Oxford titer) activity remaining after
      incubation. The same lot will be used throughout the entire ITI course for each subject. If
      the selected lot is depleted prior to the completion of ITI, a second individualized lot
      selection will be performed using the original plasma sample provided at baseline.

      Each Wilate速 batch includes 1.6-1.8 million IU and is expected to last for about 3-57 months
      depending on the weight of the subject and prescribed dose.

      Standard treatment arm:

      The other half of the participants will receive random lot selection for ITI. The dose and
      concentrate used will be the same. Concentrate will be randomly selected from available
      Wilate速 lots. The same lot will be used throughout the entire ITI course for each subject. If
      the random lot is depleted prior to the completion of ITI, a second lot will be randomly
      selected. In both cases the random lot will be tested against subject's plasma to measure the
      residual FVIII activity left after incubation but this result will not affect lot selection.

      The primary hypothesis is that the time to negative inhibitor (<0.6 BU) will be shorter with
      individualized lot selection compared to random lot selection and that this will impact
      monthly break-through bleeding and reduce costs.
    
  