
    
      Patients will be invited to participate on the day of hospital discharge. Once the informed
      consent has been signed, patients will be randomized with a 1: 1 ratio to conventional
      follow-up (cardiologist) or combined follow-up (ambulatory visit with cardiologist and
      geriatrics on the same day). Randomization will be stratified according to the presence or
      absence of criteria of frailty and ventricular function (cut-off 50%) to ensure that both
      groups are balanced. This stratification will be achieved by generating 4 different
      randomization lists. Frailty will be assessed using the Canadian Study of Health and Aging
      (CSHA) Clinical Frailty Scale. Randomization will be carried out by administrative staff
      independent of the study following a computer generated randomization scheme.The first visit
      will be made in less than 10 days after discharge from the hospital. Lawton and Barthel index
      and Pfeiffer test and quality of life test will be done in both groups.

      The cost associated with care in the hospital is collected in each patient and therefore the
      total cost of the admissions, ambulatory visits and emergencies of each patient will be
      retrospectively evaluated.

      In patients in the intervention arm the following areas will be evaluated: social sphere
      (Social and family evaluation scale of Gijón (abbreviated and modified) (Barcelona version),
      functional capacity (Barthel index and Lawton index), cognitive sphere (Pfeiffer test),
      emotional sphere (Geriatric Depression Scale Yesavage), nutritional status (Mini-Nutritional
      Assessment Short Form, plasma albumin), comorbidity (Charlson index) and the presence of
      geriatric syndromes (falls, polypharmacy, ulcers pressure, constipation, incontinence,
      insomnia.) Interdisciplinary interventions will be carried out in each of the areas
      evaluated.

      Follow-up will be carried out at the heart failure clinic of the Cardiology Department at 3,
      6 and 12 months. A clinical event evaluation committee will be appointed, consisting of 2
      independent cardiologists, who will blindly adjudicate the events that occurred during the
      duration of the study.
    
  