
    
      Robotic-arm assisted surgery aims to reduce errors and improve accuracy for implant position
      in total hip arthroplasty (THA). In THA implant positioning plays a pivotal role in good
      clinical outcomes and reduces long-term wear, therefore, technology has been developed to
      help surgeons achieve more accurate implant position consistently. Computer-assisted
      navigation provides surgeon with knowledge to help guide surgeons intra-operatively with some
      systems computed tomography (CT)-based, others fluoroscopy based, and others imageless
      systems. Computer navigation has been shown to accurately place components, but does not
      provide the ability for patient specific pre-operative planning that CT- based robotics
      allows. While some may argue that robotic-arm assisted THA is more accurate, others argue
      that the cost and learning curve associated with robotic-arm assisted THA is not more
      accurate with no long-term clinical benefits. Robotic arm-assisted THA has been shown to
      improve accuracy of component placement and reduce outliers. Kayani et al reviewed 100 cases
      performed by a single surgeon with 50 THAs performed manually and 50 robotic arm-assisted. In
      this study, Kayani did not find a learning curve associated with achieving accuracy using the
      robotic arm-assisted technology; however, there was a 12 case learning curve for both himself
      and his operating staff that increased operative time [9]. Nodzo et al evaluated the use of
      the robotic arm-assisted THA using post-operative CT scans and found that both the acetabular
      and femoral component position were significantly accurate when compared to the intra-op
      position. Kamara et al reviewed a single surgeon case series to assess acetabular accuracy
      and found that 76% of manual THAs were within the surgeons' target zone compared to 97% of
      his robotic arm-assisted THAs, concluding that adoption of robotic arm-assisted THA provided
      significant improvement in acetabular component positioning during THA. Similarly, Redmond et
      al found that although there was a learning curve associated with robotic arm-assisted THA,
      operative time decreased with experience and acetabular component outliers decreased
      suggesting that while there is a learning curve with robotic arm-assisted THA the clinical
      benefits are better implant positioning and decreased outliers. Illgen et al reported that
      the improved acetabular accuracy in robotic arm-assisted THA significantly reduced
      dislocation rates when compared to manual THA. Bukowski et al reported robotic arm-assisted
      THA clinical outcomes at a minimum of 1 year and found that patients who underwent a robotic
      arm-assisted THA has higher clinical outcomes compared to a manual group, however, there have
      been no large multicenter studies that assess clinical outcomes after robotic arm-assisted
      THA.

      In conjunction with numerous other patient-specific and surgical factors, such as age, sex,
      comorbidities, surgical approach, component selection, and impingement, component positioning
      is often cited as an important factor in optimizing THA stability. Lewinnek et al. defined
      the "safe zone" for component position as 40⸰±10⸰ of cup inclination and 15⸰±10⸰ of cup
      anteversion to minimize dislocation risk. However, recent studies have shown that not only do
      components continue to dislocate when placed in this zone, but that the majority of THA
      dislocations are positioned in this safe zone to begin with. Compounding this issue is the
      growing body of evidence showing that the acetabular component is not static in nature, as
      was the assumption with Lewinnek's safe zone, but rather dynamically changing with movement
      of the pelvis and spine during postural and positional changes. Alterations of the dynamic
      relationship between the hip, spine, and pelvis in patients with hip-spine pathology during
      movements such as transitioning from standing to sitting affects typical pelvic biomechanical
      accommodation, resulting in THA component impingement, instability, and dislocation.
      Therefore, patients with spinopelvic pathology secondary to arthritis, spinal fusion, or
      spinal deformity are more prone to dislocation and revision following primary THA. The
      standard modality for assessing hip component position postoperatively is a 2D
      anteroposterior radiograph, due to low radiation dose and low cost. However, hip replacement
      components are placed in a 3-dimensional pelvis and femur, and therefore an anteroposterior
      radiograph alone may not give accurate information on the anteversion of the acetabular or
      femoral component. Studies have shown that cup anteversion measured with radiographs can have
      serious deviations with a substantial error range (mean deviation +1.74°, range -16.6° to
      29.8°). This is attributed to the fact that radiographs cannot control for pelvic rotation
      and/or tilt. Recently a limited number of studies have started to use the other imaging
      modalities for understanding pelvic tilt in patients undergoing hip arthroplasty.
    
  