
    
      INTRODUCTION Gonarthrosis is the most common disorder of the musculoskeletal system, with an
      age-related prevalence varying between 12-55%. The treatment of OA is mostly symptomatic and
      includes the use of analgesics, NSAIDs, exercise and even surgery. However, the use of
      long-term NSAIDs is associated with potentially serious side effects, with a high risk of
      hospitalization and death. As a result, the use of alternative and complementary therapies
      (CAM), such as nutritional therapies in patients with OA, is extremely frequent.

      The objective of this study will be to evaluate the effectiveness of a dietary supplement
      based on curcumin, polydatin and beta-caryophyllene (FENOXIDOL™-Mivell), on the reduction of
      pain and inflammatory component in individuals with knee OA.

      MATERIAL AND METHOD Study design Intervention study with two parallel arms, randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled to assess the effectiveness of the dietary supplement in
      reducing perceived pain, will also be evaluated secondarily the improvement of joint
      function, changes in serum levels of PCR, inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-6) and
      nitrates / nitrites at the level of saliva and any change in the use of painkillers when
      needed.

      Intervention Intervention group: the study involves the intake of two capsules per day, one
      capsule to be taken before breakfast and one before dinner for a period of 6 weeks.

      The FENOXIDOL™ supplement and its placebo (visually identical capsules, but without active
      ingredients) will be supplied by the company Mivell Srls participating in the PrIntAge
      project. For the composition of the placebo, see the declaration attached to this document by
      Mivell Srls.

      FENOXIDOL™ is a natural anti-inflammatory supplement designed to counteract, without any
      known side effects, acute and chronic inflammatory phenomena, especially those associated
      with joints, muscles and bones. The product has been formulated using naturally derived
      extracts in the quantities shown in the table below.

      PHENOXIDOL CAPSULE COMPOSITION active substances for 1 capsule for 2 capsules Bio Curcumin
      200 mg 400 mg Polydatin 50 mg 100 mg Beta-Caryophyllene 24 mg 48 mg

      It should be noted that the product FENOXIDOL™ and its components have not been associated to
      date with any side effects, the active ingredients of the formula are all listed in Annex 1
      of the Italian Ministry Decree of 10 August 2018 governing the use in food supplements of
      herbal substances and preparations as updated by Decree 9 January 2019.

      It should also be noted that the FENOXIDOL™ product has no Gluten Free certification.

      Placebo group: the study involves taking two capsules per day of placebo, one capsule before
      breakfast and one before dinner for a period of 6 weeks.

      The placebo will consist of capsules with no active ingredients containing cellulose, fatty
      acid magnesium salts, and silicon dioxide.

      All participants will be allowed to use anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen up to 400 mg per
      2/day) to control pain, if needed. The patient will, however, be required to avoid / suspend
      the use of anti-inflammatory at least 12 hours before the visit to baseline and subsequent
      checkups and to record the use.

      Treatment, randomisation and blinding kits Mivell Srls will prepare patient kits containing
      treatment capsules in proportion to the time of administration and sample size considered and
      will send them by courier to the Pharmacy of the Istituto di Riabilitazione Santo Stefano. In
      order to carry out the double-blind study, these kits will be assigned, by Mivell Srls,
      identification codes based on the randomization lists generated by a statistical software.
      Blinding will be maintained for the entire duration of the study, until the analysis of the
      data and, possibly, interrupted only at the time of highlighting potential adverse winds in
      the participants.

      The patient's compliance with the treatment will be calculated on the basis of the percentage
      of residual doses at the end of the study and on the basis of the compilation of a diary.

      Biological samples and data collection Data will be collected on age, gender, educational
      level, BMI, employment, physical activity at work and in leisure time (IPAQ Questionnaire),
      tobacco habits, presence of comorbidity, type of diet (food frequency questionnaire related
      to the last week, with particular regard to the intake of substances with anti-inflammatory /
      antioxidant power, eg: seeds and dried fruit, dark chocolate, bananas, avocado, soya
      products, leafy vegetables, fish, garlic, curry, rosemary, ginger, saffron, (see Cavicchia,
      2009), use of drugs (with particular regard to the frequency of taking painkillers and
      anti-inflammatory drugs in the previous six weeks) and supplements. The following will also
      be evaluated: duration of the disease, presence of osteoporosis, orthopaedic-neurological
      comorbidity, trauma, type of work, obligatory postures, use of special shoes/touches.

      The objective examination will allow the evaluation of the degree of joint impairment, the
      completion of the WOMAC questionnaire, the pVAS scale (Visual Analogue Scale for pain), knee
      height from the ground, A diary of the frequency of use of pain control drugs (ibuprofen up
      to 400mg 2/day), to be completed by the patient or care-giver, will also be delivered.

      The volume of blood collected will be 5 ml, as part of the blood sample performed for
      chemical and clinical tests provided for in normal clinical practice.

      Blood sample testing will be performed immediately after collection at GSS Laboratories,
      using standard methods.

      The concentration of nitrites and nitrates, IL-1 beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha will be evaluated
      at the salivary level. Salivary collection will be done by means of Salivets. Dosages of
      nitrite and nitrate, IL-6 and TNF-alpha will be conducted on morning saliva sample. Salivary
      samples will be processed at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology of the Hygiene Section of
      the Department of Biomedical Sciences and Public Health - Polytechnic University of Marche,
      with delivery within the day or refrigerated for a maximum of 4 days before transport from
      GSS premises to the analysis laboratory.

      Adverse reactions There are currently no adverse reactions associated with taking FENOXIDOL™
      as a dietary supplement. However, in this study, all adverse reactions reported spontaneously
      by the patient or detected by the investigator will be reported on the Case Report Form
      (CRF).

      ETHICAL AND LEGAL ASPECTS The procedures in the study regarding conduct, conduct and
      documentation have been prepared to ensure compliance with the ethical principles set out in
      the Helsinki Declaration and its revisions. The design of the research also included
      guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (GCP).

      The study will be conducted taking into account regulatory requirements and legal
      requirements and the study will be initiated following the obtaining of the evaluation and
      approval of the study by the Regional Ethics Committee and the completion of administrative
      requirements provided by the institution where the study is conducted.

      In addition

        -  Before enrolment, all potentially eligible patients should receive full information
           about the study;

        -  In order to be enrolled, patients must give their consent to the processing of personal
           data in anonymous and aggregate form, in accordance with the GDPR, European Regulation
           679/2016 on the Protection of Personal Data.

        -  the patient must be informed that his or her data may be examined by authorised
           personnel or members of the competent ethics committee and by officials of the competent
           regulatory authorities

        -  Patient information and consent forms are included in the documentation attached to the
           request for approval by the Regional Ethics Committee.

      References

      Altman R, Alarcón G, Appelrouth D, Bloch D, Borenstein D, Brandt K, Brown C, Cooke TD, Daniel
      W, Feldman D, et al. The American College of Rheumatology criteria for the classification and
      reporting of osteoarthritis of the hip. Arthritis Rheum. 1991;34:505-14.

      Arellano FM. The withdrawal of rofecoxib. Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety.
      2005;14(3):213-217.

      Bannuru RR, Osani MC, Al-Eid F, Wang C. E Efficacy of curcumin and Boswellia for knee
      osteoarthritis: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2018
      Dec;48(3):416-429.

      Cavicchia PP, Steck SE, Hurley TG, Hussey JR, Ma Y, Ockene IS, Hébert JR. A New Dietary
      Inflammatory Index Predicts Interval Changes in Serum High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein1-3.
      The Journal of Nutrition. 2009; 139(12): 2365-72.

      de Koning EJ, Timmermans EJ, van Schoor NM, Stubbs B, van den Kommer TN, Dennison EM, Limongi
      F, Castell MV, Edwards MH, Queipo R, Cooper C, Siviero P, van der Pas S, Pedersen NL,
      Sánchez-Martínez M, Deeg DJH, Denkinger MD; EPOSA Group. Within-Person Pain Variability and
      Mental Health in Older Adults With Osteoarthritis: An Analysis Across 6 European Cohorts. J
      Pain. 2018 Jun;19(6):690-698.

      Felson DT, Lawrence RC, Hochberg MC, et al. Osteoarthritis: new insights-part 2: treatment
      approaches. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2000;133(9):726-737.

      Herman CJ, Allen P, Hunt WC, Prasad A, Brady TJ. Use of complementary therapies among primary
      care clinic patients with arthritis. Preventing Chronic Disease. 2004;1:1-15.

      Herold G. Innere Medizin. Köln: Gerd Verlag; 2007: 614-615 Jordan KM, Arden NK, Doherty M, et
      al. EULAR recommendations 2003: an evidence based approach to the management of knee
      osteoarthritis: report of a Task Force of the Standing Committee for International Clinical
      Studies including Therapeutic Trials (ESCISIT) Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases.
      2003;62:1145-1155.

      Liu X, Machado GC, Eyles JP, Ravi V, Hunter DJ. Dietary supplements for treating
      osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Sports Med. 2018
      Feb;52(3):167-175.

      Mobasheri A, Henrotin Y. Comment on: Efficacy of Curcumin and Boswellia for knee
      osteoarthritis: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2018 Apr 11.

      Moskowitz RW, Abramson SB, Berenbaum F. Coxibs and NSAIDs-clearing the air. Osteoarthritis
      and Cartilage. 2005;13(7):545-547. [PubMed] National Institute of Arthritis and
      Musculosceletal and Skin Diseases. Handout on Health: Osteoarthritis. May 2016. Available at
      http://www.niamsnihgov/Health_Info/Osteoarthritis/defaultasp.

      Oliviero F, Scanu A, Zamudio-Cuevas Y, Punzi L, Spinella P. Anti-inflammatory effects of
      polyphenols in arthritis. J Sci Food Agric. 2018 Mar;98(5):1653-1659.

      Sangha O. Epidemiology of rheumatic diseases. Rheumatology. 2000;39(supplement 2):3-12.
      [PubMed] World Health Organization Department of Reproductive Health and Research (WHO/RHR)
      and Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health/Center for Communication Programs (CCP),
      Knowledge for Health Project. Family Planning: A Global Handbook for Providers (2018 update).
      Baltimore and Geneva: CCP and WHO, 2018.

      Zhang G, Cao J, Yang E, Liang B, Ding J, Liang J, Xu J. Curcumin improves age-related and
      surgically induced osteoarthritis by promoting autophagy in mice. Biosci Rep. 2018 Jul
      2;38(4).

      Zhao P, Cheng J, Geng J, Yang M, Zhang Y, Zhang Q, Wang Y, Lu B. Curcumin protects rabbit
      articular chondrocytes against sodium nitroprusside-induced apoptosis in vitro. Eur J
      Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 5;828:146-153.
    
  