
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the efficacy of bevacizumab and irinotecan hydrochloride, in terms of 6-month
      progression-free survival rate, in patients with recurrent or refractory intracranial
      glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma.

      II. Determine the adverse event profile and tolerability of bevacizumab and temozolomide in
      these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the efficacy of bevacizumab and temozolomide, in terms of 6-month
      progression-free survival rate, in patients previously treated with temozolomide.

      II. Determine the efficacy of bevacizumab and irinotecan hydrochloride, in terms of objective
      response, in patients with measurable disease.

      III. Determine the efficacy of bevacizumab and temozolomide, in terms of objective response,
      in patients with measurable disease who were previously treated with temozolomide.

      IV. Determine the toxicity profile and tolerability of bevacizumab and irinotecan
      hydrochloride in these patients.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the potential role of perfusion MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging as
      an early indicator of response to therapy after 2 weeks of treatment with bevacizumab.

      II. Assess the potential role of perfusion MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging as
      a prognostic indicator based on images taken at baseline, at 2 weeks, and after 2 courses of
      study treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (<
      50 vs >= 50 years of age) and Karnofsky performance status (70-80% vs 90-100%). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms with a 2:1 ratio (arm I:arm II).

      ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and oral
      temozolomide once daily on days 1-21.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV as in Arm I followed by irinotecan hydrochloride IV
      over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo MRI at baseline and at every 2
      courses (no 2-week MRI) per standard of care until progression or discontinuation of
      treatment to assess areas of breakdown of the blood-brain barrier. Patients undergo an
      additional MRI after study therapy. Consenting patients also undergo diffusion and perfusion
      MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging for correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for at least 1 month.
    
  