
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The purpose is to analyze task-related connectivity changes in brain regions, using a block
      design blood oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI),
      as a function of the linkage between visual input and motor output.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      - 25 right-hand dominant, healthy adult volunteers

      DESIGN:

      Connectivity between brain areas can change related to the dependence level between visual
      input and motor output. The dependence level will be modulated while performed tasks engage
      visual and motor areas either in a functionally related fashion or not. Subjects will perform
      a visuomotor task (VM, dependence level = maximal) that consists of tracking a target by
      exerting force isometrically on a transducer with their right index finger (target signal and
      exerted force are displayed in the scanner). In the visual plus motor task (V+M), two
      different tasks will be performed simultaneously. Subjects will perform the same motor task
      as in VM but without target signal and visual feedback of their force control, while a
      neutral visual input unrelated to the motor output is dynamically flashed in the screen. In
      the visual (V), subjects will watch the target signal while relaxed. In the motor task (M),
      subjects will produce the same motor task as in VM and V+M while staring at a static fixation
      cross. A rest period will require subjects to fixate on a stationary dot in the middle of the
      visual field. fMRI scanning will be used to record brain activity during tasks.

      The experimental phase will have six sets of 6-minute scanning sessions where the subject
      will perform the conditions. The conditions will appear pseudo-randomly throughout the scan
      sessions. V will always precede VM condition to avoid motor system activation secondary to
      imagination of movement primed by the visual stimulus. The M and VM conditions will be
      presented in a random order. At the completion of fMRI scanning, a baseline high-resolution
      MRI T1 scan will be obtained for anatomic localization and co-registration.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome is the connectivity change in brain networks in response to loss of
      dependence between a sensory input and the motor output. We will be focused on the
      correlation between the time series of activations in each condition and the connectivity
      changes over all the conditions. This will allow us to elucidate the task-dependent
      connectivity between occipital cortex and prefrontal cortex relative to the functional link
      between visual input and motor output.
    
  