
    
      Randomization and Treatment: The subjects will be distributed in each of the three cancer
      categories (breast, lung, and colon), and randomized on centralized randomization lists for
      each of the cancer categories and assigned a unique identification number in the temporal
      order of recruitment. Using randomization with the minimization method, subjects will be
      allocated to treatment or placebo, 15 each for the treatment group or the placebo group, for
      a total of 30 subjects in each of the 3 cancers. This study utilizes a double-blind.

      Placebo: The placebo is identical in packaging and appearance to the treatment.
      Identification of placebo vs. Seigen alpha EV is by unique packaging code. Patients and study
      doctors are blinded to the identification interpretation.

      Treatment: Treatment will be for a maximum of 3 months. The dosage of the study supplement is
      as follows: Subjects will be instructed to take 1 packet (6 grams) 3 times daily for a total
      daily dosage of 3 packets (18 grams). Each packet is clearly marked for breakfast, lunch, or
      supper. The contents of the packet will be dissolved in water or liquid and taken orally
      morning, noon, and evening. Subjects will be required to return any unused packets to study
      doctor at the end of each month.

      Assessment:

      Usual clinical tests for therapeutic monitoring of usual treatment of patient will be
      performed.

      In addition, quantitative and qualitative parameters will be measured at start of treatment
      and at 1, 2, and 3 months:

        1. Toxicity assessments using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC):
           total WBC, total lymphocyte count, hemoglobin, platelet count, nausea, vomiting,
           diarrhea, loss of appetite, weight loss, anorexia, urticaria, fatigue, muscle weakness
           and headache. (Refer to Document 1 Toxicity Assessment)

        2. Self-assessment of quality of life will be performed using European Organization for
           Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 (version 3). The treating physician
           will summarize the patient quality of life by using the Karnofsky performance scale.

        3. Additional blood test for 10 colon CA subjects (5 treatment, 5 placebo ) Molecular
           marker NFκB mediated signal transduction pathway genes (n=84) will be measured on 10
           subjects with colon cancer. A sample of no less than 5 ml using PAXgene Blood RNA Tubes
           (Qiagen, Cat. No. 762115) will be collected from each subject. Shipment overnight on at
           least 10 lbs of ice block (blue or wet) to SuperArray Bioscience in Frederick, MD 21704.

      Baseline and repeated at one, two and three months.
    
  