
    
      Background and Rationale

      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is the 6th most common type of cancer
      worldwide. Of all head and neck cancers, approximately 30% originates from the larynx. In
      Europe, annually 52.000 patients are diagnosed with cancer of the larynx. About 50-60% of
      laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas arise from the glottic region and over 80% of these
      patients present in an early stage. The larynx has important roles in production of voice,
      coordination of deglutition, and respiration. Therefore, the treatment aim of laryngeal
      cancer is not only achievement of maximum disease control, but also maintenance of function.
      Transoral CO2-Laser Microsurgical Cordectomy (TLM) and radiotherapy are well-established
      standard treatment modalities for unilateral stage 0-I carcinoma in situ and squamous cell
      carcinoma of glottic larynx (for convenience, both will be mentioned as SCCGL throughout this
      protocol). Based on various clinical studies and meta-analyses, functional and oncological
      outcome (overall survival and local control) after both treatment modalities are comparable.
      However, no properly conducted randomized trials comparing these treatments exist. The only
      such trial with the endpoint of voice quality had to be prematurely closed due to low
      accrual.

      The treatment option varies remarkably in different countries and among institutions.
      Especially in the case of unilateral SCCGL, other factors such as voice quality, cultural and
      socioeconomic factors, and patients' preference should be considered. Hoarseness is one of
      the main and early signs of SCCGL, whereas both radiotherapy and TLM influence voice quality
      by altering the vocal cord motion and anatomy. Another issue worth to consider is the
      treatment time. Surgery is performed in one day followed by a few days of hospital stay. In
      contrast, radiotherapy is applied in daily fractions. Although each fraction only takes few
      minutes, the patients have to visit the radiation oncology department over a course of 4 to 7
      weeks, depending on the institutional preference of dose and fractionation. The
      post-treatment follow-up schedules are identical for both strategies.

      The differences between both treatment modalities have been extensively reported. However,
      either due to no meaningful difference or due to the heterogeneity in the voice analysis
      techniques, several studies revealed no significant differences while better voice quality
      was reported after radiotherapy as compared with TLM in other studies.

      The traditional radiotherapy involves the treatment of the whole larynx over a period of 4 to
      7 weeks. Recently, a new radiotherapy technique was introduced by a team of researchers from
      Netherlands, where the treated target volume consists of involved vocal cord and therefore 8
      to 10 fold smaller than the target volumes used for traditional whole larynx irradiation. The
      treatment is reduced to 16 fractions with higher dose per fraction which corresponds to 3
      weeks and a day. The results of a prospective cohort (n=30) with single vocal cord
      irradiation (SVCI) were compared with the results of a historical prospective cohort (n=131)
      previously treated with whole larynx radiotherapy in the same institute. The median follow-up
      was 30 months. The voice handicap index (VHI) at all time points beginning from the 6th week
      after SVCI was significantly superior to the same time points with conventional radiotherapy.
      Moreover, a comparable local control with SVCI (100%) vs. conventional radiotherapy (92%) was
      reported at two years, p=0.2412.

      In conclusion, the long-term voice quality and oncologic outcome (survival and local tumor
      control) are comparable with both TLM and traditional radiotherapy. Furthermore, the new SVCI
      technique offers a possibly superior long-term voice quality with an at least equal oncologic
      outcome compared to traditional radiotherapy. With this background, the investigators' main
      aim is to compare SVCI to TLM with the main focus of patient-reported voice quality.

      Investigational Treatments and Indication

      With the indication to treat early stage SCCGL in an organ preservation setting, both TLM and
      SVCI are going to be compared head-to-head, and therefore are considered as investigational
      treatments.

      Clinical Evidence to Date

      In well-recognized international cancer treatment guidelines, TLM and radiotherapy are
      considered as comparable modalities for the successful treatment of early stage SCCGL. Based
      on various clinical studies and meta-analyses, functional and oncological outcome (overall
      survival and local control) after both treatment modalities are comparable. However, no
      properly conducted randomized trials comparing these treatments exist. The only such trial
      with the endpoint of voice quality had to be prematurely closed due to low accrual.

      The differences between both treatment modalities have been extensively reported. However,
      either due to no meaningful difference or due to the heterogeneity in the voice analysis
      techniques, several studies revealed no significant differences while better voice quality
      was reported after radiotherapy as compared with TLM in other studies. Nevertheless, most of
      the literature consists of reports about retrospective case series with the lack of level I
      evidence.

      Justification of Choice of Study Population

      In line with the eligibility criteria, the study population will include patients diagnosed
      with unilaterally situated stage 0-I SCCGL who are considered as eligible both for
      radiotherapy and surgery by a multidisciplinary tumor board. Both treatment modalities are
      well-established standards.

      Study Objectives

      Overall Objective The ultimate goal of the study is to compare the treatment outcome of the
      SVCI and TLM for unilateral stage 0-I SCCGL.

      Primary Objective Comparison of patient-reported subjective voice quality after TLM and SVCI

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Qualitative post-therapeutic comparison of the voice between study arms

        -  Quantitative post-therapeutic comparison of the voice between study arms

        -  Comparison of the oncological outcome between study arms.

        -  Assessment of toxicity/morbidity among study arms with the listed toxicity items
           provided in Appendix A. CTCAE v.5.0 will be used for the classification of toxicities.

      Safety Objectives - Assessment of toxicity/morbidity among study arms with the listed
      toxicity items provided in Appendix A. CTCAE v.5.0 will be used for the classification of
      toxicities.

      Study Outcomes

      Primary Outcome

      - Average of the VHI assessed at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months

      Secondary Outcomes

        -  Perceptual impression of the voice via Roughness - Breathiness - Hoarseness (RBH)
           assessment at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months

        -  Quantitative characteristics of voice by means of Jitter and Shimmer (JS),
           Glottal-to-Noise Excitation Ratio (GNE) and Singing Power Ratio (SPR), which will be
           assessed at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months

        -  Loco-regional control of the disease at 2 and 5 years

        -  Treatment toxicity at 2 and 5 years based on CTCAE v.5.0

      Other Outcomes of Interest The patient, disease and procedural characteristics will be
      described.

      Safety Outcomes Although the safety endpoints within the secondary endpoints will be
      published only at two time points (2 and 5 years), the toxicity will be systematically
      assessed during and after the treatment in a more frequent schedule: during the treatment,
      every 3 months until 24 months, and every 6 months between the 24th and 60th months.
      Assessment of toxicity/morbidity among study arms with the listed toxicity items provided in
      Appendix A. CTCAE v.5.0 will be used for the classification of toxicities.

      Study Design

      General study design and justification of design This is a prospective randomized
      multi-center open-label comparative phase III study with a superiority design (see Section 11
      for the details of statistical considerations). Primary endpoint of this study is
      patient-reported subjective voice quality between 6 to 24 months after randomization.

      The sample size calculation is based on the primary outcome, the VHI at 6 to 24 months
      (averaged). Based on the literature, the investigators consider the VHI to be comparable
      between TLM and traditional whole larynx radiotherapy. Therefore, the working hypothesis is
      that there is a difference between TLM and SVCI in regard to VHI. Al-Mamgani et al. reported
      standard deviations for VHI ranging from 2 to 10 score points12. A difference of 8 points
      between the two groups are regarded as clinically relevant and a conservative standard
      deviation of 8 points is assumed. Based on a two-sample means test, 34 patients (17 per
      group) are needed to detect a difference in VHI at a two-sided alpha-level of 0.05 with a
      power of 80%.

      This sample size calculation is conservative. In the analysis, the average difference over
      four time points (6, 12, 18, and 24 months) will be modelled and additionally adjusted for
      the baseline VHI to yield more power. In each center, patients will be enrolled into the
      study by the local principal investigator. The local PI can be a head and neck surgeon or
      radiation oncologist. However, before patient accrual, the patient must be informed about the
      study at least by the attending surgeon and the radiation oncologist. It is highly
      recommended that the patient is evaluated and informed in a multidisciplinary tumor board
      setting before the accrual.

      Interventions in the trial are considered as non-experimental standard treatments. No
      diagnostic tool or imaging modality that will be used during the trial is experimental. No
      interim analysis for futility or safety will be performed.

      Methods of minimizing bias

      Randomization A probabilistic minimization technique will be used for random treatment
      allocation between the two treatment arms using a 1:1 ratio. The computer chooses a treatment
      dynamically, based on the tumor stage (Stage 0 vs. I), and VHI at baseline (<34 vs. ≥34) as
      two predefined stratification factors.

      Allocation will be done via a dedicated website within the clinical trial management system
      also containing the electronic case report forms. Only system administrators who are
      otherwise not involved in the trial will have access to the algorithm and stored lists during
      the recruitment period. Investigators receive the allocation only after registration of a
      patient. The underlying randomization lists and details of the minimization algorithm will
      not be disclosed but kept securely at CTU Bern. All these measures will help to ensure
      concealment of allocation.

      Blinding procedures Due to obvious differences between surgery and radiotherapy, it is not
      possible to have a blinded design in this study setting.
    
  