
    
      Brain tumors and leukemia are the most common malignancies among children and adolescents in
      the U.S. Adequate information on the role of inherited genetic susceptibility and
      environmental exposures in the development of neoplasms in children and adolescents is
      lacking. In Taiwan, four large petrochemical industries are located in the Kaohsiung
      metropolitan area. These facilities are proximal to residential areas because of the high
      population density in the region. Data have shown that the concentrations of ambient
      polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and volatile organic compounds (VOC) around the
      petrochemical industries are at least 10 and 2 times, respectively, higher than those in U.S.
      industrialized communities. Our preliminary case-control study in metropolitan Kaohsiung
      showed that young residents (under age 30) living within 3 kilometers of the vicinity of
      petrochemical industries have a 6.0 fold increase in brain neoplasms and a 2.9 fold increase
      in leukemia. The purpose of this proposal is to examine the association of exposure to air
      contaminants (PAH and VOC) emitted from the petrochemical industries, specific genetic
      polymorphisms (P4501A1 (MspI & exon 7) and GSTM1 &T1) from study subjects and their parents,
      and the risks of brain tumors and leukemia among children and youths in metropolitan
      Kaohsiung. Our hypothesis is that there is an increased risk of brain tumors and leukemia in
      patients with high cumulative exposure to these hazards, and that heritable polymorphisms in
      several genes modify this association. In addition to an independent association of
      environmental and genetic factors with brain neoplasms and leukemia, we hypothesize that
      there is greater risk associated with the presence of combined environmental exposure and the
      high risk genotype. Also, we will assess the role of parental genetic polymorphisms in the
      development of cancer in their siblings. This proposed study uses an environmental molecular
      epidemiologic approach, utilizing prospective enrollment of a cohort of brain tumor and
      leukemia subjects in a population-based case-control design. This proposal is responsive to
      the recommendation of the National Research Council that risk assessment and public health
      policy pay special attention to the protection of children.
    
  