
    
      There are no available treatments aside from supportive care for patients with Centronuclear
      myopathy (CNM). This trial will assess the safety, tolerability, PK and PD/preliminary
      efficacy of DYN101 in patients ≥ 16 years of age with CNM caused by mutations in DNM2 or
      MTM1.

      DYN101 is a synthetically manufactured constrained ethyl gapmer ASO directed against DNM2
      pre-mRNA. DYN101 will be provided as a sterile concentrated solution for reconstitution into
      an infusion solution for intravenous (IV) administration, and will be diluted into a 0.9%
      sodium chloride solution before administration.

      The trial will consist of a pre-screening consent, a screening period, a run-in period (if
      applicable), a SAD part with 4 weeks of follow-up after IMP administration and a washout
      period of at least 12 weeks (followed by follow-up phone calls until the MAD part starts), a
      MAD part of 12 weeks, and a MAD extension part of 12 weeks. All subjects will participate in
      the SAD, MAD, and MAD extension parts, unless they withdraw. End-of-treatment assessments
      will be performed after 24 weeks of MAD treatment have been completed, i.e. at the Week 25
      visit. Subjects will be followed up on adverse events (AEs) and concomitant medications 3
      months after the last IMP administration.

      The primary analysis will be performed when all subjects in all cohorts have completed 12
      weeks of MAD treatment or discontinued earlier. The final analysis will be performed when all
      subjects have completed 24 weeks of MAD treatment (12 weeks in the MAD part + 12 weeks in the
      MAD extension part; Week 25 visit) or discontinued earlier.

      As this trial is investigational, there is no defined, expected benefit for subjects who
      participate in this trial except a better knowledge of their pathology, and the knowledge
      that they contribute to RNA-targeted therapy for CNM patients carrying MTM1 and DNM2
      mutations.
    
  