
    
      This study will be an open label, single-dose study to gain experience with first clinical
      use and to evaluate the suitability of the methods and procedures for evaluation of product
      performance of a to-be-marketed drug-device combination product (sc2WearTM Furosemide
      Combination Product) in a minimum of 20 adult male and female subjects previously diagnosed
      with mild to advanced heart failure (NYHA class II-IV). The study will enroll up to 30
      Subjects to ensure a minimum of 20 evaluable Subjects. Methodology: Each Subject will
      complete Screening, Treatment, and Follow-Up Phases on an outpatient basis. During the
      Screening Phase, all Subjects who sign the informed consent form and satisfy the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the trial. Drug administration may start
      on the day of enrollment or be scheduled within 3 days of completion of Screening procedures.
      However, if the treatment visit doesn't occur within 3 days of initial screening, subjects
      may be rescreened and treated within 3 days of rescreening. The Treatment Phase comprises a
      preprogrammed bi-phasic 5 hour drug administration. Treatment Day observations will commence
      with pre-placement procedures and continue until one hour after device removal. Device
      preparation, placement and removal will be performed by study staff in accordance with
      product instructions for use. Removal will occur within

      3 hours of completion of drug delivery (8 hours of start of administration). Subjects will
      return 5-7 days after the Treatment Day for a post treatment follow-up and photography. After
      preparation of the skin, the device will be placed on the upper abdominal area by clinical
      study staff. Subjects are advised to avoid strenuous physical activity or activities that
      could expose the device to moisture such as swimming, bathing or showering. Participants will
      be informed that marked diuresis may ensue after activation, and that they should avoid
      travel, operating a vehicle or other situations without immediate access to bathroom
      facilities. For each Subject, a reusable components (Activator) and a single-use unit
      (Cartridge) will be used. Following removal from the skin, the assembled device will be
      inspected and photographed by the site staff. The used device (assembled Cartridge and
      Activator) will be placed in a sealed container and returned for further inspection and
      measurement of residual volume in the device reservoir.
    
  