
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      Study design This will be a two-arm randomised controlled parallel group superiority study
      and will take place in a hospital setting. Stratification will be performed for sex and age
      by means of a minimisation technique during randomisation for each subject entering the
      trial.

      Study population:

      Adults between 18 and 75 years of age diagnosed with symptomatic acetabular labral tears
      demonstrated on MRI arthrogram but without radiographic evidence of OA ie: Kellgren &
      Lawrence grade less than 2 randomly selected from the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre outpatient
      clinics.

      Arm 1 Arthroscopic acetabular labral repair.

      Arm 2 Arthroscopic acetabular labral resection

      48 patients per arm (total 96 patients) will be selected from outpatient clinics and the
      operative waiting list (pre-operative assessment clinics) at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre,
      Oxford. The surgeries will be conducted using routine instrumentation in use at the centre.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Recruitment

      All patients will undergo surgery in accordance with established practice regardless of their
      treatment allocation. Arthroscopy will be performed using standard anterior and lateral
      portals for insertion of instruments. All patients will undergo arthroscopic evaluation of
      the entire joint. Subsequent procedures will vary according to treatment allocation:

        -  Arm 1 - Labral Repair - acetabular labral tear will be identified and reattached using
           suture anchors until a stable repair is achieved. If evidence of FAI is present ie: a
           cam or pincer lesion is identified then this will be treated with osteochondroplasty
           (cam) or acetabular rim recession (pincer).

        -  Arm 2 - Labral Resection - the acetabular labral tear will be identified and its' limits
           defined. The torn portion of labrum will be resected to a stable edge. As with arm 1
           there will be treatment of FAI if identified.
    
  