
    
      -  Proper examination of the oral structures is needed to identify caries, fracture or
           missing teeth.

        -  Full set of records ( study models, lateral cephalometric radiographs, photos) will be
           taken for every patient as part of the routine procedure for treatment of patients in
           the outpatient clinic of the Orthodontic Department, Cairo University.

        -  In intervention group: Bonding of upper and lower arches including 2nd maxillary molars
           with bracket prescription Roth 0.018-inch (American Orthodontics).

        -  In comparator group: Bonding of upper and lower arches including 2nd maxillary molars
           with bracket prescription Roth 0.022-inch (American Orthodontics).

        -  Levelling and alignment in both groups with wire sequence: Ni-Ti (0.014,0.016,
           0.016×0.022)

        -  Steel ligation of maxillary (2nd premolar, 1st molar and 2nd molar) for anchorage.

        -  Extraction of maxillary 1st premolars.

        -  Impression will be taken, poured in plaster from which digital models will be fabricated
           before beginning of en-masse retraction (the baseline model).

        -  Lateral cephalometric and periapical radiographs will be taken before starting
           retraction.

        -  En-masse retraction will be done using 0.017x0.025 TMA T-Loop10 in both groups, the
           loops will be reactivated monthly.

        -  Alginate impressions will be taken every month, that will be scanned to obtain digital
           models to assess the rate of retraction for 6 months.

        -  After 6 months, last obtained digital model will be evaluated for assessment of
           anchorage loss, and Lateral cephalometric and periapical radiographs will be taken to
           assess changes in the anterior teeth inclinations and apical root resorption
           respectively.

        -  The patients' treatment will be completed as indicated for them.
    
  