
    
      BACKGROUND This study will look at the use of a study device that is intended to provide
      moisture and lubrication to enhance the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity and
      supplement the body's natural lubrication. To date, regarding human clinical testing, the
      study device has been tested and evaluated in a human study with 72 female subjects and
      another study with 21 female subjects.

      The purpose of this research study is to assess how safe and effective the study device (a
      vaginal ring referred to as VR101) is at providing personal lubrication. The study will
      compare the effectiveness of VR101 active ring compared to VR101 inactive ring, to enhance
      the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity and supplement the body's natural
      lubrication. This is a research study to test a new investigational device. An
      investigational device is one that is not approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA). The study device is in the form of a clear, flexible ring that is
      placed in the vagina. Each ring is about 2 inches in diameter, or across the ring, from one
      side to the other.

      During the study, participants will receive either the VR101 active ring or a ring that looks
      exactly like the VR101 ring but is inactive. For the purposes of this document, both VR101
      active ring and the inactive ring will be referred to as the study ring, or study device.

      Because this is a research study, study rings will be given to participants only during this
      study and must only be used according to the schedule that will be described by study staff.
      Participants will not be allowed to use them once the study is complete.

      The results will be reported in a submission to the FDA to determine if the VR101 study
      device can be legally marketed in the United States.

      PROCEDURES

      Before any study-related tests and procedures are performed all subjects will read, sign, and
      date the consent document. Information will be collected after the consent document is signed
      and dated to determine eligibility to enroll in the study. This information includes
      demographic background, health, medical and social history, birth control method, prescribed
      medications, herbal or over the-counter drugs, use nonprescription drugs and alcohol. Women
      who are able to become pregnant will provide a urine sample for a pregnancy test. Potentially
      eligible subjects will complete the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) to assess sexual
      function in women who are sexually active. If all inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      satisfied, subjects will be enrolled and randomly assigned to the VR101 Active Ring or
      Inactive Ring treatment arm of the study.

      About 160 female subjects will participate in this study. Upon meeting all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, subjects will be randomized (1:1) to one of the two treatment
      arms and given a 4 week supply of the randomly assigned study devices. They will be
      instructed on how to use the ring and how to replace the ring weekly. During the 4-week
      treatment period, subjects will receive weekly phone calls to ensure compliance and collect
      information about sexual activity, ring replacement, and experience with the device. At the
      end of four weeks, each subject will return to the study site to complete the final study
      measures. They will return all unused study devices and undergo a urine sample pregnancy test
      if appropriate. They will complete the (FSFI) to assess the effects of the study device on
      sexual function after 4 weeks, and any changes to medications and health will be documented.
      At that time all subjects will be given the option of receiving an additional 2 weeks of the
      active VR101 study device.
    
  