
    
      Purpose:

      The investigators propose to perform a study to validate the accuracy and clinical usefulness
      of the EUM device by comparing it with simultaneous use of current methods (both external or
      internal devices) among obese patients and patients with normal body mass indexes (BMI).

      Objectives:

        1. Compare the contractions obtained using the EUM device vs. those obtained using the
           intrauterine pressure catheter vs. those obtained from external tocodynamometer among
           current obese patients (BMI greater than 30 kg/m2) and nonobese patients using
           simultaneously obtained, 30 minute tracings with regards to the frequency of
           contractions, the duration of contractions, maximum height of the contractions, the
           total Montevideo units recorded, the timing of the contractions, and the amount of
           discontinuous tracings from the devices.

        2. Compare the fetal heart rate tracing obtained via the EUM device vs. external fetal
           Doppler vs. fetal scalp electrode (simultaneously obtained, 30 minute tracings will be
           compared) among obese patients and nonobese patients with regards to the amount of
           discontinuous/unterinterpetable tracing, average fetal heart rate, baseline heart rate,
           the number accelerations, the number of decelerations, the timing of the accelerations,
           the timing of decelerations, the maximum fetal heart rate achieved during acceleration,
           the lowest fetal heart rate achieved during deceleration, and compare the degree of
           variability in the tracing.

        3. Compare tracings of productive vs. non-productive contractions in patients presenting to
           triage to rule out labor (30 minutes of simultaneously obtained tracings of external
           tocodynamometer and EUM device will be compared) with regards to the frequency of
           contractions, the duration of contractions, maximum height of contractions, the timing
           of the contractions and the amount of discontinuous tracings from both devices, as well
           as changes in cervical exam on the basis of body mass index.
    
  