
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the toxicity and feasibility of sequential treatment with olaparib, thoracic
      radiotherapy (TRT)/durvalumab, and olaparib/durvalumab for consolidation and maintenance
      therapy in patients status post (s/p) chemoimmunotherapy for ES-SCLC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the efficacy of sequential treatment with olaparib, TRT/durvalumab, and
      olaparib/durvalumab for consolidation and maintenance therapy in patients s/p
      chemoimmunotherapy for ES-SCLC.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Perform a comparative analysis of patient clinical outcome according to tumor biomarkers
      in circulating tumor cell (CTC), blood samples and tumor tissue, such as SLFN11 expression H-
      scores and stratifying tumors as SLFN11 positive or negative on the basis of H-score >= 1.

      II. Perform a comparative analysis of patient clinical outcome according to immune biomarkers
      in blood and tumor tissue, such as PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) 22C3 pharmDx assay and
      stratifying tumors as PD-L1 positive or negative on the basis of PD-L1 combined positive
      score >= 1% in patients treated with anti- PD-L1 therapy.

      III. Perform whole exome sequencing (WES) and methylation profiling on tumor samples and from
      circulating-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) to evaluate whether tumor mutational burden
      (TMB) or specific genomic alterations are associated with improved progression free survival
      (PFS) with the trial regimen.

      IV. Gene and protein expression of tumor tissue through ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing and
      Reverse Phase Protein Array (RPPA).

      V. Quantify pre-treatment, pre- and post-olaparib, post-TRT, and at progression levels for
      blood-based biomarkers, such as cytokines associated with immune activation (e.g., STING
      pathway cytokines, CXCL10 and CCL5) to establish correlations with PFS and overall survival
      (OS).

      VI. Using longitudinal blood samples (e.g. pre-treatment, pre- and post-olaparib, post-TRT,
      and at progression), assess CTC number, CTC (single-cell) biomarker expression (such as
      SLFN11 and PD-L1 expression), and immune profile of PBMCs.

      VIa. Correlate baseline expression or changes with PFS and OS. VII. Assess pre- and
      post-olaparib, and at progression tumor tissue for immune markers, such as CD8+ T cells,
      through multiplex IHC.

      VIII. Assessment of single-cell biomarker expression on CTCs and tumor tissue (such as SLFN11
      and PD-L1 expression) and immune profile of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

      VIIIa. Correlate pre-treatment expression or changes with PFS and/or OS. IX. Generation of
      CTC-derived and/or biopsy-derived xenograft models from individual patients

      OUTLINE:

      CHEMO-IMMUNOTHERAPY: Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1,
      carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1, etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with response or stable disease (SD) after cycle 4 and are
      candidates for TRT proceed to Induction. Patients that are not candidates for TRT proceed to
      Single-Agent Maintenance.

      INDUCTION (WEEKS 13-14): Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-11
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      IMMUNORADIATION (WEEKS 15-18): Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1.
      Patients also undergo consolidative TRT daily on days 1-5 and 8-12 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE (WEEKS 19 AND BEYOND): Patients without progressive disease receive durvalumab IV
      over 60 minutes on day 1, and olaparib PO BID. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SINGLE-AGENT MAINTENANCE: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days, then every 3 months.
    
  