
    
      Despite need for consistent adherence to medical care, youth living with HIV (YLWH) have low
      rates of adherence and retention in care, and are at great risk for being lost to
      follow-up.(5,16-18) There is a great need for adherence interventions that are novel and
      appealing for YLWH.(7,8,14) The investigators developed, and preliminarily examined, a
      multi-level technology that integrates a 7-day smart medication device WITH an immersive and
      appealing smartphone app/game that is attractive and engaging for YLWH.(82,83) During
      gameplay, YLWH fight HIV in colorful and immersive organ systems, and receive adherence
      related text messages with game graphics. Electronic medication monitoring device openings
      guide game-related text messages. The investigators tested the Multilevel Gaming Intervention
      in a developmental trial. The impact of the intervention was greatest among those who had
      newly begun ART. In participants who had newly begun ART, the intervention decreased viral
      load and improved ART adherence. Those newly starting ART in the intervention, compared to
      those newly starting ART in the control, experienced a 0.96 log viral load greater decrease
      and evidenced a large effect size for improved adherence as measured by an electronic
      medication monitoring device (d=1.18, 71% vs. 48% adherence at post-test). These interactions
      between intervention and newly starting ART were significant in ANCOVAs, accounting for
      baseline values (viral load: F=4.33, p=0.04, adherence: F=3.20, p=0.05). For this next
      proposed stage of research, the investigators will further test the Multilevel Gaming
      Intervention with YLWH who are newly starting ART at clinical sites in New England and in
      Mississippi. A multisite randomized controlled study (48 weeks) among 100 YLWH newly starting
      ART will test the efficacy of the intervention compared to a control condition (who receive a
      non-HIV game and the electronic medication monitoring device) on behavioral and biological
      measures.
    
  