
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall and event-free survival at 1 year in patients with B-cell lymphoid
           malignancies treated with a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen, rituximab, and
           umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation (UCBT).

      Secondary

        -  Determine the speed of neutrophil and platelet recovery post allograft in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the incidence and speed of donor-derived engraftment and contribution of each
           UCB unit to engraftment in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) at 100 days
           in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of chronic GVHD at 1 year in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of serious infectious complications and correlate with
           laboratory measurements of immune recovery in these patients.

        -  Determine the response to vaccination after UCBT in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of treatment-related mortality at 100 days and 180 days in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of malignant relapse or disease progression at 1 and 2 years in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the probabilities of overall and event-free survival at 2 years after UCBT in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the performance of laboratory studies investigating double-unit biology and
           correlate with unit engraftment in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Pre-transplant rituximab therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV on days -8 or -7 and on
           day -4.

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30
           minutes on days -6 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV on day -6. Patients also undergo
           total-body irradiation on day -1.

        -  Umbilical cord blood transplantation: Patients undergo umbilical cord blood
           transplantation on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously
           beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Post-transplant rituximab therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV on days 7, 14, 21, and
           28.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2-4 hours or
           orally twice daily on days -3 to 100, followed by a taper. Patients also receive
           mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally three times daily on days -3 to 45, followed by a
           taper.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  