
    
      Objectives: To examine patient satisfaction, treatment safety, and symptom reduction
      associated with treatment for symptoms of distress and/or depressed mood among post acute
      coronary syndrome (ACS) patients, as compared to usual cardiology care.

      Research Design: The Study utilizes a Phase-I RCT design to achieve this Aim.

      Methodology: Patients with confirmed ACS are screened for symptoms of distress and/or
      depressed mood within 7 days of the index ACS event, using the Beck Depression Inventory
      (BDI). Those meeting inclusion criterion on the BDI (score>10) and consenting to study are
      followed for 3-months, at which time they are re-assessed. Those continuing to show BDI score
      >10 and consenting, are randomized to the intervention condition (INT) or to usual
      cardiologic care (UCC). INT is defined by up to 6-months of a patient preference, stepped
      care treatment whereby patients chose between brief, problem-focused psychotherapy (PST) and
      antidepressant medication (MED). Patients are re-evaluated at 2- and 4-months after
      randomization. Those not showing sufficient improvement in symptoms receive augmented
      therapy. Those who initially choose PST can receive more frequent sessions and/or the
      addition of MED; those who initially choose MED can receive a change of agent, an increase in
      dosage, an additional medication, and/or PST.

      Hypotheses to be tested are:

        1. Patient satisfaction within intervention treatment (INT) will be higher than in the
           usual cardiologic care (UCC) condition, as evidenced by self-report and levels of
           participation

        2. The INT group will experience a greater reduction in symptoms of distress and/or
           depression over the treatment period than the UCC group (secondary hypothesis).

        3. Improvement in symptoms of distress and/or depression will be associated with reduction
           in levels of inflammatory markers and improvement in adherence with physician prescribed
           aspirin therapy (secondary hypothesis).

      This is a multi-site study involving Mt. Sinai, and Yale and Columbia University Schools of
      Medicine. A total of 500 people will be screened into the initial 'observational period',
      which occurs at the time of new ACS diagnosis. From among these, it is anticipated that 200
      people will evidence persistent BDI > 10 at 3-month follow-up and agree to be enrolled in the
      Phase 1 RCT.

      The clinical relevance of the Study concerns demonstration of the acceptability and
      satisfaction with the treatment approach by post-ACS patients, as preliminary to a Phase-III
      RCT that would test the effect of such an intervention on event-free survival after ACS.
    
  