
    
      Recent advances in antiretroviral therapy have allowed for almost complete inhibition of
      viral replication in HIV-infected individuals. Unfortunately, the ability of the virus to
      rapidly mutate and become resistant to treatments necessitates the administration of multiple
      medications, in complex dosing schedules, to maintain viral suppression. Although adherence
      to these complicated treatment regimens is paramount, even the most vigilant persons often
      have difficulty maintaining these protocols for extended periods of time.

      MedSignals™ is an electronic device that was designed to improve medication compliance among
      HIV patients. It allows convenient storage and transport of antiretroviral medications and
      functions as an aid to compliance by incorporating reminding alarms at dosing times and usage
      reporting functions. The system alarms at pill times, records pill-taking, communicates usage
      data to servers, and displays progress charts on personalized web pages. Four
      separately-controlled compartments are easily set for number of dosings per day and number of
      pills at each dosing. Thereafter, all alarms are relative to last lid openings, assuring
      intake is optimally spaced. Additional menu options can be set to advise when lids are
      opened, such as "take with food." Lid openings are time-stamped in memory. The cradle is
      permanently plugged into telephone and electrical lines for uploading of data and recharging,
      but the pillbox is portable and pocket-sized. Every day, sensors detect a phone line and
      upload usage data to servers, allowing authorized caregivers or the patient to observe
      compliance records. This trial will evaluate MedSignals' usability and functionality in
      increasing medication compliance in people infected with HIV.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three study groups; each group will contain
      25 participants. One group will use MedSignals with all of its features, one group will use
      MedSignals with only alarm features, and the final group will not use any device.
      Participants will have 4 study visits over 9 weeks and one follow-up telephone call after 6
      months. Assessments will include demographic and usability questionnaires.
    
  