
    
      The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Treatment of Depression Collaborative Research
      Programme (TDCRP) (Elkin et al., 1989; Sotsky et al., 1991) compared three forms of treatment
      for depression -- imipramine plus clinical management (IMI-CM), cognitive behaviour therapy
      alone (CBT), interpersonal therapy alone (IPT) -- against a placebo control plus clinical
      management (PLA-CM) condition. These three treatments were found equally effective in the
      treatment of the index episode of depression when compared to the placebo control (Elkin et
      al., 1989). The results from the TDCRP study also indicated that patient characteristics,
      irrespective of treatment modality, were predictive of treatment effects. Six patient
      dimensions -- social dysfunction, cognitive dysfunction, expectation for improvement,
      endogenous features, double depression and duration of current episode -- were all found to
      be significant predictors of outcome (Sotsky et al., 1991). Patient characteristics were also
      found to be associated with differential outcome depending on treatment modality. Elevated
      social dysfunction, for example, interfered with successful outcome in IPT, whereas cognitive
      dysfunction hindered successful outcome with CBT. Cognitive dysfunction also predicted poor
      treatment response in the IMI-CM condition. Cognitive vulnerability would be expected to
      mediate response to treatment in CBT, as the presumed mechanism of change is dysfunctional
      depressogenic cognitions (e.g., Beck et al., 1979; Whisman, 1993). The finding that cognitive
      vulnerability was also implicated in treatment response to a pharmacological intervention is
      without theoretical explanation or specific causal agency.

      The purpose of the proposed research is to further examine the relationship between treatment
      outcome and patient characteristics associated depression. In particular, the relationship
      between treatment outcome and two personality/cognitive characteristics implicated as
      vulnerability factors for depression - self-criticism and dependency - will be explored.

      The first aim of the proposed investigation is to examine the relationship between change in
      self-criticism and dependency and the relationship of this change to treatment response and
      reduction in severity of depression. Mode-specific outcome measures will be administered to
      outpatients with major depression randomly assigned and treated with CBT, IPT or PHT.

      The second aim of this study is to examine the issue of whether successful targeting of
      either cognitive dysfunction in CBT or interpersonal functioning in IPT will result in a
      reduced risk for relapse and/or recurrence of a major depressive episode.

      We believe that the dependent type, who centres their definition of self entirely around
      issues of affiliation with others, would be more likely to show changes related to such
      themes in a therapeutic intervention specifically designed to address interpersonal problems.
      In contrast, the self-critic who defines self primarily around issues related to achievement
      and engages in excessively harsh and unrealistic self-appraisal would respond best to an
      intervention that targeted these punitive cognitions.

      HYPOTHESES/RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      Prediction of Treatment Outcome (Objective 1):

      Two sets of hypotheses are proposed. In all analyses the DEQ will be used to assess
      self-criticism and dependency. The first set of hypotheses involves mode specific treatment
      outcomes and the second set of hypotheses address differences in the mechanisms of change
      across the treatments.

      The first set of hypotheses are: (a) all treatments will be equally effective in the
      treatment of the index episode, (b) baseline self-criticism and dependency scores will
      predict outcome in all treatments, with higher self-criticism and dependency scores related
      to poor outcome, (c) CBT will demonstrate greater specificity for targeting self-criticism
      than will either PHT or IPT, (d) IPT will demonstrate greater specificity for treating
      interpersonal functioning than will either PHT or CBT, (e) PHT will demonstrate greater
      specificity for treating endogenous symptoms than will either CBT or IPT.

      The second set of hypotheses are: (a) change in self-criticism scores and dysfunctional
      cognitions will mediate a positive treatment response in CBT but not in IPT or PHT, (b)
      change in dependency scores and interpersonal deficits will mediate positive treatment
      response in IPT but not in CBT or PHT, (c) change in endogeneity will mediate positive
      treatment response in PHT but not in CBT or IPT.

      Prediction of Relapse and Recurrence (Objective 2):

      It is hypothesized that: (a) CBT and IPT will produce a lower rate of relapse and recurrence
      than PHT because of the greater reduction in stable dysfunctional cognitions related to
      either self-critical and/or interpersonal vulnerabilities; (b) in cases where interpersonal
      vulnerabilities are predominant, IPT will produce lower rates of relapse and recurrence than
      either CBT and PHT, in cases where self-critical vulnerabilities are predominant, CBT will
      produce lower rates of relapse and recurrence than either IPT or PHT.
    
  