
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of decitabine when used concomitantly with
      filgrastim, cladribine, cytarabine, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride (G-CLAM) in patients with
      newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      II. Compare, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, the rate of complete remission without
      measurable residual disease (minimal residual disease negative [MRDneg] complete remission
      [CR]) with decitabine + G-CLAM at the MTD compared to similar patients treated previously
      with G-CLAM alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, disease response (complete remission,
      overall response rate) relapse-free survival (RFS), event-free survival (EFS), and overall
      survival (OS) in patients with newly-diagnosed AML / high-risk MDS.

      II. Describe, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, the toxicity profile of the study
      regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose de-escalation study of decitabine.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10. Patients
      also receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 0-5, cladribine IV over 2 hours on days
      1-5, cytarabine IV over 2-4 hours on days 1-5, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 60
      minutes on days 1-3.

      RE-INDUCTION: Patients who do not achieve MRDneg CR after first induction are eligible for
      re-induction. Patients receive the same treatment as during induction except that decitabine
      is omitted.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning 6 weeks after achieving MRDneg CR or CR/CR with incomplete
      count recovery (CRi) after induction and/or re-induction, patients are eligible to receive
      filgrastim, cladribine, and cytarabine as in Induction. Treatment may be repeated for up to 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Subsequent
      consolidation cycles would be given after recovery from the previous cycle (roughly 4-6
      weeks).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at for 1 month and every 3
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  