
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of M3814 (peposertib) in combination with
      hypofractionated radiotherapy in patients receiving treatment for locally advanced pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma (LAPC). (Phase I) II. To determine the difference in progression free survival
      (PFS) between patients with LAPC treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy in combination
      with M3814 (peposertib) as compared to patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy
      alone. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) II. To evaluate plasma
      pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of M3814 (peposertib) in patients receiving hypofractionated
      radiotherapy. (Phase I) III. To compare the 2-year overall survival (OS) rate of patients
      treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy plus M3814 (peposertib) to that of those treated
      with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) IV. To compare the objective response
      rate (ORR) by imaging of patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy plus M3814
      (peposertib) to that of those treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) V.
      To compare the disease control rate in patients treated with hypofractionated radiotherapy
      plus M3814 (peposertib) as compared to those patients treated with hypofractionated
      radiotherapy alone. (Phase II) VI. To explore gene signature patterns in baseline patient
      tumor tissues that may suggest response to the combination of M3814 (peposertib) and
      radiotherapy, as identified on whole exome sequencing and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (seq). (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore changes in gene signature induced by M3814 (peposertib) and hypofractionated
      radiotherapy treatment as identified in analysis of cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      from the peripheral blood. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of M3814 followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions every other day
      (QOD) over 2 weeks and receive M3814 orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions QOD over 2 weeks
      and receive M3814 PO QD for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 5 fractions QOD over 2
      weeks and receive placebo PO QD for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30, 60, and 90 days, and
      then every 3 months for up to 2 years.
    
  