
    
      Research Design and Methods

      This study is a double-blinded, parallel group, sham-controlled, randomized control, partial
      crossover feasibility trial. This feasibility trial is a part of a larger clinical to trial
      to assess both statistical and clinical significance of renal denervation treatment in LPHS.
      This trial will involve 10 Saskatchewan -based patients for whom travel will be covered to
      and from Regina. These patients will be randomized to either receive the treatment procedure
      or the sham procedure.

      To assess the feasibility measure, the QuinteT recruitment intervention methodology will be
      utilized, involving a researcher interviewing patients at 6 months after the study (with the
      inclusion of a satisfaction likert question regarding the study) and interviewing the study
      personnel throughout the trial. Patient identifiers will be kept anonymous throughout the
      QuinteT process, and the interviewer will be blind to the treatment allocation of the
      patient. The feasibility assessments will be reported in accordance with the CONSORT 2010
      statement: extension to randomized pilot and feasibility trials guidelines.

      The team has produced two manuscripts regarding the impact of renal denervation on LPHS
      patients. The investigators' initial article outlines four successful case studies reported
      from a single centre, where "half of the four patients experienced complete pain relief post
      procedure, whereas the other two patients had a 75% improvement in their frequency of
      analgesic use" . The investigators then conducted a 12-patient cohort study and observed
      10/12 patients at 3 months and 11/12 patients at 6 months reporting a >30% reduction in pain
      based on the McGill pain questionnaire, along with consistent improvements in disability,
      mood and quality of life.These results provide the investigators with sufficient preliminary
      results to scale the hypothesis, improve the study design, and introduce more rigor to the
      methods so the investigators may use an RCT design to more-definitively assess the
      effectiveness of renal denervation on pain reduction for LPHS patients.

      Trial Intervention:

      Renal angiography will be performed to confirm the suitability of renal artery anatomy for
      renal denervation therapy. If suitability criteria are met, the participant will then be
      randomized for a sham procedure or a renal denervation procedure. Participants will be
      randomly allocated to one of two treatment arms: 1) renal denervation (treatment group) or 2)
      sham treatment (control group) immediately following the renal angiogram. All eligible
      participants will have an equal chance to be assigned to either treatment or control group
      with a 1:1 treatment allocation design being used. Participants will be given general
      anesthesia, thus they will be blinded to their randomized group assignment; they will not
      know the difference between the renal angiography procedure alone and the renal angiography
      plus denervation procedure. After the procedure the participants will be sent to the recovery
      room and the nursing team caring for the patient will be blinded to the procedure. The
      radiological aspect (sham or procedure) will not be entered on the hospital electronic
      medical rounds/ PACS. If the angiographic information is needed by other health care
      professional for a clinical event then it will be released upon request by the Interventional
      Radiologist.

      Treatment Group: Participants remain blinded and are immediately treated with the renal
      denervation procedure.

      Sham Group: Participants remain blinded and remain in the procedure table for at least 20
      minutes prior to introducer sheath removal.

      Sham Procedure:

      In the control group, the sham procedure will consist of only a renal angiogram. Participants
      will undergo diagnostic renal angiogram but will not receive any therapeutic endovascular
      treatment. The diagnostic catheter will be kept in situ and dummy radiograph scan will be
      performed for another 10-15 min before removing the femoral sheath from the sedated patient.
      Participants will remain on the procedure table for at least 20 min after the angiogram to
      prevent possible unblinding of randomisation allocation.

      The clinical staff (Nephrologist and Nurse Practitioner) and the study coordinator will be
      blinded to the treatment allocation. Only the interventional radiologist and his/her
      designated study staff will not be blinded to a participant's randomization group. The
      radiologist will not be involved with participants follow up following the procedure. This
      way, the clinical follow-up will not be affected by clinician or participant knowledge of
      specific treatment. Unblinding will occur after the six-month follow-up assessment. The
      participant's will be told the type of treatment received and, if they were allocated to the
      sham arm, they will undergo the RDN procedure. The participant's treatment allocation will
      not be revealed until after the six month follow-up period is complete. After the initial
      6-month follow-up period is over, the participants who were in sham group will undergo the
      experimental treatment.

      Computer software will be used by an analyst, who is not involved with clinical care, to
      randomly assign patients to either the treatment or control groups. All patients will have an
      equal chance to be assigned either treatment group with a 1:1 treatment allocation design
      being used. Currently, the investigators have one site that will treat patients.

      Measures

      Following measures will be taken at baseline, 6 weeks and 3 and 6 month after the procedure:

      EuroQol-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L): A descriptive questionnaire with 5 dimensions:
      mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. The dimensions
      have five levels (no, slight, moderate, severe and extreme problems). Participants select the
      level that corresponds to their perceived health status. Also, there is a vertical visual
      analogue scale (VAS) from 0 to 100, where participants record their health status lies with
      the end points being "The worst health the participant can imagine" and "The best health the
      participant can imagine". The VAS results may be used to quantify the patient's judgement on
      their own health.

      McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ): A questionnaire to measure the quality and quantity of
      patient pain. The scale ranges from no pain (0) to maximum pain (78).

      Brief Pain Inventory Questionnaire (BPS): A questionnaire to measure the severity and impact
      of pain on the patient's daily life and the perceived relief received from current
      intervention. The short form is has nine-points relating to patients occurrence of pain,
      areas of pain, rating pain at its worst in the last 24 hours, rating pain at its least in the
      last 24 hours, average pain level, current pain level, treatments being used, percentage of
      pain relief form medications used in the past 24 hours and specification of how pain has
      interfered with life.

      Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D): A questionnaire for measuring
      self-reported depression. Patients are asked to rate over the last week how often they
      experienced symptoms of depression. Scores range from 0 to 60, with higher score indicating
      more depression symptoms and lower scores indicating fewer symptoms.

      Short Form Health Survey (SF-36): A health-related quality of life questionnaire that elicits
      information about participants using eight health concepts: physical functioning, role
      limitations due to physical problems, bodily pain, general health perceptions, vitality,
      social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems and mental health. Scores
      range from 0 to 100, with lower scores relating to more disability and higher scores relating
      to less disability.

      Oswestry Disability Index (ODI): A health questionnaire used to measure patient's functional
      disability. The questionnaire comprises of ten sections: pain intensity, personal care,
      lifting, walking, sitting, standing sleeping, sex life, social life and travelling. Index
      scores range from 0% to 100%, with higher scores relating to more disability and lower scores
      relating to less disability.

      Pain Medication Diary: Participants will be asked to record the number and doses of
      medications they are taking to alleviate their pain. The type of medication will also be
      recorded.

      SCID-5: A structured assessment tool for DSM-5 disorders (exclusion criteria for the present
      study). The diagnostic modules can assess somatic symptom disorders, mood disorders,
      psychotic disorders, substance use disorders, obsessive compulsive and related disorders,
      anxiety disorders, eating disorders, some sleeping disorders, externalizing disorders and
      trauma and stress related disorders.

      For six weeks and three and six-month assessment the investigators will follow up with the
      patient, by phone or by in-person visit.

      Participant's Follow-up Regimen:

      Participants will have the initial treatment of either renal denervation (RDN) or the sham
      procedure and be followed for 6 months. After this time has elapsed and the treatment
      allocation is unblinded, participants who received the sham procedure will be given the RDN
      procedure. Participants will initially have their baseline measurements taken (pain score
      (MPQ, BPS), quality of life scores (EQ-5D, SF-36), mood (CES-D), and disability (ODI) and
      then have follow-ups taken at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months post treatment. Participant's
      demographic data (Age, gender and race), complete blood count, serum electrolytes, and serum
      urea/creatinine and urine analysis, BMI and eGFR will also be collected.

      Participant's Safety/Discontinuation :

      An independent safety committee will be formed to formatively assess risks to patient safety
      throughout the study. The committee will consist of physicians, researchers and
      administrators whom are not involved in the study, and have extensive nephrology and/or
      research experience. The committee will meet before recruitment, upon randomization,
      bi-weekly during the procedure period, and post-procedure.

      Participants are allowed to withdraw from the study at any time without need to explain.
      Should the independent safety committee report patient safety concerns, the decision will be
      made as to whether the trial should be discontinued or whether the consent form must be
      modified to incorporate any new findings, will be made. Should new findings about the
      efficacy of this procedure for this indication emerge that would impact the premise for the
      study, the appropriateness of continuing the study will be reviewed. Should an emergency
      situation occur, the name, ID and treatment allocation of the participant involved in the
      emergency condition will be given to the principal investigator. The principal investigator
      will decide if there is an emergency with his experience as a physician. The research team
      has received biomedical research ethics approval from the former Regina Qu'Appelle Health
      Region (RQHR), Research Ethics Board.

      Statistics:

      Analysis for the feasibility trial will be restricted to qualitative thematic analysis and
      non-parametric analysis to compare the two small patient populations. No power or sample size
      calculations will be reported as this is not necessary for the feasibility phase of this
      trial.
    
  