
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine if bevacizumab and paclitaxel versus bevacizumab, metronomic
           cyclophosphamide, and capecitabine as first-line therapy causes less medication-related
           adverse events in women with HER2-negative metastatic, locally advanced, or recurrent
           breast cancer.

        -  To compare quality of life (QOL) in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To replicate previous findings of better QOL in patients with complete response or
           partial response versus stable disease for 6 months or greater.

        -  To determine the predictive value of baseline QOL for the duration of a meaningful
           change in QOL of patients treated with chemotherapy.

        -  To determine the associations between the QOL endpoints, selected health economics, and
           clinical endpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to tumor response
      (measurable vs evaluable disease), WHO performance status (0 or 1 vs 2), and center. Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and
           paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15, oral
           cyclophosphamide once daily on days 1-28, and oral capecitabine 3 times a day on days
           1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaire (BL-QA) and health economics questionnaires
      (BL-HEA and EQ-5D) at baseline, during, and after completion of study therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  