
    
      RCI will collect biological samples (such as blood), derived genomic sequences (from DNA and
      RNA), and clinical features in a Biorepository as a standardized resource for future research
      studies. The purpose of the Genomics Institute Biorepository is to provide consented samples
      and data for basic and clinical research related to the genomic cause and treatment of
      childhood disease, and, in the future, as reference (Quality Control) data to improve the
      ability to make clinical diagnoses or clinical decision.

      A diverse Biorepository of biological samples and clinical data is essential to allow these
      studies to undertake broad and detailed comparisons. In particular, a large Biorepository
      will allow Institute-affiliated researchers to identify new causes of diseases or treatment
      responses in many of the understudied ethnic and racial groups that Rady Children's Hospital,
      San Diego (RCHSD) serves.

      Specifically, the Biorepository, via subsequent individual research protocols, will enable
      research to improve rates of clinical diagnoses for enrolled subjects and subsequently all
      affected patients, improve testing capabilities offered to patients, enhance understanding of
      the mechanisms of disease and treatment responses, and improve clinical management of these
      diseases. The Biorepository will enroll affected and unaffected individuals and family
      members, or affected and unaffected tissues, for the purposes of analysis and comparison in
      order to identify the underlying cause of the disease or treatment in the affected samples.
      Samples and data will be stored indefinitely and shared with approved researchers to further
      understanding of genomic components of pediatric diseases.

      In addition, the Biorepository will provide a mechanism for making a diagnosis of a genetic
      disease. That is, once genomic sequences have been derived from biological samples, they will
      be immediately analyzed. If a genetic disease is identified that appears to explain an
      affected child's clinical features, then those results will be confirmed in a manner that is
      compliant with the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Act (CLIA) and College of American
      Pathologist (CAP) recommendations, and placed in the electronic health record (EHR). Samples
      confirmed by CLIA and CAP methods will be identified as such and retained for future
      confirmatory investigations.

      Specific Aims

        1. To collect biological samples and associated clinical data (Phenome).

        2. To create, analyze and store genomic data from the biological samples. Genomic data will
           include genome (DNA) sequences, RNA sequences, and/or other related 'omic data
           (including pharmacogenomics, transcriptomics, epigenetics, and the microbiome). Some
           genomic data will be whole genome sequences. For other samples the genomic data will be
           panels of specific genes or of all exons of genes (the "Exome").

        3. To investigate and improve genomics technologies and software to enhance understanding
           and testing abilities related to childhood diseases and treatment responses.

        4. To make specimens and data available for qualified researchers and collaborators to
           further the understanding of childhood diseases and treatment responses.

        5. To collect and correlate genomic data from a wide variety of populations and clinical
           presentations.

        6. To provide sample and data collections with uniform consent, methods of acquisition,
           storage for genome-based research studies with subsequent IRB approvals.

        7. To analyze and report clinically-confirmed genomic diagnoses and treatment guidance
           through use of new research technologies.

        8. To identify and study novel gene and disease processes.

      The investigator will plan to enroll 3000 subjects per year. Following informed consent, the
      study team will collect a family history and blood samples. The investigator will collect
      clinical information from the medical record at the time of enrollment and longitudinally to
      assess changes in the subject's medical condition as well as collect new symptoms. The study
      team will scavenge tissue and other biological materials obtained from clinical procedures as
      indicated by clinical presentation and for future research testing.
    
  