
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine if drinking a single beverage that contains an
      artificial sweetener can perceptibly alter the activity of platelets in the body. Platelets
      are a component of blood that are primarily responsible for helping to stop bleeding and
      repair damaged blood vessels by grouping together, a process known as aggregation, to form
      clots.

      Artificial sweeteners are popular because they have a lower calorie content than table sugar
      while still making food and beverages sweet. Their use as a sugar substitute is especially
      attractive for people with heart disease or diabetes, or for people who are trying to lose
      weight.

      Two popular artificial sweeteners are erythritol and xylitol. Erythritol and xylitol are both
      naturally occurring polyols, also called sugar alcohols, found in fruits and vegetables. They
      are potent artificial sweeteners with a higher sweetening intensity and lower calorie content
      than table sugar.This makes them attractive for the use as sugar substitutes or alternatives,
      particularly for patients with type 2 diabetes.

      Up to now, there is no prospective data available about polyols with respect to their impact
      on event outcomes in cardiovascular patients, despite their extensive use in the food
      industry. Moreover, little is known about plasma levels and metabolic changes following food
      intake of artificial sweeteners, in particular polyols.

      The investigators have previously measured fasting levels of various polyols in a large
      clinical cohort of cardiovascular patients and found that some candidate polyols are related
      to a higher risk of cardiovascular complications and death. In vitro data using human
      platelets revealed that the polyols xylitol and erythritol at the levels observed in fasting
      patients induce platelet aggregation potential. The investigator's data shows that erythritol
      and xylitol impact platelet function and may, therefore, contribute to cardiovascular
      mortality.

      In preliminary studies the investigators found that when ingesting either erythritol or
      xylitol, the levels of these sweeteners in the plasma rise within the first hour after
      consumption. With this study the investigators wish to examine whether the postprandial
      levels are capable of altering platelet function in vitro. The investigators hypothesize that
      postprandial polyol concentrations following ingestion increase platelet aggregation in the
      blood.
    
  