
    
      1. Background

           CAD is the leading cause of mortality for women in US as well as in Austria and most
           developed countries.

           Major risk factors are hypertension, diabetes and the postmenopausal status. After the
           menopause the CAD risk increases rapidly to an equivalent risk of men with the same age.

           In all ethnic groups, hypertension is more prevalent among women than men after the age
           of 59. Over 75 years 75,2 % of females and 63,7% of males perform a hypertensive
           vascular status.

           Menopausal status is associated with a decline of endogenous estrogen levels resulting
           in a manifest estrogen deficiency. This estrogen decline is also associated with a
           subsequent increased risk for CAD.

           The main effect of estrogen is a vasodilatation and an anti-atherosclerotic action
           through different mechanisms.

           Recent studies are describing that the estrogen deficiency and the subsequently NO
           deficiency results in a disordered endothelial function and a permanent
           vasoconstriction, that is one of the major reasons for postmenopausal hypertension and
           CAD.

           Clinical symptoms of postmenopausal women:

           - Palpitations and tachycardia Postmenopausal women complain about heart palpitations,
           throbbing and subjective sensed high heart rate and tachycardia, which can be explained
           by a sympathetic over activity in postmenopausal women.

           This clinical symptoms are associated with a significant decrease in quality of life and
           well- being in postmenopausal women.

           - Hot flashes Hot flashes are the most common symptom and occur in most postmenopausal
           women (75%). Hot flashes are experienced as a feeling of intense heat with sweating and
           rapid heartbeat. The typical duration is between two and thirty minutes. Risk factors
           for hot flashes are - equal to CVD - high body mass index and smoking.

           Furthermore, it can be supposed that the NO decrease in postmenopausal women is
           responsible for the hot flashes.

           - Sexuality Sexuality is an important quality-of-life issue, also in elderly. Therefore,
           sexual dysfunction is considered a serious quality-of-life-related health problem.
           Furthermore increasing dyspareunia and decreasing libido and responsivity correlated
           with decreasing estrogen levels.

           - Endostatin (ENST) ENST, a 20-kDa C-terminal fragment cleaved from type XVIII collagen,
           is a naturally occurring protein that blocks the formation of blood vessels, inhibits EC
           proliferation, migration and angiogenesis. Furthermore, there is evidence that ENST
           induces an acute NO release and finally leads to vasodilation and therefore works
           against endothelial dysfunction.

           However, since there is no data on ENST serum levels in postmenopausal women as well of
           the effect of Nebivolol on ENST serum levels, we will investigate baseline ENST levels
           and after 3 month of treatment compared to patients treated with phytohormones.

           - Nebivolol Nebivolol, a ß-blocker of the third generation, has been shown to lower
           blood pressure with great safety and efficacy in men as well in women and was well
           tolerated.

           Beneath its specific beta-1-receptor blockade Nebivolol has a NO-releasing effect
           through a ß3-receptor-agonism. Nebivolol combines a potent ß1-adrenoreceptor-blocking
           activity (mostly ascribed to its D-enantiomer) with additional vasodilating properties
           (attributed to its L-enantiomer and also D-enantiomer).

           Nebivolol causes a vasodilatation of the vessels and reduces the progress of
           atherosclerosis which is a main risk factor for CVD and hypertension.

           The current general guidelines for hypertension recommend treatment with a Thiazide
           Diuretic as a first line medication in hypertension. In contrary to Diuretics and
           ACE-blockers - ß-blockers also reduce the heart rate and have positive antagonistic
           influence on the sympathetic nerve system. The augmentation of the heart rate during the
           menopause is sensed as a very unpleasant and unbearable situation for most of the
           postmenopausal women. Thus, the increase in sympathetic nerve activity and clinical
           symptoms of palpitations or increased heart rate warrant the use of a ß-blocker for the
           treatment in our cohort.

           Additionally, we hypothesise, that through an improvement of the endothelial function
           with Nebivolol the number of hot flashes in postmenopausal women can be reduced.

           Recent studies have shown positive effects on the erectile dysfunction in men during
           treatment with Nebivolol. As the physiologic and embryologic conditions are almost
           similar in men and women, so we expect similar improving effects on the sexual
           dysfunction in our female study group.

           Therefore, we want to investigate the effect of Nebivolol on blood pressure, heart rate,
           hot flashes, sexual function, ENST, testosterone levels in postmenopausal women with
           menopausal disorders.

           1.2 Rationale of the study

           We want to investigate the effect of Nebivolol in comparison to a phytoestrogen therapy
           on climacteric disorders as measured by the Menopausal rating scale II (MRS-II). In
           addition we will investigate the following:

           - the heart rate

           - the number of palpitations

           - the number of hot flushes

           - the sexual function

           - the blood pressure

           - the serum level of Endostatin

             -  the serum level of Testosterone in postmenopausal women.

                2 METHODS 2.1 Measurement of the blood pressure Measurement of the blood pressure
                according to Riva Rocci will be performed at the beginning and after 12 weeks (end
                of the study). Measurements will be taken in sitting position after five minutes
                rest. Three consecutive measurements will be taken and the average of these
                measurements will be recorded.

           2.2 ECG A 12-lead ECG will be written to rule out AV-block and bradycardia (<50/min).

           2.3 Blood parameters

           Prestudy screening:

           - FSH

           - TSH

           - testosterone

           - estrogen

           - DHEA

             -  SHBG

             -  prolactin

             -  BNP

             -  hsCRP

             -  liver parameters

             -  kidney parameters

             -  electrolytes

             -  blood glucose

           Our patients have to show a blood level of estrogen <20pg/ml and FSH >35 mIU/ml to
           verify the status of menopause.

           To rule out another endocrine cause of a possible sexual function alteration we check
           the blood levels of TSH, Prolactin, DHEA (Dehydroepiandrosterone) and SHBG (Sex Hormon
           Binding Globulin).

           2.4 Analysis of Endostatin Within the routine blood analysis we will also detect the
           blood level of ENST.

           The RD191076100 Human Endostatin ELISA is a sandwich enzyme immunoassay for the
           quantitative measurement of endostatin protein in human serum.

           2.5 Female Sexual Function Index We will use the German version of the female sexual
           function index (FSFI-D) that was validated in 2004. This questionnaire is a proven
           instrument to evaluate the female sexual function especially in (post)menopausal women.

           We will hand out this questionnaire twice: At the beginning and after our study (12
           weeks later). During the completion of the questionnaire by the study participant, a
           gynecologist will be attendant to help the women to complete the questionnaire.

           This way we want to analyze if the treatment with Nebivolol has an effect on the sexual
           function of women. We have added the questionnaire to the appendix.

           2.6 Menopausal Rating Scale II We are going to use the Menopause Rating Scale II (MRS
           II). This self-assessment scale to quantify menopausal symptoms includes 11 questions to
           evaluate the "quality of life" in our cohort.

           We will hand out this questionnaire twice: At the beginning and after our study (12
           weeks later). During the completion of the questionnaire by the study participant, a
           gynecologist will be attendant to help the women to complete the questionnaire.

           2.7 Hot flashes/palpitations diary At the beginning of our study, the diary will be
           introduced to the patients by the treating physician. There the number of hot flashes
           and palpitations per day should be written down. The diary contains 12 pages, one page a
           week.

           At the beginning we will perform an anamnesis to get informed about the average number
           of hot flashes and palpitations per day before the medication.
    
  