
    
      Overt Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is observed in 21 to 40% of patients with liver cirrhosis (LC).
      There are two ways in which DM is related to LC: firstly, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM),
      which has a genetic component and is often associated with metabolic syndrome (obesity,
      hypertriglyceridemia, and hypertension), causes chronic liver disease (steatosis,
      steatohepatitis, and LC Secondly, LC may cause impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and DM.
      During the initial stages of LC these metabolic disorders are subclinical as can only be
      detected by an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). As liver disease progresses, DM becomes
      clinically evident.

      Diabetes mellitus secondary to LC is known as "hepatogenous diabetes" (HD). Although it has
      been accepted that the LC is a diabetogenic condition, HD is not recognized by the American
      Diabetes Association and the WHO. Cirrhosis caused by alcohol, HCV, and hemochromatosis are
      more frequently associated to HD than other etiologies . It has been observed that HCV core
      protein induces insulin resistance (IR), steatosis, and DM regardless of body mass index
      (BMI). Patients with chronic alcoholism often have chronic pancreatic damage resulting in DM
      . In short, T2DM and HD have different etiology, but they seem to have similar
      pathophysiologic mechanisms for liver function deterioration. They increase the risk of
      complications and death.

      In recent years, the incidence of obesity has increased alarmingly in the world, particularly
      in the Western countries . In Mexico, overweight and obesity, which are suffered by about 70%
      of the adult population are a serious public health problem,. This figure puts this country
      in second place in the world, behind only the United States of America. The incidence of T2DM
      and metabolic syndrome has increased rapidly in our country . They have became the most
      common causes of cryptogenic cirrhosis in Mexico. Many published studies, which have reviewed
      the prevalence of DM in cirrhotic patients, do not make a distinction between T2DM and HD;
      additionally, subclinical glucose metabolism disorders (GMD) are not routinely identified, so
      the magnitude of the problem has been underestimated. On the other hand, the clinical and
      biochemical features of cirrhotic patients with different GMD are not known at present. The
      clinical distinction of GMD may be useful for prognosis and therapeutic purposes. Based on
      the aforementioned, the objectives of the present study were: a) To establish the prevalence
      of clinical and subclinical forms of GMD (T2DM, HD, IGT) in a cohort of patients with
      compensated LC of diverse etiology; and b) To determine the clinical and biochemical
      characteristics of patient with these different GMD and to find whether there are significant
      differences among them..
    
  