
    
      Injection drug use is the primary driver of the HIV epidemic in Southeast Asia. In 2017, the
      HIV prevalence among people who inject drugs (PWID) in Southeast Asia was 15%. PWID, most of
      whom have OUD, who are living with HIV have low rates of retention in care, antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) initiation, and viral suppression. PWID also experience high rates of
      HIV-related and all-cause mortality. Common mental disorders (CMDs), including depressive,
      anxiety, and stress-related illnesses, occur in 40-50% of PLWH and OUD. Despite serious
      consequences of mental illness on health and HIV progression, mental illness remains
      under-diagnosed and under-treated in HIV populations, especially in low- and middle-income
      countries (LMICs), such as many countries in Southeast Asia.

      To respond to the great need for mental health treatment in low- and middle-income countries,
      the global mental health field has focused on developing task-shifting and integration
      approaches that equip non-specialists to deliver evidence-based mental health interventions
      at scale. However, such task shifting interventions to address CMDs have received limited
      attention in Southeast Asia among OUD. Vietnam, with its high prevalence of PLWH and OUD, its
      integration of methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) with HIV care, and its priority for
      developing CMD care for this population, is an ideal setting to evaluate task-shifting mental
      health approaches to address CMDs and improve HIV care outcomes.

      The Friendship Bench (FB) is a feasible and effective task-shifting mental health
      intervention designed for low-resource settings that is a strong candidate to address CMDs in
      this population. FB is a problem solving therapy-based intervention with demonstrated
      effectiveness in treating CMDs among primary care patients when delivered by lay counselors.
      Lay counselors may effectively deliver FB to PLWH with OUD, but CMD may prove more difficult
      to treat in patients with OUD and require professionally trained counselors to be effective.

      The investigators' objective is to complete a pilot randomized trial of 75 patients from 4
      MMT clinics in Hanoi. The investigators' specific aims are: 1) To adapt the Friendship Bench
      (FB) protocol to be optimized for PLWH and OUD in Vietnam; and 2) To evaluate the
      feasibility, fidelity, and acceptability of the adapted FB as well as preliminary indicators
      of its impact in improving CMDs and HIV care and drug use treatment outcomes. The Friendship
      Bench approach has the potential to make an important contribution to address CMDs and reduce
      barriers to HIV treatment success among PLWH with OUD, a critical population driving the HIV
      epidemic in Vietnam and many Southeast Asian countries. This proposal will generate critical
      evidence for designing a fully powered clinical trial to test the adapted FB protocol in
      improving HIV, mental health, and drug use treatment outcomes for this vulnerable population.
    
  