
    
      Background: In the use of the second supraglottic airway device- i-gel in the laparoscopic
      pneumoperitoneum and Trendelenburg (LPT) surgical positioning, our data reported that the
      leak fraction in the i-gel group was higher than in the endotracheal tube group.1 These air
      leak may be gone into the GI tract and cause the gastric distension resulting in the
      increasing risk of aspiration. Few studies investigated whether the risk of occurrence of the
      gastroesophageal reflux (GER), the changes of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) while the
      GER occurred, and the stomach fullness in the i-gel group than in the endotracheal tube
      group. The LES is the important physiological mechanisms that prevent regurgitation and
      aspiration. The previous study has been investigated that LES would have adaptive response in
      using the endotracheal tube in the LPT setting. However, the change of LES pressure and
      gastroesophageal reflux during the LPT surgical settings using the i-gel is still unknown.

      The esophageal manometry has pressure sensor to measure the LES pressure. The combined
      esophageal multichannel intraluminal impedance and pH monitoring (MII -pH) could not only
      detect the acidic reflux or weakly acidic reflux, but also the height of the regurgitant. We
      also used the abdominal echo in check the gastric volume before and after the surgery.

      Objectives: we aimed to compare the changes of lower esophageal sphincter pressure (LESP) and
      the occurrence of the GER during the LPT setting by esophageal manometry and MII-pH monitor
      between the endotracheal tube (ETT) and the i-gel group. The gastric volume before and after
      surgery has been checked by abdominal echo. We also observed the respiratory parameters
      changes while the GER occurred.

      Patients and methods: Consecutive patients who will receive scheduled laparoscopic surgery
      under general anesthesia and aged from 20 to 80 years old will be enrolled. All subjects
      provide basic demographic data. The patients have been randomized into the i-gel or ETT group
      by sealing envelope. After induction, the MII-pH monitor has been pre-attached to the
      esophageal manometry. Then they will be inserted into the esophagus. The patients have
      received the ETT or i-gel. Then the respiratory parameters were collected by the GE S/5
      Compact Anesthesia Monitor (GE Healthcare, Helsinki, Finland) with a spirometry tube (GE
      Healthcare, Helsinki, Finland) and D-lite sensor (GE Healthcare, Helsinki, Finland). The data
      have been continuous recorded. There were four time point of the LESP measured: (1)T1, after
      induction (without muscle relaxant) (2)T2, ETT or i-gel intubation (3)T3, after LPT setting
      (4) T4, off LPT setting.

      Expected result: We will compared the difference between the patients receiving the i-gel or
      ETT group about the (1) the changes of LESP in the above four time point (2) the occurrence
      of the GER and the relationship between the LES and GER (3) gastric volume before and after
      surgery.
    
  