
    
      Investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate strategies for assisting
      students develop a personal meditation practice. All participants will attend a mindfulness
      orientation, then begin the four-week intervention. During the intervention period, the
      treatment group will practice EEG-neurofeedback-assisted meditation using the Muse device
      (Interaxon) at least eight times over the four-week intervention period, and also practice
      mindfulness meditation on their own using their choice of tools (e.g., apps, weblinks,
      breath). The active control group will mirror the treatment group but will not have access to
      the EEG-neurofeedback device.

      After a sufficient number of students register for the study who meet eligibility
      requirements, they will be provided with an option to enroll online in the first wave of the
      study, if their schedule allows, or be placed on a waitlist. Subsequent waves will take place
      throughout the semester(s) to accommodate additional participants. Enrolled participants will
      be asked to complete the pre-workshop questionnaire packet online, and attend an orientation
      session. During the orientation session, participants will first sign a consent form, provide
      a baseline saliva sample, then learn the basic technique of mindfulness meditation with an
      experienced meditation instructor. The orientation will also briefly explain the potential
      benefits of meditation from a scientific perspective, and emphasize the importance of
      establishing a daily practice, with the mindset that even one minute counts. Participants
      will then be asked to meditate for 3 minutes wearing the EEG device in order to get a
      baseline EEG reading. Following the orientation workshop, participants will be randomly
      assigned and notified via email into either the active control or treatment group along with
      group-specific instructions, and the 4-week intervention period will commence. Upon
      completion of the 4-week intervention, participants will be asked to complete
      post-intervention questionnaires online, then provide post-test measures of saliva, EEG
      reading during a 3 minute meditation. Participants will be debriefed, and those in the active
      control group will be given the option to use the EEG-neurofeedback. Follow-up surveys will
      be emailed to participants at 3, 6 and 12 months to examine if participants continue their
      meditation practice.
    
  