
    
      BACKGROUND Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is described as the most common
      non-neurologic organ dysfunction occurring in the early phase after severe acute brain
      injury, with a reported incidence of 10-15% and increased morbidity and mortality.

      A significant role has been recently proposed for neuro-inflammation in the genesis of ARDS
      following acute brain injury. The neuro-inflammatory response represents initially a
      coordinated effort to protect the brain after injury, but may then become altered and be
      responsible for the activation of the secondary injury cascade leading to single or multiple
      organ dysfunction. This preclinical event may increase the susceptibility of lungs to the
      stress of injurious mechanical ventilation. The main targets of ventilatory management of
      acute brain injury patients are maintenance of an optimal oxygenation, and a tight arterial
      carbon dioxide control. Actual Guidelines for the management of severe traumatic brain
      injury, in particular, state that hypoxia (PaO2 <60 mmHg or SaO2 < 90%) should be avoided and
      PaCO2 level tightly controlled with a target of 35-38 mmHg. However, no published
      recommendation exists on which ventilator setting, in terms of tidal volume, respiratory
      rate, and positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) levels, should be used to obtain these
      respiratory targets. In previous studies on patients with ARDS, mechanical ventilation with a
      low tidal volume and moderate PEEP levels resulted in decreased mortality and increased
      number of ventilatory free days, and it now represents the standard of care for these
      patients.

      Patients with acute brain injury represent a category at risk to develop ARDS both because of
      the adrenergic cascade and the inflammatory reaction, and because of the ventilatory strategy
      implemented to optimize gas exchange. Nevertheless, no clinical trial has been performed to
      evaluate the effect of protective ventilatory strategies upon severe acute brain injury
      patients.

      AIMS The aim of this study is to investigate whether the application of a protective
      ventilatory strategy, defined as low tidal volume and moderate levels of PEEP, improves the
      combined end point of "event free survival" defined as survival without ventilator dependency
      or ARDS diagnosis, without adversely affecting neurological outcome.

      Secondary aim of this study is to evaluate if protective ventilatory strategy may increase
      number of ventilator and organ failure free days, reduce intensive care unit (ICU) length of
      stay, reduce the incidence of ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP), reduce concentrations of
      plasma inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-alpha, TNF-RI/II, IL-8, IL-1ra, IL-1beta), without
      adversely affecting neurological outcome as measured by the Modified Oxford Handicap scale at
      intensive care unit discharge and the Glasgow Outcome Scale-extended (GOSe) at 6 months.
    
  