
    
      Sleep deprivation contributes to workplace burnout, a psychological work-related syndrome
      characterized by depersonalization, emotional exhaustion and feelings of decreased personal
      accomplishment [Montgomery, 2019]. Medical residency training is associated with decreased
      sleep and exercise as well as an increase in burnout, which may also be associated with
      depression [Kamblach, 2019]. Resident wellness has become a focal point of many residency
      programs in order to prevent depression and long-term physician burnout. Many previous
      studies tracking sleep have used self-reporting, which institutes a certain level of bias,
      and some newer technologies such as FitBit tracking have become more prevalent [Case, 2015;
      de Zambotti, 2018]. Real-time physiologic metric tracking, such as resting heart rate (RHR)
      and heart rate variability (HRV), in addition to accurate sleep tracking, could provide a far
      more accurate and objective assessment of resident wellness [Sekiguchi, 2019]. These metrics
      have not been compared directly to subjective assessments of wellness, burnout and
      depression, thus their true value in this realm is unknown [Mendelsohn, 2019; Kamblach,
      2018]. However, having an objective assessment of resident wellness, stratified by specific
      rotation, could help identify, develop, and institute interventions to prevent burnout and
      depression and improve resident well-being.

      Previous studies have attempted to make an association between sleep hours, duty hours,
      exercise and wellness, burnout, depression; however, they have used primitive forms of
      physiologic tracking (i.e. counting steps as a surrogate for exercise and self-reporting of
      sleep), which is likely why the results have been relatively inconclusive [Mendelsohn, 2019;
      Kamblach, 2018; Poonja, 2018; Basner, 2017; Marek, 2019]. A systematic review and
      meta-analysis of studies attempting to identify factors associated with greater resident
      well-being showed that increased sleep and time away from work were the strongest influencers
      of improved resident wellness [Raj, 2016]. Objective, real-time assessment of sleep may
      identify a stronger association and the addition of RHR and HRV to this analysis could
      further validate subjective assessment of wellness.

      HRV, or the fluctuation in the time intervals between adjacent heart beats, has never before
      been used to track resident well-being but it is an established metric for prediction and
      management of disease states such as heart failure [Jimenez-Morgan, 2017; Goessl, 2017,
      Shaffer, 2017; Bullinga; 2005; Tsuji, 1996]. HRV has been shown to predict mortality in Heart
      Failure with reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF) and new cardiac events (angina, myocardial
      infarction, coronary artery disease-related death, or HF) in the Framingham study, and it
      also correlates with improved hemodynamics in response to beta-blocker therapy for HF
      [Bullinga; 2005; Tsuji, 1996].

      The investigators propose to use the WHOOP strap 3.0 for remote monitoring of residents to
      determine a relationship between its measured data (RHR, HRV, and sleep duration) and
      wellness using literature-validated surveys (Maslach Burnout Inventory, Mini-ReZ survey,
      Physician Well Being Index, Patient Health Questionnaire-9) [Montgomery, 2019; Linzer, 2016;
      Olson 2019; Kroenke, 2001; Levis, 2019]. There is no published literature or known ongoing
      studies investigating this relationship Recent studies have, however, validated the WHOOP
      device for sleep tracking and determined its efficacy to be nearly identical to that of the
      gold standard of polysomnography (PSG) [Berryhill, 2020]. This study also showed that the
      precision of HRV measurements using the wearable WHOOP device had less than 10% error when
      compared to continuous ECG monitoring, as part of PSG.

      There is an established relationship between HRV and anticipated stress, quantified by
      salivary cortisol levels, yet there has not been studies linking salivary cortisol as a
      marker of stress, to subjective assessments in physicians nor against data from wearable
      devices. Biomarkers of stress (salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase) will compared at baseline
      and on different rotation considered to be associated with varying levels of stress (i.e.
      outpatient clinic and inpatient consult services versus the intensive care unit (ICU)
      setting) [Dickerson, 2004; Petrakova, 2015]. Saliva samples provided by subjects will allow
      the investigators to validate the WHOOP device as a novel tool to measure stress by allowing
      the team to assess the association between HRV and other device metrics and objective
      stress-based analytes found in saliva (e.g., cortisol and alpha amylase). These results will
      be correlated with each other and with work hours via duty logging to determine whether
      specific rotations in medical residency have better or worse objective and subjective
      metrics; these results will also be correlated to baseline (according to baseline
      characteristics survey).
    
  