
    
      ALI/ARDS is a life-threatening condition that involves inflammation of the lungs and fluid
      accumulation in the air sacs, leading to low blood oxygen levels and respiratory failure.
      Common causes include pneumonia, lung trauma, and sepsis, a condition that can lead to
      widespread inflammation and blood clotting in response to an infection. Recent studies have
      shown that insulin, which is regularly used to control blood sugar levels, may prevent or
      lessen the risk of lung tissue inflammation and/or lung injury related to sepsis. Research
      has shown that critically ill ICU patients often benefit from receiving insulin to target
      80-110 mg/dl , but it is not known if insulin to target these levels can prevent the onset of
      ALI/ARDS. Therapies to prevent ALI/ARDS should occur early, preferably even prior to ICU
      admission, because at least 38% of people with ALI/ARDS are diagnosed with the condition once
      they reach the ICU. The purpose of this study is to determine whether insulin to target
      80-110 mg/dl administered to critically ill patients in the emergency department (ED) is more
      beneficial at preventing ALI/ARDS than insulin to target 150-180 mg/dl after ICU admission.

      This study will enroll people who are hospitalized with high blood sugar levels and severe
      sepsis. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive IIT within 6-12 hours of ED
      presentation to target 80-110 mg/dl or target 150-180 mg/dl for 48 hours after admission to
      the ICU followed by usual care. Prior to ICU admission and 1, 3, and 7 days after ICU
      admission, blood will be collected and analyzed for markers of inflammation and lung injury.
      Blood samples will be stored for future research studies. While participants are in the
      hospital, their medical records will be reviewed to gather information on medical and family
      history, demographics, vital signs, laboratory test results, x-ray findings, and lung
      function. Study researchers will also monitor participants for the development of severe lung
      failure or other organ failures.
    
  