
    
      A recent paradigm-shift in the global burden of cardiovascular diseases has been observed
      with a decreasing prevalence in industrialized nations and an increasing prevalence in
      resource limited areas. This problem is further compounded with resource-limited areas
      receiving a disproportionately low allocation of global resources including diagnostic tests
      and trained healthcare professionals. Such cardiovascular conditions include heart failure,
      coronary artery disease, atrial arrhythmias and hypertensive heart disease. Coupled with a
      rising epidemic of rheumatic and structural heart disease affecting over 15- million
      individuals in these regions creates an urgent need that requires innovative and scalable
      methods to improve population- health, methods that reduce the cost of care, and
      simultaneously improves outcomes.

      The World Health Organization's Millennium Developmental Goals has recently reported a rise
      in cellular phone technologies with 7-Billion devices in active circulation. Parallel
      developments with the globalization of Internet-based communication and the emergence of new
      smartphone-connected mobile health (mHealth) devices are providing new methods for patients
      to remotely monitor their chronic conditions and for providers to improve healthcare
      delivery. These technologies include smartphone 'apps', wearable and wireless devices such as
      the smartphone-ECG, sensor-based technologies, pocket-sized ultrasound and miniaturized
      lab-on-a-chip technologies. Several design features of mHealth are well suited for use in
      resource-limited areas and used as a practitioner-based diagnostic tool including
      portability, lower cost, and simple to use form factors. Although an attractive method for
      new technology utilization, the impact of mHealth used as a practitioner-based
      clinical-decision-support tool on subsequent management and outcomes has not been previously
      evaluated.

      Several barriers to effective healthcare exist in resource-limited areas that requires
      multidisciplinary collaborations between the community, medical centers, health workers and
      patients. Developing new digital programs with healthcare innovations in these regions brings
      together a collaboration of industry, researchers, engineers and information technology
      partners. In the aggregate, a cumulative effort across several disciplines is necessary in
      order to assess the feasibility, utility, and impact of new devices in resource constrained
      areas. The investigators describe a multidisciplinary and global effort across institutions
      in India and the United States. The investigators received support from international medical
      societies and device manufacturers to advance our knowledge for technology utilization and to
      improve healthcare access and outcomes for patients in resource limited areas.
    
  