
    
      The aim of this case series is to begin to explore whether the Teen Triple P program may
      improve treatment adherence, parent-child relationships, parenting experiences and parent and
      adolescent wellbeing in families with an adolescent with CF. Research commonly reports that
      adherence rates to treatment are consistently lower in this age group, with variables such as
      parent-child conflict, parent stress and the child's increasing independence all being
      influential factors. Previous research has suggested that family based interventions may
      facilitate with treatment adherence in this population, but little research has investigated
      the effectiveness of specific parenting and family based interventions. Triple P is an
      internationally recognized and extensively researched parenting intervention that has been
      found to support families from an array of clinical and non-clinical samples, and has been
      shown to reduce family conflict in other chronic health conditions. No research to date has
      examined the use Triple P interventions in cystic fibrosis and so hence the current research.

      A within subjects clinical case series using an A-B multiple baseline design will be used.
      This type of design exposes participating parents to a multiple baseline period (phase A)
      followed by an intervention phase (phase B). This controls for potential confounds, which
      increases confidence that change is attributable to the use of the parenting intervention.
      The baseline phase will vary in length from 2 to 6 weeks. During this phase, parents will
      complete the treatment adherence questionnaire and parenting scale (outlined in the outcome
      measures section) at weekly intervals which will take 10 minutes each week (the first and
      last baseline session will involve completing all questionnaires stated in the primary and
      secondary outcome measures section). The baseline phase will be followed by the 10 week
      intervention phase. Here parents will commence the self-directed Teen Triple P programme.
      Parents will be posted a copy of the Teen Triple P workbook. They will complete a 1 hour
      module of Triple P each week and will also continue to complete the treatment adherence
      questionnaire and parenting scale each week. At week 5 and 10 of the intervention, the full
      set of outcome questionnaires will be administered, as well as a satisfaction survey to
      determine how parents are finding the Triple P intervention. Once the 10 week Triple P
      intervention has been completed a period of 4 weeks will elapse before the researcher will
      contact the parents again in order for them to complete a set of 1 month follow up
      questionnaires, as well as answering some questions about their experiences of taking part in
      the Triple P intervention.

      Children themselves will not be required to participate in any study related activity as this
      is primarily a parenting intervention.
    
  