
    
      BACKGROUND

      Exertional dyspnea is a symptom that reduces quality of life and is associated with reduced
      exercise tolerance in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF). Lung hyperinflation has been
      suggested to be an important factor contributing to dyspnea in CF. Dynamic hyperinflation
      during exercise testing has been reported in up to 58% of CF patients with mild-to-moderate
      CF lung disease and is associated with reduced exercise tolerance and increased exertional
      dyspnea.

      Dynamic lung hyperinflation also occurs in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and
      is believed to be a major cause of exertional dyspnea and exercise limitation. Bronchodilator
      use in COPD has been shown to reduce lung hyperinflation and improve exertional dyspnea and
      exercise tolerance; however, there is limited data available in CF despite the
      pathophysiological similarities between these conditions. Although a majority of individuals
      six years and older with CF are prescribed bronchodilators, evidence to support the chronic
      use of bronchodilators has been insufficient.

      Unlike acute bronchodilator reversibility testing during routine spirometry, cardiopulmonary
      exercise testing (CPET) is a highly sensitive and reproducible tool to assess the efficacy of
      bronchodilators in CF. CPET can be used to identify significant physiological abnormalities
      even in patients with mild CF lung disease with relatively normal spirometry. Compared to
      healthy age-matched controls during exercise, adults with mild-to-moderate CF have: greater
      exertional dyspnea; higher ventilatory requirements; earlier constraints on tidal volume
      expansion; increased operating lung volumes; an earlier onset of unpleasant dyspnea
      descriptors (i.e. unsatisfied inspiration); and are more likely to experience "chest
      tightness". All of these abnormalities are, in theory, amenable to change following
      bronchodilator therapy.

      Very few studies have evaluated the effects of short-acting bronchodilators on exercise in CF
      using CPET. In these studies, despite improvements in forced expiratory volume in one second
      (FEV1), short-acting β2-agonists (SABA) failed to show any effect on maximal exercise
      parameters including workload, oxygen uptake, dyspnea, and leg discomfort ratings.
      Unfortunately, these studies used incremental exercise tests and focused on peak dyspnea
      responses, which are often unresponsive to most pharmacological and non-pharmacological
      interventions. A more clinically and physiologically relevant protocol is to use constant
      work rate exercise tests and to evaluate dyspnea at standardized submaximal exercise times.
      This approach has been highly effective in showing beneficial effects of bronchodilators in
      COPD. Accordingly, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the acute effects of SABA on
      sensory, physiological, and exercise performance outcomes in adults with CF. We hypothesize
      that SABA will reduce dyspnea intensity ratings and ventilatory limitations, delay the onset
      of unpleasant dyspnea descriptors, and will improve exercise performance compared to placebo.
      These findings would support future guideline recommendations for the use of SABAs to improve
      dyspnea and exercise tolerance in patients with CF.

      METHODS

      Experimental Overview: This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study
      will include a total of four visits to the Cardiopulmonary Exercise Physiology Laboratory at
      St. Paul's Hospital.

      Visit 1 will include medical history screening, chronic activity-related dyspnea, quality of
      life, and physical activity questionnaires, anthropometric measurements, pulmonary function
      assessment, and a symptom-limited incremental cycle exercise test to determine peak
      incremental work rate. On visit 2, participants will perform a constant-load cycle exercise
      test at 75% of peak incremental work rate (from visit 1) in order to familiarize participants
      with the exercise protocol and experimental procedures. Visits 3 and 4 will include baseline
      pulmonary function testing followed by inhalation of either 400 μg salbutamol or matched
      placebo, in a 2x2 crossover randomized design. Approximately 10 minutes after administration
      of salbutamol or placebo, subjects will undergo pulmonary function testing and the same
      constant-load cycle exercise test performed on visit 2. All visits will take place at the
      same time of day. Visits 1 and 2 will be separated by a minimum of 48 hours and visits 3 and
      4 will be separated by a minimum of one week and a maximum of five weeks. Participants will
      be instructed to perform their usual daily chest physiotherapy and will be required to
      withhold SABAs, nebulized therapies, and caffeine for a minimum of 6 hours, and long-acting
      bronchodilators and strenuous exercise for 24 h prior to each visit.

      Randomization and Blinding: The random allocation sequence will be computer-generated in
      blocks of four. Drugs will be prepared as two identical meter-dose inhalers, which will be
      administered according to the blinded randomization sequence. Drug administration will be
      performed using identical large-volume spacers. The unblinding code will be held by an
      individual not involved in the study, and all data collection and analysis will be performed
      before the treatment codes are broken. All investigators and staff will be unaware of
      treatment allocations at all times.

      Outcome Measures: Primary Efficacy Endpoint: Change in standardized dyspnea score at the
      highest equivalent submaximal exercise time achieved on both constant load exercise tests
      (i.e., iso-time) between salbutamol vs. placebo. Secondary Efficacy Endpoints: Exercise
      endurance time, standardized leg discomfort score, qualitative dyspnea measurements,
      spirometry, plethysmographic lung volumes, airways resistance, impulse oscillometry derived
      variables, and metabolic and cardiopulmonary parameters (e.g. ventilatory responses,
      inspiratory capacity/dynamic hyperinflation, operating lung volumes, expiratory flow
      limitation, breathing patterns, metabolic responses, and arterial oxygen saturation).

      Exercise Protocol: A symptom-limited incremental exercise test will be performed on visit 1
      using an electronically braked cycle ergometer (Ergoselect 200P; Ergoline GmbH, Bitz,
      Germany), according to recommended guidelines for cardiopulmonary exercise testing. The test
      will consist of steady-state rest for six minutes, a one minute warm-up of unloaded pedaling,
      and 10-20 watt stepwise increases in work rate, every minute until symptom-limitation using a
      self-selected cadence. Constant-load exercise tests on visits 2, 3, and 4 will include rest
      and warm-up periods followed by an immediate increase in work rate to 75% of maximal work
      (determined on visit 1) until symptom-limitation, using a cadence >50 rpm.

      Pulmonary Function: Spirometry, plethysmography, diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon
      monoxide, maximum respiratory pressures, and impulse oscillometry will be performed on visit
      1, according to established recommendations. Pulmonary function testing on visits 3 and 4
      will include spirometry, plethysmography, and impulse oscillometry performed before and ~10
      minutes after administration of salbutamol and placebo. A commercially available
      cardiopulmonary testing system will be used, and all measurements will be expressed as
      percentage of predicted values.

      Dyspnea Evaluation: Dyspnea intensity (defined as "the sensation of laboured or difficult
      breathing") and perceived leg discomfort will be evaluated at rest, every minute during
      exercise, and at peak exercise using the modified 0-10 category-ratio Borg scale, on all
      testing visits. Participants will be asked to select the most applicable dyspnea
      descriptor(s) after the intensity ratings using the following three descriptors: (1) "my
      breathing requires more work and effort" (work and effort); (2) "I cannot get enough air in"
      (unsatisfied inspiration); (3) "I cannot get enough air out" (unsatisfied expiration). None
      to all three of the descriptors can be chosen at any one time. Upon exercise cessation,
      participants will be asked to verbalize their main reason(s) for stopping exercise (i.e.,
      breathing discomfort, leg discomfort, combination of breathing and legs, or some other
      reason) and to select qualitative descriptors of breathlessness using an established
      questionnaire.

      Cardiorespiratory Responses to Exercise: Standard cardio-respiratory measures will be
      recorded and averaged over 30-second epochs, including minute ventilation, oxygen
      consumption, carbon dioxide production, tidal volume, and breathing frequency using a
      commercially available system (Parvo Medics TrueOne 2400). Heart rate will be monitored using
      a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), blood pressure will be measured using a manual
      sphygmomanometer, and arterial oxygen saturation will be monitored using pulse oximetry prior
      to, during, and after all exercise testing.

      Operating volumes (i.e., end-expiratory and end-inspiratory lung volumes) will be derived
      from dynamic inspiratory capacity maneuvers as previously described. Expiratory flow
      limitation will be measured by placing tidal flow-volume loops within the maximum flow-volume
      loop. Briefly, a maximum flow-volume loop will be constructed by taking the highest
      expiratory flows for any given lung volume from a series of graded vital capacity maneuvers
      performed before and after exercise to account for both thoracic gas compression and
      exercise-induced bronchodilation. Tidal flow-volume loops will be ensemble averaged and
      placed within the maximum flow-volume loop according to the measured end-expiratory lung
      volume. The degree of expiratory flow limitation will be calculated as the percentage overlap
      between the expired portion of the ensemble averaged tidal flow-volume loop and the maximum
      flow-volume loop.

      Sample Size and Statistical Analyses: The primary endpoint for this study will be dyspnea
      ratings during exercise at iso-time, defined as the highest equivalent submaximal time
      achieved during both constant-load exercise tests by a given patient. Using a two-tailed
      paired subject formula with α=0.05 and β=0.80, we estimate that 16 participants are needed to
      detect a minimal clinically important difference of ±1 Borg 0-10 scale units at iso-time
      between treatments, assuming a standard deviation of ±1 Borg 0-10 scale units. Assuming a 20%
      rate of attrition, at least 20 participants will need to enter the study to ensure adequate
      power for the primary and secondary endpoints.

      Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed-rank tests will be used to identify changes in iso-time
      dyspnea (primary outcome) and secondary outcome measures (e.g. endurance time; iso-time leg
      discomfort ratings, operating volumes, etc.) comparing salbutamol to placebo. Possible
      crossover and period effects for all outcomes will be assessed using paired t-tests according
      to recommended guidelines for design and analysis of crossover trials. Qualitative
      descriptors of dyspnea and reasons for stopping exercise will be compared using McNemar's
      test. Multivariate models will be developed to identify predictors of between-test
      differences in outcomes (e.g. iso-time Borg dyspnea scale and exercise endurance time) for
      each individual. Predictor variables will include the between-test difference in operating
      lung volumes, dynamic hyperinflation, and expiratory flow limitation at iso-time.
    
  