
    
      This is a randomized non-blinded single centre prospective clinical trial designed to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of a partially-supervised progressive exercise intervention
      among patients undergoing alloHSCT compared to a self-directed exercise program.
      Approximately 120 patients will be enrolled. Following completion of all baseline data
      collection, participants will be randomized 1:1 to the intervention group or the control
      group.

      Patients in the intervention group will receive an exercise manual with background
      information, descriptions for different resistance and aerobic exercises, and instructions
      for tailoring the intensity of exercise. All patients will receive Therabands™ for resistance
      exercises and have access to a stationary bicycle for aerobic exercises with practical
      introduction by an exercise specialist. The partially supervised intervention is a
      progressive program with a goal of three aerobic and two resistance exercise sessions per
      week.

      Aerobic exercise will consist of 10-30 minutes of bicycling using a stationary bike
      (supervised or unsupervised) or brisk walking, following the Borg Scale of Rate of Perceived
      Exertion (RPE). Resistance exercise will include exercise for the upper and lower extremities
      with Therabands™. Exercise will be adapted based on the participant's clinical status for
      safety and ability to perform exercises. At the weekly supervised session, the exercise
      specialist will provide adequate progression of exercises, and review adherence to the
      intervention and provide support for questions and overcoming identified barriers to
      adherence.

      Participants assigned to the control group will receive our current standard of care. They
      will be reviewed by the ward physiotherapist on admission to hospital and encouraged to
      maintain physical activity by walking around the inpatient unit during their inpatient
      hospitalization. As per standard of care, the physiotherapist will be available on an as
      needed basis in both the inpatient and outpatient settings.

      Timely assessments of outcome measures outlined in the "Outcome Measures" section will be
      conducted for both groups.
    
  