
    
      PROBLEM STATEMENT The shortage of voluntary blood donors is a constant worldwide problem,
      since many lives depend on a transfusion every day to carry out medical or surgical
      treatment, however, the demand is so high that it exceeds the available number of units of
      blood. That is why the WHO recommends that at least 2% of the total population donate blood
      to supply the national demand for blood units. It is known that Peru needs around 520,000
      units of blood per year to be able to supply the national demand of blood banks (19). In
      2017, only 1.08% of the Peruvian population donated blood.

      The shortage of blood supply in the blood banks of hospitals is a problem worldwide. The
      demand for blood has increased in recent decades. This is because blood and its derivatives
      are used to attend to procedures that support the patient's well-being. It is due to this
      high demand that all the countries of the world have found themselves in need of generating
      national laws and systems that help to boost research and voluntary blood donation.

      When developing strategies for the promotion of the voluntrary blood donation, it is
      necessary to know the perceptions that donors have regarding the donation. A study conducted
      in a hospital in Lima showed the positive and negative aspects regarding blood donation,
      which resulted in one of the negative aspects is the limited publicity that is given
      regarding the blood donation. The donors interviewed suggested that advertising could be done
      through the internet, spreading the information through emails or through the use of
      Facebook.

      HYPOTHESIS It is proposed that there is a significant difference in the increase in the
      intention to donate blood voluntarily after exposing the participants to a motivational video
      about blood donation compared to participants exposed to an informative text about blood
      donation. Both groups will receive the information (video or text) through a web page.
    
  