
    
      Data Collection

      Subject demographics and history information will be obtained from The Christ Hospital
      Medical Center's electronic medical record. In addition, preoperative diagnosis,
      postoperative diagnosis, procedure performed, total operative time, estimated blood loss,
      intraoperative complications, anterior prolapse repair, use of cystoscopy, preoperative
      urinalysis, postoperative complications, uterine size, and any urine cultures collected
      within the 2 week postoperative period will also obtained from the electronic medical record.

      The post-operative lower urinary tract symptoms assessments will be collected, the paper
      records will be secured in a locker labeled with the study identification number, which will
      then be entered into EXCEL on a password secured database and the paper copy will be disposed
      of in the secure destruction station.

      Descriptive Analysis

      Simple statistics and demographics will be done across the two cohorts. Categorical variables
      will be analyzed using Chi-square while continuous variables (e.g. UTISA scores) will be
      analyzed using t-test so long as the distribution of the data are normal. Additional analyzes
      as appropriate will be done to identify group differences based on patient demographics (e.g.
      age, concomitant procedures, surgeon, estrogen use, foley catheter placement, etc).

      Data Analysis and Data Monitoring

      The UTISA survey and VAS pain scale both result a continuous variable that between the two
      cohorts will be compared using a t-Test provided the results distribution is normal.
      Antibiotic use or self-reported UTI rates are nominal variables that across the cohorts would
      be compared using a X2.

      Data analysis will be performed using statistical software (JMP 13.2.0, SAS Institute Inc.,
      Cary NC, USA). The data will be assembled into a password protected EXCEL (Microsoft, Redmond
      WA, USA) spreadsheet. A separate password protected spreadsheet will link the study ID and
      the enrolled patient's MRN. Analysis would be done only on the de-identified data.

      Data Storage and Confidentiality

      Study data will be managed in a password-protected EXCEL (Microsoft, Redmond WA, USA)
      spreadsheet on a password-protected computer. A separate password protected spreadsheet
      linking the study ID and MRN will be kept on a separate password-protected secure drive. This
      "key" file will be securely destroyed when the data has been fully analyzed. Paper records
      including consent will be in a locked research drawer, in the designated locked office. The
      investigators will dispose of any paper documents after data has been analyzed using the
      CINTAS Secure Destruction Station.

      Sample Size

      The symptom with the highest sensitivity and specificity to predict a UTI is dysuria. A study
      in 2013 demonstrated a 50% reduction in UTIs among heparin treated patients, the
      investigators estimated an effect size of 0.6, assuming mean UTISA dysuria scores of 2 and 1
      among the untreated and treated cohorts assessed on post-operative day 1. Assuming an α of
      0.05 and 80% power, the investigators estimate requiring 45 subjects per study arm totaling
      90 patients. Assuming at least 15% attrition in each arm, the investigators estimate needing
      to enroll at least 52 patients per study arm to a total of 104 patients.

      Plans for recruitment of subjects

      No advertisement will be used. The recruitment will take at the time of surgical consent, via
      phone after patient is identified at the time of preoperative visit, or on the day of
      surgery.
    
  