
    
      This will be a pilot, randomized, controlled, multi-center trial to determine the
      effectiveness of PluroGel in the reduction of size of wounds and reduction of slough covering
      the wound surface compared with Intrasite Gel. The primary objectives will be to evaluate the
      effectiveness of PluroGel compared with Intrasite Gel in the reduction of size of venous leg
      ulcers or mixed venous arterial aetiology. Also the reduction in the percentage of slough
      covering the wound bed in both groups will be compared. The secondary objective will be to
      evaluate patient comfort, satisfaction and acceptance of the hydrogels along with staff
      feedback of both hydrogels. Patients with either a venous leg ulcer (VLU) or an mixed venous
      arterial aetiology (MAU) leg ulcer will be identified by the participant's health care
      provider and will be treated with PluroGel or Intrasite Gel. A total of 40 subjects will be
      enrolled to the study, 20 to each arm. These subjects will be recruited from patients
      receiving treatment for wounds at NHS outpatient clinic. Participants will be approached
      initially by the NHS care-giver and asked if interested in participating in research. If
      interested, participants will be asked to sign a permission to contact form for contact
      details to be given to a member of the research team who would then contact the participant
      to provide further information. A screening log will be kept of all patients who have been
      considered but who do not fulfill the criteria for entry. Patients will be randomized to
      either Plurogel and standard care or Intrasite Gel in conjunction with standard care, on an
      equal basis. Subjects will be eligible for randomization if during the first two weeks within
      the study the target wound has not reduced in surface area by 30% or more and there has been
      a less than 25% reduction in the cover of the wound bed with visible slough. Once the subject
      has completed 4-weeks of treatment, and the final visit, or the target ulcer has healed,
      whichever is soonest, then the subject has completed the study and the termination form will
      be completed. The Investigator will ensure that all CRF forms are completed and accurate. The
      study end date will be the date of the last subject's last visit. The CI and study sponsor,
      will comply with any safety reporting obligations for serious adverse device related events
      to the manufacturer, study sponsor, R&D Department(s) of the University Health Board(s) and
      the Ethics Committee, as defined in the applicable laws and regulations, and within the
      required timelines.
    
  