
    
      Radical prostatectomy remains the standard treatment in case of organ-confined and in
      selected cases of locally advanced prostate cancer. Radical prostatectomy consists of
      removing the prostate gland and seminal vesicles, ideally with negative surgical margins.

      Most of the patients who present urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy have stress
      urinary incontinence. However in some cases the post-surgical urinary incontinence is also
      due to urgency caused by overactive bladder development defined as urge urinary incontinence.
      Recent clinical observations suggest that men can also develop overactive bladder after
      radical prostatectomy.

      This study is designed to evaluate men before radical prostatectomy for the incidence of
      Overactive Bladder (OAB) and it's development after the surgery. Before surgery questionnaire
      assessment of lower urinary tract symptoms will be performed using International Prostate
      Symptom Score (IPSS) questionnaire. OAB symptoms will be analyzed using King's questionnaire,
      as well as using two different OAB symptom score (OABSS) designed by Blavis et al. and Homma
      et al. Each patient will have transabdominal ultrasonographic evaluation of the prostate and
      urinary bladder structure. Prostatic dimensions width (W), height (H), length (L) and volume
      will be recorded. The ultrasonography will be done in urinary bladder filling related to
      normal desire to void. Urinary bladder wall thickness (BWT) and detrusor muscle thickness
      (DWT) will be measured in sagittal plane in anterior bladder wall. The mean of three
      following measurements BWT and DWT will be obtained. The urinary bladder weight (UEBW:
      Ultrasound Estimated Bladder Weight) will be also estimated. After ultrasonography each
      patient will undergo uroflowmetry with post-void residual estimation.

      On the results above 4 groups will be formed

      Group 1 OAB (-) BOO (-)

      Group 2 OAB (-) BOO (+)

      Group 3 OAB (+) BOO (+)

      Group 4 OAB (+) BOO (-)

      The investigators will obtain detail information about the surgery (time, blood loss,
      histopathological outcome, nerve sparing, complications).

      After the initial evaluation of the patients before surgery, the control evaluation is set on
      1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 month after radical prostatectomy in groups 1-4 to define the lower
      urinary tract symptoms after radical prostatectomy related to pre-surgical patient clinical
      feature. During each of the following controls the investigator will not have the access to
      previously obtained data from the patient.

      In addition, healthy volunteers aged 20 to 40 will be assigned as a control group.
    
  