
    
      Recently, the autophagy inducing caloric restriction mimic spermidine-rich wheat germ extract
      (spermidineLIFE ®, from here onwards: spermidine) was approved by the European Food Safety
      Authority (EFSA) and became commercially available for use. Spermidine is safe, well
      tolerated and as caloric restriction mimetic an easy alternative if fasting is too
      challenging, e.g. for psychiatric patients. Research on spermidine in animal models is
      limited, but a study with mice overexpressing spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT)
      an enzyme of spermidine catabolism, suggests that these mice may be more prone to stress. An
      association between spermidine supplementation and improved memory performance as well as
      reduced mortality has been shown in an epidemiological correlation. So far laboratory and
      molecular assessments are missing. It is therefore of great interest to perform broad
      multidisciplinary studies of behavioral changes with plasma spermidine levels, the
      quantification of autophagic flux, and protein acetylation levels as well as molecular
      signaling in a longitudinal fashion to establish an epidemiological triangulation between
      spermidine, autophagy and (mental) health.

      This study is a monocentric, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which a
      3-week spermidine-based nutritional supplementation (6 mg/d; target intervention) will be
      compared to 3-weeks of placebo administration (control intervention). Recruitment of 40
      healthy individuals and 40 individuals with diagnosed depressive disorder is planned, who
      will be allocated to one of the two study arms (n = 20 per intervention). At different time
      points (baseline, intervention day 7, 14 and 21, as well as one week follow up after the last
      intervention day) serval psychometrical questionnaires will be gathered and blood will be
      collected. Sleep quality will be additionally assessed by actigraphy. At selected days blood
      will be collected. Following, autophagy activity will be assessed by Western Blot analysis,
      and mass spectrometry based proteomics, phosphoproteomics, metabolomics and lipidomics will
      be performed. Bioinformatic analysis, statistical evaluation, quality control, and in silico
      pathway analyses will then specifically identify factors and cascades of relevance.
      Furthermore it is of great interest, whether epigenetic changes take place during spermidine
      supplementation and whether these are stable throughout the follow up analysis.

      The aim of the project is to analyze clinical effects of spermidine supplementation in
      correlation to the underlying, multi-level molecular profiling. Longitudinal multi-omic
      profiling including proteome, metabolome, lipidome, and epigenetic changes will reveal
      time-series analysis of thousands of molecular changes and an orchestrated composition of
      autophagy depended signaling. The resulting findings will advance the role of autophagy in
      the development of psychiatric disorders, investigate alternative treatment options on a
      molecular level, and finally contribute to a better clinical outcome.
    
  