
    
      Major consequences of the global pandemic of obesity include cardiovascular disease, type 2
      diabetes and dyslipidemia. The dyslipidemia of obesity commonly consists of fasting
      hypertriglyceridemia with increased plasma very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), reduced
      high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and the presence of small, dense low-density lipoprotein
      (LDL). However, more recently, increased secretion of intestinally derived lipoproteins (LPs)
      has been recognized as contributing to this dyslipidemic profile and postprandial lipemia has
      been linked to adverse health outcomes. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), a hormone secreted
      during meal absorption that plays a key role in the control of plasma glucose has been
      implicated as a candidate hormone for regulating intestinal lipid metabolism. Studies in
      rodents demonstrate that treatment with the GLP-1R agonist; exendin-4 (Ex-4) reduced
      postprandial chylomicron (CM) production and CM-associated cholesterol and triglyceride (TG).
      Similar results were found in Type 2 diabetes (T2D) subjects treated with Ex-4; in these
      reports there was a reduction in both intestinally derived LP production and total plasma TG.
      The objective of this study is to determine whether GLP-1 is involved in the physiologic
      regulation of postprandial lipid metabolism in healthy women, and to test the hypothesis that
      the improved lipid parameters found in overweight women who have had bariatric surgery are
      mediated by GLP-1. The specific aims for this project will 1) determine if either
      pharmacologic treatment with GLP-1 and/or antagonism of endogenous GLP-1 activity improves
      postprandial lipid metabolism in healthy subjects and 2) determine the role of elevated
      postprandial GLP-1 levels on lipid metabolism in obese subjects who have had a sleeve
      gastrectomy. The investigators will use infusions of synthetic GLP-1 with the native hormone
      to confirm the lipid-lowering results that have been published using pharmacologic GLP-1
      receptor (GLP-1R) agonists. The investigators will also use the GLP-1R antagonist
      exendin-(9-39) to determine the role of endogenous GLP-1 on lipemia after a test meal. A
      demonstration that this is a physiologic action would expand the current understanding of
      lipid metabolism, provide new insight into the effects of bariatric surgery, and allow the
      design of more refined, mechanistic studies of this process. In addition, the potential for
      GLP-1R signaling to promote lipid metabolism has direct translational importance in that
      therapies already exist that could capitalize on this mechanism. Understanding the role of
      GLP-1R regulation of lipid absorption and clearance could lead to more appropriate targeting
      of GLP-1 based drugs to specific diabetic patients, i.e. ones with problematic dyslipidemia
      and higher risk for cardiovascular disease. Moreover, understanding the effects of GLP-1 on
      plasma lipids could eventually lead to new approaches for treating nondiabetic dyslipidemic
      persons.
    
  