
    
      Background As for other pathogenic gene mutations [1,2], germline mutations in BRCA1- and
      BRCA2 genes (BReast CAncer 1 gene and BReast CAncer 2 gene) predispose carriers to an
      increased suscepti-bility in developing breast and ovarian cancer [3] but also prostate,
      pancreatic cancer and mela-noma [4]. BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutations are inherited in an
      autosomal dominant manner; this means that offspring of an individual with a BRCA1 or BRCA2
      germline mutation have a 50% chance of inheriting the variant [5,6], and the same probability
      of passing it to the progeny. BRCA1/2 mutations have no gender distinction [7], both men and
      women can inherit the mutation, although it exposes them to different risks.

      Men with BRCA1/2 mutations can incur a lifetime risk of up to 6.8 percent for breast cancer,
      and between 6 and 15 percent for prostate cancer [6,8]. These risks are particularly higher
      when BRCA2 gene is involved. However, men do not receive the same attention as women [9]. In
      particular, women can be tested to search BRCA1 or BRCA2 unknown germline mutations,
      especially when suffering from breast and/or ovarian cancer, or to search known BRCA1/2
      germline mutations previously identified in the family (i.e., cascade screening). Instead,
      men are mainly involved in cascade screening and, rarely, they are tested for BRCA1/2
      germline mutations [10]. Very recently, the guidelines of the National Comprehensive Cancer
      Network [11] have suggested to con-sider patients with pancreatic and prostatic cancers as
      eligible for genetic testing for BRCA germline mutations. However, such a recommendation is
      not yet routine for the test proposal.

      Some socio-cultural aspects have been related to the men's attitude toward BRCA1/2 mutations
      and genetic testing. For example, Pritchard [12] suggested that BRCA 1/2 mutations are
      generally associated with female gender. He also pointed out that the name of the associated
      Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome (HBOC) creates a confusion since breast and
      ovarian cancers are considered a 'female matter' by layperson [18]. Similarly, others [13,14]
      have found that fear of stigmatization is one obstacle for the men's decision-making. To
      date, there are no studies, applying a strong theoretical rationale, that have systematically
      tested which are the psychological variables influencing men's informed decisions for genetic
      testing, when facing BRCA-related mutations. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, there
      are no studies testing what is the better communication strategy to inform men's
      decision-making. Therefore, the present study aims to fill these gaps with an experimental
      study with a longitudinal component. First, applying principles of the Health Action Process
      Approach (HAPA), a motivational inclined theory that explains changes in behaviors, will be
      tested what psychological determinants influence the decision to undergo a genetic test for a
      germline BRCA mutations. The role of intolerance to the uncertainty and the health risk
      attitudes will be explored. The HAPA model has been chosen because it is an evolution of the
      first stadial models of health psychology [15] and it assumes that individuals pass through
      qualitatively different stages of psychological elaboration when they have to adopt new
      health behaviors. The other aim the proposed study is to test two different narrative
      messages in order to understand which is the most efficient in informing men's
      decision-making.

      Principles of the Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) According to the Health Action
      Process Approach [16] there are several variables involved in the implementation of new
      health behaviors. Specifically, it is possible to identify risk perception, outcome
      expectancies and action self-efficacy as predisposing factors that have an impact on the
      informed decision; this is considered the motivation phase, in which subjects begin to form
      an intention. In this model, the intention to perform a specific health behavior is
      considered as a middle-level mediator between the variables considered in the motivation
      phase and those in the volition phase.

      Furthermore, according to this model, volition factors involve planning that is further
      specified as coping and action planning, and coping self-efficacy. Volition factors are
      considered as be-ing influential in the subsequent phase and they are the most proximal
      predictors to actual behavior decisions. This second phase (i.e., the volition phase) should
      be subdivided in pre-action phase, in which the previous mentioned coping and action
      planning, and coping self-efficacy take place, and action phase, ending with a behavior.

      This model was tested in several health contexts [17,18], in particular for smoking behavior
      [16,19,20], physical activity [21,22], dietary [23,24] and also in cancer-related screening
      behavior [25]. Those studies demonstrated the efficacy of the theory in explaining the
      initiation and maintenance of such health preventive behaviors. Together with the principles
      of the HAPA model, the present study aims to understand whether other psychological factors
      may explain men's decision making regarding genetic testing for BRCA1/2 germline mutations.
      For this reason, two attitudinal factors are examined: intolerance of uncertainty and health
      risk attitudes.

      When people face with a potential threat for their health, one key element affecting their
      subsequent decisions and behaviors is how much they feel certain or uncertain regarding the
      threat. In our case, a man who is considering the possibility to undergo a genetic test for
      BRCA germline mutations is facing with two different types of uncertainty. The first one is
      the proximal uncertain-ty due to the result of the genetic test itself. The second one is the
      distal uncertainty depending on the risk to develop a cancer if a germline mutation would be
      found. The intention to undergo a genetic test for a germline mutation may be, therefore,
      determined by the way in which the individual manages the uncertainty due to the discovery of
      a possible negative result (i.e., the presence of a mutation) and to the future consequences
      of the germline mutation.

      Intolerance of Uncertainty (IU) is a trait characteristic of individuals who are not able to
      tolerate the aversive reactions triggered by a perceived lack of sufficient information or by
      an is-sue that can have more than one solution [26]. Individuals with low tolerance for
      uncertainty tend to perceive the threat as a source of discomfort and to react negatively to
      it [27]. Some studies investigated the relationship between intolerance of uncertainty (IU)
      and the attitude to undergo health monitoring, in particular cancer-related screening
      [28,29]. In particular Tan and colleagues showed that intolerance of uncertainty may function
      as an important determinant of anxiety among men pursuing active surveillance for prostate
      cancer [28]. One qualitative study in lung cancer screening decision-making showed that some
      participants sought to decrease uncertainty through lung cancer screening and, if needed,
      with additional testing; others declined the screening in order to avoid the uncertainty
      associated with undefined results [30]. Indeed intolerance of uncertainty consists of two
      dimensions: the first one, the desire for predictability, is an active strategy to manage the
      uncertainty that is perceived as intolerable, and leads to search for as much information as
      possible about the threat to restore a balance. Rosen and colleagues [31] showed that high
      levels of IU were associated with an increase in health monitoring and screening; other
      studies suggested that searching for threat-related information may be driven by the desire
      to reduce uncertainty [32,33]. The second one, called uncertainty paralysis, is configured as
      an avoidance strategy and leads to inability to act because of the uncertainty [26].

      Another construct related to the previous one, at least in the health framework, is the
      attitude toward health risk. In order to contrast the perception of significant uncertainty,
      people choose responses and act in a certain way, and this is defined as the personal
      attitude toward health risk. In fact, people differ in their attitude towards health risks,
      and this affects decision making regarding preventive behaviors (e.g., screening, physical
      activity), and risky behaviors (e.g., surgery) [34]. Taken together all this evidence suggest
      that IU and health risk attitudes may play a role when a man is facing with the decision to
      undergo a genetic test to detect BRCA germline mutation because there are similar mutations
      in the family. Since men with BRCA-related cancer risks deal with probabilistic and complex
      information [35,36], both of these attitudinal factors can have an effect on the
      implementation of health behaviors and therefore can influence the informed decision to
      undergo cascade screening for BRCA1/2 mutations.

      How to inform men's decision making for BRCA1/2 germline mutations genetic testing The other
      aim is to investigate how to inform men's decision-making. Low levels of men's knowledge
      regarding BRCA1/2 germline mutations is found as one of the most important problems in this
      field [37]. Therefore, one main research achievement may be to find the right way to
      correctly inform them. The present study aims to test two different messages tailored to
      men's specific needs and to understand what is the best way to inform them. Although
      narrative approaches showed efficacy in promoting health behavioral intentions [38], and in
      increasing adherence to cancer screening [39] in particular, its utility for improving men's
      BRCA cascade screen-ing remains unexplored. The present research intends to explore whether
      narrative messages can be effective in informing men's decision-making.

      In particular, two features are fundamental in narrative strategies context: the narrative
      perspective and the framing. The first one is a fundamental story feature and changes how
      information is delivered to the audience; researchers identified that first-person narrative
      messages are able to increase self-identity and to promote the assimilation of the theme
      better than third-person narratives [40]. Therefore, the present study chooses to create
      narrative messages with a first-person feature. Regarding the framing, messages can either
      emphasize negative consequences (losses) or positive outcomes (gains) of a given action.
      Prospect theory [41] posits that, in general, people are more likely to take risks when
      presented with a loss-framed message, and the contrary for a gain-framed message. But
      regarding disease prevention behaviors, like smoking cessation [61] and skin cancer
      prevention [42], researchers have suggested an advantage, albeit small, of a gain frame over
      a loss frame [43]. Therefore, the present study chooses to create narrative messages oriented
      to a gain frame.

      Furthermore, applying the Uncertainty Management Theory [44], a social psychological approach
      to uncertainty, Rauscher et al. [13] investigated how men with increased BRCA-related cancer
      risk approach the individual and familial uncertainty related to that pathogenic variant.
      Those qualitative results showed that men's primary concern when managing BRCA-related cancer
      risks is the aversive consequences of the discovery of a germline mutation for their family
      [45]. Their focus on familial uncertainty management is maybe due to the difficulties
      encountered in the management of their own risk due to the lack of information and management
      options. In the end, the authors suggested that genetic counseling would benefit from a
      family focus. Also Hallowell and colleagues [46] highlighted the role of family member
      (mother, partner or children) in men's decision-making about BRCA testing. In particular,
      they showed how men's decision to have genetic testing was influenced by the obligations
      perceived from family members, primarily their children.

      Based on these premises, this study proposes to test the effectiveness of two first-person
      gain-framed messages, one narrating a self-referred story and the other a family-referred
      story. The effectiveness will be measured in terms of one or both messages' ability to
      predict the intention to undergo genetic screening.

      Objectives

      We hypothesize the following relationships (figure 1 shows the tested model):

        1. HP1: higher risk perception, positive outcome expectations, and action self-efficacy
           longitudinally predict the intention and the action to undergo a genetic test for BRCA
           germline mutations.

        2. HP2: higher health risk attitude and low intolerance to uncertainty have a longitudinal
           influence on predicted higher intention, planning, and action initiation.

        3. HP3: higher intention and coping self-efficacy longitudinally predict higher planning.

        4. HP4: higher planning (i.e., action planning, coping planning) and coping self-efficacy
           longitudinally predict higher action initiation.

        5. Based on results by Rauscher et al. [13] and Hallowell and colleagues [46], we
           formulated a research question: (RQ1) is there any difference between personal outcome
           expectations and family outcome expectations in their association with intention?

        6. HP5: family-referred narrative gain-framed message (vs. self-referred narrative
           gain-framed message) will produce greater intention and action to undergo genetic
           testing for BRCA 1/2 germline mutations in at-risk men.

           Method Design The research will involve three phases, with results from each phase
           informing the next phase (see Figure 2). In the first phase, a literature review will be
           performed to identify other psychological variables influencing individuals' adherence
           to evidence based guidelines on BRCA1/2 germline genetic testing. Subsequently, a pilot
           survey will be created in order to test its feasibility and un-derstandability for
           participants.

           The third and final phase entails a RCT with participants receiving one of the two
           conditions (i.e., self-referred narrative framed message, family-referred narrative
           framed message) and it tests the main hypotheses and research question of the study.
           Participants will answer to several questions before and after the message exposure.

           Participants and study setting Participants are 264 males, relatives of women with BRCA1
           and/or BRCA2 germline mutations who are patients of the Division of Cancer Prevention
           and Genetics at the European Institute of Oncology (IEO) in Milan. The IEO is a
           specialized Hospital and an internationally recognized Cancer Center located in Italy
           working on research, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer.

           Sample size and power calculation The sample size is determined through an a priori
           power analysis using GPower 4.0 [47]. Among the imputed parameters it was chosen to
           include partial η2 = .05, alpha lower than .05, power d (1-B) = .70. Considering that
           Luszczynska et al. [48] found a η2 = .01, η2 = .05 is a prudential choice. Two groups,
           corresponding to the two experimental conditions of the study, and 7 covariates were
           included. The final estimated number of participants is 264, 132 in each group. It
           should be noted that changing the number of covariates does not change the total number
           of participants.

           Recruitment According to the registry of the Division of Cancer Prevention and Genetics
           (IEO), all women with BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 germline mutations with at least a male
           relative will be reached by a phone call and/or an email. During the first contact, a
           member of the research team informs the female patients about the research purposes and
           the procedure. The researcher will then ask the women to share the information with
           their male relative(s) and to invite him (them) to participate in the research. All the
           information about the research, including an invitation letter, an information sheet,
           and the consent form, will be also sent by email to the women. If those relatives want
           to be contacted to participate in the study, a researcher calls them and shares with
           them the information sheet, the informed consent, and the link to the online survey.
           Participants will sign the informed consent before starting to fill the survey and data
           collection will be done through an online survey via the use of an identifier. In order
           to promote participant retention and complete follow-up, participants will be prompted
           to respond, calling them by phone or contacting them by email.

           Randomization Participants who meet the study inclusion criteria will be randomly
           assigned to receive one of the two conditions. Randomization will occur during T1,
           immediately after the data collection of psychological measures. The participants will
           not be informed of the condition to which they have been allocated until the message
           itself will be shown.

           Time 1 assessment All participants will complete the T1 assessment, via an online survey
           which will be available for a two-week period. The T1 measures will include demographic,
           health status, risk perception, health risk aversion, and intolerance of uncertainty.
           After this evaluation, participants will be ran-domized and exposed to one message. A
           manipulation check, the evaluation of the perceived qual-ity of the information
           presented on the messages, positive outcome expectations, action self-efficacy, benefit
           for genetic test will be then collected.

           Intervention Time 2 assessment Two weeks later, via an online survey, participants reply
           to questions on the intention to undergo germline genetic testing, coping self-efficacy,
           action planning, and coping planning.

           Time 3 assessment Starting from the end of T2 until 3 months later, data on action
           initiation will be collected (i.e., genet-ic test for BRCA1/2 gene germline mutations).

           Measures T1 measures Before the randomization, all participants answer several
           questions, as follows.

           Demographic. Self-reported age, education, occupation, degree of relationship with the
           woman with BRCA1/2 genes germline mutation, household composition.

           Health Status. Self-reported general health and existing diagnosis for the chronic
           disease will be investigated with a single item each [49]. Response options for general
           health conditions will be on a 5-point Likert scale. The response options for the item
           on the existing chronic disease will be binary coded (no - yes, specify).

           Risk perception. Relative risk perception regarding the possibility to develop breast,
           prostatic, and pancreatic cancer will be investigated with one item each [50,51].
           Response options are on a 7-point Likert scale.

           Health Risk aversion. The six items of the Health Risk Attitude [52] will be
           administered to assess how a person would resolve risky health decisions. Response
           options are on a 7-point Likert scale.

           Intolerance of Uncertainty. The items of the Intolerance of Uncertainty Scale-12 [53]
           will be applied to measure two dimensions of the intolerance of ambiguity, which are the
           desire of predictability and uncertainty paralysis. Response options are on a 5-point
           Likert scale.

           T2 measures After the message exposure, participants reply to several questions, as
           follows.

           Manipulation check. Two items created ad hoc evaluate whether participants have read and
           understood the message content. Multiple-choice answers are used with one correct answer
           and two incorrect answers as distractors. Participants who fail to answer those
           questions will be excluded from the analyses.

           Perceived Quality of the Message. Three items evaluate whether the message is credible,
           convincing, and persuasive. Response options are on a 7-point Likert scale.

           Positive Outcome Expectation. Eight items will be created ad hoc for this research
           evaluating positive outcome expectations regarding the participant himself (4 items) and
           his family members (4 items). The response option will be on a 5-point Likert scale.

           Action Self-Efficacy. According to Schwarzer & Luszczynska's [16] indications,
           self-efficacy will be assessed through three items as the capability of keeping up with
           the behavior, by implementing coping strategies. Response option will be on a 5-point
           Likert scale.

           Benefit for Genetic Test. A 5-digit semantic differential will be applied to measure the
           perceived benefit for genetic tests. Examples of the proposed adjectives are important,
           relevant, useful, benefit.

           Intention to undergo genetic testing. Coping Self-efficacy. Three items created ad hoc
           for the present research evaluate whether the individual feels to be capable of tackling
           the possible obstacles and difficulties that could make it difficult to undergo genetic
           screening. Response options are on a 5-point Likert scale.

           Action planning. Three items developed ad hoc for the present research will ask if the
           participant has planned when, how, and where to undergo the genetic test for BRCA1/2
           mutations. The response option will be on a 4-point Likert scale.

           Coping Planning. Four items developed ad hoc for the present research will ask how much
           the participant thinks to encounter in planning the action. The response option will be
           on a 5-point Likert scale.

           T3 measures Action. Information on the action initiation (i.e., a genetic test for
           BRCA1/2 germline mutations) will be collected when the participant takes the appointment
           for the genetic test and receives the test.

           References

             1. Corso G, Montagna G, Figueiredo J, Vecchia C La, Romario UF, Fernandes MS, et al.
                Heredi-tary gastric and breast cancer syndromes related to CDH1 germline mutation:
                A multidisciplinary clinical review. Cancers (Basel). MDPI AG; 2020. p. 1-25.

             2. Corso G, Bonanni B, Veronesi P, Galimberti V. Mutual exclusion of CDH1 and BRCA
                germline mutations in the pathway of hereditary breast cancer. Arch. Gynecol.
                Obstet. Springer Verlag; 2018. p. 1067-8.

             3. Corso G, Feroce I, Intra M, Toesca A, Magnoni F, Sargenti M, et al. BRCA1/2
                germline mis-sense mutations: A systematic review. Eur. J. Cancer Prev. Lippincott
                Williams and Wilkins; 2018. p. 279-86.

             4. Nyberg T, Frost D, Barrowdale D, Evans DG, Bancroft E, Adlard J, et al. Prostate
                Cancer Risks for Male BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutation Carriers: A Prospective Cohort
                Study. Eur Urol. Elsevier B.V.; 2020;77:24-35.

             5. Kuchenbaecker KB, Hopper JL, Barnes DR, Phillips KA, Mooij TM, Roos-Blom MJ, et al.
                Risks of breast, ovarian, and contralateral breast cancer for BRCA1 and BRCA2
                mutation carriers. JAMA - J Am Med Assoc. American Medical Association;
                2017;317:2402-16.

             6. Petrucelli N, Daly MB, Pal T. BRCA1- and BRCA2-Associated Hereditary Breast and
                Ovarian Cancer. GeneReviews®. University of Washington, Seattle; 1993.

             7. Silvestri V, Leslie G, Barnes DR, Agnarsson BA, Aittomäki K, Alducci E, et al.
                Characteriza-tion of the Cancer Spectrum in Men with Germline BRCA1 and BRCA2
                Pathogenic Variants: Re-sults from the Consortium of Investigators of Modifiers of
                BRCA1/2 (CIMBA). JAMA Oncol. American Medical Association; 2020;6.

             8. Oh M, Alkhushaym N, Fallatah S, Althagafi A, Aljadeed R, Alsowaida Y, et al. The
                association of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations with prostate cancer risk, frequency, and
                mortality: A meta-analysis. Prostate. John Wiley and Sons Inc.; 2019;79:880-95.

             9. da Silva TL. Male breast cancer: Medical and psychological management in comparison
                to fe-male breast cancer. A review. Cancer Treat. Commun. Elsevier Ltd; 2016. p.
                23-34.

            10. Marabelli M, Calvello M, Bonanni B. Test more men for BRCA genes. Nature.
                2019;573:346.

            11. Daly MB, Pilarski R, Yurgelun MB, Berry MP, Buys SS, Dickson P, et al.
                Genetic/familial high-risk assessment: Breast, ovarian, and pancreatic, version
                1.2020 featured updates to the NCCN guidelines. JNCCN J Natl Compr Cancer Netw.
                Harborside Press; 2020;18:380-91.

            12. Pritchard CC. New name for breast-cancer syndrome could help to save lives. Nature.
                Nature Research; 2019. p. 27-9.

            13. Rauscher EA, Dean M, Campbell-Salome G, Barbour JB. "How do we rally around the one
                who was positive?" Familial uncertainty management in the context of men managing
                BRCA-related cancer risks. Soc Sci Med. Elsevier Ltd; 2019;242:112592.

            14. Strømsvik N, Råheim M, Yen N, Gjengedal E. Men in the women's world of hereditary
                breast and ovarian cancer-a systematic review. Fam Cancer. Springer; 2009;8:221-9.

            15. Prochaska JO, Di Clemente CC. Transtheoretical therapy: Toward a more integrative
                model of change. Psychotherapy. American Psychological Association (APA);
                1982;19:276-88.

            16. Schwarzer R, Luszczynska & A. The Health Action Process Approach. Eur Psychol.
                2008;13:141-51.

            17. Zhang CQ, Zhang R, Schwarzer R, Hagger MS. A Meta-Analysis of the Health Action
                Process Approach. Heal Psychol. 2019;

            18. Mohammadi Zeidi I, morshedi H, shokohi abdolah. Application of the Health Action
                Process Approach (HAPA) Model to Determine Factors Affecting Physical Activity in
                Hypertensive Pa-tients. J Jiroft Univ Med Sci. Journal of Jiroft University of
                Medical Sciences; 2020;7:349-60.

            19. Radtke T, Scholz U, Keller R, Hornung R. Smoking is ok as long as I eat healthily:
                Compensa-tory Health Beliefs and their role for intentions and smoking within the
                Health Action Process Ap-proach. Psychol Heal. 2012;27:91-107.

            20. Scholz U, Nagy G, Göhner W, Luszczynska A, Kliegel M. Changes in self-regulatory
                cogni-tions as predictors of changes in smoking and nutrition behaviour. Psychol
                Heal. 2009;24:545-61.

            21. Barg CJ, Latimer AE, Pomery EA, Rivers SE, Rench TA, Prapavessis H, et al.
                Examining pre-dictors of physical activity among inactive middle-aged women: An
                application of the health ac-tion process approach. Psychol Heal. Routledge ;
                2012;27:829-45.

            22. Parschau L, Barz M, Richert J, Knoll N, Lippke S, Schwarzer R. Physical activity
                among adults with obesity: Testing the health action process approach. Rehabil
                Psychol. American Psychologi-cal Association Inc.; 2014;59:42-9.

            23. Steca P, Pancani L, Greco A, D'Addario M, Magrin ME, Miglioretti M, et al. Changes
                in Die-tary Behavior among Coronary and Hypertensive Patients: A Longitudinal
                Investigation Using the Health Action Process Approach. Appl Psychol Heal
                Well-Being. Wiley-Blackwell; 2015;7:316-39.

            24. Chiu C-Y, Lynch RT, Chan F, Rose L. The Health Action Process Approach as a
                Motivational Model of Dietary Self-Management for People With Multiple Sclerosis.
                Rehabil Couns Bull. SAGE PublicationsSage CA: Los Angeles, CA; 2012;56:48-61.

            25. Daniel AO, Omorogieva Enoma I, Omobude-Idiado SN. Application of Protection
                Motivation Theory (PMT) and Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) in promoting
                women's adaptive en-gagement towards breast self examination. Acad Res Int.
                2014;5:291.

            26. Carleton RN. Fear of the unknown: One fear to rule them all? J. Anxiety Disord.
                Elsevier Ltd; 2016. p. 5-21.

            27. Buhr K, Dugas MJ. Investigating the construct validity of intolerance of
                uncertainty and its unique relationship with worry. J Anxiety Disord. J Anxiety
                Disord; 2006;20:222-36.

            28. Tan H-J, Marks LS, Hoyt MA, Kwan L, Filson CP, Macairan M, et al. The Relationship
                be-tween Intolerance of Uncertainty and Anxiety in Men on Active Surveillance for
                Prostate Cancer. J Urol. Elsevier Inc.; 2016;195:1724-30.

            29. Taber JM, Klein WMP, Ferrer RA, Han PKJ, Lewis KL, Biesecker LG, et al. Perceived
                ambi-guity as a barrier to intentions to learn genome sequencing results. J Behav
                Med. Springer New York LLC; 2015;38:715-26.

            30. Schapira MM, Aggarwal C, Akers S, Aysola J, Imbert D, Langer C, et al. How patients
                view lung cancer screening: The role of uncertainty in medical decision making. Ann
                Am Thorac Soc. American Thoracic Society; 2016;13:1969-76.

            31. Rosen NO, Knäuper B, Sammut J. Do individual differences in intolerance of
                uncertainty af-fect health monitoring? Psychol Heal. Routledge ; 2007;22:413-30.

            32. Hock M, Krohne HW, Kaiser J. Coping Dispositions and the Processing of Ambiguous
                Stimuli. J Pers Soc Psychol. American Psychological Association Inc.;
                1996;70:1052-66.

            33. Krohne HW. Vigilance and cognitive avoidance as concepts in coping research. Atten
                Avoid Strateg coping with aversiveness. 1993.

            34. Van Osch SMC, Stiggelbout AM. The development of the Health-Risk Attitude Scale.
                2007.

            35. Oliveri S, Pravettoni G. Capturing how individuals perceive genetic risk
                information: a phe-nomenological perspective. J Risk Res. Routledge;
                2018;21:259-67.

            36. Oliveri S, Scotto L, Ongaro G, Triberti S, Guiddi P, Pravettoni G. "You do not get
                cancer by chance": Communicating the role of environmental causes in cancer
                diseases and the risk of a "guilt rhetoric." Psychooncology. John Wiley and Sons
                Ltd; 2019;28:2422-4.

            37. Skop M, Lorentz J, Jassi M, Vesprini D, Einstein G. "Guys Don't Have Breasts": The
                Lived Experience of Men Who Have BRCA Gene Mutations and Are at Risk for Male
                Breast Cancer. Am J Mens Health. SAGE Publications Inc.; 2018;12:961-72.

            38. Braddock K, Dillard JP. Meta-analytic evidence for the persuasive effect of
                narratives on be-liefs, attitudes, intentions, and behaviors. Commun Monogr.
                Routledge; 2016;83:446-67.

            39. Jensen JD, King AJ, Carcioppolo N, Krakow M, Samadder NJ, Morgan S. Comparing
                tailored and narrative worksite interventions at increasing colonoscopy adherence
                in adults 50-75: A ran-domized controlled trial. Soc Sci Med. 2014;104:31-40.

            40. van Peer W, Maat HP. Narrative perspective and the interpretation of characters'
                motives. Lang Lit Int J Stylist. SAGE Publications Ltd; 2001;10:229-41.

            41. Kahneman D, Tversky A. Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision Under Risk. 2013.
                p. 99-127.

            42. O'Keefe DJ, Jensen JD. The relative persuasiveness of gain-framed and loss-framed
                messages for encouraging disease prevention behaviors: A meta-analytic review. J.
                Health Commun. Taylor & Francis Group ; 2007. p. 623-44.

            43. Kim HK, Lee TK. Conditional Effects of Gain-Loss-Framed Narratives among Current
                Smok-ers at Different Stages of Change. J Health Commun. Taylor and Francis Inc.;
                2017;22:990-8.

            44. Brashers DE. Communication and Uncertainty Management. J Commun. Oxford University
                Press (OUP); 2001;51:477-97.

            45. Hesse-Biber S, An C. Within-Gender Differences in Medical Decision Making Among
                Male Carriers of the BRCA Genetic Mutation for Hereditary Breast Cancer. Am J Mens
                Health. SAGE Publications Inc.; 2017;11:1444-59.

            46. Hallowell N, Ardern-Jones A, Eeles R, Foster C, Lucassen A, Moynihan C, et al.
                Men's Deci-sion-Making About Predictive BRCA1/2 Testing: The Role of Family. J
                Genet Couns. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd; 2005;14:207-17.

            47. Faul F, Erdfelder E, Lang AG, Buchner A. G*Power 3: A flexible statistical power
                analysis program for the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences. Behav Res
                Methods. Psychonomic Society Inc.; 2007. p. 175-91.

            48. Luszczynska A, Schwarzer R, Lippke S, Mazurkiewicz M. Self-efficacy as a moderator
                of the planning-behaviour relationship in interventions designed to promote
                physical activity. Psychol Heal. Psychol Health; 2011;26:151-66.

            49. Shim M, Kelly B, Hornik R. Cancer information scanning and seeking behavior is
                associated with knowledge, lifestyle choices, and screening. J Health Commun. J
                Health Commun; 2006;11:157-72.

            50. Renner B. Hindsight bias after receiving self-relevant health risk information: A
                motivational perspective. Memory. Taylor & Francis Group ; 2003;11:455-72.

            51. Renner B. Biased Reasoning: Adaptive Responses to Health Risk Feedback. Personal
                Soc Psy-chol Bull. Pers Soc Psychol Bull; 2004;30:384-96.

            52. Dieteren CM, Brouwer WBF, Van Exel J. How do combinations of unhealthy behaviors
                relate to attitudinal factors and subjective health among the adult population in
                the Netherlands? BMC Public Health. BioMed Central Ltd.; 2020;20:441.

            53. Bottesi G, Ghisi M, Novara C, Bertocchi J, e Ilaria MB, Dominicis D, et al.
                Intolerance of un-certainty scale (IUS-27 e IUS-12): Due studi preliminari.
                Psicoter Cogn e Comport. 2015;21:345-65.
    
  