
    
      In this pilot randomized controlled trial, we will assess the effectiveness of CPAP therapy
      to reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and CVD risk factors in patients with
      moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) presenting to a sleep disorders clinic. A
      total of 700 patients with a new diagnosis of moderate to severe OSA will be recruited from
      BWH-affiliated sleep disorder clinics, BWH, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), and
      Faulkner Hospital Cardiology Clinics (and similar specialized clinics seeing patients with
      cardiovascular risk factors, such as endocrinology and hypertensive clinics), Beth Israel
      Deaconess Medical Center and Joslin Diabetes Center. After completing a 2 week run-in period,
      randomized participants (approximately 150 participants will be randomized) will undergo
      baseline and 6 month assessments of key study exposure and outcome variables.

      Participants will be randomized after completion of Baseline visit. The treatment arms are as
      follows:

      The active arms are:

        1. Active-PAP treatment delivered using standard respiratory therapist (RT) adherence
           education and support. (Active-Beh)

        2. Active-PAP treatment administered using adherence education and support delivered by a
           RT and enhanced by a behavioral promotion intervention. (Active+Beh)

      The control arms are:

        1. Conservative Medical Therapy (CMT)

        2. Sham-PAP (Sham)

      Participants randomized before December 31, 2012 (n=108) also will undergo 12 month follow-up
      assessments. Participants will be offered a 12 month supervised conservative medical therapy
      (CMT) program for OSA over the duration of the study intervention. Subjects would be
      contacted at bimonthly intervals by alternating phone and office visits to assess safety,
      identify adverse events, identify health care utilization, and reinforce protocol adherence.
      At 6 and 12 months, study outcomes will be reassessed by collecting data from sources.

      Patients randomized after December 31, 2012 (n=61) will undergo only 6 months of follow-up
      assessment. Participants will be offered a 6 month supervised conservative medical therapy
      (CMT) program for OSA over the duration of the study intervention. Subjects would be
      contacted at bimonthly intervals by alternating phone and office visits to assess safety,
      identify adverse events, identify health care utilization, and reinforce protocol adherence.
      At 6 months, study outcomes will be reassessed by collecting data from sources.
    
  