
    
      Reversible small-molecule EGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKI) have shown
      dramatic therapeutic efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with
      EGFR-activating mutations, and have been recommended as the standard first-line therapy in
      these patients. However, despite excellent initial clinical responses, nearly all patients
      eventually develop drug resistance after a median period of about 10 months(PMID 26497205).
      Osimertinib is a 3rd-generation EGFR-TKI used to treat NSCLC patients with resistance to 1st
      generation EGFR-TKI due to T790M mutation. But Osimertinib also face the problem of acquired
      drug-resistance(PMID 27959700). Thus, innovative treatment strategies are urgently needed to
      overcome therapeutic resistance to Osimertinib to improve the survival of patients with
      NSCLC.

      Molecular mechanisms underlying acquired Osimertinib resistance are still not fully
      understood. Previous study showed that one principal mechanism accounting for majority of
      acquired resistance to Osimertinib in lung cancer is mediated by an exon 20 C797S mutation
      etc(PMID 29596911). More molecular mechanisms are still to be found. Apoptosis is a process
      of programmed cell death that occurs in multicellular organisms. Biochemical events lead to
      characteristic cell changes (morphology) and death. These changes include blebbing, cell
      shrinkage, nuclear fragmentation, chromatin condensation, chromosomal DNA fragmentation, and
      global mRNA decay. Apoptosis has been found to be related to drug resistance to 1st
      generation EGFR-TKI(PMID 29731879). The investigators previous found apoptosis is also
      related to Osimertinib resistance(PMID 28765329). Therefore, promoting apoptosis may be an
      effective way to improve the response to Osimertinib treatment.

      Investigators' group has focused on lung cancer targeted therapy for several years.
      Previously, investigators have reported that metformin in combination with 1st generation
      EGFR-TKI could enhance the effect of TKI (PMID 24644001). Therefore, investigators further
      asked whether the drug combination approach could overcome osimertinib resistance. Aspirin is
      a widely used and well-tolerated drug for Kawasaki disease, pericarditis, and rheumatic and
      has arisen keen interest as a potential anticancer agent ever since the report of the
      clinical evidence that the cancer risk and mortality are reduced in Colon cancer. Aspirin
      exerts remarkable antitumor properties in tumor cells and mouse models. It strongly inhibited
      the growth of lung cancer cells, and its combination with TKI agents, including Sorafenib
      (PMID: 28857200), significantly suppressed RAS-mutant cancers growth and prolonged remission
      in a xenograft model. Interestingly, Aspirin exposure significantly promoted the apoptosis
      suggesting that aspirin may overcome Osimertinib resistance by promoting the apoptosis.

      Here, investigators'group observed that in clinic, several patients who took osimertinib and
      aspirin together have shown excellent effect.Investigators therefore conduct this clinical
      trial to observe whether the combination of Aspirin and Osimertinib could enhance efficacy of
      Osimertinib in lung cancer patients resistant to 1st generation EGFR-TKI with T790M.
    
  