
    
      Overcoming the burden of depression remains one of the most significant challenges in
      managing bipolar disorder. Compared to mania, depressive episodes in bipolar disorder are
      more frequent and considerably longer in length, with individuals spending roughly one-third
      to one-half of their lives suffering from depressive symptoms. Most of the difficulties with
      functioning at work, home, or school are due to depressive episodes, and most suicides occur
      in the context of a depressive (vs. manic) episode. Medication treatment of bipolar
      depression is not straightforward. Some individuals have a poor response to mood stabilizing
      medications, experience switches into mania as a result of antidepressant use, and have
      trouble taking their medications as prescribed. Thus, there remains a need for treatments
      that individuals with bipolar depression can use in addition to medication. As a practice
      that incorporates elements of physical exercise, controlled breathing, and meditation, hatha
      yoga has frequently been recommended as a way to manage bipolar disorder symptoms. There are
      numerous reasons why hatha yoga may be helpful for bipolar depression. First, there is some
      evidence that hatha yoga is useful for unipolar depression. Second, it is possible that yoga
      may help individuals with bipolar disorder regulate their daily routines, decrease negative
      depressive thoughts, and have a positive impact on biological mechanisms related to bipolar
      disorder. Yet to our knowledge, there have been no published studies on the benefits - and
      potential risks - of the practice of yoga in bipolar disorder. The primary aim of the
      proposed pilot study is to develop a 10 week yoga program specifically tailored to bipolar
      depression. We will develop an instructor manual for teaching classes and a scale for
      measuring instructor adherence to the manual. We will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability
      to patients, and safety of this program in a 10 week pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT).
      In this trial, we will enroll 36 participants with bipolar I/II depression, and randomly
      assign them to either: 1) the yoga intervention, delivered as an adjunct to treatment as
      usual; or 2) treatment as usual enhanced with a publicly-available bipolar disorder self-help
      book (ETAU). In a preliminary fashion, we will examine whether the yoga classes (compared to
      ETAU) appear promising in terms of reduced symptom severity and improved quality of life.
    
  