
    
      The population is ageing and as a result medical staff and allied health professionals are
      likely to see an increase in the number of patients with falls. Community dwelling
      individuals over 65 fall at a rate of 30% per year. This risk increases with advancing age.
      Falls have significant consequences for both the individual and the population as a whole.
      Falls risk increases with age due to increased body sway, a reduction in reaction times,
      deterioration in the efficiency of the walking pattern and diminished balance.

      People who fall should be referred for multidisciplinary falls assessment. Locally, patients
      are assessed by the multidisciplinary team and, if appropriate, attend falls group. This
      group consists of a 12 week exercise program to improve balance and muscle strength (patients
      attend the group up to 3 times weekly). Previously trials have shown variable compliance with
      exercise programs but locally compliance is felt to be good. Falls groups aim to reduce falls
      through the benefits of exercise; improvement in muscle strength,balance, general fitness and
      well being. It has been shown that exercise has statistically significant beneficial effects
      on balance.

      Due to advances in technology, equipment has been produced to improve balance on both the
      medical and commercial market. There is a large variability in cost between this equipment
      with commercial prices being much lower. The Wii has been very successful in encouraging
      sedentary youths to partake in exercise (all be it in a limited form). WiiFit is a
      specifically designed "game" for the Wii to improve balance with an element of entertainment
      value.

      This project is important due the large number of falls that occur in the community and the
      significant impact this has on an under resourced NHS. It is timely because the WiiFit has
      only just been introduced into the market. Through the use of a Wii, balance training may be
      more enjoyable and as a result elderly community dwellers may be more likely to participate
      in exercise programmes. The Wii is considerably cheaper than the medical alternatives and if
      an improvement can be shown in post-intervention balance assessments, then we have to
      consider whether the use of similar equipment should be instituted in falls groups.
    
  