
    
      Cutaneous microvascular blood flow is regulated by multiple mechanisms, including that by
      insulin and by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). Insulin is the principal hormone
      responsible for the disposal and storage of glucose in skeletal muscle, in part by the
      re-direction of blood flow through the rhythmic dilatation or contraction of arterioles. In
      insulin-sensitive individuals, this "vasomotion" is thought to involve the activation of the
      vascular smooth muscle, with vasodilatation occurring through nitric oxide and
      vasoconstriction through the SNS and endothelin-1. A tonic upregulation of SNS activity and
      increased vasoconstrictor action of insulin may be a contributor to the development of
      hypertension, decreased peripheral blood flow, and endothelial dysfunction in the general
      population, especially in individuals with hyperinsulinemia and diabetes mellitus. In persons
      with spinal cord injury (SCI), a disproportionately high prevalence of insulin resistance and
      diabetes mellitus has been reported. We postulate that insulin resistance, in combination
      with the added consequence of SNS impairment below the neurological level of injury,
      contribute to hemodynamic dysregulation and a variety of medical complications, including
      pressure ulcer formation and decreased wound healing. Recently, our group demonstrated that
      the sub-lesional blood perfusion response to iontophoresis with insulin is blunted in
      euinsulinemic persons with motor-complete SCI compared to demographics-matched
      neurologically-intact control subjects.

      To confirm and extend our preliminary finding and to provide additional insight into its
      implications, we propose to perform an open-label, non-randomized, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group intervention, observational trial to determine the hemodynamic actions of
      insulin in individuals with complete motor lower extremity paralysis due to SCI and either
      systemic insulin sensitivity or insulin resistance. Subjects will participate in a screening
      visit to determine their eligibility and insulin sensitivity (i.e., categorized as being
      insulin-sensitive or insulin-resistant). Eligible individuals will return for participation
      in our study to determine skin blood flow by iontophoresis with vasoactive agents or
      application of heat to the extremities. Measurements will be performed simultaneously with
      provocation (i.e., with either heat or insulin or acetylcholine iontophoresis) being
      performed on the ipsilateral extremity and no provocative intervention (i.e., either no heat
      or placebo iontophoresis) in parallel and simultaneously on the contralateral extremity. On a
      separate visit, all subjects will repeat the iontophoresis with acetylcholine, which is the
      gold-standard to induce endothelium-dependent vasodilatation of the microvasculature.

      After screening, subjects will participate in 2 study visits where the iontophoresis (i.e.,
      placebo, insulin, and acetylcholine) and heat provocation will be performed one time on the
      upper and one time on the lower extremity. Each study visit will take no more than 4 hours.
      The expected enrollment time for a participant to complete the study should be no more than 3
      weeks.

      The respective outcomes from iontophoresis with insulin will be compared and correlated to
      systemic insulin sensitivity (as determined by an intravenous glucose tolerance test with
      insulin administration) (Primary Aim). The peak microvascular perfusion responses to
      vasodilatation by iontophoresis with acetylcholine to that with insulin will be compared
      (Secondary Aim). In participants with SCI, the findings from the neurologically intact upper
      extremity will be compared to those of the neurologically impaired lower extremity (Tertiary
      Aim). A group of neurologically-intact subjects who are matched for group assignment (i.e.,
      insulin-sensitive or insulin resistant) will serve as age- and gender-matched controls to the
      participants with SCI.
    
  