
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and define a recommended phase II dose of AEG35156
           in combination with docetaxel in patients with locally advanced, metastatic, or
           recurrent solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of AEG35156 in combination with
           docetaxel given and define the duration and reversibility of those toxicities.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of this regimen.

        -  Assess, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the pharmacodynamic effects of AEG35156 on X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis levels
           and apoptosis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in tumor tissue of these
           patients.

        -  Evaluate M30/M65 cytokeratin 18 level (a marker of apoptosis/necrosis of epithelial
           tumors) in serum of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation study of AEG35156.

      Patients receive AEG35156 IV over 2 hours on days -1, 0, 1, 8, and 15 during course 1 and on
      days 1, 8, and 15 of all subsequent courses. Patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of AEG35156 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which ≥ 2 of 3 or 2 of
      6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Additional patients receive AEG35156 at the
      recommended phase II dose (RPTD).

      Blood is drawn periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are
      examined by flow cytometry, immunoenzyme methods, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction for biological markers. Tumor tissue (archival and fresh) is collected from patients
      treated at the RPTD and examined by immunohistochemical methods and biological marker
      analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients are followed at 4 weeks. Patients with
      response or stable disease ongoing are followed every 3 months thereafter until
      relapse/progression. Patients with protocol-related toxicity also followed q 3 months until
      resolution to ≤ grade 2.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  