
    
      This is a pilot study of 15 (may need to consent/screen 30 patients to have 15 enrolled)
      obese patients (BMI 30-40) with painful knee osteoarthritis. Although prior studies have
      reported musculoskeletal secondary outcomes following various types of bariatric surgery,
      investigators propose the evaluation of laparoscopic gastric banding (LAGB) to treat a cohort
      of patients with moderate to severe knee osteoarthritis.

      Once eligible patients are identified by rheumatologists and/or bariatric team and consented
      for the study, they will have bilateral knee radiographs (standard of care) to ensure they
      have a sufficient degree of OA. Patients will then be referred to the bariatric surgeons, who
      will then confirm the patients' interest, understanding and suitability for the LAGB surgery
      which is a FDA approved procedurefor patients with a BMI >30 and at least one obesity-related
      comorbidity (including knee OA)37. It is the application of this approved procedure that
      constitutes the research question should LAGB surgery be considered as a treatment option to
      improve pain and physical disability in patients with knee OA? During the pre-operative
      process patients will be given study questionnaires to evaluate knee pain and function, have
      a musculoskeletal exam and blood/urine will be collected.These procedures will be repeated at
      post-operative intervals to track response of the knees to the LAGB.

      The primary outcome measure is improvement in OA-related knee pain and physical disability.
      Improvement of pain and function will be defined by changes in the VAS, WOMAC, AORC and KOOS
      scores. The degree of improvement required to qualify as such will be described in the
      methods sections below.

      Secondary outcome measures include (1) radiographic evidence of OA progression or worsening
      despite the LABG, (2) weight loss, and (3) reduction or discontinuation of pain medication.
    
  