
    
      There is no current standard of care for recurring GBM after patients receive Bevacizumab
      (Avastin) intravenously (IV) at 10mg/kg with CPT-11 (Irinotecan). At that point, these
      patients are deemed treatment failures and are given another experimental treatment. Because
      of the blood brain barrier (BBB) where IV drugs do not penetrate the blood vessel walls well
      to get into the brain, no one knows for sure if these IV drugs actually get into the brain
      after infusion. Previous studies have shown that if you want to increase your penetration of
      drug to the brain, that intra-carotid artery (intraarterial) delivery is superior to standard
      intravenous delivery. Previous techniques using intraarterial (intracarotid) infusion still
      were non-selective as drug delivery still went to all blood vessels in the brain, so patients
      still had significant adverse events, such as blindness. Newer techniques in interventional
      neuroradiology have allowed for a more selective delivery of catheters higher up into the
      arterial tree where agents such as chemotherapies, can be delivered without the risk of
      adverse affects such as blindness. In fact, studies here at Cornell have developed very new
      and exciting super selective intraarterial delivery treatments for Retinoblastoma, eye tumors
      with little toxicity and a clinical trial of intraarterial delivery of Avastin is currently
      underway for GBM. Therefore, this trial will ask one simple question: Is it safe to deliver a
      dose of Cetuximab intraarterially using these super selective delivery techniques instead of
      the standard intravenous route of administration? This should not only increase the amount of
      drug that gets to the tumor but also spare the patient any adverse effects from a less
      selective delivery. Prior to that single dose of intraarterial Cetuximab, the patient will
      also receive a dose of mannitol that opens up the blood brain barrier to improve delivery of
      the agent to the brain. After that single dose of Mannitol and Cetuximab intraarterially, the
      patient will be evaluated for 4 weeks to assess for toxicity. After this point, the patient
      is done with the "experimental" aspects of the protocol. If no toxicity at this point, then
      the patient will go on and get their chosen chemotherapy as determined by their treating
      oncologist. In summary, this is a Phase I trial that is designed to test the safety of a
      single dose of intraarterial delivery of Mannitol and Cetuximab , prior to starting the
      patients next round of chosen chemotherapy

      To summarize:

      Current Standard of Care Therapy : None

      Experimental portion of this proposal:

      Day 0: Intraarterial Mannitol to open the blood brain barrier followed by Intraarterial
      Cetuximab single dose (starting at 100mg/m2 and up to 500mg/m2)

      Therefore the experimental aspects of this treatment plan will include:

        1. Subjects will first be treated with Mannitol prior to chemotherapy infusion (Mannitol
           25%; 3-10 mL/s for 30seconds) in order to disrupt the blood brain barrier. This
           technique has been used in several thousand patients in previous studies for the IA
           delivery of chemotherapy for malignant glioma.

        2. To add a single intraarterial delivery (SIACI) of the Cetuximab for patients with
           recurring or relapsing high grade glioma. After a one cycle observation period to assess
           for toxicity from the IA infusion, the subject will receive a regimen of chemotherapy to
           be decided by their treating oncologist The dose escalation algorithm is as follows: We
           will use a single intracranial superselective intraarterial infusion of Cetuximab,
           starting at a dose of 100mg/m2 in the first three patients. Assuming no dose limiting
           toxicity during the next 28 days after the infusion, the patient will then begin their
           standard chemotherapy regimen which is to be determined by their treating oncologist.
           The doses will be escalated from 100, to 200, 300, 400 and finally 500mg/m2 in this
           Phase I trial.

      Both hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity from the IA infusion of Cetuximab will be
      determined and scored according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (version 3.0). Monitoring
      will also include an MRI of the brain at 4 weeks post infusion.

      Most patients with GBM are also monitored every two months with serial history, neurological
      and physical examinations together with serial blood counts, prothrombin time (PT), partial
      thromboplastin time (PTT) and chemistries. In addition, most patients with GBM have an MRI
      performed every two cycles or approximately every two months to assess for tumor progression.
      .

      Since this is a Phase I trial, response is not a primary endpoint of the trial. However, we
      will evaluate response to the one time IA Cetuximab therapy with a a MRI with the injection
      of contrast about 4 weeks after infusion. Follow-up of all patients in the trial regardless
      of the chemotherapy regimen they try after the IA Cetuximab therapy will continue until
      disease progression or death. Survival will be measured from the time of the dose of IA
      Cetuximab®. We expect patients in the trial to monitored for 12 months.

      This treatment may be harmful to a fetus . female subjects of childbearing age, will be asked
      to practice birth control methods while participating in this research study and for 3 months
      following her treatment. These methods include oral contraceptives, contraceptive shots, and
      barrier methods, such as condom use, sponges, and diaphragms. Fertile males are required to
      use these barrier methods.

      The patient may be responsible for any additional costs associated with enrollment in the
      trial. All costs of the IA delivery and the cost of the drug will be submitted to the
      patient's insurance provider.
    
  