
    
      Cut Flexor is common injury ,has unique characters as they cannot heal without surgical
      treatment, unique anatomy of the tendons running through flexor tendon sheaths to function
      and postoperative management &mobilization to prevent adhesions and improve gliding but risk
      of rupture.

      The hand is divided into 5 zones (Verdan's). Zone 2 is described by Bunnel as "No Man's Land"
      historically back to 14th century (area outside London used for executions) because it was
      previously believed that primary repair should not be done in this zone. After understanding
      of flexor tendon anatomy, biomechanics , and healing new techniques of surgery and anesthesia
      repair is possible with good results.

      General anesthesia has been the standard technique for along time. wide awake local
      anesthesia no tourniquet. (WALANT),using safe drugs lidocaine for anesthesia and epinephrine
      for hemostasis, the investigators can do operations while patient is awake.

      WALANT has been recommended by some surgeons to be the next standard for repair of zone 2
      injuries .

      This techniques has a lot of Advantages in repair zone 2 as 1) intraoperative testing of the
      flexor repair by active movement to exclude any gap. and lets the surgeon see that the repair
      fits through the pulleys with active movement.

      2)sheath and pulley damage are minimized, as flexor tendons are repaired through small
      transverse sheathotomy incisions 3) the surgeon can interview the patient during the
      procedure and assess the ability to comply with the postoperative regimen 4) the risks of
      general anesthesia are avoided in most patients. Negative effects of general anesthesia
      include nausea and vomiting, hospital admission for anesthesia recovery, exacerbation of
      comorbidity issues such as diabetes, aggressive flexion by the patient emerging from general
      anesthesia,and others
    
  