
    
      Baseline assessment of Clinically Manifest CS patients consists of: history, echocardiogram,
      ECG, chest CT scan, FDG-PET scan, blood for biomarkers within 2 months of the PET scan,
      cardiac MRI and possibly a signal average ECG and biopsy (encouraged-either endomyocardial or
      extra-cardiac).

      Follow-up and clinical management of clinically manifest patients diagnosed with CS will
      occur at 3-6 months with a repeat FDG-PET scan and blood biomarkers. Follow-up will then be
      annually with an echo and ECG. Treatment with steroids/immunosuppressants and device therapy
      will be at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Baseline assessment of patients diagnosed with extra-cardiac sarcoidosis and being screened
      for CS consists of: history, echocardiogram, ECG, holter, chest CT scan, biopsy, and cardiac
      MRI (CMR). If the CMR is suggestive of CS the patient will be have a FDG-PET scan done and be
      followed as a Clinically Silent patient. They will be contacted every 2 years. If the CMR is
      negative the patient will be followed as a extra-cardiac sarcoidosis patient with no evidence
      of CS and be in the control group. They will be contacted at 5 years and at the time of study
      completion.

      All patients will be followed until the last patient recruited has been followed for 4 years.

      The occurrence of the primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed in treated and
      untreated patients.

      There will be 2 imaging core labs. The PET core lab will be located at UOHI under the
      direction of Dr. Robert Beanlands. The CMR core lab will be under the direction of Dr.
      Mathias Friedrich (McGill University). All scans will be read in the core labs by physicians
      who are blinded to the clinical details of the patients.

      The Biomarker core lab will be at The University of Ottawa Heart Institute under the
      leadership of Dr P Liu.
    
  