
    
      High Flow Heated and Humidified Nasal Oxygen therapy (HFHHNO) is being increasingly used in
      the emergency medicine and intensive care settings to manage patients with acute hypoxemic
      respiratory failure, and to optimize pre-oxygenation prior to intubation in patients with
      mild-to-moderate hypoxemia.

      More recently, there have been reports of applications in the anesthesia perioperative
      setting. In fact, it is possible that the single greatest potential advantages of HFHHNO for
      anesthesia practice is that (unlike face mask and CPAP devices) oxygen administration can be
      maintained during periods of apnea with the potential to significantly prolong the apnea time
      available for safe and effective airway management.

      However, the low levels of positive airway pressure associated with HFHHNO has raised the
      question of whether prolonged use could result in gastric insufflation thus increasing the
      risk of regurgitation and aspiration with an unprotected airway. Gastric distension is a
      concern for anesthesiologists because it leads to the activation of a
      parasympathetically-mediated reflex through the vagus nerve that leads to secretion of
      acetylcholine by enteric neurons. In turn, increased acetylcholine activates M3 receptors on
      parietal cells resulting in increased secretion of gastric acid. The combination of an
      increased volume of gastric secretions and high intraluminal pressure may place patients at
      risk of pulmonary aspiration.

      The primary objective will be any change in gastric fluid volume from the baseline to each
      scan following HFHHNO therapy. Participants will undergo an abdominal ultrasound scan prior
      to any oxygen therapy to provide a baseline. One 30-minute session of oxygen therapy will
      follow(up to 60-70 L/min). After session, another ultrasound scan will take place, identical
      to the baseline to obtain the same measurements. From the images taken by the ultrasound, a
      mathematical model can be applied to calculate the gastric volume (and any change).

      The secondary outcome will be the incidence of "gastric air distension" defined by
      qualitative ultrasound as a distended antrum with air content that blurs the posterior
      gastric wall.
    
  