
    
      This is a prospective, randomized study in which hepatitis C (VHC) infected patients will be
      randomized to two strategies for HCV care.

      All HCV infected patients will be evaluated in a first face-to-face consultation with the
      hepatologist for fibrosis evaluation and treatment prescription the same day. Patients will
      be invited to participate if they are: 1) 18 years or older 2) have contact telephone number
      3) sing the informed consent 4) have not advanced fibrosis (F3) or cirrhosis (F4) 5) are not
      under surveillance by another specialist or drug addiction centre.

      Participants will be randomized into two strategies to assess sustained virological response
      (SVR) during follow-up:

        1. The traditional model of care: one appointment for venipuncture for RNA testing to
           assess SVR (undetectable RNA 12 weeks after treatment cessation), and an appointment
           with the specialist for result communication.

        2. Telemedicine-based model of care: The patient will be provided with a home kit to
           perform the dried blood spot (DBS) testing for HCV RNA at 12 weeks (SVR), and an
           appointment for teleconsultation and communicate the results.

      Demographic, clinical and laboratory data will be collected to evaluate the characteristics
      of included patients and to study predictive factors of adherence.

      A satisfaction questionnaire will be conducted to compare patients´ satisfaction with both
      health care models.

      The hypothesis of the study is that the adherence and SVR determination record will increase
      using the telemedicine-based model of care.

      For the present study, a 20% improvement in the adherence (SVR record) was hypothesized in
      the group of patients randomized to the telemedicine-based model of care compared to the
      traditional model of care. Taking into account power of 80%, alpha error of 5% and losses of
      10% will require 68 patients per group.
    
  