
    
      Secondary hyperparathyroidism is a common feature in patients with chronic kidney disease.
      Its clinical consequences include renal osteodystrophy, calciphylaxia and potentially
      vascular calcifications with increased morbidity and mortality.

      Reduced synthesis of active vitamin D contributes to secondary hyperparathyroidism. Therefore
      we primarily manage this condition with activated vitamin D. In Denmark alfacalcidol is the
      primary choice of vitamin D analog.

      However hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia may limit the use of alfacalcidol therapy due to
      increased risk of vascular calcification and mortality.

      Therefore a new vitamin D analog, paricalcitol, has been developed, that may be less prone to
      develop hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia.

      However a randomised controlled clinical study comparing alfacalcidol and paricalcitol has
      never been performed.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of alfacalcidol and
      paricalcitol on intact parathyroid hormone level and the tendency towards hyperphosphatemia
      and hypercalcemia.

      The study is performed in 117 patients with end stage renal failure on maintenance
      hemodialysis therapy in 6 different Danish hemodialysis units.

      The design is a multicenter crossover study where patients are randomized into two treatment
      arms. After a wash out period of 6 weeks they are receiving alfacalcidol or paricalcitol for
      a period of 16 weeks and after a further wash out period of 6 weeks they receive the contrary
      treatment (respectively paricalcitol or alfacalcidol) for 16 weeks.

      The initial dose of alfacalcidol (1 μg intravenously after dialysis) and paricalcitol (3 μg
      intravenously after dialysis) will be adjusted every second week based on iPTH, p-calcium and
      p-phosphate.

      P-calcium, p-phosphate, iPTH, pulse and blood pressure are measured every second week. By the
      beginning and the end of each period of treatment, alkaline phosphatase, 25OH-D3, 1,25 (OH)2
      vitamin D and safety parameters are measured, pulse wave velocity and pulse wave analysis is
      performed in a subgroup.

      Alfacalcidol and paricalcitol are both registered treatment modalities for patients with
      renal failure and secondary hyperparathyroidism and should not perform any risk for the
      safety of the enrolled patients as well as the blood sampling and blood pressure measurement
      should not perform any risk either.
    
  