
    
      Lymphedema is a debilitating disorder that severely impairs the quality of life of the
      patients and requires life-long attention. It can be classified as primary or secondary,
      based on the etiology. Primary lymphedema is a rare, congenital disorder caused by inherited
      genetic mutation on a number of genes that are essential for lymphatic vessel development and
      function. Acquired (or secondary) lymphedema is a consequence of lymphatic trauma,
      predominantly due to surgery or radiotherapy for various types of cancers, with axillary
      and/or inguinal lymph node dissection being the most common cause. At the cellular level,
      perturbed or dysfunctional lymphatic drainage triggers accumulation of interstitial fluid,
      negatively affects cellular behavior, and induces infiltration of fibroblasts, adipocytes and
      keratinocytes, eventually leading to possible fibrosis and ulceration.

      Upper extremity lymphedema most commonly affects breast cancer patients, while lower
      extremity lymphedema is typically associated with gynecological cancers, prostate cancer,
      lymphoma and melanoma. Besides the functional impairments, lymphedema severely reduces the
      quality of life, causing psychosocial problems such as depression, sexual dysfunctions,
      social avoidance and a decrease in self-confidence. While the prevalence of lymphedema is
      relatively high (1.33-1.44 pro mille), its true prevalence is likely underestimated and 1 in
      6 patients undergoing treatment for a solid tumor ultimately develops lymphedema.

      Nevertheless, treatment for lymphatic dysfunction remains largely symptomatic, without real
      cure. According to the International Society of Lymphology, lymphedema has to be treated with
      Decongestive Lymphatic Therapy, a two-stage treatment program. During the first or intensive
      phase, lymphedema has to be maximally reduced: this phase consists of skin care, manual lymph
      drainage (MLD), multi-layer bandaging and exercise therapy. The second or maintenance phase
      aims to conserve and optimize the result obtained in the first phase, and consists of skin
      care, compression by a low-stretch elastic sleeve, exercises and MLD. Skin care, multi-layer
      bandaging, elastic sleeve and exercises are treatment modalities that can be performed by the
      patients themselves, after careful instruction from the physician. On the contrary, MLD has
      to be applied by a physical therapist and hence entails a big financial cost for the patient
      and the Health Care. In addition, reductive techniques, such as direct excision and
      liposuction, can be applied in patients with more advanced stages of lymphedema with a
      predominant fibrofatty component10. Encouraging initial results, i.e. symptomatic improvement
      and reduction in excess volume, have been obtained with lymphovenous bypass, the
      microsurgical anastomosis of collecting lymphatic vessels to adjacent venules, and
      vascularized lymph node transplantation, where lymph nodes are harvested from an unaffected
      region and transferred to the lymphedematous area. However, all the treatments available so
      far can offer only stabilisation of lymphedema and prevent further evolution, but they do not
      offer a definitive cure. There is thus a large unmet need to develop new effective therapies
      for lymphedema and, more general, lymph vessel dysfunction. In contrast to various strategies
      inhibiting lymphatic vessel growth, stimulating lymphatic vessel growth has been more
      challenging; there is currently no approved clinical strategy for ameliorating lymphatic
      dysfunctions. In this trial we will evaluate an entirely novel pro-lymphangiogenic strategy,
      not based on the delivery of lymphangiogenic growth factors, but rather based on modulating
      lymphatic endothelial cell metabolism. The lab of Angiogenesis and Vascular Metabolism (PCA
      lab), Catholic University Leuven, led by Prof. Peter Carmeliet recently reported that
      metabolism (glycolysis, fatty acid β-oxidation, glutamine metabolism) of endothelial cells,
      the cells lining blood vessels, controls vessel sprouting. Initial experiments from this PCA
      lab indicate that the Ketogenic Diet (KD) , which is effective in increasing the levels of
      ßOHB both in the plasma and lymph, ameliorates the disease outcome in the mouse (tail) model
      of lymphedema, by reducing edema formation over time. Strikingly, lymphangiography with Evans
      blue dye revealed that KD improves lymph vessel function, increasing dye uptake after
      subcutaneous injection in the lymphedematous tissue and its drainage into lymph, plasma and
      lymph nodes.

      Based on these proof-of-concept data, the investigators plan to test this innovative concept
      to ameliorate lymph vessel dysfunction in lymphedema patients. Randomisation will be
      performed between a ketogenic diet and a isocaloric diet. After randomization and baseline
      measurements (determination of energy requirements and intake), the intervention will consist
      of 3 phases: a one week run-in period, 24 weeks strict KD and 24 weeks Modified Atkins Diet.
      In the first phase, the one week run-in period, is establishment of the individual ketosis
      level (on average after five days ketosis is introduced). During this run-in period, the
      exact ratio of lipids over proteins and carbohydrates will be determined per patient based on
      an isocaloric diet; this ratio will vary per patient and over time. Every day, 40 g of
      KetoCal, a nutritionally complete ready-to-drink liquid, is foreseen to ensure adequate
      amounts of vitamins and minerals and to ensure ketosis during the night (some patients drink
      some sips of the shake during the night). During this run-in period, patients will become
      familiar with their diet and, in particular, they will learn which foods are allowed and
      which are not. To assist the patients, the ketobel program (a computer program developed by
      the metabolic dieticians of the Clinical Nutrition Unit, University Hospital Leuven) will
      allow the calculation of the exact amount of foods/lipids each patient can/needs to consume.
      The instructions given by the program will allow patients to create a menu according to their
      personal preferences, with the final aim of increasing the adherence to the KD. A dietician
      will assist every participant intensively in this run-in period (10 h/week). To ensure
      ketotic state, ketosis will be measured twice a day (morning and evening) using urinary
      sticks. If there is a change in the ketotic state, the lipid/non-lipid fraction ratio will be
      adjusted in collaboration with the dietician.

      In the second phase, 24 weeks of strict KD , the patients will receive 40 g of KetoCal daily
      and the dietician will assist the patient during this phase 2 hours/week. This support is
      necessary as the lipid/non-lipid ratio to obtain ketosis varies over time as well. In the
      second phase, the dietician will assess on a weekly basis general health status, body
      parameters (weight, waist circumference), physical activity, weight loss and compliance to
      diet. The plasma metabolite profile (different types of cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting
      glucose, hsCRP, ketone bodies) will be performed every 3 weeks. To stimulate adherence to the
      diet, chat sessions will be organized between patients and a dietician, as moderator; these
      sessions will take place once a week and allow patients to exchange ideas/recipes about the
      diet and to motivate each other. These chat sessions have been organized previously by the
      members of the Clinical and Experimental Endocrinology group in other projects and were
      considered by the patients as an added value and a stimulation to continue with the
      intervention.

      In the third phase, the patients' diet will be less strict and adapted to a Modified Atkins
      Diet. This shift is necessary to enhance adherence on the one hand and to allow follow-up for
      a longer period.

      During the run-in period, the energy requirements and intake of the control group will be
      assessed as well. During this run-in period, the dietician will discuss the diet and
      maintenance of an isocaloric diet with the patients. As such, the diet of the control group
      will not change from their normal dietary pattern, unless a patient is following an
      Atkins-like diet. In the latter case, the patient will be asked to change the diet to a
      normal Belgian diet. During the first 24 weeks of intervention period, the patients will be
      contacted every 3 weeks to stimulate the participants and to follow up on some basic
      anthropometric markers, such as weight and waist circumference. The dietician will also
      adapt, if needed, the isocaloric diet of the control group during the intervention period to
      match possible unwanted weight loss of patients in the KD group. In the third phase of the
      study, patients will not be contacted outside the standard of care and the data will only be
      collected after 48 weeks.
    
  