
    
      Recruitment

        1. Eligibility screening:

           a. All adult Kaiser Permanente members admitted to Summit Hospital (Oakland, CA) for
           coronary bypass graft surgery which is planned to be conducted off-pump.

        2. Recruitment period: 9/1/2004 through 7/27/05

             1. At recruitment, each subject who agrees to participate is assigned a study number

                  1. The study number is assigned sequentially and is totally independent of the
                     medical record number or other personal identifying information

                  2. The linkage between the study number and all personal identifying information
                     is kept in a locked file separate from other project data

        3. Exclusion criteria:

             1. pregnancy

             2. patients scheduled to undergo on-pump procedures

             3. patients with a history of any of:

                  1. cardiac surgery

                  2. primary bleeding disorders

                  3. end-stage renal disease.

        4. Statistical power analysis

             1. This study is designed as an equivalence trial

             2. Target outcome rates are based on those published in Sade RM, Stroud MR, Crawford
                FA Jr, et al. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1985 May;89(5):713-22.

             3. Statistical power is calculated using the confidence-interval-based technique for
                normally distributed interval variables.

                  1. The confidence interval is set at 95%

                  2. The range of equivalence is defined as +100 milliliters

                  3. Power is set at 90%

             4. The target sample size which results from this analysis is 165 patients in each arm
                (i.e., hetastarch and albumin).

        5. Analytic strategy

             1. All project analyses are conducted by intention-to-treat

             2. Bivariate comparisons between the study (i.e., hetastarch) and control (i.e.,
                albumin) group measurements use the Fisher exact test or Student's t test for
                independent samples as appropriate given the nature of the measurement were used to
                conduct bivariate comparisons of study group measures with control group measures.

                1) Confidence intervals are calculated using the exact techniques

             3. Multivariate comparisons: Analysis of variance and general linear modeling are used
                to conduct multivariate comparisons of measures between the study and control
                groups while controlling for covariates.

        6. Intervention process

             1. When the patient is in the operating room, the anesthesiologist opens the envelope
                containing the study group assignment (i.e., hetastarch or albumin).

                  1. The attending anesthesiologist administers 1 liter of 6% hetastarch
                     intraoperatively to patients from the study group.

                  2. The attending anesthesiologist administers 1 liter of albumin intraoperatively
                     to patients from the study group.

             2. After the first liter of colloid is administered, the patients receive only albumin
                if more colloid is needed to meet additional requirements for fluid replacement.

             3. All patients receive the remaining standard operative regimen of crystalloids and
                blood products at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

             4. All patients are transferred postoperatively to the Intensive Care Unit.

                  1. The attending intensivists are blinded to the patient's randomization
                     assignment

                  2. The attending intensivists use standard fluid replacement at their clinical
                     discretion.

                  3. No hetastarch is administered in the intensive care unit.

        7. Measurements

             1. Preoperative

                  1. age

                  2. gender

                  3. body mass index

                  4. type of surgery

                     a) (elective vs. urgent/emergent)

                  5. serum albumin level

                  6. serum creatinine level

                  7. blood urea nitrogen level

                  8. hematocrit

                  9. platelet count

                 10. prothrombin time

                 11. partial thromboplastin time

                 12. preoperative administration of anticoagulants

                 13. preoperative administration of antiplatelet medications

                 14. preoperative administration of thrombolytic agents

             2. Perioperative

                  1. identity of the surgeon

                  2. identity of the anesthesiologist

                  3. lowest body temperature

                  4. highest activated clotting time

                  5. volume of crystalloids

                  6. volume of colloids

                  7. volume of cell-saver

                  8. number of units of blood products administered

             3. Postoperative

                  1. hourly chest tube drainage in the first 12 postoperative hours

                  2. volume of crystalloid delivered

                  3. volume of albumin delivered

                  4. number of units of blood products transfused

                  5. whether reoperation for postoperative bleeding was required

                  6. duration of mechanical ventilation

                  7. duration of stay in the intensive care unit

                  8. total length of hospital stay

                  9. mortality rates for patients treated in the ICU

                 10. mortality rates for patients treated in other inpatient areas of the hospital.
    
  