
    
      In uveitis, white blood and inflammatory cells can enter the anterior chamber of the eye and
      adhere to the back surface of the cornea or enter the space between the lens and the retina
      in various types of uveitis. Transparency of the clear fluid that fills the space between the
      cornea and the lens (or between the lens and the retina) can be reduced due to the
      inflammation reaction of the eye. The amounts of these cells and reduced transparency that
      are present indicate the level of severity of inflammation.

      The primary goal of this study is to use OCT to standardize anterior chamber (AC) cell
      grading. Another goal is to discover whether the size of cells and particles in the AC
      measured by OCT differs between uveitis diagnostic categories. OCT will also be used to
      detect protein concentration increases within the clear fluid inside the eye and determine if
      the concentration increase correlates with findings from the usual slit lamp grading method.

      Background data including age, sex, medical history, and eye history will be gathered prior
      to the study/OCT testing visit. Other standard-of-care testing, like visual acuity and slit
      lamp (biomicroscope) exam will be performed to see if there is evidence of uveitis that meets
      the inclusion criteria for this study. If so, grading of the eye inflammation will be
      performed as defined by the Standardization of Uveitis Nomenclature (SUN). Once enrolled in
      the study, subjects will then undergo OCT testing with the study device to assess AC cells,
      AC flare (increased protein), keratic precipitates (cells adhered to back surface of cornea),
      and vitreous cells & haze (increased opacities in vitreous gel).

      OCT Procedure: The subject will be seated and have their head positioned on a chin rest. They
      will be asked to look at a target (a lighted spot) while a beam of light scans the front part
      of the eye. The light is infrared and will not be visible or cause any sensation. A cotton
      tip swab may be used to help hold the eyelid open temporarily if necessary.
    
  