
    
      Background: The Juvenile Justice-Translational Research on Interventions for Adolescents in
      the Legal System (JJ-TRIALS) study is a cooperative implementation science initiative
      involving the National Institute on Drug Abuse, six Research Centers, a Coordinating Center,
      and Juvenile Justice Partners representing seven U.S. states. The pooling of resources across
      Centers enables a robust implementation study design involving 36 juvenile justice agencies
      and their behavioral health partner agencies, coproducing a study protocol that has potential
      to advance implementation science, meets the needs of all constituencies (funding agency,
      researchers, partners, study sites), and can be implemented with fidelity across the
      cooperative can be challenging.

      Methods/design: The JJ-TRIALS primary study uses a head-to-head cluster randomized trial with
      a phased rollout to evaluate the differential effectiveness of two conditions (Core and
      Enhanced) in 36 sites located in 7 states. Core strategies for promoting change are compared
      to an Enhanced strategy that incorporate all core strategies plus active facilitation. Target
      outcomes include improvements in evidence-based screening, assessment, and linkage to
      substance use treatment.

      Primary Research Questions:

        1. Does the Core and/or Enhanced Intervention reduce unmet need by increasing Cascade
           retention related to screening, assessment, treatment initiation, engagement and
           continuing care?

        2. Does the addition of the Enhanced Intervention components further increase the
           percentage of youth retained in the Cascade relative to the Core components?

        3. Does the addition of the Enhanced Intervention components improve service quality
           relative to Core sites?

        4. Do staff perceptions of the value of best practices increase over time, and are
           increases more pronounced in Enhanced sites?
    
  