
    
      Antipsychotic agents have, for a long time, been used to alleviate the severe behavioral
      problems associated with manic episodes. Risperidone, widely used in the treatment of
      schizophrenia, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of manic and mixed episodes
      associated with bipolar disorders. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of risperidone compared with placebo in the
      treatment of patients with bipolar disorder who are experiencing a manic episode. Patients
      receive study medication (risperidone or placebo tablets) to be taken orally once a day at
      gradually increasing doses during the first week to achieve optimal effectiveness, while
      minimizing any intolerance to the drug. By Day 4, the dose of risperidone is in the range of
      1 to 6 mg/day, and treatment with risperidone or placebo tablets continues for 3 weeks. The
      primary measure of effectiveness is the change in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) total
      score from baseline to the end of treatment. Additional assessments of effectiveness include
      the Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) scale; the Global Assessment Scale
      (GAS), which assesses the patient's level of functioning; and the Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale (PANSS), a scale for measuring psychotic symptoms. Safety assessments include
      the incidence of adverse events throughout the study; measurement of vital signs
      (temperature, pulse, blood pressure) and evaluation of the presence and severity of
      extrapyramidal symptoms by the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS) at specified
      intervals; and clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, urinalysis) at the start
      and end of the study. The study hypothesis is that daily treatment with risperidone is more
      effective than placebo, as measured by Young Mania Rating Scale scores, in the treatment of
      the manic phase of Bipolar I Disorder. Risperidone tablets,1 mg (or placebo tablets) taken
      orally once daily in the evening; dose of 3 mg on Day 1; dose range of 2 - 4 mg on Day 2;
      dose range 1 - 5 mg on Day 3; dose range 1 - 6 mg on Days 4 - 21. Doses may be increased or
      decreased at investigator's discretion.
    
  