
    
      Background: Cytology screening programs have effectively reduced cervical cancer incidence
      and mortality in the U.S. by greater than 75%. However, these programs requiring repeated
      clinician-administered Pap smears do not adequately cover medically-underserved populations.
      Based partly on HREB/DCEG etiologic research, we now know that carcinogenic types of human
      papillomavirus (HPV) cause virtually all cases of cervical cancer. Supported by our
      translational work with DCP, HPV DNA testing is already approved by the FDA as an adjunctive
      screening modality to cytology in this country and as a primary screening modality to
      cytology in this country and as a primary screening modality internationally. A validated
      screening program of HPV DNA testing of self-collected cervicovaginal specimens would permit
      wider coverage screening than cytology in the populations underserved by cytology-based
      testing like the Mississippi Delta region.

      Objective: To assess the technical feasibility (i.e. non-inferiority or equivalence to
      cytology for detection of cervical precancer and cancer) of cervical cancer screening based
      on self-collection and HPV DNA testing of cervicovaginal specimens from women aged greater
      than or equal to 30 years old who live in the Mississippi Delta.

      Methods: One thousand women will be enrolled during 18 months, including 500 attending
      colposcopy due to cytologic abnormality, 250 women who regularly attend a screening clinic,
      and 250 unscreened women who have not had a Pap smear within the last 3 years (according to
      current screening guidelines) but recruited to attend a screening. Three clinical specimens
      will be collected from each woman. A cervicovaginal specimen (for HPV testing) and a cervical
      specimen (for cytology and HPV testing) will be collected from each woman by the physician.
      At the time of the clinic visit women will be give a kit for self-collection of a second
      cervicovaginal specimen (for HPV testing) to be returned by mail within two weeks. All three
      specimens from each woman will be tested by two clinical DNA tests that use pooled-probes for
      detection of carcinogenic HPV: an FDA-approved signal amplification test (Hybrid Capture 2
      from Digene) and a new DNA amplification test (AMPLICOR from Roche) currently in clinical
      trials. Specimens will also be tested retrospectively by a research PCR asay that detects 37
      HPV types, which will help us evaluate the performance of the two clinical HPV tests. Women
      attending their screening visit who test positive by cytology (atypical squamous cells of
      undetermined significance or worse) or for carcinogenic HPV will be referred to colposcopy
      along with a random sample of HPV negative, cytologic negative women (n equals 100).

      Analysis: We will compare the clinical performance of HPV DNA testing of self-collected
      specimens to that of cytology (at a threshold of atypical squamous cells of unknown
      significance (ASCUS) or more severe) for detection of histologically confirmed cervical
      intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 (CIN2) or more severe (greater than or equal to CIN2).
      Cytology results will be based on standard-of-care cytology screening for women attending the
      screening visit and repeat cytology for women attending colposcopy. An estimated 150 cases of
      greater than or equal to CIN2 will be identified. This is an equivalence study, where we wish
      to reject the null hypothesis that HPV self-testing is greater than 10% less sensitive than
      cytology. Assuming cytology has a 75% sensitivity for greater than or equal to CIN2, a sample
      size of 150 subjects has 84% power (alpha=0.05) (one-sided non-inferiority or equivalence
      test of correlated proportions) to rule out a 10% decrement in sensitivity for
      self-collection with HPV DNA testing compared with cytology will guide whether the new
      technique could be broadly introduced for cervical cancer screening.
    
  