
    
      Amendment 14 - 26-Mar-2018 Revised to reflect the implementation of PPMI Wearables and Sensor
      Study Companion Protocol

      Amendment 13 - 20-Nov-2017 Extension of study duration until 2023 for all cohorts (except
      Genetic Registry).

      Amendment 12 - 01-Jun-2017 Planned date of trial extended to September 30, 2020 Ceasing new
      enrollments into the Genetic Registry for LRRK2 and GBA subjects Added Sensor - PPMI
      Companion Study Allow for consent to share contact information with FOUND team at any visit.
      Incorporation of Parkinson's Disease Risk Factor Questionnaire (PD-RFQ) into FOUND.

      Amendment 11 - 01-Apr-2016 Added the collection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)
      from blood samples at interim visits.

      Addition of PPMI Pathology Core/PPMI Brain and Tissue Bank Addition of Gait Assessment
      Companion Study (Select PPMI sites - Genetic Cohort only) Testing for additional GBA
      mutations - previously testing involved testing only for the GBA N370S mutation; however,
      going forward, testing will include tests for additional GBA mutations that are identified as
      being associated with certain ancestry.

      Amendment 10 - 05-Oct-2015 Extended study period for PD and Healthy Control subjects through
      8 years. For Prodromal subjects (RBD and Hyposmic) added iPSC companion study.

      Amendment 9 - 01-Nov-2014 Addition of GBA throughout to document additional testing for GBA
      mutation. Allocation of subjects in Genetic Cohort and Genetic Registry revised to account
      for inclusion of GBA subjects.

      Amendment 8 - 12-May-2014 Companion Protocols: skin biopsy/stem cell; Amyloid Imaging 18F
      Florbetaben; Family History Sub-Study; FOUND in PPMI registry. More detailed description of
      new procedures including: Advance directive for clinical research participation; Extension of
      study period (for SWEDDs with positive scans at Yr. 2) by continuing or re-inviting to study
      and followed (as per PD subjects through Month 60); Objective Parkinson Disease Measurement
      (OPDM) finger tapping measurement.

      Amendment 7 - 14-Oct-2013 Pre-Screening Prodromal - RBD clarifications Pre-Screening Genetic
      Cohort - clarified Assessments/tests clarified, including addition of consent (or withdrawal
      of consent, if applicable) for future contact about future studies and PD family history data
      collection for Genetic cohort subjects as selected visits.

      Amendment 6 - 29-May-2013 Genetics Coordination Core is added to study. The GCC included
      Genetic Cohort PD Subjects, Genetic Cohort Unaffected Subjects and Genetic Registry Subjects.

      Amendment 5 - 27-Nov-2012 Olfactory and RBD subjects added as the Prodromal cohort.

      Amendment 4 - 30-Mar-2012 Addition of 18F-AV-133 VMAT-2 PET Imaging for participating U.S.
      sites and Australia. (Refer to 18F-AV-133-PPMI companion protocol).

      Number of sites increased from 21 to 24. Addition of cognitive categorization and diagnostic
      features assessments.

      Amendment 3 - 15-Jul-2011 Addition of SWEDD subjects to study design. Blood Sampling
      Advisement to collect research samples in a fasted state.

      Amendment 2 - 19-May-2011 Changed visit window from 30 days to 45 days for Baseline visit to
      be completed.

      Section on DAT and SPECT Imaging - section changed to account for subject travel to the
      Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders to conduct SPECT scanning and injection of either
      DaTSCAN or BCIT.

      Main Protocol - PPMI will be a five-year natural history study (a minimum of 3-year
      involvement for each subject) of de novo idiopathic PD patients and healthy controls. This
      study will also include a SWEDD (subjects without evidence of dopaminergic deficit)and
      Prodromal populations.

      All subjects will be comprehensively assessed at baseline and every three to six months
      thereafter. Subjects will undergo clinical (motor, neuropsychiatric and cognitive) and
      imaging assessments and will donate blood, urine, and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). A blood
      sample for DNA will be collected. Data will be collected by each site under uniformly
      established protocols and data will be analyzed and stored at designated core facilities.
    
  