
    
      As published in the study´s rational and design paper (DOI: 10.4236/ss.2015.612080), we
      conducted a reanalysis of the material that the original power calculation was based on and
      included elective cases only which led to a slightly different number of cases needed.
      Furthermore, it became clear that there were big differences in the infection rates of EVAR
      (endovascular aortic repair) and open vascular procedures and therefore the need to split the
      study into two arms, an EVAR arm and an OPEN arm.

      To prove a significant effect of the treatment intervention in the EVAR arm with a wound
      infection rate reduction from previously 4.4% to 1%, 80% power, 5% significance level and
      Including a margin for loss to follow-up, the EVAR arm requires 497 inguinal incisions.
      Assuming a surgical site infection rate reduction from 30% to 10% in the OPEN arm of the
      study, 80% power and 5% significance level, a total of 147 inguinal incisions is required.

      We conducted an unannounced interim analysis for a conference presentation that was conducted
      by the study's principal investigators Stefan Acosta and Julien Hasselmann. Staff in charge
      of the day-to-day activities of the trial were not involved or actively informed of this. We
      believe that using an objective wound assessment tool (ASEPSIS score) minimizes any potential
      bias associated with the interim analysis.

      Since the vascular center Malmö has started using closure-devices for almost all EVAR cases
      and thereby creating virtually no wounds to assess, we have started a multi center extension
      of the EVAR arm to Örebro University Hospital to be able to include the outstanding cases.

      FUNDING

      The trial has been funded by public Swedish funds stemming from the Southmost region in
      Sweden (Region Skåne), the Skåne University Hospital and the Hulda Almroth foundation since
      2015 and adds up to a total of 2.81 million SEK (about 311,000 USD). In addition the research
      group received an unrestricted unconditional research grant of 15,550 USD and a donation of
      100 PICO dressing kits from Smith and Nephew in 2013.

      ALF (Agreement on medical education and research) funding has been granted for the time
      period 2019 - 2022 but has not yet been defined monetarily.
    
  