
    
      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been effectively and instantly used for keeping
      Chinese people's health over 2000 years. Recently the TCM is becoming popular and well known
      home and abroad due to its effectiveness and individualized treatment. It has been known that
      TCM practitioners diagnosed, give the treatment and evaluated patients' health condition with
      symptoms and signs, what are called TCM patterns. This is why TCM practitioners always
      consider and emphasize the importance of TCM patterns in the TCM education and clinic
      practices. At the same time, TCM pattern differentiation is considered complicated and
      difficult to understand, due to the difference of TCM practitioners'clincal experience and
      knowledge. The one ,who has more experience and knowledge, treat patients more effective than
      the other. Unlike modernized medicine, drugs are not always recommended for the diseases,
      conversely, the TCM practitioners and their knowledge are always recommended. In addition,
      young TCM practitioners have to follow and imitate the experts who are full of knowledge, if
      they want to be good ones. From these views, the experience and knowledge of experts are
      important and crucial to the clinical outcomes, meanwhile they are hard to discover and
      establish. Therefore, we package the experts and their treatment as the one target to
      discover, establish and refine the individual treatment protocol (experience and knowledge)
      of each TCM expert, and to explore what characteristics of the patients are considered with
      the corresponding treatment in clinical practices.

      The prerequisite of the study is that experts chosen for the study are the ones who are the
      specialists on the insomnia treatment. So, the secondary purpose is to determine the
      effectiveness of TCM patter differentiation treatment for the patients with insomnia.
    
  