
    
      Objectives This study will develop and test the acceptability and feasibility of a decision
      navigation intervention (DNI) for AA or H/L men with PCa through consideration of the role of
      partners and family members in the decision-making process.

      Hypotheses / Research Questions Among AA or H/L men diagnosed with early stage PCa, the
      primary aims of this study are to:

      Aim 1:

      Adapt and tailor an evidence-based decision navigation intervention (DNI) for AA and H/L men
      diagnosed with prostate cancer. The investigators hypothesize that key concepts around
      information sharing and counseling, health behavior coordination, and emotional social
      support will be elicited

      Aim 2:

      Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of the tailored DNI among
      AA and H/L men newly diagnosed with prostate. First, the investigators hypothesize that
      feasibility and acceptability benchmarks will be met. Second, the investigators hypothesize
      that men in the DNI arm will report higher levels of decision self-efficacy, less decisional
      conflict, and regret about their treatment decisions at 6 months, compared to men engaged in
      standard-of-care (SOC). Third, the investigators hypothesize (exploratory) that men in the
      DNI arm will engage more in discussions about appropriate clinical trials, resulting in more
      navigated men considering clinical trial enrollment, compared to men receiving SOC.

      Overall Design

      This study will be conducted in two Groups:

      Established Prostate Cancer Group:

      Established Prostate Cancer Group will consist of a qualitative study of 12 semi-structured
      interviews with self-identified AA patient undergoing prostate treatment (stages I-III) (N-12
      patients) and 12 semi-structured interviews with H/L patient undergoing prostate treatment
      (stages I-III) (N=12 patients) at NYPHQueens and NYPH-BM. Interview content will focus on
      psychosocial and sociocultural factors associated with PCa decision making, social support,
      and physician-patient communication.

      At Risk of Prostate Cancer Group:

      At Risk of Prostate Cancer Group will recruit 58 self-identified AA or H/L men at risk of
      prostate cancer (stages I-III) receiving care at NYPH-Queens and NYPHQ (29 at each hospital)
      to participate in the evaluation of the tailored DNI intervention. Men who consent to
      participate in the study will complete a baseline survey. After biopsy appointment,
      participants with a negative Prostate Cancer biopsy will receive a study closure phone call,
      ending study participation. Participants with positive Prostate Cancer biopsy will proceed
      with study procedures and be randomly assigned to DNI or SOC. Participants with a positive
      Prostate Cancer biopsy will be followed for 6 months and complete assessments at 2 weeks, 1
      month, and 6 months (close of the study).
    
  