
    
      Two main types of influenza virus--Types A and B--are responsible for the seasonal flu
      epidemics that occur each year. The influenza A viruses can be broken down into subtypes
      based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N).
      The A subtypes usually found in humans are H1N1, H1N2, and H3N2. Other A subtypes are found
      primarily in animals. For example, the "avian influenza virus" refers to an influenza A virus
      that is found chiefly in birds.

      Although avian influenza does not usually affect humans, increasing numbers of cases of human
      infection from avian influenza virus H5N1 have been reported in the last several years.
      Because all influenza viruses have the ability to modify, there is concern that this trend of
      increasing cases may pose a threat of a future pandemic with a new H5N1 virus that could
      spread easily from person to person.

      The H5N1 virus that has caused human infection in Asia is resistant to amantadine and
      rimantadine, two antiviral medications commonly used for treating people with influenza.
      Another antiviral medication, oseltamivir, is currently used to treat people with
      uncomplicated human influenza. The purpose of this study is to compare standard-dose
      oseltamivir and high-does oseltamivir for treating people who are hospitalized with severe
      human influenza or avian influenza. The study will also attempt to identify how severe human
      influenza and avian influenza differ in the following factors: clinical manifestation,
      relationship between antiviral plasma concentrations and viral dynamics, and pathogenesis.

      Upon meeting certain screening criteria, participants will be randomly assigned to receive
      oseltamivir either at a standard-dose level (75 mg twice daily orally or equivalent dose
      adjusted for age, weight, and kidney function) or at a high-dose level (150 mg twice daily
      orally or equivalent dose adjusted for age, weight, and kidney function). Treatment will
      continue for 5 days, after which participants who meet clinical failure criteria will
      continue their assigned treatment for an additional 5 days. It is anticipated that
      participants will remain hospitalized through the course of treatment. On Day 0, which marks
      the first day of hospitalization, participants will undergo a medical review, physical
      examination, blood sampling, nasal swab, throat swab, anal swab, and chest x-ray. An
      endotracheal aspirate procedure and urine sampling may also be performed. During the hospital
      stay, most of the above procedures will be repeated regularly, and additional samples of lung
      fluid, cerebral spinal fluid, and pleural fluid may be obtained. On Day 5 and possibly on Day
      10, participants will undergo a follow-up x-ray. If applicable, participants will attend
      outpatient study visits on Days 10, 14, and 28 for further evaluation; participants with
      avian influenza will also attend visits on Days 56 and 180.
    
  