
    
      The use of local anesthetic at the donor site has been investigated to decrease the morbidity
      of iliac crest bone harvesting. Along with a decrease in early post-operative pain that may
      be expected a decrease in chronic pain and improved long-term results have also been
      demonstrated. Local anesthetics may cause such long-term results by dampening the initial
      chemical response to injury by reducing the release of inflammatory mediators from
      neutrophils, neutrophil adhesion to the endothelium, and the formation of free oxygen
      radicals. Most studies have utilized continuous or periodic infusions of anesthetic through a
      catheter placed at the time of surgery for 24-48 hours postoperatively. The drawbacks to
      using a catheter include increased infection risk and increased cost if a continuous infusion
      is used . A single treatment of local anesthetic at the time of surgery is therefore
      preferable. Only one study has evaluated a single injection of local anesthetic in adult
      spine patients, demonstrating decreased pain and narcotic usage through 5 post-operative
      days. No study to date has demonstrated a decrease in intermediate or long-term donor site
      pain through a single application of anesthetic, as achieved in previous studies utilizing
      post-operative infusions via a catheter.

      Participants in the study will be identified in by the attending surgeons on this study who
      are clinical faculty within the department of orthopaedics and board certified in spine
      surgery. Randomization will be done by random selection of a sealed envelope by the attending
      physician at the time of enrollment. Sealed envelopes will contain a paper that assigns the
      patient to the treatment (bupivacaine at bone harvest site) or placebo (normal saline at bone
      harvest site) group. Note that all surgical wounds are routinely irrigated with normal saline
      prior to skin closure. In the control group, 10ml more of normal saline will be used in the
      ICBG site. In the treatment group, 10ml of bupivacaine 0.5% will be administered directly
      into the surgical wound, as done in some cases currently. Therefore, there are no new
      procedures in this protocol outside of what is already being done in practice. The current
      practice of using versus not using local anesthetic at the iliac crest bone graft site is at
      the discretion of the attending surgeon. Please note that the randomization in this study has
      nothing to do with the surgery that is done, and all patients will be treated according to
      standard of care regardless of this randomization. There are no other differences between
      treatments in the two study groups. There are no deviations from normal post-operative care
      received.

      Patients will not be told whether or not they receive bupivacaine at the iliac crest bone
      graft site at the time of surgery. The patient will be blinded to their treatment group
      throughout the study. At the patient's request, they will be informed of their treatment
      group at the end of the study. The attending surgeon will not be blinded to the treatment
      group. The PI will not be blinded to the treatment group.

      Background information about the patient and a pain assessment will be done at the time of
      enrollment by asking participants to fill out a paper questionnaire. Paper questionnaires to
      assess the patient's pain level will be given to and collected from patients at discharge
      from the hospital, the first follow up appointment (approximately 2-4 weeks postoperatively),
      and at the next follow up appointment (approximately 3 months postoperatively). In addition,
      patients will be given a paper narcotics log to enter their daily oral narcotic usage between
      the time of discharge and their first follow up appointment.
    
  