
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to standard cisplatin-based
      chemoradiation improves overall survival.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival rates. II. To determine acute and long-term
      toxicities. III. To determine patterns of disease recurrence. IV. To determine the
      association between radiation protocol compliance and outcomes.

      V. To determine patient quality of life, including psycho-sexual health.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the association between the results of a follow-up positron emission
      tomography (PET) scan performed 4-6 months post completion of chemoradiation and outcomes for
      all patients in the trial.

      II. To determine the biological predictors of patients' outcomes based on translational
      laboratory studies of blood and tissue specimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 60-90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22,
      and 29. Patients also undergo external-beam radiation therapy once daily, 5 days a week, for
      approximately 5 weeks. Patients then undergo high-dose rate, pulsed-dose rate, or low-dose
      rate intracavitary brachytherapy.

      ARM II: Patients receive cisplatin and undergo external-beam radiation and brachytherapy as
      in arm I. Beginning 4 weeks later, patients also receive adjuvant chemotherapy comprising
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients may undergo baseline tumor biopsy and blood collection for future correlative
      studies.

      Patients complete the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Core
      questionnaire (QLQ-C30), the EORTC cervix cancer module (CX24), the ovarian cancer module
      (OV28), and the Sexual function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire (SVQ) questionnaires at
      baseline, during, and after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  