
    
      Background:

      The purpose of this project is to systematically evaluate a tailored intervention targeting
      the leaders of clinical microsystems (care units) in residential long term care (nursing home
      - NH) settings. The intervention is designed to feedback performance data for improvement.
      This project is a key element of a long term program of research (Translating Research in
      Elder Care - TREC) focused on advancing knowledge translation science. TREC's goal is to
      improve quality of care, and in so doing, improve quality of life for older adults in NHs and
      work life for their care providers. TREC specifically focuses on the important role of
      organizational context (modifiable elements of the work environment) at the clinical
      microsystem (clinical unit) level in NHs.

      Aims:

        1. Evaluate and compare a standard feedback and 2 assisted, goal-directed feedback
           strategies

        2. Assess sustainability and long term effects of each strategy

        3. Refine a practical assisted feedback strategy for use in NHs targeting the leaders of
           clinical microsystems

      Design: Pragmatic, three-arm, parallel, cluster-randomized trial; stratified permuted block
      randomization; baseline assessment, 1-year intervention period, post-intervention assessment
      and 1-year long-term follow up. NHs will be randomly assigned to Standard Feedback (SF),
      Basic Assisted Feedback (BAF) or Enhanced Assisted Feedback (EAF).

      Setting: Stratified (region by size by operator) random sample of 67 eligible NHs from four
      regions in two provinces: Alberta (Edmonton, Calgary) and British Columbia (Fraser Health,
      Interior Health). Facilities participate in a longitudinal observational study (part of TREC)
      that generates a rich resident, staff, unit, and facility level database.

      Random assignment: The cohort of 67 NHs is recruited. All sites have agreed to and expect
      standard feedback. 22 facilities (60 eligible units) were randomly assigned to SF, 22
      facilities (70 eligible units) to BAF, and 23 facilities (73 eligible units) to EAF.
      Facilities assigned to BAF or EAF will be approached and offered additional feedback.
      Managers will be explained the specific extra feedback (treatment) they will receive, but
      they will be blinded to group allocation.

      Sample: Target of the intervention are managers of the care units within the NHs. To avoid
      contamination effects, randomization will be done at the facility level, with all included
      unit managers of the same facility receiving the same feedback intervention. To determine
      sample size a computer simulation-based sample size approach was adapted that accounted for
      multiple repeated measures in three study arms, and the complex nested structure (time points
      nested within each care unit, and units clustered within facilities). Power and sample size
      were estimated based on a mixed-effects regression model. Using data from the previous phase
      of TREC (2007-2012) the required parameters to be entered into the model were estimated.
      Assumptions were that SF will increase the primary outcome (Formal Interactions [FI] score)
      by 0.2, BAF will increase the FI score by 0.4, and EAF will increase the FI score by 0.6.
      With an assumed power of 0.90, a significance level of 0.05 and an attrition rate of 25%, a
      total of 144 care units will be needed (48 NHs with an average number of three units or 72
      NHs with an average number of two units).

      Intervention:

      All three groups will receive a face-to-face Dissemination Workshop (feedback of research
      data on modifiable aspects of the care unit context). The SF group will receive no additional
      intervention. The BAF and EAF arms will receive an additional face-to-face Goal Setting
      Workshop and two Support Workshops at six month intervals. Support Workshops will be virtual
      in the BAF arm and face-to-face in the EAF arm. In addition the EAF arm will receive
      on-demand email and phone support. Feedback will include data about four aspects of
      organizational context that are routinely measured in TREC with the validated Alberta Context
      Tool (ACT). Four of ten ACT concepts were selected for specific focus: 1) the number of
      Formal Interactions (FIs) care aides have with other providers and with patients/families; 2)
      the amount of Slack Time care aides have; 3) Evaluation (unit feedback) Practices, and 4)
      Social Capital. The intervention is designed to improve performance on these aspects of
      context. Intervention target is the clinical microsystem (clinical unit) managerial team
      within NHs: unit care managers and the director of care.

      Primary outcome: Formal Interactions (FI), defined as formal exchanges through scheduled
      activities that can promote the transfer of knowledge (details see outcomes section).
      Previous research in TREC (2007-2012) clearly suggested that some context areas on the ACT
      have the potential to exert greater impact on quality of care and implementation of change.
      Of these, FI has the greatest single impact. At the microsystem level no unit scored above
      1.9 (max. possible score is 4) and the mean was 1.3, leaving substantial room for
      improvement. The correlation of FI with the overall ACT context score is .5, and combinations
      of FI plus three additional ACT concepts (Evaluation, Social Capital, Slack Time) increased
      the correlation to .8. Field surveys suggested that care managers are interested in FI as an
      actionable concept of facility context and consider it a prime accessible target for action
      and change. FI constitutes the most actionable, cost-effective, and easy-to-improve context
      for enhancing quality, since the mechanisms for improvement are readily available. FI makes
      use of existing resources and requires little investment beyond organizational adaptations
      (scheduling training or meeting sessions, developing educational materials to disseminate
      research findings, etc.). Finally and importantly, FI is also a proximal goal. The
      organizational behavior literature is clear that the goal set cannot be too distal.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. ACT context measures: Feedback, Social Capital, Organizational Slack - Time

        2. Staff outcomes: research use, psychological empowerment, job satisfaction

        3. Resident outcomes: quality indicators from the Resident Assessment Instrument - Minimum
           data Set 2.0 (RAI): worsening pain, declining behavioral symptoms. The RAI is used
           internationally for comprehensive geriatric assessment of the health, physical, mental,
           and functional status of NH. In Canada its use is mandated in several
           provinces/territories, as well as by the Canadian Institute of Health Information for
           national reporting.

        4. Unit and facility outcomes: response to major near misses, managers' organizational
           citizenship behavior, performance reports, quality improvement activities

      Process evaluations:

        1. Workshop evaluation surveys

        2. Intervention protocol checklists to evaluate fidelity of workshop delivery

        3. Focus groups with managerial teams directly before the first support workshop and one
           month before the second support workshop

        4. Cost accounting of the intervention

      Statistical Analysis:

      Primary Analysis: To compare the effectiveness of the three feedback interventions in
      improving the FI score, mixed-effects regression models will be used. The models will account
      for multiple measures within each unit and clustering of units within facilities. All
      analyses will be adjusted for the three stratification variables of the TREC facility sample
      (region, owner-operator model and facility size). Characteristics of units and facilities
      will be compared using descriptive statistics at baseline. Based on this, models will be
      adjusted for baseline variables that differ significantly between treatment groups. Data will
      be assessed whether they meet the assumptions of this model (multivariate normality,
      linearity, normally distributed, uncorrelated residuals, random effects with mean zero) and
      models will be adjusted accordingly. Intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted, as this
      best reflects the pragmatic nature of the study. These results will be compared to an
      as-treated analysis, which better reflects adherence/non-adherence with the intervention.
      Reporting of these findings will follow the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials
      (CONSORT) guidelines.

      Secondary Analyses: Change of secondary outcomes (resident outcomes, i.e., RAI quality
      indicators, staff outcomes and organizational variables) will be monitored over time in each
      study arm, and outcomes will be compared between the three study arms using descriptive
      statistics, Statistical Process Control methods, and appropriate significance tests (t tests
      for normally distributed, linear, continuous outcomes; non-parametric tests for variables
      that don't meet these assumptions; chi tests for categorical outcomes). A dichotomous
      variable (improved/not improved) will be assigned to each unit in the intervention. Then,
      using logistic regression with improvement as the outcome the effects of context (using ACT
      scales), best practice use, and staff characteristics on improvement will be investigated. To
      this end a reliable classification system for individual control charts was developed.
    
  