
    
      Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) is a small, Gram-negative spirochete inhabiting the mucous
      layer overlying the gastric epithelial cells in humans. It is the most common prevalent
      chronic human bacterial infection and the most common cause of gastritis worldwide;.
      Furthermore, according to the World Health Organization, HP is classified as a type 1
      carcinogen and is the primary cause of peptic ulcer disease, gastric carcinoma, and
      mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas .

      Current Helicobacter Pylori infection preferred treatment involves; proton pump inhibitor
      (PPI)-based triple or qudrable regimens.Omeprazole,Amoxicillin &Clarithromycin is one of a
      global standard care for confirmed H.pylori infection .Metronidazole (MTZ) is used instead of
      Amoxicillin or Clarithromycin in cases of allergy or resistance .

      However, a study by Rokkas , et al., 2008 based on the Maastricht III guidelines, indicated
      that treatment with a PPI-based triple regimen as first-line therapy will fail in ~30% of
      patients on an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis,and will fail in ~ 50 % of patients who treated
      with PPI-based triple regimen with Metronidazole.This treatment resistance is also an issue
      warranting the investigation of other agents . Helicobacter pylori infection has become
      increasingly resistant to traditional first-line treatment regimens because of emerging
      antibiotic resistance coupled with poor patient compliance with completing the treatment
      course that decrease H. pylori eradication rates .So there is a considerable interest in
      evaluating new antibiotic combinations and regimens.

      Nitazoxanide (NTZ) is an antibiotic with microbiological characteristics similar to those of
      Metronidazole which was sittled as a therapy for intestinal protozoa and helminthic
      infection,and was studied as an additional therapy with Peg Interferon and Ribavirin for
      chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) .

      In the last few years Nitazoxanide was evaluated as a single agent therapy for H. Pylori
      infection showing controversed results.. However (NTZ) based regimens were recently studied
      showing interesting results without the apparent problem of resistance as Metronidazole with
      nearby cost.Moreover ;Levofloxacin,PPI,NTZ&Doxycycline (LOAD) regimen with very good results
      in H.pylori infection ~90% cure rate..But uptil now there are no actual similar reported
      trials in Egypt.
    
  