
    
      Thalassemia is a type of hemolytic anemia disease caused by genetic defect of synthesis in
      one or more globin chains. Among all the single genetic disorders thalassemia has the highest
      incidence rate in the world and causes heavy burdens on public health system. In China, the
      southern provinces suffer from high incidence of thalassemia, which is particularly common in
      the population of Guangdong, Guangxi and Yunnan provinces. Epidemiological studies showed
      that in Guangdong alone about 17.83 % of the 14,332 pregnant women across 21 regions examined
      were diagnosed as carriers of thalassemia .

      Recent studies showed that compared with healthy controls, women with thalassemia are
      associated with a wide range of abnormality and adverse pregnancy outcomes including
      cardiovascular disease, thrombotic disease, spontaneous miscarriage, premature delivery,
      oligohydramnios, fetal growth restriction and low birth weight. Currently there is no
      consensus on treating anemia in pregnant thalassemia patients. Due to the absence of an safe
      and effective therapeutic measures， many thalassemia patients are prone to develop low level
      of Hb, which can severely impact the fetal growth and maternal health.

      In traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Colla corii asini (CCA, E'jiao) is a gelatin-like
      traditional Chinese medicine refined from donkey hide and has been widely used in clinical
      antanemic therapy for more than 2000 years. In the last decade, many studies had addressed
      the effect of CCA on the anemia using modern pharmacological approaches. The results
      indicated that CCA contains collagen protein,glycogen and a variety of trace elements, a
      variety of amino acids, etc. the main components of CCA can promote hematopoiesis by a number
      of mechanisms which eventually increase the peripheral erythrocyte counts and Hb
      concentration. Therefore, the investigators proposed that the hematopoietic effects of CCA
      might also contribute to the treatment of thalassemia with insuffcient or abnormal Hb
      concentration.

      The study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Colla corii asini (CCA ) in improve
      anemia during pregnancy among silent or standard α-thalassemia, HbH disease, minor or
      intermediate β-thalassemia. Four hundred and eighty pregnant patients who meet inclusion
      criteria will be randomly assigned to either the treatment group or control group. Patients
      in the treatment group will be given 15 g of CCA daily for 8 weeks and followed up to 42 days
      postpartum, while the control group were observed and followed up in the same period treated
      with placebo. Levels of hemoglobin (Hb),reticulocyte (RET), immaturity reticulocyte (IRF),
      indirect bilirubin (IBIL), total bilirubin (TBIL), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) will be
      measured on three visits (baseline, week 4 and week 8). The curative effect of TCM Syndrome(
      week 8) and undesirable pregnancy outcomes(42 days after giving birth) will be observed.
    
  