
    
      From a cognitive point of view, although healthy older people become slower to analyze
      information, they remain just as accurate as young adults in performing different cognitive
      tasks. This necessarily implies compensation processes, with new cognitive strategies and a
      restructuring of the brain networks underlying these processes. These compensatory phenomena
      are known under the general name of neurocognitive reserve.

      Specific functions such as language, visuospatial skills, motor control, posture, or memory,
      are affected in a very variable way among the elderly. This variability involves multiple
      cognitive profiles rather than just one form of aging. Indeed, healthy aging can be defined
      cognitively in two ways, as a homogeneous or rather heterogeneous process. According to the
      homogeneous hypothesis of aging, the behavioral, cognitive and brain-like manifestations are
      similar among the elderly, without differentiation between functions. In other words,
      according to this hypothesis, aging would affect all the elderly and cognitive processes in
      the same way. Conversely, according to the heterogeneous hypothesis, significant differences
      should be revealed between individuals and in the same individual according to different
      cognitive processes. This heterogeneity is explained by multiple factors (genetic,
      environmental, societal, educational, or lifestyle). If neuropsychological tests or
      behavioral experiments (and performance of the task) allow to identify rather easily the
      differences encountered among the elderly in terms of cognitive heterogeneity, this
      differential activity at the cerebral level is more difficult to highlight. Functional
      neuroimaging methods and techniques can provide a pathway for this purpose, to provide both
      spatial information (involved brain regions) and temporal information (dynamics of brain
      activation) when performing cognitive tasks or when the rest period.

      In this context, the magnetoencephalography (MEG) method is a preferred technique that can
      provide all these types of information on brain activity. Two types of networks can therefore
      be recorded : task-positive network (TPN) activated when the participant is involved in a
      task (in this project, language and posture / verticality), and task-negative network (TNN)
      specific to the state of rest , represented by regions that are called "deactivated". These
      two networks will therefore be characterized in the study by the following parameters: (a)
      network: set of regions involved; (b) temporal dynamics of their activity, and (c) functional
      connectivity between the regions of TPN and TNN.

      To answer the question of homogeneity vs. heterogeneity of cognitive cerebral aging, TPNs vs.
      TNN will be compared in a group of healthy young adults compared to a group of healthy
      elderly subjects. The comparison will be made for the three categories of parameters
      mentioned above (a-c).
    
  