
    
      Recent estimates indicate that approximately 10-15% of women giving birth experience
      depression during the postpartum period (Dietz et al., 2007; Gaven et al., 2005). Research
      indicates that psychological interventions are efficacious for treating postpartum depression
      (Dennis & Hodnett, 2007). However, it is important to also focus on the prevention of
      postpartum depression given many women do not seek treatment (Dennis & Chung-Lee, 2006) and
      those who do seek treatment may have already experienced negative consequences related to
      depression including cessation of breastfeeding and poor maternal-child bonding (Dennis &
      McQueen, 2007; Murray et al., 1999). Unfortunately, research indicates that psychological
      interventions are not efficacious in the prevention of postpartum depression among women at
      risk for postpartum depression (for a review see Dennis & Creedy, 2004). Consequently, there
      is a need to test new and innovative interventions for the prevention of postpartum
      depression. Exercise interventions have been shown to be effective for the treatment of
      depression among adults and therefore, this intervention may be efficacious in the prevention
      of postpartum depression. The purpose of the present pilot study is to examine the
      feasibility of recruiting and retaining participants at risk for postpartum depression for a
      randomized trial examining an exercise intervention for the prevention of postpartum
      depression. We will also examine the preliminary efficacy of the exercise intervention on the
      prevention of postpartum depression. Specifically, 120 sedentary, healthy pregnant women who
      have a history of at least one depressive episode and/or have a maternal family history of
      depression will be recruited from various ObGyn clinics, psychiatry clinics, and via
      advertisements. Once the potential participants receive healthcare provider consent to
      exercise (approximately two weeks following a vaginal delivery and four weeks following a
      c-section), participants will then be randomly assigned to either an exercise intervention or
      a health and wellness contact control condition. The exercise condition will consist of
      telephone-based counseling sessions designed to motivate postpartum women to become
      physically active. This theory-based intervention will be based on interventions shown to be
      effective in previous studies. The contact control condition will consist of scheduled
      telephone sessions with a health educator on issues related to health and wellness (e.g.,
      stress reduction, sleep, nutrition). The specific aims of the study will be 1) to determine
      the feasibility of recruiting and retaining pregnant and postpartum women for an exercise
      intervention trial and 2) to determine the effect of a home-based behavioral exercise
      intervention on depression (as measured by the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis
      I Disorders; SCID-I and the PHQ-9) among postpartum women. Physical activity adherence will
      be assessed using the 7-Day Physical Activity Recall Interview (Blair et al., 1985) and
      accelerometers (i.e., an objective assessment of physical activity).
    
  