
    
      Most people with spinal cord injury (SCI) will develop debilitating secondary conditions,
      such as autonomic dysreflexia and pressure ulcers. Self-management programs, which recognize
      patients' central role in managing their condition, have been found to improve
      health-outcomes in a variety of populations, such as those living with diabetes and asthma.
      Given the increase in health care costs and funding constraints, alternative self-management
      interventions are being explored, such as the use of electronic health (e-health) treatments.
      Despite the potential benefits of self-management among people with SCI, the investigators
      were able to identify little experimental research in this area.

      Our goal is to evaluate the efficacy of a broad-based self-management application ("app") the
      investigators have developed to facilitate the improvement of self-management skills among
      community-dwelling individuals with SCI. The primary outcome is attainment of self-selected
      self-management goals. Secondary outcomes include general and self-management self-efficacy,
      secondary conditions related to SCI, self-reported healthcare utilization, self-reported
      health events, and app usage data.

      During the preliminary phase of the study, participants (SCI clinicians and patients with
      SCI) reported favourable usage of the self-management app and unanimously agreed it would
      benefit people with SCI. With the ubiquity of portable electronic devices, an opportunity
      exists to help participants and informal caregivers navigate the journey from rehabilitation
      to integration back into the community. The research team will use both quantitative and
      qualitative methods involving a rater-blinded, randomized controlled trial with a stepped
      wedge design and semi-structured interviews. The participant-specific intervention will
      involve the use of the self-management app focusing on the self-management of SCI accompanied
      by five to six in-person or telephone/Skype contacts that will occur over a three-month
      period.

      Our proposal is original in that it will be one of the few randomized controlled trials in
      the area of e-health interventions for self-care management for those with SCI. Although the
      use of qualitative and qualitative methods has been recommended in randomized controlled
      trials, relatively few studies have used this design, so the proposed study may provide a
      model for assessing the effectiveness of other self-management interventions. The overall
      purpose of the study is to develop an effective self-management application that can be used
      to promote self-management in a variety of populations and is less resource intensive. This
      app would be complementary to other complication specific apps that are more in-depth and
      expensive to deliver, while providing an accessible and affordable form of tertiary
      prevention for those who develop secondary complications.
    
  