
    
      Background and Significance: Hospitalization during pregnancy is an unexpected interruption
      in the prenatal period that causes increased maternal anxiety and stress(MacMullen 1992). In
      a study of 129 women hospitalized for pregnancy complications, 25 met criteria for major
      depressive disorder(Brandon 2008). Such maternal depression is a risk factor for perinatal
      complications ranging from morbidity and mortality to neuropsychological developmental delays
      in the offspring(Poehlmann 2001). To date, however, few easily disseminated strategies have
      been identified to reduce stress among pregnant women.

      To address this gap, the investigators plan a feasibility study of an easily-disseminated
      biofeedback tool to reduce stress among hospitalized expecting mothers(Beckham 2013).
      Converging evidence suggests that Heart Rate Variability Biofeedback (HRVB) can improve
      stress management and executive functioning (Association for Applied Psychophysiology and
      Biofeedback Inc 2011). Additionally, HRVB has recently been shown to reduce anxiety features
      in women suffering from perinatal depression at UNC (Beckham 2013). The investigators
      hypothesize that HRVB will reduce stress levels among expecting mothers hospitalized for
      pregnancy complications, who are at high risk for depression and anxiety(Brandon 2008).

      Objectives:

        1. To determine the feasibility of using HRVB among hospitalized pregnant women

        2. To measure the association between use of HRVB and maternal state anxiety.

        3. To measure the association between use of HRVB, biological markers of stress, indexed by
           salivary cortisol and oxytocin, and high frequency heart rate variability, measured
           using research-quality instruments

        4. To measure the effectiveness of HRVB in women with varying levels of clinical depression
           and anxiety

      Study Design & Methods: The investigators plan a pilot study to recruit 30 pregnant women who
      are receiving care on the antepartum floor of the North Carolina Women's Hospital.

      At the baseline session,the investigators will consent each participant and then screen her
      for depression or anxiety. This screen will involve using the M.I.N.I Depression Module and
      the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Screen (EPDS). Both assessments will be scored at baseline
      to determine if the participant has severe, moderate, or no clinical depression or anxiety.
      The investigators will also record if the participant is on anxiety or depression medication
      as apart of our screen. The investigators will also notes any medications given for other
      mental illness.

      Once this screen is complete, the investigators will collect sociodemographic information and
      then proceed teach all the participants about biofeedback, how to use the HRVB device,
      coupled with deep breathing techniques to detach from stressful thoughts. The HRVB
      intervention will be administered by Carole Swanson, a registered nurse with extensive
      experience in maternity care, will complete the HeartMath® Interventions Certification
      Program(HeartMath LLC 2013). The certification provides detailed instruction on use of HRV
      Biofeedback for clinical care. The HeartMath device, the EmWave2, uses a heart rate sensor on
      the patient's earlobe to detect beat-to-beat variability, which is an index of vagal tone.
      The device is attached to a laptop computer to allow the user to view visual cues for deep
      breathing. The EmWave2 is currently used in clinical care in the inpatient psychiatry units
      at UNC hospitals.

      Before and after each HRVB session, participants will complete three measures of current
      psychological distress (Spielberger State Anxiety Scale, Linear Analog Self Assessment,
      Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-Being scale). To measure biologic markers of stress, the
      investigators will collect saliva samples and measure blood pressure before and after
      administering HRVB. In addition information on the participants' high frequency heart rate
      variability will also be collected using the Single Channel 3991x Biolog, a research-quality
      measure of heart rate variability.

      Participants will then be instructed to practice their deep breathing exercises for
      approximately ten minutes each day until the follow-up session and complete a brief log of
      these exercises. During this period participants will also be asked to complete validated
      inventories on perceived social support and life experiences (MOS Social Support Scale,
      Maternal Antenatal Attachment Scale and Adverse Childhood Experiences). At the follow up
      visit, approximately 5 to 7 days following the baseline session, administration of HRVB
      inventories on maternal mood, the saliva sample and measurement of high frequency heart rate
      variability will be repeated. The saliva sample will be used to measure salivary one or all
      of the following: oxytocin, alpha-amylase, and cortisol.

      Finally the investigators will attempt a follow-up call with each participant six to eight
      weeks following discharge to measure continued use of HRVB techniques and satisfaction
      qualitative information on HRVB feasibility.
    
  