
    
      The Rio Grande Valley (RGV), located on the northern bank of the Rio Grande River that
      separates the United States from Mexico, is home to more than 1.2 million residents,
      representing about 5% of Texas' general population. The SyV 2.0 program focuses on the system
      of health care in the lower RGV, comprised of a predominantly Mexican American, low-income,
      underserved community with chronic disease rates and related mortality that exceed those in
      most other regions of the state and the nation. Based on a cohort study of 2,000 Mexican
      American adults from this region between 2003 to 2008 called the Cameron County Hispanic
      Cohort (CCHC), researchers estimated diabetes prevalence to be 31% and 81% of the population
      were either obese (49%) or overweight (32%). Residents in this region suffer from
      disproportionate health disparities that stem from extreme poverty (40% of families live
      below federal poverty line), lower levels of educational attainment (9.9 average years of
      education), and inadequate access to basic health care needs, income, and education.

      The SyV 2.0 program is an expansion of SyV 1.0, a program for individuals with uncontrolled
      diabetes. Enhancement includes two major initiatives: clinical-based services and
      community-based services. Clinical based services will include medication therapy management
      for participants with low levels of medication adherence and care coordination which includes
      behavioral health services for participants who do not qualify for services with the mental
      health authority, but need behavioral health support. Community-based services will include
      peer led support groups and access to community-based lifestyle programs (capacity building
      cooking classes and an obesity awareness program). Clinical-based and community-based
      services will be directed by a multidisciplinary care team and will be customized to meet
      each participant's individualized needs.

      The proposed study does not pose any major risks or dangers beyond what a normal physician
      visit would present. Benefits include improved control of chronic disease (diabetes,
      hypertension, and obesity), a reduction in depression, increased access to behavioral
      healthcare services, and improved adult functioning and quality of life for current SyV 1.0
      participants.

      This study will contribute to the investigator's understanding of how to increase access to
      health care services and treatment among those individuals with diabetes, namely, low-income,
      Hispanic communities.

        -  This study was not funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). It was funded by
           two Texas foundations, Methodist Healthcare Ministries and Valley Baptist Legacy
           Foundation.
    
  