
    
      The study is a single-center (BIDMC), prospective, single-blinded, randomized controlled
      study involving neonatal ICU patients who will receive lipid injectable emulsion infusions as
      part of their normal clinical care. The dosing protocol for all neonates is weight- and
      age-based, as shown below:

      Birth Weight (< 1000 g)

      Age(Day of Life,DOL)- Lipid Dose g/kg/day:

      DOL1- 0; DOL2- 1; DOL3- 1.5; DOL4- 2; DOL5- 2.5; DOL6+-3

      Birth Weight (>1000 g)

      Age-Lipid Dose g/kg/day:

      DOL1- 0; DOL2- 1; DOL3- 2; DOL4- 3; DOL5- 3; DOL6+-3

      Serum triglycerides is the primary outcome indicator of tolerance to the initiation and
      advancement of lipid injectable emulsion. Blood samples will be drawn before initiation of
      lipids at either DOL-0 or DOL-1, and then at DOL-4 and DOL-7.

      The procedures for initiating lipid emulsions in neonates will follow the usual protocol as
      per NICU guidelines. On DOL-2, an order for 20% soybean oil lipid emulsion will be written by
      a physician or designated licensed assistant as per protocol. The Pharmacy Department will
      receive the order, and compound and dispense it in an appropriately sized syringe. Patients
      will receive lipids taken from either glass bottles or plastic bags according to a
      pre-assigned randomization scheme.

      All lipid injectable emulsion lots in glass and plastic will be recorded as used in the
      study. In addition, all lots will be analyzed with respect to the globule size distributions
      in the Nutrition/Infection Laboratory.

      Sample Size Justification:

      Approximately 82 randomized patients are required for analysis of the differences between
      lipid injectable emulsion formulations.

      The sample size was generated from the data obtained from the retrospective analysis
      described above in B2. A two-sided test based on a normal distribution, a nominal
      significance level of 0.05, and a statistical power of 0.80 were assumed. Based on these
      assumptions, the power calculation reveals an equal sample size for both groups is calculated
      to be 41. Hence, the total sample size of 82 patients is required to detect statistically
      significant differences in the incidence of hypertriglyceridemia between infusion groups.

      Data Analysis:

      We will be comparing lipid tolerance in critically ill neonates receiving pharmacy-prepared
      syringes of 20% soybean oil-based lipid injectable emulsion taken from commercially
      available, FDA-approved products that use either a glass or plastic packaging container. The
      primary outcome variable in assessing lipid tolerance will be serum triglycerides. A two-way
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be employed to assess the differences between lipid
      injectable emulsion products. The two independent variables are 1) Lipid Container (or
      Treatment) and, 2) Time (over 7 days); while the dependent variable will be serum
      triglycerides. If significant differences are detected by ANOVA, then individual differences
      will be further evaluated using Bonferroni tests for pair wise comparisons. All data will be
      expressed as the mean ± SD with statistical significance set at a p-value of <0.05. Analysis
      will be done at BIDMC under the supervision of the study PI. Although not expected to play a
      significant role, drop-out and missing data will be adjusted accordingly.

      All patients who present to the neonatal intensive care unit at BIDMC who require intravenous
      nutritional support and provide informed consent will be included in the study. The decision
      to initiate intravenous nutritional support will be made by clinical personnel, and the
      dosing protocol for lipid injectable emulsion will follow institutional procedures as shown
      above in B3 (Description of Study Protocol) (section1-a). Patients will be randomized to
      receive one of two study parenteral lipid emulsions. As hydrocortisone therapy is rarely used
      in the treatment of refractory hypotension in neonates, and has been shown to induce
      hypertriglyceridemia in very low birth weight infants (younger than 29 weeks' gestational age
      at birth), such patients will be excluded from study. Due to randomization, patients enrolled
      in either group are expected to be similarly distributed with respect to gestational age,
      gender and race.

      Potential study subjects will be identified by neonatal intensive care unit physicians at
      BIDMC who have determined intravenous nutrition support is clinically indicated. Parent(s) or
      guardian(s) of the NICU patient will review and sign a written informed consent form. The
      form will be obtained by NICU physicians or one of the co-investigators listed above.
      Prospective parents or guardians of the patient will be presented, in lay terms, the two
      options for providing intravenous lipid emulsions. The purpose of the study and current data
      regarding the standard of care will be presented to parents or guardians of the patient, and
      that assignment to either group (glass vs. plastic) will be random or determined by chance.
      Parents or guardians will be informed that participation is completely voluntary and that all
      patient data will be kept confidential. All aspects of this study will take place in the
      neonatal intensive care unit.
    
  