
    
      Background: Young people with ASD present unique challenges related to post school employment
      outcomes. Competitive employment rates for individuals with ASD, regardless of intellectual
      ability, reportedly range between 4.1 to 11.8%. Across the ability spectrum, individuals with
      ASD have lower rates of participation in vocational or technical education, employment, and
      post-secondary education in 2 or 4-year programs than their peers with other disabilities.
      The findings from this literature indicate individuals with ASD continue to have significant
      challenges in all environments related to social interaction and communication into
      adolescence and adulthood. Military offspring present a particular risk for poor outcomes due
      to the mobile nature of their parents' jobs. This greatly impacts the individual with ASD who
      may not be able to access programs to assist them in the transition to employment as well as
      their parents who may not be able to take advantage of promotions that involve moving.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The objective of this proposed project is to study the impact of
      Project SEARCH plus ASD Supports (PS-ASD) on the social communication, behavioral, and
      employment outcomes of military dependents with ASD across three vocational domains
      (employment status, wage, number of hours worked per week) and three personal domains (social
      responsiveness, mental health, and quality of life).

      The six hypotheses driving this project propose that Young adults who participate in an
      employer-based employment training and placement program will: demonstrate a higher rate of
      employment, work more hours, and earn a higher wage than those in the control condition.
      Additionally, young adults who participate in a work-based employment training and placement
      program will increase their social responsiveness, display lower anxiety and depression
      scores, and report higher quality of life scores than those in the control condition.

      Specific Aims: Aim 1. VCU will modify the Project SEARCH Plus ASD Model to meet the needs of
      military dependents with ASD.

      Aim 2. VCU will implement the intervention based upon the Project SEARCH plus ASD Supports
      manual and will measure fidelity of implementation.

      Aim 3. VCU will measure the impact of the intervention on the social communication,
      behavioral adjustment and employment outcomes of the military dependents who participate
      compared to an equal control group who do not receive the intervention.

      Study Design: This is a randomized, wait-list controlled study of the efficacy of the Project
      Search plus ASD Supports Model (PS-ASD) in 32 adolescents and young adults aged 18 to 21 with
      autism spectrum disorder. Approximately 32 subjects will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1
      ratio to treatment or wait-list control groups. A sufficient number of potential subjects
      will be screened to achieve this number of enrolled subjects.

      Clinical Impact: The PS-ASD model provides an option for youth with ASD who seek employment
      upon graduation from high school by providing high numbers of trials of vocational, social
      communication, and self-management skills using applied behavior analysis in the settings
      where those skills will be used. Immersion in a 9-month internship program via PS+ASD appears
      to improve self-management, independence, social responsiveness, work skills, and quality of
      life but further research like the proposed project is required to observe the impact of this
      model for military dependents with ASD. This proposed project will assist professionals and
      military personnel in identifying viable treatment models for military dependents in
      transition to adulthood. This is a critical need for this population of youth who frequently
      do not receive such intensive transition services.
    
  