
    
      Ileus is a lack of bowel function that can cause colic, vomiting, and/or constipation.
      Research has shown that bowel function slows down and possibly stops working for a short
      period of time after surgery, usually for 5-7 days. Patients report pain and discomfort from
      the gas that builds up in their bowel until the time the bowel begins working properly after
      surgery. During the period the bowel is not working after surgery, patients cannot leave the
      hospital until their physician is sure that their bowel function has returned. The return in
      bowel function is usually signaled by the passage of gas from the rectum.

      The main method used to help the return of bowel function is to have patients get out of bed,
      sit in a chair, and begin walking the first day after surgery and increase the time sitting
      in the chair and walking every day. However, it is not clear that the sitting in a chair and
      walking are the best methods to assist in a faster return of bowel function.

      One method that shows promise in helping the return of bowel function after abdominal surgery
      is rocking in a rocking chair. Rocking chair motion has demonstrated an earlier return of
      normal bowel function in mothers after C-Section and women after abdominal hysterectomy
      (Moore et al.,1995; Thomas et al., 1990). Rocking also has been used to decrease pain, the
      amount of pain medication needed, and the time spent in the hospital after abdominal surgery.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned to one of two groups
      (Group A or B). Participants in Group A will use the rocking chair method. Participants in
      Group B will not use the rocking chair method. There is an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group.

      Before you take part in this study, you will be asked to complete a survey about the amount
      of pain you are currently experiencing (the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form). It should take
      about 10 minutes to complete the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form. Completing the pain
      inventory before your surgery will allow for a better comparison of your pre and
      postoperative surgical and gas pain. You will be asked to provide some information such as
      your age and marital status that will be recorded on a coded data sheet. You will also
      receive an instruction sheet that describes what you need to do in order to participate in
      the study (Instruction to Subjects Sheet). The study investigator will also demonstrate to
      those chosen for the rocking group the correct method to rock in the rocking chair and allow
      them time to practice. He will also demonstrate the correct way to wear the gait belt with
      the pedometer attached to it.

      Participants in Group A will get out of bed beginning the first day after surgery, sit in a
      rocking chair (at least twice per day), and rock backward and forward at a constant rate of 1
      backward and forward rock per second in 10-20 minute increments. This will be done for at
      least 60 minutes (1 hour) per day. Participants in Group A will also be asked to begin
      walking at least twice per day beginning the first day after surgery.

      Participants in Group B will get out of bed beginning the first day after surgery and sit in
      a non rocking chair (at least twice per day) for at least sixty minutes. Group B will also be
      asked to begin walking at least twice per day.

      Both groups will wear a pedometer attached to a gait belt worn around their waist in order to
      record the number of steps taken in a 24-hour period of time. A pedometer will also be
      attached to each rocking chair in order to record the number of rocks in a 24-hour period.
      Participants in each group will be encouraged by the research staff to increase the time
      spent rocking, sitting in the non-rocking chair, and walking each day. You will be given pain
      medication as needed.

      All participants will be given a pencil and pad to note the date and time that they first
      pass gas from their rectum. A calendar and clock is available in all patient rooms. Every
      morning, the study investigator will visit you and ask if you have passed gas, record the
      number of rocks and steps recorded by the pedometers, reset the pedometers, have you complete
      a Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form pain evaluation, and check on the total amount of pain
      medication you have received over the last 24 hours. You may increase the time spent rocking
      and walking as you desire and are encouraged to do so.

      If for any reason, you cannot tolerate rocking in a rocking chair, sitting in a non rocking
      chair or walking because of discomfort or any other reason, you will be removed from the
      study without penalty.

      There is no follow-up testing for this study. The length of this study is from the first day
      after your surgery until you actually pass gas from the rectum. This time could range from 5
      to 7 days after your operation.

      This is an investigational study. There are no drugs involved with this study. Rocking, non
      rocking chairs, and gait belts will be provided by M. D. Anderson and the pedometers by the
      study investigator at no charge to the participants during the study. A total of 66 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  