
    
      Title - Effects of Aerobic Exercise on CD4(cluster of differentiation 4) count , Viral load
      and Selected Psycho-social Traits Among People Living with HIV/AIDS in Nekemte, Ethiopia

      Human being have been challenged with different diseases from time to time. The cause of this
      diseases are virus , bacteria , fungi and etc. A diseases caused by virus , the Acquired
      Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is very challenging to this century . By the end of 2008,
      UNAIDS/ world health organization (WHO) estimated that globally, a total of 33.4 million
      people were living with HIV, where by 31.3 million were adults. In sub-Saharan Africa, 22.4
      million people were living with HIV in 2008 . Of these on 15.8 million were under anti-retro
      viral therapy (ART) to Jun, 2015 and 1.2 mill people died with AIDS related illnesses till
      end of the 2014 .

      Aerobic fitness can improve the health of people living with many diseases, including HIV,
      and prevents muscle wasting . Exercise benefits may be include cytokine regulation, as is
      suggested in studies of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Aerobic exercise is
      one type of rehabilitation strategy that may be used to address disability, such as decreased
      strength and cardiovascular fitness for persons living with HIV . Exercise may also important
      to people living with virus because of its link to disease prevention and health promotion.
      Furthermore, aerobic exercise is creditable of attention because of its connection to body
      image, which has been shown to be important in certain populations affected by HIV.

      This study will conduct in Nekemete town found in east Wollega zone , Oromia regional state.
      It will be a randomized controlled trial experimental research. The study design will
      pre-post of experimental clinical trial. Experimental trial will be with intervention of
      aerobic exercise among people living with HIV/AIDS under ART. The number of sample size is
      58. Data analyses will perform with statical analysis for social science (SPSS) version 20.
      Descriptive data (means, standard deviations (SD) and standard error of the mean (SE),
      frequency, cross tabulation, charts) will calculate for all variables. The gender difference,
      viral load, CD4 count, data will analyze using simple t-test and analysis of co-variance
      (ANCOVA). The level of significance for all analyses will be set at P < 0.05.
    
  