
    
      This is a randomized (assigned study drug by chance), double-blind (both the patient and
      investigator do not know whether patient is assigned to receive study drug or placebo),
      placebo-controlled study involving overweight and obese patients. Patients are randomized to
      one of 4 treatment groups and receive study drug or placebo for a period of 12 weeks. The
      study consists of 3 phases: a pretreatment phase (including a screening period of 1 week and
      a period prior to active treatment of 4 weeks), the treatment period of 12 weeks, and a
      posttreatment phase (consisting of a follow-up visit). Standardized nonpharmacologic therapy
      (individualized calorie deficit diets containing no more than 30% calories from fat and
      nutritional counseling) will be administered from Week 4 through the follow-up period. During
      the treatment period, patients visit the center every two weeks. On each visit, patients come
      to the clinic after 8 hours fasting. For effectiveness assessments, patients will be weighed
      and BMI calculated at each visit; waist and hip circumference and DEXA measurements (for body
      composition and fat mass analysis) will be performed at selected time points. Additional
      effectiveness assessments from a blood sample include levels of fasting hemoglobin type A1c
      (HbA1c), glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, insulin, C-peptide, and gastrointestinal
      hormones. Insulin sensitivity and pancreas function are evaluated. Safety evaluations,
      including incidence of adverse events, clinical laboratory results, vital signs, and
      electrocardiograms, are performed during the study. Patients complete a questionnaire related
      to stomach/bowel symptoms (GI) throughout the study. Blood samples will also be drawn for an
      analysis of the subjects genes and an analyses of the body's handling of the study drug. The
      overall duration of the study for each patient is approximately 19 weeks. The study
      hypothesis is that treatment with JNJ-16269110 (R256918) will cause a change in body weight
      compared to placebo and will be well tolerated in overweight and obese patients. This
      hypothesis will be investigated at each dosage level to determine a clinically relevant dose.
      5 mg capsules, 10 mg capsules, 15 mg capsules, or matching placebo capsules taken orally.
    
  