
    
      The proposed study is a feasibility study to assess the viability of implementing a
      Self-Affirmation (SA) intervention in a Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer (HBOC) genetic
      counseling clinic to improve client communication and behavioral outcomes. Participants will
      be clients and genetic counselors at the St. Luke s Hospital System HBOC clinic. This study
      seeks to identify outcomes that would be most informative in a large-scale research protocol.
      As outcomes, we will assess clients decision self-efficacy, intention to talk with family,
      genetic test uptake, empowerment, and HBOC knowledge. We will also assess counselors and
      clients perceived benefits, perceived harms, and acceptance of the affirmation intervention.

      In this study clients will be invited to participate in an intervention before their genetic
      counseling appointment. The SA intervention is a short written exercise to reinforce clients
      self-integrity (a global sense of personal adequacy) leading to more openness to threatening
      information within the genetic counseling session. Clients and counselors will be surveyed
      after the study to assess outcome measures and feasibility of the intervention.

      Social science research has shown that when people are faced with threatening information
      they often seek to protect themselves and reject the threatening message. Message rejection
      can include minimizing the importance or discrediting the truth of the message. SA
      interventions aim to bolster self-integrity by focusing on aspects of subject s lives they
      value and thereby improving participants self-perception and tolerance towards threatening
      messages. SA manipulations have been shown to increase patient communication within
      appointments and both intentions and actions toward behavior change.

      Often in cancer genetic counseling appointments clients are confronted with the threat of
      having a significantly increased risk of cancers while being asked to make a decision about
      genetic testing. A self-affirmation intervention may facilitate greater client decision
      self-efficacy, empowerment, and positive behavior outcomes, such as communication with family
      regarding genetic risk and screening behaviors.
    
  