
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common cause of cancer mortality in Asia. Most patients
      present with intermediate or advanced disease. Percutaneous ethanol injection, radiofrequency
      ablation, and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) are not considered as a
      curative treatment and have achieved very limited success in eradicating large HCC. With the
      development of new radiotherapy (RT) technique, RT can be more safely given to patients with
      larger tumor burden. Thus, TACE combined with RT has been suggested for treating large HCC.
      Based on the results of these studies, RT could achieve a tumor response rate of 50 % to 70
      %. However, it has not been definitively shown to prolong the overall or disease-free
      survival due to lack of a phase III clinical trial. In contrast, a retrospective clinical
      investigation with molecular study suggests that sublethal dose of RT promoted HCC growth
      outside RT field.

      Two phase III trials were shown to be efficacious and well-tolerated in patients with
      advanced HCC. Median overall survival was significantly 2 to 3 months longer in the sorafenib
      group than that in the placebo. It is interesting to recognize the combined therapeutic
      effect of RT with sorafenib. Based on several preclinical experiments, tumor angiogenesis
      inhibitors seem to be synergistic with irradiation when using before RT, concurrently with
      RT, or after RT. Thus, we design a single-arm phase II clinical trial to investigate the
      efficacy of combined RT with sorafenib.

      The eligibility criteria are patients with unresectable HCC; good performance status; no
      prior radiotherapy for the liver; clinical measurable tumor; good liver function and good
      compliance. After entering this study, the testee will receive RT to hepatic tumor with
      concurrently sorafenib with a dose of 400 mg twice daily. Hepatic RT will be performed with a
      daily fraction size of 2.0 to 2.5 Gy to a total dose of 46 Gy to 60 Gy. After RT, maintenance
      sorafenib with a dose of 400 mg twice daily will be ongoing. Sorafenib will be continued
      until the occurrence of clinical or radiologic progression, or the occurrence of either
      unacceptable adverse events or death. Minimum maintenance duration of 6 months is
      recommended, but not mandatory. The primary end points are response rate and toxicities
      profile. The secondary endpoints are time to radiological progression interval (TRPI),
      overall survival, and quality of life assessment.
    
  