
    
      In an earlier pilot study, a regime of simple swallowing exercises was identified as useful
      in maintaining oropharyngeal muscle characteristics as measured by T2 weighted Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) and produced a trend toward improved function for swallowing in
      patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. The purpose of this current study
      is to evaluate the dose response of two levels of swallowing exercise intensity on the
      maintenance of muscle composition and function for swallowing in Head/Neck cancer patients
      undergoing radiotherapy.

      HYPOTHESIS: A program of intensive swallowing exercise (Pharyngocise) will maintain muscle
      function in the oral cavity and pharynx during radiotherapy, preserving or supporting
      swallowing function in Head/Neck cancer patients.

      STUDY DESIGN: 130 patients with Head/Neck cancer, confirmed by clinical history and exam,
      will be recruited over a 4 year period. All subjects will undergo an initial baseline work
      up, including a standardized clinical and instrumental swallowing evaluation, psychosocial
      scales, nutritional exam, and T2 weighted MRI prior to the first radiation therapy. Subjects
      will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups:

      Group A: Usual care (control) group - patients will receive swallowing and prescribed dietary
      intervention during the radiotherapy period prescribed by the attending physician.

      Group B: High intensity pharyngocise treatment group - patients will receive twice daily
      swallowing intervention by a speech language pathologist, consisting of the battery of
      isometric/isotonic exercises.

      Group C: Low intensity pharyngocise treatment group - patients will receive a single
      instructional exercise session on the isometric/isotonic exercises from a Speech Language
      Pathologist and a practice tape to support home practice of the exercises.

      All patients will be treated for approximately 6 weeks and followed for 3 months post
      treatment. Baseline assessments will be repeated. In addition, daily treatment details,
      patients perception of current swallowing ability and progress in therapy will be recorded by
      the Speech Pathologist. Participants will be independently monitored throughout the treatment
      period by researcher blind to the treatment group assigned, via weekly phone interview
      sessions. Compliance with the treatment techniques, and the occurrence of any negative
      endpoints such as occurrence of aspiration pneumonia will be recorded.
    
  