
    
      Background and Rationale:

      The outcome for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer treated with surgery alone
      remains dismal with a 5 year survival rate between 25% to 80% depending on the tumor stage
      and lymph node status. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimens (Methotrexate, Vinblastine,
      Doxorubicin, Cisplatin ; Cisplatin, Methotrexate, Vinblastine; Gemcitabine/Cisplatin) have
      demonstrated a modest but absolute benefit in overall survival of 5-8% when administered in
      the neoadjuvant setting. Therefore, neoadjuvant Cisplatin-based regimens are regarded as a
      standard of care in treating patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. However, bladder
      cancer is a disease of the elderly and due to age-associated factors (e.g. hearing impaired ≥
      grade 2), peripheral neuropathy (≥ grade 2), disease associated impairment of renal function
      (Glomerular filtration rate < 60 mL/min) and performance status (ECOG ≥ 2) 30 to 50% are
      ineligible for cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimens. Several combinations with Carboplatin
      have been tested in single arm, phase II trials in patients ineligible for Cisplatin but no
      standard regimen has been established for this patient population thus far. The Guidelines of
      the European association of Urology (EAU) do not recommend any neoadjuvant treatment for
      Cisplatin-ineligible patients.

      The advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors like Durvalumab or Azetolizumab, both antibodies
      blocking the PD1/PD-L1 interaction, have shown promising results as single agents in terms of
      response (15-46%) and tolerability in the metastatic setting of bladder cancer.

      A trial evaluating the safety, tolerability and antitumor activity of the combination of the
      immune-checkpoint inhibitors Durvarlumab and the anti-CTLA4 antibody Tremelimumab in various
      solid tumors, including urothelial carcinoma of the bladder is ongoing (protocol D4190C0010).
      Blocking the PD1/PD-L1 pathway in combination with an anti-CTLA4 antibody has shown greater
      antitumor activity than each antibody alone in malignant melanoma trials and showed a
      promising antitumor activity (17% overall response rate, irrespective of the PD-L1 expression
      status on tumor cells) in a phase Ib study of metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. The
      safety profile was acceptable (42% grade 3-4 treatment related adverse events across all
      dosing cohorts, most common were diarrhea, colitis and increase lipase), however, the rate of
      adverse events (e.g. autoimmune phenomena) and treatment interruptions was higher as compared
      to single agent use.

      Objective:

      The Primary objective of the trial is to assess the safety and antitumor activity of the
      anti-PD-L1 antibody Durvalumab in combination with the anti-CTLA4 antibody Tremelimumab.

      Study Duration:

      Trial study duration encompassed the time from when the participant signs the informed
      consent until the last protocol-specific procedure has been completed (Cystectomy between
      week 17 to 23). All patients will be followed up for up to 78 weeks after end of treatment.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP as well as all national legal and regulatory
      requirements.
    
  