
    
      Smoking is the leading cause of preventable mortality in developed countries.
      Pharmacotherapy, including bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), is universally
      recommended for smoking cessation treatment; however, even with treatment, the majority of
      smokers either fail to quit in the short term or relapse in the first year. The high failure
      rate reported for smoking cessation, then, presents a challenge to explore innovative
      approaches to treating relapse to smoking.

      The purpose of this study, then, is to evaluate the efficacy of the glycine antagonist,
      GW468816, compared with placebo on duration of abstinence and rates of relapse in female
      outpatient smokers during a randomized, double-blind, five-week clinical trial.

      To do this, the investigators will conduct a two-phase study, in which 300 adult, female
      outpatient smokers will be enrolled.

      Phase I will consist of an 8-week smoking cessation study in which nicotine replacement
      therapy (NRT) and a behavioral intervention are openly administered on a tapered schedule.
      Participants who are able to quit smoking after 7 weeks in this preliminary study will then
      be eligible to enter Phase II.

      Phase II is a 5-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, relapse prevention trial with the
      investigational medication, GW468816.

      Participants in the Phase I smoking cessation study will begin by receiving nicotine
      replacement therapy in the form of the patch and brief support to stop smoking. Participants
      will be required to schedule office visits every 1-2 weeks throughout Phase I.

      Subjects who are abstinent at the end of Phase I will be eligible to continue Phase II, in
      which they will be randomly assigned by chance to receive the investigational medication,
      GW468816, at 200 mg or placebo (a pill that looks exactly like the study drug but contains no
      active drug). Participants will be required to schedule weekly office visits throughout Phase
      II.

      Subjects who complete the 15-week trial (both Phases I and II) will enter the 6-Month
      Follow-Up to evaluate rates of long term abstinence from nicotine. They will have office
      visits at Weeks 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, and 40 after discontinuation of study medications.

      Participants who enter the study will be offered the opportunity to participate in an
      ancillary neuroimaging study of mechanisms and surrogate markers of relapse that includes
      BOLD fMRI and MR spectroscopy, to be carried out at the McLean Brain Imaging Center.
    
  