
    
      Cardiac arrest (CA) is a leading cause of death, affecting about 700.000 individuals each
      year in Europe. Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) and primary arrhythmia are the most common
      causes of CA, whereas respiratory arrest is a leading cause of secondary CA. Patients who
      have undergone cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) often remain unconscious after hospital
      admission, either as a result of severe permanent brain damage or a merely reversible
      metabolic disturbance due to post-ischemic global reperfusion. Early prediction of
      neurological and cardiac outcome remains a difficult task for physicians. The decision to
      continue, limit or terminate intensive care therapy carries huge ethical and socioeconomic
      implications. Optimal emergency cardiovascular care, cardiac failure therapy and CA
      prevention after hospitalisation also remain difficult issues for cardiologists and intensive
      care doctors.

      In this prospective study running from 2010, both prognostication and in-hospital treatment
      are studied in a population of 261 patients with out-of-hospital cardio-respiratory arrest.
      The use of combined clinical-neurological, neurophysiologic, neuroradiological and
      biochemical markers is studied to asses whether a poor neurological outcome (Cerebral
      Performance Category 3-5) can be predicted with ~100% specificity and a sensitivity that is
      sufficient for practical clinical use.

      Pre-disposing and triggering causes of cardiorespiratory arrest are also registered. Patients
      with pre-existing conditions coherent with prophylactic ICD implementation under current
      international guidelines will be identified, in order to assess and further improve
      ICD-prophylactic treatment in Norway. The potential benefit of invasive PICCO-monitoring
      after CA will also be evaluated, and a subproject identifying biomarkers for CA risk has been
      established. NIRS (Near-Infrared spectroscopy) will also be used to register cerebral
      oxygenation in the early days after cardiorespiratory arrest.

      The overall aim of the NORCAST study is to provide physicians with better tools to asses
      cardiac and neurological outcome as early and as accurate as possible.

      All alive study patients are invited to long-term follow-up consultaions after 6 months,
      after 4 years, and after 10 years. The consultations will include study examinations,
      structured interviews and questionnaires. Questionnaires will also be used for next of kin.
    
  