
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin, fluorouracil,
           leucovorin calcium (FOLFOX), and bevacizumab can be substituted for pelvic radiotherapy
           without compromising R0 resection rates in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether a 3-year local recurrence rate of ≤ 10% can be achieved in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the proportion of patients who achieve a complete pathologic response after
           treatment with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, pilot study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin
           calcium IV over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IV over 10 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil IV
           continuously over 48 hours on days 1 and 2 in weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7. Patients then
           receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
           fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours on days 1 and 2 in weeks 9 and 11. Treatment
           continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 3 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo restaging
      evaluation. Patients with no evidence of disease progression by endorectal ultrasound (ERUS),
      pelvic MRI, and CT scan of the chest/abdomen AND who remain candidates for R0 resection may
      proceed directly to surgical resection within 4-6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy. Patients with progressive disease who are not candidates for an R0 resection,
      proceed to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Patients undergo pelvic radiotherapy 5 days a week and
           receive concurrent fluorouracil IV continuously for 5½ weeks. Within 4-7 weeks after
           completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo surgical resection.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  