
    
      Patients who come to the clinical practices of the University of Pennsylvania for diagnosis
      and/or treatment of a known or suspected breast cancer and who meet the study inclusion
      criteria may be approached by study staff for recruitment into this study. Eligibility
      criteria will be checked and study personnel will provide a copy of the approved consent form
      to the potential subject. Patients will be approached initially in person, by phone or email
      about study participation. The patient will be given an opportunity to go over the consent
      form and have any questions answered by study staff or a study investigator. After discussion
      of the study procedures, risks and benefits, if the subject agrees to participate in the
      study, the [18F]FTT PET/CT will be ordered by a physician and scheduled. Subjects may cancel
      the scan appointment at any time prior to the injection of [18F]FTT with no negative impact
      to them or their medical care at UPenn. A written informed consent will be reviewed with the
      subject and signed prior to any study procedures being performed. Subjects may withdraw from
      the study at any time at their own request, or they may be withdrawn at any time at the
      discretion of the investigator or sponsor for safety, behavioral, or administrative reasons.
      If a subject does not return for a scheduled visit, every effort will be made to contact the
      subject.

      Women of childbearing potential will have a urine pregnancy test performed within 1 day prior
      to injection of [18F]FTT.

      The baseline [18F]FTT PET/CT will take place prior to surgical resection of a primary breast
      cancer, or before starting therapy. Adverse event follow up after the PET/CT scan may occur
      by telephone or in person, depending on the subject's schedule. Follow up will take place the
      next available business day (i.e. not a weekend or a holiday). The adverse event monitoring
      period is 24 hours following [18F]FTT injection.

      An optional post-therapy [18F]FTT PET/CT may occur approximately 1 day to 3 weeks after the
      start of new therapy regimen.

      Subjects will be asked to give consent to allow for collection of pathology tissue for use in
      this research study. Archival tissue may be collected from an existing tissue sample.
      Additional tissue may be collected during a clinical biopsy or surgical procedure, if a
      procedure is scheduled as part of their clinical care or, it can be collected for research
      purposes only, if the patient has consented for this additional collection.

      Patients will be asked permission to access their medical records for follow up of their
      clinical care and treatment as part of the consent for this study.

      Long term follow up will occur by medical record review for the duration of the subject's
      cancer care until death or 15 years after enrollment.
    
  