
    
      Diarrhea is the second leading cause of death for children around the world. This is true
      despite the fact that nearly all such deaths could be prevented with a simple and inexpensive
      solution: oral rehydration salts (ORS). Private health care providers, who treat the majority
      of childhood illness in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), are particularly unlikely
      to dispense ORS to children with diarrhea. Instead, providers often dispense antibiotics
      inappropriately. Recognizing this significant challenge, several international organizations
      (including USAID) have invested heavily in trying to increase ORS dispensing in the private
      sector. In the absence of evidence on why ORS is so inconsistently dispensed by private
      providers, however, several interventions to promote private sector ORS dispensing have been
      ineffective. Clearly, a critical and urgent next step is to examine the key drivers of
      underprescription of ORS and overprescription of antibiotics in the private sector in order
      to inform efforts to improve diarrhea care. In this study, we examine several leading
      explanations for poor quality of care for child diarrhea in the private sector. First,
      patient preferences for ORS alternatives (e.g., an antibiotic) could be driving
      underprescription of ORS. We will identify the causal effect of patient preferences (Aim 1)
      by having anonymous standardized patients (SPs) pose as caretakers of children with diarrhea
      and express different (randomly assigned) preferences for treatment (ask for ORS, ask for
      antibiotics, or let provider decide). Second, private providers could be responding to
      financial incentives to sell more profitable alternatives to ORS (e.g., an antibiotic). To
      estimate the causal effect of financial incentives (Aim 2), we will instruct a subset of SPs
      to inform providers that they can get discounted treatments at a relative's drug shop. This
      eliminates the provider's financial incentive to recommend a given treatment and allows us to
      estimate the effect of such incentives. Finally, private providers might not directly
      distribute ORS or could have frequent stock-outs. To estimate the causal effect of stock-outs
      (Aim 3), we will randomly assign half of the providers to receive a three-month supply of
      ORS. This generates exogenous variation in stock outs and thus enables us to isolate the
      causal effect of stock outs on ORS and antibiotic prescribing. Combining, (a) causal
      estimates of the impact of each factor on prescribing, and (b) population estimates of the
      prevalence of each factor, will allow us to estimate the population level impact of
      implementing interventions that address each factor (Aim 4). This study will provide the most
      comprehensive evidence to date on why one of the most important health technologies in
      history is often not prescribed. The results will inform the design of interventions aimed at
      increasing ORS dispensing and reducing antibiotic dispensing. If such interventions are
      targeted appropriately, millions of young lives could be saved.
    
  