
    
      TITLE

      DEAL Shared Decision Making in psychiatric inpatient care to enhance participation and
      autonomy.

      PURPOSE AND AIMS

      The purpose is to investigate patients' participation and autonomy in psychiatric inpatient
      care and the potential of Shared Decision Making (SDM) to strengthen patients' participation
      in clinical decision making.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME:

      Does SDM improve patient participation?

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES:

      Does the use of SDM improve clinical outcomes (length of inpatient days, length of
      involuntary care, number of inpatient episodes and completed outpatient visits)?

      Does outcomes of SDM relate to gender, socio-economical background, severity of disease,
      level of function, diagnosis and compulsory/voluntary care?

      How does patients and doctors experience SDM in psychiatric inpatient care regarding
      discharge planning?

      What are the ethical and legal implications of practicing SDM in Swedish psychiatric care?

      SDM DEFINED

      SDM as it will be pursued in this project consists of three steps: To introduce choice. To
      discuss the options. To make a shared decision.

      SDM aims to help patients to explore personal preferences, make informed decisions and
      achieve active participation in the decision-making process. From the perspective of patient
      autonomy, SDM goes beyond mere informed consent. The practice of SDM is meant to empower the
      patient to active participation.

      METHOD

      SDM in psychiatric inpatient care will be evaluated in a randomized controlled trial with SDM
      vs treatment as usual (TAU). The decision studied is the planning of care in the process of
      discharge from hospital.

      Quantitative methodology is used to measure the level of perceived participation and clinical
      outcomes. The qualitative parts of the study will focus on the process of implementing SDM in
      inpatient psychiatric care, and to identify ethically and legally complex situations in the
      use of SDM.

      RECRUITMENT PROCESS

      Informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The participants will be randomized
      to either SDM or TAU. The randomization is conducted by slots of 40 persons per ward (20 SDM
      and 20 TAU) by SPSS random number series.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      The primary outcome of patient perceived participation (including the decision making
      process) will be answered quantitatively with the questionnaires Dyadic OPTION, SURE,
      Collaborate and SDM-Q-9, and qualitatively with interviews by phone 3 weeks after discharge.
      The interviews will be audio recorded and analyzed using qualitative content analysis.
      Perceived participation will be measured at inclusion at the ward and after the discharge
      planning conversation in both the SDM and TAU group with the questionnaires.

      Clinical effects (secondary outcomes) will be studied by number of: inpatient days, days of
      compulsory care, inpatient episodes, completed outpatient visits, completed decisions and
      emergency visits one year after the discharge. Information will be obtained from clinical
      records.

      Clinical and social factors will be related to level of participation. Data collected:
      gender, level of education, severity of illness (CGI-S), level of function (GAF) and
      voluntary/compulsory admission at inclusion, quality of life at discharge (EQ-5D) and
      clinical diagnosis at discharge (clinical records).

      The patient-doctor decision talks will be recorded and analyzed using qualitative content
      analysis, focusing on ethical and legal questions.

      STUDY PLAN

      The study starts in the fall of 2019 with a short education for the doctors and staff at the
      wards in the form of a seminar on SDM in a recovery perspective. The written decision
      support, a step-by-step manual to facilitate SDM is used in role plays and simulations to
      prepare the staff. Patients receive an illustrated and easy-to-read information and decision
      guide.

      During 2019-2021 patients will be recruited. This will include informed consent to
      participate in the study, to collect clinical data from medical records (12 months in
      retrospect and 12 months prospective from day of discharge), to recorded decision talks and
      to conduct a telephone interview three weeks after discharge.

      Follow up data will be collected in 2021-2022, publication of results is planned in 2022.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      A power estimation based on the results of the pilot study with a power of 80% and an α error
      probability of 0.05 gave a Cohens d of 0,672.

      G*Power was also used for an a priori estimation with a power of 80% and an α error
      probability of 0.05. A Cohen´s d of 0.5 was chosen since there is a greater risk of
      contamination between groups in the randomized study. This gave a group size of n=53 persons
      needed in each group. The dropout rate in the pilot study of 50% is with adjustments and new
      approaches still reasonable to estimate to approximately 30%. Group sizes were estimated to
      n=80 persons and the total inclusion number of N=160 persons.

      The groups (SDM vs TAU) will be compared for difference in mean rank, using a
      Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test, regarding their perceived participation in the decision process,
      which is the primary outcome. For the secondary outcomes comparison between the two groups
      with t-tests, comparing means will include number of inpatient days, number of inpatient
      episodes, number of involuntary inpatients days and completed outpatient visits.

      For other secondary outcomes, such as the relation between patient perceived participation
      and social/clinical factors, a multifactor analysis will be used.
    
  