
    
      Oxytocin is a naturally occurring hormone, commonly known for its role in social approach,
      bonding, and trust. The present study is designed to investigate whether and how oxytocin may
      affect communication outcomes--specifically, by influencing trust of people presenting
      opinions that participants disagree with.

      Healthy adult volunteers will intranasally administer 24 IU of oxytocin at one visit and
      placebo (saline) solution at another visit. Participants will then view photos of speakers
      presenting opinions on various socio-political issues which the participants disagree with.
      Participants will complete questions about their psychological reactions (e.g., anger,
      receptiveness) to the opinions presented. After reporting on their receptiveness to the
      opposing opinions, participants will begin the attentional tasks. In the attentional tasks,
      participants will be seated in front of a computer while an eyetracker records their eye
      movements and attentional gaze. First, participants will view two images presented
      simultaneously at either ends of the computer screen; each image pair will depict a a) baby
      and a food, b) baby and an attractive opposite sex target, or c) food and an attractive
      opposite sex target. Next, participants will view a series of images exclusively depicting
      one attractive opposite-sex target at a time; attentional bias away from faces and towards
      bodies (indicative of short-term mating interest; Bolmont, Cacioppo, & Cacioppo, 2014) will
      be tracked. After each photograph has been viewed for a fixed duration, the participant will
      answer a question assessing their likelihood of engaging in a one-night stand with the person
      pictured. After this second part of the task, we will gather saliva samples via passive drool
      collection. These samples will be later assayed for testosterone. Next participants will
      complete a measure of visual attention in which they will identify target stimuli (e.g.
      letters) on a computer screen via keyboard press.
    
  