
    
      Patients with end stage renal disease have an adjusted risk of cardiovascular mortality that
      is 10-20 times greater than the general population. Of the modifiable risk factors,
      hypertension occurs in 80% of patients with end stage renal disease and is poorly controlled
      in 70% of patients. In several observational studies of daily hemodialysis, blood pressure
      has improved despite a reduction in the number of antihypertensive medications. A randomized
      crossover study in short daily hemodialysis also showed an improvement in systolic blood
      pressure and a reduction in left ventricular mass index. In limited investigation, the
      mechanism(s) responsible for the improvement in blood pressure have been attributed to a
      reduction in extracellular fluid volume (short daily) and a reduction in peripheral vascular
      resistance (nocturnal hemodialysis). The studies to date have been limited by failing to
      include a run in phase to optimize extracellular fluid volume prior to the initiation of
      daily dialysis. Additionally, only one study used a standardized algorithm for the management
      of blood pressure which is vital as the treatments are not blinded. We have designed a
      randomized, unblinded, 9 month cross-over study to determine the mechanism of blood pressure
      control on patients receiving conventional (3 times /week) HD to short daily HD (6 times
      /week 2 hrs/tx). After completing a 3 month run-in phase on conventional HD in which
      patient's dry weight and antihypertensive medications will be adjusted using a standardized
      algorithm, patients are to be randomized to a 3 month cross-over of daily HD versus
      conventional HD. The mechanism of improved blood pressure control will be explored using
      bioelectrical impedance to measure extracellular fluid volume (ECFV) and muscle sympathetic
      nerve activity (MSNA) as well as plasma catecholamines to measure the activity of the
      sympathetic nervous system. Additionally the effect of short daily HD, compared to
      conventional HD, on reactive oxygen species and markers of inflammation will be examined in
      Dr. Rhian Touyz lab. Lastly we will determine the patient's treatment preference.
    
  