
    
      HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors ("statins") are commonly prescribed to lower low density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) and to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD), a leading cause
      of morbidity and mortality. Long-term adherence to statins in the primary care environment is
      challenging; consequences of statin non-adherence include higher LDLc levels,
      hospitalizations, costs, and death due to CVD.

      Medication non-adherence is complex and multifactorial and can be associated with a number of
      factors including medication cost, complexity of medication regimen, poor provider-patient
      relationship / communication, and adverse side effects. For statins, side effects such as
      muscle aches, cramping, and pain (referred to broadly as statin-related myopathy) are a
      frequent cause of non-adherence. These symptoms are non-specific and are frequent reasons for
      stopping statin therapy, due to patient or provider concern about the possibility of
      statin-related myopathy. Many patients may be needlessly deprived of the cardiovascular
      benefits of long-term statin use.

      A genetic risk factor for statin myopathy and subsequent non-adherence has recently been
      identified. In a genome-wide association study, a genetic variant (named SLCO1B1*5) was a
      main contributor of statin myopathy. It was demonstrated that the SLCO1B1*5 variant is not
      only a predictor of myopathy, but also of premature statin discontinuation. The risk with the
      *5 allele is statin specific: greatest with simvastatin and atorvastatin use, the least with
      pravastatin or rosuvastatin. Therefore, the SLCO1B1*5 variant is common, can predict
      myopathy, subsequent non-adherence, and due to its statin-specific effects creates a novel
      research paradigm for personalizing statins to an individual's genetic profile. Carriers of
      the SLCO1B1*5 variant may do best on rosuvastatin, pravastatin, or fluvastatin whereas
      non-carriers may be treated with any statin.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To measure the effect of genotype-guided statin prescription on patients' concerns
      regarding the risks of statin therapy.

      Aim 2: To measure and compare the effect of genotype-guided statin prescription to non-guided
      therapy on statin adherence in patients who are currently not adherent to statins.

      The approach for this pilot study is to recruit 100 Duke University Health System (DUHS)
      patients who receive care at Duke Primary Care at Pickett Road (DPC) or Center for Living
      (CFL) clinics that have an indication for statin therapy to reduce cardiovascular risk, but
      are not currently taking a statin. Consented patients will be genotyped for the SLCO1B1*5
      allele at the Duke Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory. Test results will be returned first to
      the provider along with genotype-specific strategies to revise and/or provide a new
      prescription for statin therapy and next to the patient along with genotype-specific
      information about their personal risk of side effects on certain statin therapies. The
      primary outcome measures will be collected through the use of online surveys administered to
      patients at two time points: 1) before genetic testing and 2) 4-months after testing.
      Additional survey elements to address the patient's demographics, beliefs and concerns about
      medications, history with prescription drugs (e.g., side effects and general compliance) and
      overall experience with genetic testing during the study will be administered as well. It is
      possible that subjects will re-experience symptoms of their prior statin-intolerance when
      re-challenged with statins as part of this study. By avoiding certain types of statins (i.e.
      simvastatin and atorvastatin) in carriers of the SLCO1B1*5 genetic variant and using those
      statins (i.e. pravastatin and rosuvastatin) that in placebo controlled trials have no
      increased risk of adverse events, this risk may be less likely.

      Age-, sex-, diagnosis-, and provider-matched concurrent and historical controls will be
      created in order to compare genetically-guided with non-genetically guided therapy
    
  