
    
      Obesity leads to an increased risk of cardiovascular risk factors and death from
      cardiovascular disease. Therefore, interventions that slow or reverse the obesity epidemic
      are essential. Community-based interventions can reach those most at risk for obesity and
      obesity-related cardiovascular risk factors. Interventions based on community-based
      participatory research (CBPR) principles develop in collaboration with community partners,
      allowing an intervention s components to be tailored to the unique needs of the community
      members. To remain consistent with CBPR principles, a community assessment is necessary to
      understand the needs of the target population. Therefore, we propose a cardiovascular health
      screening and needs assessment of a sample population from predominantly African-American
      churches in Wards 5, 7, and 8. These are wards in Washington D.C. where obesity prevalence is
      highest and resources for physical activity and healthy nutrition are most limited. The
      screening will involve measuring cardiovascular health factors such as body mass index (BMI),
      physical activity, dietary intake, total cholesterol, blood pressure, fasting plasma glucose,
      and cigarette smoking. Based on American Heart Association-established goals, cardiovascular
      health factors can be defined as ideal, intermediate, or poor, depending on control of risk
      factors and lifestyle behaviors. In this protocol, we will determine the prevalence of ideal,
      intermediate, and poor cardiovascular health factors within the church-based population. We
      hypothesize that the percentage of the church-based population that meets ideal criteria for
      each of the cardiovascular health factors will be lower than the percentage meeting
      intermediate and poor criteria for the cardiovascular health factors. In addition, we will
      evaluate the use of handheld technology for objectively measuring physical activity and the
      use of web-based technology for monitoring cardiovascular health factors within the
      population. We will also evaluate social determinants of health, particularly psychosocial
      and environmental factors that might hinder weight loss. Finally, we will establish a
      community advisory board to consult on the planning and implementation of the assessment, and
      the interpretation and dissemination of study findings. The results of this community-based,
      cardiovascular health and needs assessment will inform the design and implementation of a
      future community-based behavioral weight loss intervention.
    
  