
    
      This is a retrospective, observational multicenter, non-profit, spontaneous, Italian study
      organized under the auspices of the Gruppo Italiano Trapianti di Midollo Osseo that involves
      the principal Centers active in transplantation of any kind of hematopoietic stem cells in
      Italy.

      Multiple myeloma is a neoplastic plasma cell disorder characterized by clonal proliferation
      of malignant plasma cells in the bone marrow and the presence of a monoclonal protein in the
      blood and/or urine, resulting in myeloma-defining events. The outcomes of patients with
      Multiple myeloma have improved significantly due to the introduction of novel agents;
      however, the disease remains incurable for most patients. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation has a curative potential by employing the donor immune system to eradicate
      malignant plasmacells, commonly referred to as the graft-versus-myeloma effect. However,
      despite this proven graft-versus-myeloma effect, the associated severe toxicity as
      treatment-related mortality mainly induced by myeloablative conditioning strategies and,
      above all, high relapse rate are important concerns and the place and role of allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in Multiple myeloma remain challenging. In this
      regard, the International Myeloma Working Group together with the Blood and Marrow Transplant
      Clinical Trials Network, the American Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, and the
      European Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation agreed that allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation should be considered an appropriate therapy for all eligible
      patients with early relapse (occurring within 24 months) after primary therapy that included
      the new proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs and autologous stem cell
      transplantation and/or high-risk features.

      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation might represent an interesting platform
      for the use of rescue treatments based on novel drugs after the relapse. This observation
      might reflect the fact that allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can modify the
      biology of the disease, directly targeting the myelomatous plasma cells as well as the
      microenvironment, and the well-documented graft-versus-myeloma effect induced by reactive
      allogeneic T cells may persist after relapse and contribute to an enhanced disease response.
      Novel agent-based combinations should be considered also in association with donor lymphocyte
      infusion. Monoclonal antibodies have emerged as the new option for treatment of patients with
      relapsed and refractory MM.

      This scenario might represent a good opportunity to evaluate the efficacy of novel agents
      before and after transplantation.

      The general objectives of this study are to retrospectively investigate the outcome of
      patients with Mieloma multiple after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and
      the first purpose of this study is to describe the overall survival at 2 years after
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      The secondary objectives are described Progression Free Survival, the incidence of acute and
      chronic graft versus host disease, describe the hematological and non-hematological toxicity
      of drugs administered after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and describe
      the Non-relapse- mortality.

      Data will be stored using database Promise and specific e-CRFs. Data Center will perform
      extensive consistency checks and issue. Query Forms in case of inconsistent data. Follow-up
      period for the evaluation of survival will be from the date of transplant until 24 months
      post-transplant or death.

      The study will be conducted according to the principles of Good Clinical Practice, the
      current Italian and European laws and regulations, in agreement with the declaration of
      Helsinki. The protocol has been written and the study will be conducted according to The
      International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for
      Human Use Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice, issued by the European
      Union. The responsible Local Ethical Committee approval must be obtained before starting the
      trial. A copy of the patient informed consent form must be submitted to the appropriate
      authority or committee, together with the protocol for written approval. Written approval of
      the protocol and informed consent by the responsible and appropriate authority or committee
      must be obtained prior to recruitment of patients to the study.
    
  