
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of
      ceritinib in combination with gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) alone,
      gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) and
      gemcitabine/cisplatin in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize the safety profile of ceritinib in combination with gemcitabine based
      chemotherapy in advanced solid malignancies.

      II. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of ceritinib, gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel,
      cisplatin and their metabolites when administered in combination in patients with advanced
      solid tumors.

      III. Determine the preliminary efficacy of the study combinations.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore potential biomarkers of efficacy to the study combination.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ceritinib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

      ARM 1 (ceritinib MTD then with gemcitabine alone):

      Dose Escalation Cohort 1: Patients with advanced solid tumors for whom gemcitabine
      hydrochloride-based therapy is clinically appropriate receive ceritinib orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-28 and gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Expansion Cohort 1E: Once the MTD of ceritinib has been determined, an additional 10 patients
      with anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive (ALK-positive) advanced solid tumors who previously
      progressed on gemcitabine hydrochloride-based therapy receive ceritinib and gemcitabine
      hydrochloride as in the dose escalation cohort 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2 (ceritinib MTD then with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel):

      Dose Escalation Cohort 2: Patients with advanced pancreatic cancer receive ceritinib PO QD on
      days 1-28, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, and paclitaxel
      albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Expansion Cohort 2E: Once the MTD of ceritinib has been determined, patients with
      ALK-positive advanced solid tumors receive ceritinib, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and
      paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation as in the dose escalation cohort 2.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 3 (ceritinib MTD then with gemcitabine and cisplatin):

      Dose Escalation Cohort 3: Patients with advanced solid tumors for whom gemcitabine
      hydrochloride and cisplatin-based therapy is clinically appropriate receive ceritinib PO QD
      on days 1-28, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, and cisplatin IV
      on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Expansion Cohort 3E: Once the MTD of ceritinib has been determined, an additional 10 patients
      with ALK-positive advanced solid tumors receive ceritinib, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and
      cisplatin as in the dose escalation cohort 3. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 4 weeks.
    
  