
    
      The University of Michigan (UM) Schools of Nursing, Public Health, and Medicine, the Michigan
      Department of Community Health (MDCH) and the Michigan Cancer Consortium (MCC) propose a
      multidisciplinary academic/practice three-year project to increase appropriate breast cancer
      screening utilization for young breast cancer survivors (YBCS), and their cancer-free, female
      relatives at greatest risk for breast cancer (high-risk relatives). The aims of this project
      are to: 1) identify and survey 3000 breast cancer survivors reported to the Michigan Cancer
      Surveillance Program who were diagnosed between the ages of 25-45 years regarding their
      breast cancer screening utilization; 2) identify and survey YBCS' high-risk relatives
      regarding their breast cancer screening utilization; and 3) implement two versions (targeted
      vs. enhanced tailored) of an evidence-based intervention recommended by the Guide to
      Community Preventive Services to increase breast cancer screening. Aim 1, will be
      accomplished in year 1 by MDCH, UM and MCSP. Following approval by appropriate review boards
      (MDCH, UM, and MCSP), reporting facilities and physicians of record, 3000 YBCS will be mailed
      a request to participate in the project and a baseline survey. The baseline survey will
      obtain information on the YBCS's: a) willingness to participate; b) current breast cancer
      screening utilization; c) perceived barriers and facilitators to screening and other outcomes
      related to breast cancer screening; d) identification of high-risk relatives to participate
      in the study and interest in serving as an advocate for their high-risk relatives to
      participate. Aim 2, will be accomplished in year 2 by the UM and MDCH. Based on the
      information provided by YBCS, the MDCH will identify up to two high-risk relatives per YBCS.
      UM and MDCH will mail YBCS who agree to participate in the study baseline surveys to
      distribute to their selected high-risk relatives. The baseline survey to high-risk relatives
      will obtain information on their: a) willingness to participate in the project; b) current
      breast cancer screening utilization; and c) perceived barriers and facilitators to screening
      and other outcomes related to breast cancer screening. Aim 3, will be accomplished by UM and
      MDCH. YBCS and their high-risk relatives will be randomized (as a family unit) to receive two
      versions of a small media, evidence-based intervention aiming to increase appropriate
      utilization of breast cancer screening services and other outcomes. In year 2-3, 9 months
      after YBCS and high-risk female relatives receive the intervention, UM will mail a follow-up
      survey to YBCS and their high-risk relatives to evaluate the effectiveness of each
      intervention version on: a) breast cancer screening utilization; b) perceived barriers and
      facilitators to screening; c) self-efficacy in utilizing screening services; d) family
      support related to screening; e) knowledge of the genetics of breast cancer and personal risk
      factors; and f) satisfaction with the intervention. The State of Michigan is considered a
      national leader in cancer prevention, control, and public health genomics. Key partners have
      significant prior experience in conducting studies with cancer survivors and their high-risk
      relatives. This project would greatly enhance state efforts in cancer prevention and control.
    
  