
    
      As more HIV-infected persons start antiretroviral therapy (ART) worldwide, the number needing
      second-line therapy is increasing. In many settings, an NNRTI-based regimen is the preferred
      first-line ART, whereas a protease inhibitor (PI)-based regimen is often reserved for
      second-line ART. Both of these types of regimens usually include two NRTIs.

      As with initial ART, second-line regimens ideally should be composed of three fully active
      drugs that have potent anti-HIV activity to maximize the chances of durable viral
      suppression. However, such a goal may not be achieved with second-line PI-based regimens
      containing NRTIs because of resistance mutations from first-line therapy that reduce the
      activity of the NRTI class. The most significant of these mutations include M184V, thymidine
      analogue mutations (TAMs), Q151M complex, and K65R. The presence of K65R would result in
      resistance to most NRTIs (leaving only zidovudine (ZDV) and possibly abacavir (ABC) as active
      second-line options); the presence of multiple TAMs and/or Q151M alone or in complex with
      other mutations would also result in resistance to most NRTIs.

      Recent data suggest that patients with isolated M184V-related NRTI resistance who
      subsequently switch to a boosted PI plus lamivudine (3TC)- or emtricitabine (FTC)-based
      regimen may achieve HIV-1 RNA suppression without the need to switch to more complex regimens
      [1]. Detection of an isolated M184V NRTI mutation is possible when resources allow for early
      diagnosis of virologic failure. However, in many resource-limited settings (RLS) early
      diagnosis of virologic failure is difficult because of infrequent monitoring of viral load or
      unavailability of viral load testing. This study intended to provide information applicable
      to the vast majority of RLS where resistance testing is not used routinely for selection of
      second-line regimens and PIs not needing refrigeration are preferred.

      This was a phase III, dual-arm, open-label, randomized, non-inferiority study for
      participants who were on a failing NNRTI-containing first-line regimen. The study evaluated
      the difference in virologic failure rate between two treatment arms:

      Arm A: LPV/r plus RAL Arm B: LPV/r plus best available NRTIs

      Best available NRTI combinations were selected by the site investigator prior to
      randomization from a list of combinations approved by the study or in consultation with the
      A5273 Clinical Management Committee (CMC). The NRTIs provided by the study were FTC/TDF,
      ABC/3TC/ZDV, ABC/3TC, 3TC/ZDV, ABC, 3TC, and ZDV.

      Participants took their assigned study therapy until 96 weeks of follow-up or 52 weeks after
      the last participant was enrolled (protocol amendment), whichever was earlier. This study
      originally planned to enroll 600 participants (300 per study arm), but the sample size was
      re-evaluated to 480 participants (240 per study arm), due to emergent data from other
      studies. Participants were assigned with equal probability to one of the two treatment
      regimens using permuted blocks. Randomization was stratified by three factors: screening
      HIV-1 RNA (≥100,000 versus <100,000 copies/mL); screening CD4+ cell count (≥100 versus <100
      cells/mm3), and selection of ZDV in the NRTI regimen (yes/no). Furthermore, randomization was
      balanced by site.

      During the study, participants were asked to return to the clinic at Weeks 4, 12, 24, and
      then every 12 weeks. Visits lasted about 30 minutes. At most visits, participants had a
      physical exam, had their arm, waist and hip circumference measured, and answered questions
      about their medical condition and any medications they were taking. At some visits,
      participants completed questionnaires to see how they were feeling, if they had been
      hospitalized recently, and how well they were taking their anti-HIV drugs, had their blood
      drawn and were asked to give urine samples. If the participant was female and able to become
      pregnant, a pregnancy test was taken at any visit that pregnancy was suspected.
    
  