
    
      Inhalational anthrax infection is associated with a 60-100% mortality rate, depending on the
      rapidity with which appropriate antimicrobial therapy is initiated. Experiments using an
      animal model of inhalational anthrax suggest that adjunctive therapy with equine-derived
      anti-anthrax antisera may be associated with higher survival rates, however no human-derived
      antisera are currently available. The purpose of this protocol is to provide a mechanism for
      obtaining high-titer anti-anthrax immunoglobulin by plasmapheresis of human volunteers who
      have recently received a course of anthrax vaccination. Volunteers are Department of Defense
      (DoD) employees and military personnel who are within 3 to 12 weeks of having received a
      fourth or greater dose of AVA if four to six total inoculations were given, or within 6
      months of the last dose if seven or more AVA inoculations were given. All vaccinees were
      vaccinated as a requirement of their tour of duty and will otherwise meet all blood donor
      eligibility criteria, in accord with Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements and
      American Association of Blood Banks (AABB) standards. Plasmapheresis will be accomplished
      using licensed apheresis devices and standard collection techniques, and products will meet
      all blood safety testing requirements currently mandated by the FDA. Plasma components
      collected under this protocol will be stored in the frozen state as fresh frozen plasma (FFP)
      until a protocol for administration of these components to human patients critically ill with
      inhalational anthrax infection has been reviewed and approved by the IRB's of NIH, CDC, and
      USAMRIID. Following this approval, products will undergo standard Cohn-Oncley fractionation
      into a concentrated immunoglobulin preparation suitable for intravenous use, to be designated
      anthrax immune globulin intravenous (AIGIV). Intravenous administration of products derived
      from plasma collected under this protocol, whether as single-donor FFP or as AIGIV, will
      occur under a Phase I/II trial involving an Investigational New Drug (IND) exemption, with
      the IND held by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The plasma products
      collected under this protocol will also be used in pharmacokinetic, dose finding, and
      efficacy studies in animals, and to establish a repository of reference serum standards at
      the CDC. This study represents a collaborative effort between the DTM/NIH, CDC, and DoD.
    
  