
    
      Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is a humanized monoclonal antibody. An antibody is a common type of
      protein made in the body in response to a foreign substance. Antibodies attack foreign
      substances and protect against infection. Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory
      for use in treating patients, an antibody that is made in the lab is also known as a
      humanized monoclonal antibody. There are now several approved antibodies for the therapy of
      cancer and other disease. Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) has been studied in lab experiments and in
      other types of cancer. Information from these studies suggests that Pembrolizumab (MK-3475)
      may be beneficial in your type of cancer. Bevacizumab, also known as Avastin, is approved by
      the FDA for treating recurrent GBM. Bevacizumab is an anti-angiogenic medicine, which means
      it blocks blood vessels from forming that could supply the tumor with nutrients and oxygen.

      There is a safety lead-in to evaluate pembrolizumab in combination of with bevacizumab
      (cohort A) expected to enroll up to 18 participants. Three dose levels (DL) are evaluated for
      pembrolizumab administered at 200 mg (flat dosing) under various dose intervals: every 3 (DL
      0), 4 (DL -1) or 6 (DL -2) weeks. A standard 3+3 design is used starting at DL 0.
      De-escalation may occur depending on observation of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). At least 6
      participants will be evaluated for DLT at DL 0. The Phase II study randomizes participants to
      cohort A: pembrolizumab (using the MTD determined in the safety lead-in) and bevacizumab or
      cohort B: pembrolizumab monotherapy (using the MTD determined in the safety lead-in). Accrual
      goals are established for each cohort: A n=50 and B n=30 participants. The two cohorts are
      evaluated independently against a historical control and not compared. All participants
      treated at the safety lead-in established MTD dose level will be rolled into the Phase II
      cohort.
    
  