
    
      1. Pre- Transplantation Phase -

             1. Twenty-four to 48 hours following completion of consolidation chemotherapy,
                patients will begin to receive G-CSF at 10 mcg/kg twice daily subcutaneously.
                Alternatively, patients may receive G-CSF alone (same dose) as mobilization
                therapy.

             2. Leukapheresis will begin day 4 of G-CSF administration and proceed according to
                institutional guidelines. Leukapheresis will continue until a target goal for
                recipient body weight is obtained, or up to a maximum of 5 days. A minimum
                recipient body weight is required to proceed to transplantation.

        2. Transplantation Phase

           a. Conditioning/Preparative therapy - up to 30 days following PBSC collection, patients
           will begin conditioning therapy with Busulfan IV daily x 4 days (transplantation days
           -5,-4,-3,-2). The day -5 and -4 dose will be 130mg/m2; subsequent doses will be adjusted
           based on pharmacokinetic monitoring.

             -  Busulfan plasma level monitoring, collected around the first dose of busulfan b.
                Stem cell reinfusion - following 1 day of rest, previously collected autologous
                peripheral blood stem cells will be infused.

             -  The administration of supportive measures (e.g. intravenous fluids, antihistamines)
                during stem cell reinfusion will be performed according to institutional
                guidelines.

        3. Supportive care

             1. Antibiotic prophylaxis- according to hospital/institutional guidelines, and at the
                discretion of the treating physician.

             2. Growth factor support

             3. Transfusion support

             4. Prophylaxis for busulfan-induced seizures

        4. During follow-up, patients will be seen at least weekly for the first month and there
           after periodically out to 730 days posttransplant. The following medical procedures will
           be done:

             -  Medical history and physical exam (including concurrent meds, vital signs,
                performance status and weight)

             -  Standard labs

             -  Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy
    
  