
    
      Ten medical schools are matched and then randomized, with 5 schools being randomized to MME
      and 5 schools to TE.

      The primary aim of the study is to refine, implement, and evaluate whether a multi-modal
      educational (MME) approach is more effective than traditional educational (TE) approach for
      developing skill in the use of the 5As counseling steps for tobacco dependence treatment.

      Multi-Modal Education(MME)Approach:

      The MME approach includes: 1) a web-based course during the first-year of medical school; 2)
      a tobacco counseling role-play exercise; 3) training preceptors in the use of the 5As,
      preceptor observation of students in the use of 5As and providing instruction and feedback to
      students during a designated third-year clerkship rotation; and 4) a booster session provided
      during the third-year clerkship experience. These components are designed to enhance the
      interpersonal (e.g. 5As self-reported skill, tobacco treatment knowledge), intrapersonal
      (e.g. experiences observing 5As, experiences receiving 5As instruction), and organizational
      factors (e.g. clinic/system reminders) associated with optimal learning. This combination,
      primarily due to the web-based course/role play and preceptor facilitated teaching methods,
      is hypothesized to enhance medical students' 5As tobacco dependence treatment skills,
      compared to the TE approach.

      Traditional Education (TE) Approach:

      The TE approach represents "usual care" and includes the current content and method for
      tobacco teaching among medical schools. TE content typically includes knowledge in the basic
      science of tobacco use (e.g. health consequences of tobacco use and passive smoking), and the
      knowledge and practice of tobacco dependence treatment. All schools prior to randomization
      met the inclusion criteria that the curriculum devoted no more than four hours to tobacco.

      The RCT's secondary aims address the potential impact of the interpersonal, intrapersonal,
      and organizational factors on tobacco dependence treatment counseling skills. The hypothesis
      is that these factors mediate the relationship between the MME curriculum approach and the
      primary outcome, observed 5As counseling skill, and that the MME approach will outperform the
      TE approach in each of these areas. This study also will assess the feasibility of
      implementing the MME across medical schools.
    
  