
    
      This trial is designed as an open label, non randomised, dose escalation and cohort
      expansion, first administration to human study to be conducted in approximately 20 European
      sites. The study is aiming to identify the Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and Maximum Tolerated
      Dose (MTD), to assess the pharmacokinetics and to determine the clinical activity and
      potential immunogenicity of MEN1112, administered as IV infusion for two 21-day cycles.

      Approximately 100 male and female ≥ 18 years-old patients, with a documented diagnosis of
      relapsed or refractory AML (not M3 FAB subtype), will be treated in the study, which consists
      of two steps.

      Step 1 is the dose escalation phase according to a 3+3 patients cohort design. Incremental
      mg/Kg doses will be tested. Briefly, MEN1112 doses are to be administered to 3 patients; if
      no DLT is observed in a cohort of 3 DLT evaluable patients at a given dose level, the next
      cohort of 3 new patients will be treated with the next higher dose. In case of DLT occurrence
      by one of the three patients at any dose, the cohort will be expanded to 6 DLT evaluable
      patients at the same dose level. If two or more patients at a given dose level exhibit DLT,
      the dose escalation phase will be concluded as the MTD will be identified as one dose level
      below the one at which ≥ 2 DLT out of 6 treated patients occur.

      Step 2 is the cohort expansion phase which will include patients treated at the MTD or the
      maximum dose level judged to be tolerable.

      In each study Step, patients will be given two induction cycles of MEN1112 followed by a
      four-week End of Treatment period and a Follow-up period. In Step 1 and Step 2, DLT and MTD
      will be assessed when MEN1112 is given as a 'one shot' infusion (first group of patients) for
      all doses as well as a 'ramp up' administration to be infused in 3 days for the first two
      doses in Cycle 1 (second group of patients).

      Along the study period, adverse events, changes in hematology/serum biochemistry parameters
      and bone marrow treatment response will represent the major clinical findings to be monitored
      on regular basis. The individual experimental clinical phase will last up to 6 months (except
      for female patients of childbearing potential that will undergo monthly pregnancy test until
      6 months from the last study drug administration) encompassing approx. 40 planned visits at
      site, including Screening,Treatment, End of Treatment, Follow-up period and the End of Study
      visit.
    
  