
    
      The use of carbapenems, very broad spectrum antibiotics of last resort, is becoming more
      common due to the increased prevalence in the hospital and community of extended spectrum
      β-lactamase (ESBL) producing gram-negative bacilli (GNB), including CTX-M type, which are
      resistant to all other β-lactam antibiotics. Meanwhile, it creates a selective pressure
      towards emergence of strains which are also resistant to carbapenems, placing patients in a
      catastrophic situation of therapeutic dead-end. A better understanding of the mechanisms of
      emergence of BGN resistant to carbapenems is necessary to optimize their use and undertake
      preventive measures to preserve their effectiveness.

      Hypotheses: Carbapenems induce in treated patients the emergence of resistant GNB in
      intestinal flora and have an impact on colonization resistance of the gut microbiota.

      Primary objective: To determine the frequency of emergence of carbapenems resistant GNB in
      the intestinal flora at the end of a treatment by imipenem or ertapenem.

      Secondary objective(s):

        -  Assess the presence of carbapenem resistant GNB in the intestinal flora before
           treatment.

        -  Evaluate the presence and / or persistence of carbapenem resistant GNB in the intestinal
           flora on day 3 of treatment, and 15 days and 1 month after the end of treatment.

        -  Determine the molecular mechanisms of resistance of strains of interest.

        -  Describe the gastrointestinal tract colonization by non-commensal microorganisms before
           and after treatment (impact on colonization resistance).

        -  Describe the characteristics of patients with emergence of resistance compared to
           patients who do not.

        -  Proper conservation of stool of 10 patients for metagenomic and/or metatranscriptomic
           analysis of changes in the intestinal flora.

      Primary endpoint: Presence of carbapenem resistant GNB in the stool at the end of treatment
      in patients who did not before, after culture on selective media.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Presence of carbapenem resistant GNB in stools before treatment, at day 3 and 15 days
           and 1 month after stopping treatment, after culture on selective media.

        -  PCR and sequencing of resistance genes from strains of interest.

        -  Colonization of the digestive tract by non-commensal microorganisms before and after
           treatment.

        -  Characteristics of patients with or without emergence of resistance.
    
  