
    
      Intensive care units (ICUs) are the most frequently identified source of nosocomial
      infections within the hospital, with infection rates and antimicrobial resistance rates
      significantly higher than in the general ward. In one study, antimicrobial use was reported
      to be 10 times higher in the ICU compared to antimicrobial use in the general ward. Although
      antibiotics are given for a variety of conditions, antibiotics prescribed for respiratory
      infections, suspected or proven, account for almost one-half of all antibiotic consumption in
      the ICU. Importantly, the use of antimicrobial agents has been identified as a critical risk
      factor in the emergence of resistant bacterial infections. By identifying and focusing on
      subsets of subjects who are unlikely to have infection and therefore unlikely to benefit from
      antibiotics, antibiotic use and the subsequent emergence of antimicrobial-resistant organisms
      could be limited. This is a Phase III, multi-center, randomized, open-label study designed to
      determine whether 3 days of antibiotic treatment with meropenem (with or without coverage for
      MRSA) for ICU subjects diagnosed with new pulmonary infiltrates can reduce the emergence of
      antimicrobial-resistant organisms and the isolation of a potential pathogen compared to a
      standard course of antibiotic therapy (minimum of 8 days of therapy with antibiotics of the
      primary care team's choosing). The primary objective of this study is to compare risk of
      resistant infection in the ICU by evaluating the difference in the incidence of either the
      emergence of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria or the isolation of a potential pathogen in ICU
      subjects who receive short-course empiric antibiotic therapy to ICU subjects who receive
      standard antibiotic therapy for the treatment of pulmonary infiltrates (with low likelihood
      of having pneumonia). Secondary objectives are to: 1) assess the mortality of subjects
      receiving short-course empiric antibiotic therapy compared to standard antibiotic therapy; 2)
      assess the ICU length of stay (LOS) in subjects receiving short-course empiric antibiotic
      therapy compared to standard antibiotic therapy; 3) assess the hospital LOS in subjects
      receiving short-course empiric antibiotic therapy compared to standard antibiotic therapy; 4)
      assess the costs of antibiotic therapy in subjects receiving short-course empiric antibiotic
      therapy compared to standard antibiotic therapy. The costs will be based on ICU LOS, hospital
      LOS, antibiotic treatment, and standard costs related to the treatment of infection-related
      adverse experiences; 5) assess the risk of clinically significant infection in subjects
      receiving short-course empiric antibiotic therapy compared to standard antibiotic therapy.
      This study will enroll 460 subjects who have new pulmonary infiltrates during their ICU stay
      and who are at low risk of having pneumonia, as determined using the Clinical Pulmonary
      Infection Score (CPIS).
    
  