
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a multisystem disorder associated with episodes of acute
      clinical events and progressive organ damage. Episodic pain, triggered by microvascular
      vaso-occlusion induced by sickling of red blood cells (RBCs), is the most common acute
      complication and the leading cause of hospitalization. As the root cause of SCD is
      polymerization of deoxy-hemoglobin S (HbS), there is a strong rationale for exploring agents
      that could inhibit or reduce the polymerization process itself. HbS polymerization is
      influenced by a number of factors, including 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentration
      in the RBC. Increased 2,3-DPG levels in SCD decrease oxygen binding of hemoglobin and
      stabilizes the deoxygenated state, causing HbS to polymerize. In addition, increased 2,3-DPG
      concentration decreases intraerythrocyte pH, further promoting HbS polymerization. 2,3-DPG is
      an intermediate substrate in the glycolytic pathway, the only source of energy production in
      RBCs in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Pyruvate kinase (PK) is a key enzyme in the
      final step of glycolysis that is responsible for 50% of the total red cell ATP production.
      ATP is essential for maintaining integrity of the RBC membrane, and therefore reduced PK
      activity not only leads to the accumulation of upstream 2,3-DPG and HbS polymerization but
      also affects RBC membrane health. Therefore, increasing red cell PK (PKR) activity presents a
      new and potentially attractive therapeutic target for thwarting HbS polymerization,
      vaso-occlusion, and hemolysis in SCD.

      Mitapivat (AG-348) is an orally bioavailable small molecule allosteric activator of PKR,
      currently being studied in Phase II/III clinical trials in humans with PK deficiency
      (NCT02476916, NCT03548220 / AG348-C-006; NCT03559699 / AG348-C-007), as well as in an ongoing
      Phase II clinical trial in humans with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NCT03692052).
      The recently published results of mitapivat treatment in a large cohort of PK deficient
      subjects appear promising, with demonstrated durable improvement in anemia and reduction in
      hemolysis, as well as an acceptable safety profile. The preclinical and clinical mitapivat
      data support dose-dependent changes in blood glycolytic intermediates including 2,3-DPG,
      consistent with glycolytic pathway activation at multiple ascending doses tested, supporting
      the potential anti-sickling role of mitapivat in the treatment of SCD.

      We (PI: Dr. S. L. Thein) initiated a Phase I study (NCT04000165) to assess clinical safety
      and tolerability of multiple escalating doses of mitapivat in subjects with SCD. To date, we
      have observed an acceptable safety profile for mitapivat at all doses, as well as preliminary
      evidence of efficacy, with increases in hemoglobin level and decreases in hemolytic markers
      observed in a majority of SCD subjects. Following on these preliminary results, the present
      study has been initiated to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of long-term
      treatment with maintenance dosing of mitapivat in subjects with SCD.
    
  