
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Social dominance, the tendency to exercise social influence and control, has been positively
      associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) risk among males, independent of biomedical risk
      factors and hostility. Exposure to dominant others behaviors also has been associated with
      elevated CHD risk. For females, submissiveness and a constellation of psychosocial behaviors
      opposite to urgency and competitiveness have been associated with increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). The studies extend a growing literature concerning the central
      role of social relationships in health and illness and they test a theoretical model that
      addresses why social relationships and interpersonally-oriented person variables such as
      dominance may have differing consequences for the physical well-being of men and women.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The three studies were designed to test a social-contextual model of dominance and
      cardiovascular stress reactivity (CVR) that synthesized and elaborated earlier models in
      order to account for (1) cardiovascular consequences of exposure to dominant others and (2)
      differences in dominant men's and women's cardiovascular responses to social interactions.
      Because of the disproportionately high rates of CVD among Black Americans, both Black and
      white men and women were included in the studies.

      Using a laboratory social interaction paradigm, study 1 refined and validated a coding system
      designed to assess dominant and hostile behaviors during dyadic social interaction. Study 2
      examined two factors proposed to account for differences in dominant men's and women's
      cardiovascular responses to social interaction: (1) explicit role demands regarding dominance
      expression (i.e., the degree to which situations provided clear and salient cues regarding
      expected and acceptable behavior) and (2) gender composition of the dyad (i.e., same sex
      versus opposite sex). These two factors were manipulated independently while unacquainted,
      healthy young adult men and women participated in task-oriented dyadic discussions designed
      to activate motives to influence; cardiovascular responses were measured during the
      discussions and preceding rests. Study 3, a secondary analysis of data collected in study 2,
      examined associations between CVR and exposure to others' dominance. The aforementioned
      behavioral coding system was used to assess behavioral dominance observed in study 2 and path
      analytic techniques were used to model associations among CVR, one's own and one's partner's
      trait and behavioral dominance, gender, and situational factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  