
    
      One day international cross-sectional audit in all types of hospital wards. Intensive care
      units are excluded. Data are collected with the help of questionnaires. Anonymised data entry
      into the audit database is done with individual and anonymous center and unit-codes.

      The data collected consist of four parts:

        1. Unit organisation and structures:

           Structural information about the unit (one sheet / unit) to be filled by the unit
           supervising physician together with the nursing head.

        2. Patient's demographics & medical information:

           Demographic profile, diagnostic category based on ICD 10 and nutritional interventions
           for all patients (one line / patient) to be filled by a responsible person from the
           medical staff. Oncological patients have an additional caregiver sheet to define
           precisely cancer stage and specific treatment.

        3. Individual self-administered patient questionnaire:

           Each patient should document her/his nutritional intake during the study period. In
           addition patients may be asked to fill a questionnaire about changes in nutritional
           habits and reasons for decreased nutritional intake from the patient's perspective.
           Oncological patients have an additional optional patient sheet to determine the specific
           nutritional problems and supportive treatments used.

        4. Individual patient outcome:

      hospital cohort: at hospital discharge or day 30, whatever comes first: date of unit
      discharge, date of hospital discharge, site of discharge and health status.

      Participation rules:

        1. A user needs to register to nutritionDay as a member to the nutritionDay network. Each
           may choose a personal user name. Each user needs to provide a valid email address. After
           responding to a validation email the user is registered with the chosen user name. User
           details are stored on a system that is not connected to the nutritionDay registry at any
           time. One user may serve as contact for several units and centers.

        2. A user may order codes for participation for one or several centers and units. Access to
           the registry is only possible with a center code and unit code. These codes are selected
           from a list of random numbers.

      Audit/registry recruitment plan:

      Participation to the registry is voluntary. There is actually no participation fee. All
      necessary information can be obtained from a dedicated website (www.nutritionday.org).
      Participation can be promoted via international and national scientific societies,
      universities, health care organisations or governmental agencies as well as via advertisement
      at international and national congresses. The target would be all types of hospital wards
      within hospitals of different sizes and level of care.

      Risk and benefit assessment:

      The benefit for each patient is that awareness and knowledge about nutrition related factors
      and treatment options in the treating unit is increased. There is no individual risk since
      the audit is purely observational.

      The benefit for the individual unit is to receive an extensive benchmarking report displaying
      the unit data in comparison with all units from the same specialty from the previous 3 years
      immediately after the end of data entry and a validation step. Units or groups of units may
      request specific reports that can be obtained only after a case by case agreement and
      financial coverage. All data used as a reference for benchmarking purpose are from units
      where a minimum of 60% of actually present patients have been recruited and the outcome at
      day 30 is available in more than 80% of these patients. There is no risk for the unit since
      anonymity of unit is structurally strictly maintained.

      The benefit for the registry up-to-date data enabling benchmarking in pace with medical and
      care evolution. Moreover the registry data are used for research of the scientific community.

      The aim is to recruit a minimum of 10-50 units with 20-30 beds per participating country. A
      minimum of 10 units per medical specialty will be necessary to allow specialty adjustment.

      Data security:

      On the datasheets the unit and the hospital/center are identified by a numeric code delivered
      after application to the nutritionDay coordinating center by an automatic system. The only
      requirement is a valid email address for direct communication with the unit.

      Patients are usually identified on the locally used questionnaires by initials and age, but
      use of initials is not mandatory. Consecutive numbering is also possible. Only the
      participating unit has to trace patients identifier to be able to collect hospital outcome at
      day 30 after nutritionDay and to answer automatic requests for data clarification during the
      data quality feedback.

      During data entry into the electronic registry only anonymous codes for center, unit and
      patients are possible. Thus the data handling centre cannot trace data back to an individual
      patient. The access to data entry is protected by anonymous center-code and unit-code.

      Typically all data are collected via a dedicated website accessed via www.nutritionday.org .

      The protected data server is run by the Center for Medical Statistics Informatics and
      Intelligent Systems (CEMSIS) of the Medical University Vienna. The data server is mirrored
      and backed up. The data server is protected within the University Firewall against external
      access.

      Data feedback and individual unit report

      All participating units are entitled to receive a bench-marking report from the registry. The
      report generator is started by the participating unit, when data entry has been completed. As
      a first step each unit receives a data feedback sheet that is based on an electronic data
      plausibility and missing data analysis. After stating that all data are correctly entered the
      final report can be generated. This final report offers complete descriptive statistics of
      the unit data compared to the reference data from the previous 4 years of the corresponding
      specialty. Only data from units fulfilling a high data quality standard are used for the
      reference. More than 60% of the patients present in the unit need to participate and 80% of
      these patients need to have their outcome recorded. Optionally the period used for comparison
      can be extended until 2006. All descriptive statistics represent prevalent data and are not
      corrected for cross-sectional sampling to allow direct data control and interpretation.

      All downloaded reports of a unit are consecutively numbered and stored for documentation
      purpose.

      Data analysis and modelling:

      The first aim of the project is to serve local specialty specific and up-to-date benchmarking
      with regard nutrition and feeding status , risk profile and nutrition care. Given the typical
      cross-sectional sample of 20-30 patients frequent risk factors can be easily compared because
      such risk factors as recent weight loss or less than normal eating are observed in one third
      to half of the patients.

      The second aim is scientific data analysis. The actual research questions are:

        -  Identifying the risk factors associated with decreased eating.

        -  Analysing the impact of risk factors for increased length of hospital stay

        -  Analysing time-trends in risk profile and nutrition care

        -  Analysing the economic impact of nutrition risk factors on the health care system

        -  Updating the PANDORA score if major change in performance is identified

      The actual database includes 103 920 patients for the period 2006-2012 and allow the
      following precision for estimating the prevalence of risk factors:

      Risk factor prevalence 1% precision as 95% CI 0.93-1.07%

      Risk factor prevalence 5% precision as 95% CI 4.87-5.14%

      Risk factor prevalence 10% precision as 95% CI 9.81-10.19%

      Risk factor prevalence 20% precision as 95% CI 19.75-20.25%

      Risk factor prevalence 30% precision as 95% CI 29.72-30.29%

      Risk factor prevalence 40% precision as 95% CI 39.70-40.30%

      Given the typical participation of 12 000-20 000 patients annually, the investigators expect
      to have a sufficiently precise database for benchmarking, when using the last 4 years data.

      For the scientific data analysis the investigators use COX-regression or general linear model
      with proper weighting of observations to account for the effect of cross-sectional sampling
      for events such as discharge or death and linear regression models to analyse length of stay.
      Whenever several events can occur in a patient a competing risk analysis is performed.

      All data analysis will be done at the Dept. for Medical Statistics, Medical University
      Vienna. After publication of the multinational results, all national datasets will be
      available for national publication based on a research plan, if the number of wards is large
      enough to ensure anonymity for the individual ward within the country.
    
  