
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bosutinib in combination with
      inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients with Philadelphia-chromosome positive (Ph+) acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in lymphoid blast phase that
      express CD22. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of bosutinib in combination with
      inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients with Ph+ ALL and CML in lymphoid blast phase that express
      CD22. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of bosutinib in combination with inotuzumab ozogamicin in
      patients with Ph+ ALL and CML in lymphoid blast phase that express CD22. (Phase I) II. To
      determine the duration of response of patients treated with this combination. (Phase I) III.
      To determine the overall survival of patients treated with this combination. (Phase I) IV. To
      determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of CD22 with response to this
      combination. (Phase I) V. To determine the efficacy of this combination according to
      pre-treatment mutation status in the ABL kinase domain. (Phase I) VI. To determine the
      minimal residual disease after treatment with this combination and its impact in long-term
      outcome. (Phase I) VII. To determine the safety bosutinib in combination with inotuzumab
      ozogamicin in patients with Ph+ ALL and CML in lymphoid blast phase that express CD22. (Phase
      II) VIII. To determine the duration of response of patients treated with this combination.
      (Phase II) IX. To determine the overall survival of patients treated with this combination.
      (Phase II) X. To determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of CD22 with
      response to this combination. (Phase II) XI. To determine the efficacy of this combination
      according to pre-treatment mutation status in the abl kinase domain. (Phase II) XII. To
      determine the minimal residual disease after treatment with this combination and its impact
      in long-term outcome. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of bosutinib followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive bosutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive
      inotuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients with
      confirmed complete response (CR), incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), complete cytogenetic
      response (CCyR) and/or absence of minimal residual disease (MRD) may receive inotuzumab
      ozogamicin IV on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 1
      year.
    
  