
    
      Synchronization of the timing of biological processes and behaviors with the 24-hour
      light-dark cycle is fundamental to almost every physiological process, cognitive function,
      and overall health. As the average circadian period in humans is ~9 min longer than the 24-h
      day, and artificial lighting allows a further delay in the clock, circadian entrainment must
      occur every day. This makes the process of circadian entrainment of the internal clock with
      the external environment a commonly overlooked process, but one that has serious
      ramifications if impaired.

      In rodent models, high-fat diets have been shown to disorganize the circadian timing system.
      There has been limited examination, however, of how composition of diet acts on the circadian
      timing system in humans. The ability to entrain to a new light schedule has been briefly
      examined after a high-fat diet in rodent models.When mice are exposed to a 6-h shift in the
      light-dark cycle and fed a diet composed of ~50% fat for 3 weeks, they experience a 20%
      slower rate of re-entrainment to the new light cycle as compared to mice fed a low-fat diet.
      Further, these mice had an attenuated response to a phase-advancing light pulse. Moreover,
      simply providing a high-fat diet to mice results in a lengthened circadian period and a shift
      in ad libitum eating patterns into the typical rest phase.

      The goals of this study are to uncover the influence of diet on the human circadian timing
      system. The protocol is a 46-day (28 outpatient days, 18 inpatient days over two 9 day
      visits) randomized cross-over study designed to elucidate the speed of entrainment in
      response to a high-fat diet. Participants will be provided 3 weeks of a high-fat diet
      (2-weeks outpatient, 1-week inpatient) of 50% calories from fat. The protocol includes two
      types of data collection; ambulatory monitoring on strict sleep-wake schedules with either
      high-fat or low-fat meals provided by the study team and precise in-laboratory measurements
      of circadian timing, entrainment, and other physiological markers of sleep and
      cardiometabolic health.

        1. Ambulatory Monitoring: Participants will maintain a consistent 14-day at home 8h sleep
           schedule at habitual times before both laboratory visits to ensure 1) subjects are not
           sleep restricted and 2) that they are obtaining the same light-dark schedule prior to
           each laboratory visit for stable entrainment; verified by actigraphy, sleep logs, and
           call-ins to a time stamped recorder. Drugs, medications, caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine
           will be proscribed during this time and toxicology analysis will be performed upon
           in-laboratory admission.

        2. Outpatient diet: For 2-weeks prior to each protocol, participants will consume an
           outpatient isocaloric diet designed to meet individual daily energy requirements; diet
           designed and prepared by investigators. Diets will either be designed to be high in
           calories from fat (50% fat, 35% carbohydrate and 15% protein; 33% of each mono, poly and
           saturated fat) or low-fat (30% fat, 55% carbohydrate and 15% protein)
           (randomized-crossover design). The diet will consist of a breakfast, lunch, dinner, and
           snack and participants will either come to the laboratory ~3 days or staff will deliver
           meals. Participants will be instructed to only consume the food provided during these
           14-days. Adherence to the diet will be captured via tracking meals using a mobile food
           tracking application (MealLogger AppTM (Wellness Foundry, New York)).

        3. Inpatient Protocols: Participants will be admitted to an individual room free of
           external time cues (e.g., clocks, radios, computers, visitors and sunlight). Room
           temperature is maintained at 21 - 22.2 °C and light intensity set at ≤5 lux during
           scheduled constant posture procedures, room light (400 lux) during entrainment
           wakefulness and 0 lux (darkness) during scheduled sleep opportunities. Participants will
           be instrumented for full polysomnography (PSG), electrocardiogram, and a rectal
           thermistor for continuous core body temperature measurement. An 18-gauge IV catheter
           will also be inserted into the forearm and connected to a triple-stopcock manifold via
           an IV loop with a 12- foot small-lumen extension cable through which blood sampling can
           continue in the next room without disturbing sleep.

      After instrumentation, participants will be given a sleep opportunity and will awakened to
      dim-lighting and maintaining a constant posture protocol for accurate assessment of circadian
      phase, resting metabolic rate, and other physiological outcomes. After the constant posture
      protocol, participants' light-dark cycle will be changed for 6 identical days, followed by a
      second constant posture protocol for re-assessment of circadian phase. This protocol will be
      repeated while participants are provided the other cross-over meal. Investigators/nurses will
      be present in the lab or in a central control room 24 h per day to monitor subject health,
      data acquisition, provide meals, collect biologic specimens, perform tests, and record sleep.
      A physician is always on call when a participant is in the laboratory. An extensive series of
      protocols and checklists and team practices are used to ensure uniformity in execution of
      standard procedures.

      Energy content of diets will be designed to meet individual daily energy requirements.
      Dietitians will prepare isocaloric meals containing macronutrient contents of high or low-fat
      diet and no caffeine. Caloric intake will be the same caloric and macronutrient composition
      for each day of laboratory study and will be provided as miniature snacks frequently during
      each constant posture protocol (e.g., ¼ turkey & cheese sandwich, juice and water).
    
  