
    
      The overall goal of this research project will be to provide scientific evidence of the
      robot-assisted therapy in sequential combination with distributed constraint-induced therapy
      (RT + dCIT)versus monotherapy of the robot-assisted therapy (RT), distributed
      constraint-induced therapy (dCIT), and a dose-matched control therapy (DMCT)in stroke
      rehabilitation. The specific aims of this proposed research are identified as follows:

        1. The investigators will investigate the treatment effects of RT + dCIT compared to RT,
           CIT, and DMCT on motor ability, muscle function, sensory function, daily performance,
           real-world arm activity, quality of life, and motor control variables at before
           treatment, midterm assessment, and after treatment. In addition to study of treatment
           benefits, physiological responses as the potential adverse effects including
           post-exertional fatigue, post-exertional pain, and a biomarker of oxidative stress will
           be also examined in this project. The investigators hypothesized that the therapeutic
           regimen combining RT with dCIT will contribute to more significantly reduction in
           impairment and disability for stroke patients than the other intervention groups.

        2. The investigators will investigate if the clinical characteristics or behavioral markers
           of stroke patients will influence the outcomes after interventions. The proposed
           potential predictors will be chronicity, side of lesion, muscle tone, motor ability of
           distal part of upper limb, and amount of affected hand use.

        3. The investigators will examine whether the improved scores after each treatment reach
           clinically important changes in order to establish the clinical significance relevant
           for individualized medicine. The investigators will also assess and compare the
           clinimetric properties (e.g., validity, responsiveness, minimal detectable change, and
           minimal clinically important difference) of the rehabilitation outcomes to inform
           selection of instruments.
    
  