
    
      Methamphetamine is an addictive stimulant drug that strongly activates certain systems in the
      brain and can cause strong feelings of euphoria. Methamphetamine use has been associated with
      high risk sexual practices, such as unprotected anal and vaginal sex, multiple sex partners,
      and sex with partners who inject drugs. These behaviors and others have led to higher rates
      of STD- and HIV-infections among methamphetamine users. Despite the connection between
      methamphetamine use and high risk sexual behaviors, few efforts have been made to develop and
      implement sexual risk reduction programs for this population. Studies of risk reduction
      programs for "at risk" populations have shown that longer programs are more effective in
      maintaining improvements in sexual risk behaviors. This study will evaluate the effectiveness
      of a long-term sexual risk reduction intervention in reducing sexual risk behavior among
      heterosexual, HIV uninfected people who use methamphetamine.

      Participants in this 12-month, open-label study will be randomly assigned to one of the
      following two conditions: 1) "Tri-focal Cognitive Behavioral Therapy - Social Skills Training
      (CBTSS) Counseling Program." This condition represents the active experimental condition.
      Consistent with the theoretical framework, this condition will involve nine 90-minute
      face-to-face counseling sessions that use cognitive behavioral therapy and strategies
      associated with social cognitive theory and the theory or reasoned action to address three
      treatment domains-mood regulation, reduction/cessation of meth use, and reduction of high
      risk sexual practices. 2) "Standard Care Comparison Condition." Subjects who are assigned to
      this condition will participate in nine weekly, face-to-face individual counseling sessions
      that provide standard care in relation to sexual risk, methamphetamine use, and depression.
      The sexual risk component is a modified version of Project RESPECT (CDC, Atlanta)1 that
      focuses on educational materials and personal risk appraisal. The meth component is a
      modified version of the 12-step drug abstinence program developed by the National Institute
      of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA)(Project MATCH). The depression component is an
      educational approach based primarily on materials provided by the National Alliance on Mental
      Illness (NAMI) and the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). All three programs are
      widely available and used in community practice.
    
  