
    
      A total of 105 patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are scheduled to receive surgical
      treatment and will be divided into three groups. Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAC),
      three-dimensional mapping guided radiofrequency ablation and LAAC combined radiofrequency
      ablation (1:1:1) were performed respectively. All patients were examined by real-time
      three-dimensional and two-dimensional ultrasound before operation, 1 and 3 months after
      operation to measure left atrial (LA) function. All ultrasound data will be stored and the
      professional director of the ultrasound room will be invited for quantitative analysis. The
      ultrasound indexes include: left atrial diameter, left atrial ejection fraction, etc. All
      patients underwent transesophageal echocardiography before operation and 3 months after the
      operation. Results two experienced ultrasound doctors judged whether there was left atrial
      thrombus, residual shunt and instrument surface related thrombus. The routine blood test and
      high-sensitivity C-reactive protein were performed in all patients before operation, 1 day
      and 1 month after operation. B-type natriuretic peptide was detected in all patients before
      operation and 1 day, 1 month and 3 months after operation. All patients underwent 6-minute
      walking test and quality of life score before operation, 1 and 3 months after operation. At
      the same time, the thickness of crista was measured in all patients. This study will clarify
      the changes of left atrial function and biochemical quality in patients with AF after LAAC.
      In addition, this study also observed the effect of radiofrequency ablation combined with
      LAAC on left atrial function and evaluated whether one-stop surgery has more advantages than
      simple occlusion or ablation, and analyzed the above results. The patients were followed up
      for an average of three months to analyze the changes of left atrial function, quality of
      life and embolism events.
    
  