
    
      Stroke is a medical emergency for which "time-is-brain". Indeed, a huge body of animal
      experimental and clinical evidence exists that demonstrates that reducing the time to
      thrombolytic therapy is the most important variable in prevention of the disability. However,
      most stroke patients arrive to hospital too late for any type of acute stroke treatment: Only
      an estimated 19-60% of stroke patients present within 3 hours after symptom onset. Today, for
      stroke patients 3 different treatment options exist.

        1. Thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is an effective
           treatment for many acute stroke patients as evidenced by several large randomized
           trials.

        2. More recently, mechanical clot removal via catheters has been developed. There is
           currently increasing evidence that in obstruction of large brain vessels such
           endovascular treatment is superior to systemic thrombolysis in regard to recanalization
           rates and outcome.

        3. Patients with intracranial hemorrhage can profit if transferred to hospitals with
           neurosurgical treatment options such as ventricular drainage or hematoma removal.

      However, each of these treatment are highly time sensitive and due the availability of
      endovascular and neurosurgical treatment options only in very few highly specialized
      neurovascular centres decision in which institution the patient should be transported is of
      high medical and financial relevance. The aim of this trial is to show feasibility, safety
      and clinical benefit of a strategy of diagnosis and treatment directly at the emergency site
      and its role in decision regarding transfer to appropriate target institution, thus
      potentially allowing reduction of time until treatment and delays until specialized treatment
      also in remote regions. First estimations of cost-effectiveness will also be performed.
    
  