
    
      Background: Dementia affects over 7% of Veterans age 65 and above seeking care through the
      Veteran's Health Administration (VHA), amounting to one out of every eleven Veterans in some
      VISNs. The unique functional and behavioral impairments associated with Alzheimer's or a
      related dementia (ADRD) contribute substantially to psychological and physical morbidity of
      family caregivers and high rates of nursing home placement, with 60% of ADRD caregivers
      rating the emotional stress of caregiving as "high or very high," and over one third
      reporting depressive symptoms. Although numerous evidence-based interventions have been
      developed to reduce caregiver burden and improve mental health and functional outcomes of the
      person with dementia, a recent systematic review noted almost none of these interventions
      "make it off of the shelf" to be readily available in clinical settings. Care Consultation
      (CC) has emerged as a rare exception. CC is an evidence-based telephone intervention
      delivering psychoeducation, care coordination, and resource referrals in diverse areas such
      as safety and mental and behavioral health support. Yet CC's focus on coaching and support is
      inadequate for dyads experiencing high levels of distress. A stepped-intervention approach
      would address the VA's efficiency needs while allowing the flexibility for more
      resource-intensive additional counseling beyond the established CC framework when warranted
      by high dyad distress. This CDA-2 proposal would move such a dyadic intervention forward.

      Objectives: 1) Manualize the integration of care consultation and counseling components
      (i.e., the CC+C intervention). CC+C is guided by a rehabilitation recovery-based conceptual
      model to address the most common high distress targets (e.g., relationship distress, Veteran
      or caregiver depression, anxiety, or pain) using patient-centered approaches. 2) Evaluate
      preliminary effectiveness and feasibility of the CC+C Intervention in a randomized controlled
      pilot study of distressed dyads to compare: a) the established CC intervention, to b) the
      CC+C intervention on Veteran and caregiver outcomes. 3) Conduct exploratory analyses of the
      CC+C intervention on Veteran long-term care placement at six and 12 months and examine two
      key treatment moderators (behavioral symptoms and spousal relationship status) that may
      impact intervention engagement and response to treatment.

      The investigators hypothesize that: 1) Caregivers assigned to CC+C will have greater
      reductions in caregiver burden at 6 months than those assigned to CC alone. 2) Indicators of
      relationship strain (i.e., marital distress and/or mutuality) will show greater improvement
      in CC+C than CC at 6 months. 3) Gains in shared pleasant events, social engagement, and
      quality of life will be greater in CC+C than in CC alone at 6 months. 4) Participants with
      dementia in both groups will have reduced depressive symptoms at 6 months. The investigators
      will also explore the impact of the two interventions on rates of placement in long-term care
      facilities (such as nursing homes, VA Community Living Centers or other supportive living
      environments) at 6 and 12 months.

      Methods: Ten modules combining successful elements from existing manualized therapies and
      exercises developed by the investigative team during the CDA1 period will be integrated with
      CC into a draft CC+C intervention manual. The manual will be finalized with input from the
      mentoring team and an Expert Advisory Panel for completeness, feasibility, and safety and
      risk considerations. Next 68 distressed Veterans with dementia and their family caregivers
      will be recruited and randomized to either the CC+C intervention group or the CC comparison
      group. Patient, caregiver, and relationship outcomes (e.g., burden, depressive symptoms,
      anxiety, quality of life, relationship distress) will be measured at baseline, 6 months, and
      12 months. Treatment implementation and feasibility data will be collected.

      Anticipated Impacts: The goal of this career development study is to acquire the knowledge,
      skills and experience necessary to successfully compete for an RR&D Merit Review Award
      evaluating a randomized controlled trial powered to establish efficacy and test effectiveness
      of the CC+C intervention. Rehabilitation-focused interventions that maximize functioning are
      essential for successful non-institutional VA dementia care in the future. Work completed
      during the CDA2 period will serve as a foundation for a career committed to this goal. The
      impact of this work will be realized when an efficacious and highly-accessible intervention,
      such as the telephone-based dyadic intervention being piloted, becomes available for aging
      Veterans and their families.
    
  