
    
      Platelets suspended in platelet additive solutions (PAS) have been collected and transfused
      in Europe for over 20 years. These PAS solutions outside of the United States (US) are not
      tied to an apheresis device; however in the US, PAS solutions have traditionally been linked
      to a corresponding apheresis device.

      Currently in the US, there are two solutions approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) as a PAS for the replacement of 65% plasma in platelet components. Isoplate Solution is
      approved for use with the Trima Accel® Automated Blood Collection System (Trima Accel System)
      and InterSol Solution is approved for use with the Amicus Separator System.

      Terumo BCT is pursuing FDA clearance for InterSol in combination with the Trima Accel system
      in order to provide blood centers with the option to use InterSol as well as Isoplate
      Solution when collecting platelets to be stored in a PAS.

      This is a prospective, open-label, multicenter, controlled study. Up to 40 healthy adult
      subjects will be enrolled in this study to ensure 24 evaluable subjects across two
      Investigational Sites. Evaluable is defined as the subject completing the recovery and
      survival procedure and neither the subject or the product meeting any of the Clinical
      Investigation Plan (CIP) analysis exclusion criteria.

      The additional platelet donors account for screen failures, incomplete procedures and CIP
      exclusions.

      Two (2) sets of platelets will be collected from each subject:

        1. A Test unit - A hyperconcentrated platelet product collected on the Trima Accel system
           and diluted to a final ratio of 65% InterSol/35% plasma through the addition of InterSol
           directly to the platelet bag by the Trima Accel system after collection.

        2. A Control sample - Fresh platelets prepared from a whole blood sample drawn from the
           same subject on Study Day 5 in accordance with standard procedure.

      Eligible donors who have signed an informed consent will be enrolled.

      SUBJECT PROCEDURES

      Screening can be performed within 5 days of the apheresis procedure or combined with the
      Apheresis visit.

      The following evaluations will be performed:

        1. Informed consent will be obtained prior to initiating any study specific procedures

        2. Eligibility will be confirmed

        3. Demographics (age, gender, race, ethnic origin), height, and weight

        4. Record medical history as per AABB criteria for healthy donors

      Apheresis Visit

      The following procedures will be performed:

        1. Eligibility will be confirmed

        2. Finger stick hemoglobin

        3. Apheresis procedure

      Apheresis procedures will be run according to the instructions and precautions described in
      the commercially available Trima Accel Operator's Manual.

      The Investigator or designee will perform the venipuncture, monitor the subject during the
      collection, assess and provide any interventions for adverse effects, remove the needle,
      dress the puncture site and monitor subject through recovery.

      The following information will be documented:

        1. Trima procedure details

        2. Adverse events (AEs)

        3. Medications to treat adverse events

        4. Device deficiencies

      Infusion Day Visit

      Five (5) days after a study subject has completed the apheresis procedure to collect Test
      platelets, they will return for the donation of fresh Control platelets, reinfusion of
      radiolabeled Test and Control platelets, and post-infusion sampling.

      The following procedures will be conducted:

        1. Confirm eligibility

        2. Conduct pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential (serum or urine)

        3. Review adverse events since the previous visit

        4. Collect a whole blood sample for the production of Control platelets

        5. Radiolabel Test and Control platelets and prepare for infusion

        6. Infuse radiolabeled combined Test and Control platelets into subject's vein

        7. Collect a 5-10 mL blood sample for pre- and post-infusion testing using the opposite arm
           as for the infusion

      The following will be documented:

        1. Vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature)

        2. Adverse events

        3. Medications to treat adverse events

      The subject will return to the study site daily (except on weekends) between Study Day 6 and
      Study Day 12 . A total of 5 blood samples are required to be collected in this 7 day period
      in order for the subject's data to be evaluable. The subject will also return to the study
      site for a final visit on Study Day 16.

      At each of these visits a blood sample will be collected for testing.

      The following will be documented:

        1. Adverse events

        2. Medications to treat adverse events
    
  