
    
      Aim: Observational quality control study to analyze renal outcome measures and adverse events
      in the longterm observation of all randomized STOP-IgAN participants to ascertain quality and
      strength of the original trial results.

      Eligible subjects/sample size: By its observational nature, this study includes the 162 IgAN
      patients (with the exception of drop-out patients) that had been previously randomized into
      the original STOP-IgAN trial. Since this study is performed as quality control study of
      previously randomized patients, a new written informed consent is not necessary.

      Endpoints: Primary endpoint is the time to the first occurring event of the binary composite
      of all-cause death, ESRD or decline in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by at
      least 40% as compared to enrollment into the original trial (time-to-event analysis).
      Secondary outcome measures comprise the individual components of the primary endpoint,
      absolute eGFR at the end of observation, proteinuria and adverse events. Information on
      specific treatments with renin-angiotensin-system (RAS)-blocking agents and/or interim
      immunosuppression will also be collected.

      Data collection: Available information on serum creatinine, proteinuria, ESRD, death,
      relevant adverse events such as major cardiovascular events, osteoporosis, osteonecrosis,
      bone fractures, diabetes, malignancies and interim treatment will be collected
      retrospectively as available from existing nephrology routine records until March 31, 2018.
      The involved nephrology departments (all in Germany) will be contacted by phone and asked to
      provide these informations from the randomized STOP-IgAN patients. All data will be recorded
      in a pseudonymous fashion in a central electronic data base located at the PI's site. To
      assure high-standard data quality, source data entry will be performed in a double-entry
      mode, i.e. each data point will be entered independently by two individuals.
    
  