
    
      Several such biologic meshes have now been developed and marketed for use in hernia repair
      and soft tissue reconstruction. These biologics include one product derived from porcine
      intestinal submucosa (SurgisisTM, Cook Medical), another derived from porcine dermis
      (CollaMendTM, C.R. Bard Inc.) and several others derived from decellularized human dermis,
      such as AlloDermTM (LifeCell Corp.), AlloMaxTM (C.R. Bard Inc.), and FlexHDTM
      (Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation). Although similar in concept and design, each of
      these biologic meshes is produced in a distinct, proprietary fashion, and different
      techniques are used by each company in the processing and storage of their respective
      products. Given that these processing steps are protected industrial intellectual property,
      rigorous comparison of the performance of each mesh is very difficult. It is expected that
      certain methods, such as employing or avoiding chemical cross-linking of the ECM proteins,
      would lead to significant differences in cell migration into, and biochemical remodeling of
      each individual mesh. These differences may be of particular importance in the scenario of
      laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, where the mesh is placed in direct apposition to the
      parietal peritoneum. In this case, if the biologic were to remodel and take on more of the
      properties of the distensible peritoneum rather than that of the stronger abdominal wall
      fascia, this could have a significant impact on the long-term strength and durability of the
      hernia repair. A similar situation could also be foreseen to occur at the esophageal hiatus
      and/or the site of an intestinal stoma. We feel that it is thus important to study the
      remodeling processes that these meshes undergo over time and determine if differences in
      product processing or anatomical position have any effect on mesh incorporation and hernia
      integrity. Many of these meshes have already been used in human subjects, yet a certain
      number of these patients are known have suffered hernia recurrences requiring reoperation and
      removal of some or all of the original mesh prostheses. It is our belief that these biologic
      explants represent an excellent source of material to study the remodeling process over
      numerous given time points and at various anatomic locations. We feel it is also important to
      compare the explanted biologic meshes to "control" tissues, to examine how successfully the
      biologic meshes are mimicking native tissue at the molecular and histologic level. To
      eliminate confounding factors, explanted meshes will be compared to biopsies of abdominal
      wall fascia from patients undergoing non-hernia related surgical procedures.
    
  