
    
      Interventions The principal investigator (DA) will diagnose all patients and select them
      according to inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      The principal investigator (DA) will prepare all patients. Patient preparation will take few
      steps that are important for optimum planning of implant insertion and restoration. Actual
      treatment steps will start after preparation is done including; surgical and prosthetic
      procedures.

        1. Case history

             1. Medical history:

                The principal investigator (DA) will ask all patients about their present and
                previous systemic condition and any history of hospitalization or surgeries.
                Controlled diabetic patients will be asked to bring a recent blood glucose test.
                This includes both fasting/post prandial &glycosylated hemoglobin test (Hemoglobin
                A1c) to evaluate their current status.

             2. Dental history:

                The principal investigator (DA) will ask all patients about past dental procedures
                including implants.

                b) Clinical examination

             1. Visual examination:

                The principal investigator (DA) will examine all patients extra orally to assess
                the temporomandibular joints, temporalis, and masseter muscle to help in detection
                of bruxism. Intraoral examination includes assessment of any pathological lesion
                (cyst/tumor) that may interfere with the planned implant treatment.

             2. Digital examination:

                The principal investigator (DA) will examine the soft tissue surrounding hopeless
                teeth digitally using index finger to confirm a firm mucosa free from any flabby
                tissue, absence of severe undercuts and absence of abnormal ridge contour. The
                principal investigator (DA) will examine the bone volume arbitrary using the two
                index fingers to confirm an adequate bucco-lingual bone width. The principal
                investigator (DA) will test tooth mobility of adjacent teeth using a periodontal
                probe to ensure that the remaining adjacent teeth are not mobile.

                c) Construction of scan appliance: The principal investigator (DA) will make
                primary upper and lower impressions for the selected patients using irreversible
                hydrocolloid impression material in stock trays of suitable sizes. The principal
                investigator (DA) will pour impressions using Type IV extra hard dental stone . The
                principal investigator (DA) will take a Face bow record and a diagnostic bite
                record for each patient using Utility Wax . A semi-adjustable articulator will be
                used for mounting.

                A diagnostic mock up for broken/ badly decayed teeth will be formed for needed
                patients. By pressing a clear thermoplastic sheet using a vacuum forming machine on
                the study cast of the patient; a vacuum formed template will be constructed
                containing radiopaque markers for easy superimposition later. The vacuum template
                is now considered the scan appliance.

                d) Patient Radiographic Imaging Every patient will be then sent for a CBCT scanning
                for the upper and/or lower arch. The patient will be instructed to wear the scan
                appliance during imaging. Midline will be adjusted using laser beam and a scout
                will be taken to the patient. The patient will be asked to stay still till the
                machine rotates around him/her. The cone beam computed tomography images will be
                obtained in Digital Imaging & Communications in Medicine (DICOM) format on a
                compact disc.

                e) Virtual planning and construction of surgical guide

                a) Virtual Planning The CBCT image was used for the virtual surgical and prosthetic
                planning of implant placement using Blusky® software. First, the remaining and
                neighboring teeth will be segmented. This step helped in virtually inserting
                implants in an acceptable position in relation to neighboring teeth with respect to
                their crowns and roots. Virtual Setting will be done then virtual insertion of
                implants with appropriate sizes will be done with respect to the future prosthesis.

                Cautious respect to anatomical landmarks in the area of interest will be considered
                during planning. In the mandible; Mandibular canal will be simulated to be seen in
                both 2D and 3D views. In the maxilla; maxillary sinus lining will be checked in all
                views during implant positioning.

                A Virtual guide will be designed from the CBCT of the patient to be seated on
                neighboring teeth. The exported Standard Language transformation (STL) file of the
                virtual guide will be sent to labs centers by e-mail for construction.

                f) Surgical Procedures: The Principal investigator (DA) will extract the remaining
                root or tooth in an atraumatic procedure procedure using lancet, periotome, minimal
                force and rotational movement. After extraction the socket will be examined for
                intact labial and palatal bone using depth probe. If all walls are intact the
                socket would be eligible for immediate implant placement.

                In the test group, the computer guided surgical guide will be used for implant
                drilling and placement following the manufacturer's instructions.

                While in the control group, after tooth or root extraction implants will be placed
                free hand guided by the extraction sockets.

                Then in implants with primary stability (Insertion torque> 35 Ncm2), the final
                abutment will be placed and any further adjustment would be done immediately in the
                lab and re-positioned in place. The principal investigator (DA) will check the
                vacuum stent is in its place again intraorally, then a chair side tooth colored
                auto-polymerizing resin will be injected into the vacuum sheet corresponding to the
                implant site to construct the temporary crown.

                If any subject is to feel any movement in his/her temporary crown, an immediate
                phone call is to be done to (DA) to examine the cause of mobility (whether it is
                the crown only or the implant itself).

                g) Postoperative Care: The principal investigator (DA) will manage postoperative
                complications. The principal investigator (DA) will remove mobile temporary crowns
                and recement them. While mobile implants will be considered as early stage failed
                implants and it will be removed immediately. The patient will receive another
                implant at the same site after a proper healing period of at least 3 months during
                which he/she will be provided with a temporary removable partial denture for
                aesthetics.
    
  