
    
      This is a prospective, double - blinded randomized clinical trial conducted in University
      Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC) where there are two intervention arms. All
      patients from Ophthalmology Clinic in UKM Medical Centre from September 2019 till December
      2021 will be involved in this study. Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be
      included in this study. All eligible subjects will be asked to sign an informed consent.

      The qualified patients will be randomized on a 1:1 ratio into each treatment arm. Qualified
      eyes were further randomized into one of four subgroups, which specified the time between the
      last drop of study medication and the time of aqueous and vitreous humor sample collection
      (i.e., 1-, 2-, 4-, and 6-hour subgroups- about 32 patients per subgroup-: 16 Levofloxacin, 16
      Moxifloxacin.

      Patient will undergo clinical assessment at the outpatient Ophthalmology Clinic at UKMMC.
      Initially, a non-contact assessment of the corneal surface will be done by the Keratograph 5.
      The parameters recorded are non-invasive tear break up time (NITBUT), tear film properties
      and redness analysis. The endothelial cell count will be analysed with a specular microscopy.
      Subsequently, patient will be assessed by a blinded ophthalmologist for clinical evaluation
      of corneal surface which includes tear break up time (TBUT), ocular surface abnormality and
      Rose-bengal staining. During the first visit, each patient will be educated on proper
      instillation of the eye drops to ensure the proper dose is administered. A prior observation
      of self- instillation of the eye drop by the study staff is required.

      For 3 days prior to the day of the elective vitrectomy surgery, subjects will instill exactly
      one drop of study medication into their operative eye four times daily. On the day of surgery
      (visit 2, day 4), patients will receive their final drop of study medication administered by
      trained study personnel at the study site.

      Post-vitrectomy, patients will be continued on the specified antibiotics for 4 hourly for 2
      weeks. Then the antibiotic will taper down to 6 hourly (QID) daily for 1 week and antibiotics
      will be discontinued after that. Corneal safety will be assessed at 1 week and 4 weeks post
      operatively.
    
  