
    
      Our central hypothesis is that HRME can improve the efficiency and clinical impact of
      endoscopic screening and surveillance of esophageal squamous cell neoplasia by providing
      in-vivo optical biopsies comparable to standard histology. Specifically, HRME will allow more
      detailed evaluation of Lugol's abnormal areas, allowing selective biopsy or removal of
      neoplastic mucosa. We hypothesize that this will improve the accuracy and diagnostic yield of
      mucosal sampling.

      We also hypothesize the HRME will provide additional, more accurate information regarding the
      presence of neoplasia that will impact upon the physician's decision to obtain a mucosal
      biopsy or perform endoscopic therapy (endoscopic mucosal resection or ablation). This could
      potentially minimize the number of unnecessary biopsies and enable the physician to perform
      endoscopic therapy at the time of the initial examination, rather than delaying endoscopic
      treatment to another procedure following pathologic confirmation of the initial biopsies.

      Primary Aims:

        1. To compare the efficiency of HRME + Lugol's chromoendoscopy (HRME + LC) to that of
           Lugol's chromoendoscopy alone (LC) for the diagnosis of esophageal squamous cell
           neoplasia. Efficiency will be defined as:

             1. Diagnostic Yield: The number of neoplastic biopsies/total number of biopsies
                obtained in patients who receive biopsies.

             2. 'Patients saved': # patients who receive no biopsies

             3. Procedure time: Total procedure time in the HRME-LC arm compared to the LC arm.

        2. To prospectively determine the potential clinical impact of HRME + Lugol's
           chromoendoscopy (HRME-LC) to Lugol's Chromoendoscopy (LC) by determining if HRME changes
           the decision to perform endoscopic therapy (endoscopic mucosal resection or ablation) or
           perform a mucosal biopsy.

        3. To prospectively compare the performance characteristics of HRME-LC to LC for the
           prediction of squamous esophageal neoplasia in flat mucosa and mucosal lesions using
           histopathology as the gold standard:

           (a) To determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value
           for the identification of neoplasia on a per biopsy and per patient analysis

        4. To determine the cost-effectiveness of HRME-LC to LC alone for the endoscopic screening
           and surveillance of esophageal squamous neoplasia in the US and China.
    
  