
    
      There are currently more than 400,000 patients receiving chronic dialysis therapy in the
      United States. Cardiovascular and infectious diseases are the leading causes of death in
      hemodialysis patients, accounting for over 50% of all-cause mortality.

      There is a complex interaction of inflammation, oxidative stress, and endothelial dysfunction
      in contributing to cardiovascular and infectious risk in dialysis patients. Since there is
      much evidence that an increase in oxidative stress contributes to risk of disease in dialysis
      patients, it is logical to hypothesize the antioxidant therapy may be beneficial in reducing
      these risks.

      In addition to vitamins C and E, the most common and active antioxidant compounds that occur
      naturally in foods are flavonoids. Dietary flavonoids are highly bioavailable, and have been
      shown to confer antioxidant protection, inhibit platelet activation, exert vasorelaxant
      effects, and reduce inflammation in human studies. In animal model studies, dietary
      flavonoids have been shown to reduce the development of atherosclerosis. Polyphenols also
      have potent antibacterial, antifungal, and antiviral activities.

      Pomegranate juice is a rich source of potent phenolic antioxidants, which have been
      demonstrated to have anti-atherogenic and vasorelaxant properties. Pomegranate derived
      polyphenols have also been demonstrated to inhibit platelet activation.

      Although available data are limited, several studies suggest that dietary phenols may have
      beneficial effects in patients undergoing dialysis treatment. These include improvements in
      lipoprotein profiles, reductions in circulating inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers,
      reductions in infectious complications, and improvements in inflammatory biomarkers. These
      observations, though limited, suggest that polyphenol based supplementation strategies may be
      effective in reducing complications in those undergoing dialysis treatment.

      In this study, the investigators will administer pomegranate juice and/or fruit extract as a
      targeted antioxidant therapy. The investigators will examine whether these pomegranate
      products will be safe and well-tolerated. The investigators will also examine whether these
      products may lead to improvements in biomarkers of oxidative stress status, inflammatory
      status, and endothelial dysfunction in hemodialysis patients.
    
  