
    
      Malignancy is the first cause of death in Taiwan. There are around 30,000 people died due to
      malignancy every year. Ovarian cancer is the first mortality rate of gynecologic
      malignancies. The incidence of ovarian cancer increased in recent 10 years. Ovarian cancer
      indeed is a disease that should be respected, however, there were only few of research work
      focusing on it in Taiwan.

      To study the mechanisms of carcinogenesis of ovarian cancer will help us understand this
      disease and develop new strategies of diagnosis and prevention for ovarian cancer in the
      future. The present diagnostic methods of malignancy are clinical symptoms, physical
      examination, evaluation of tumor markers and instruments. It is a important issue to diagnose
      cancer earlier to improve the survival of cancer patients. By the development of biomedical
      science, many genes have been identified to be related with the carcinogenesis. If we can
      detect the possibility of genetic mutation earlier, we may deal with the suspected areas of
      malignancy as soon as possible. To our present knowledge, carcinogenesis of ovarian cancer
      has strong correlation with some special genes such as BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. There is 1 out
      of 200 normal population with BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation in the western countries. The
      incidences of BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation even increase to 30-50% in the population of
      familial ovarian cancer. Women with BRCA1 gene mutation have 80% to get breast cancer before
      the age of 70 and 63% of them would get ovarian cancer before the age of 70. Women with BRCA2
      gene mutation have 80% to get breast or ovarian cancer before the age of 70. It seems that
      the genetic diagnosis of BRCA1/BRCA2 has its clinical practice. The development of new
      instrument- denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) is to use automated
      detection to find out the minute or single mutation of nucleotide. It has been applied to the
      clinical service by utilizing DHPLC for the genetic diagnosis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 of breast
      cancer patients in the department of Genetic Medicine of our hospital. It will become a most
      powerful tool to establish the database of BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation of the ovarian cancer
      patients in Taiwan, when we can use the technique of DHPLC combining with the direct DNA
      sequencing.

      So we propose this research project. There are two main purposes in this project. First, we
      will utilize the new technique of DHPCL with direct DNA sequence to set up the database of
      BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutation of ovarian cancer patients in Taiwan. We can screen out BRCA1
      and BRCA2 gene mutation from high-risk group by this new technique. And then we can provide
      these patients suitable genetic consulting and related treatment planning. Second, we would
      lie to set up the new technique of DHPLC combining with direct DNA sequencing in the genetic
      diagnosis of ovarian cancer patients for the future clinical service in our hospital.
    
  