
    
      Diabetic Nephropathy (DN) is undoubtedly a multifactorial disease, and a large proportion of
      patients affected with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes develop diabetic nephropathy and
      progress to end stage renal disease (ESRD). When poor prognostic factors such as hypertension
      and chronic hyperglycemia are aggressively treated, the rate of progression of diabetic
      nephropathy can be slowed. However, no interventions have been shown to reliably halt the
      progression of diabetic nephropathy. Numerous studies have suggested that genetic
      predisposition to diabetic nephropathy exists, but genes for nephropathy have not yet been
      isolated. It is anticipated that a comprehensive analysis of a large number of uniformly
      phenotyped ESRD families will be necessary to isolate genes for ESRD. Such a database of
      families may not be available at any single institution. The FIND study has established a
      centralized Genetic Analysis and Data Coordinating Center (GADCC) that, together with eight
      participating investigation centers (PICs), three minority recruitment centers, and the
      National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), will use the emerging
      high-throughput genetic technologies to enable identification of diabetic nephropathy
      susceptibility or protection genes. The charge of the consortium is to acquire sets of
      families with well-characterized diabetic nephropathy, establish a secure master FIND
      database, and perform a genome scan to identify chromosomal regions linked with diabetic
      nephropathy. The FIND study population includes participants from European American (EA),
      Native American (NA), African American (AA) and Mexican American (AA) populations.

      Two analytic approaches are utilized in FIND. The Family Study approach involves the
      enrollment of probands, affected or discordant sibling and their affected family members.
      Analytic methods include affected sibling pair (ASP), discordant sibling pair (DSP) affected
      relative pair (ARP), and discordant relative pair (DRP) linkage analyses for the Family
      Study. The Mapping by Admixture and Linkage Disequilibrium (MALD) approach involves the
      enrollment of probands and a population based control for both the AA and MA studies. In
      addition, a spousal control (diad) and when available, a child 18 years or older, will be
      recruited (triad)for the AA MALD study only.
    
  