
    
      The sprint performance was determined by various relevant factors, and they were mainly
      divided into central system factor and peripheral system factor. An effective sprint start
      requires a quick reaction to an auditory stimulus followed by a determined sequence of
      activation of particular muscles responsible for maximum movement speed. Both of the
      skill-related physical fitness, including muscle strength, muscle endurance, muscle power,
      speed, agility, and balance, and muscle physical characteristic, including muscle tone and
      muscle architecture, are related to the sprint performance. The 100m race could divided into
      three different phases, start acceleration, maximum speed, and deceleration. According to
      Collet, 1999, the determinants of the temporal structure of the sprint start are RT, movement
      speed and movement frequency, which involves in perfecting sprinters' physical performance.
      And also, according to Pilianidis et al., 2012; Tonnessen et al., 2013, the start reaction
      time significantly affects the reduction of running time in 100 m races. In the recent
      studies, there are researches only showing that the auditory stimulus trainings significantly
      affected the final results for swimming athletes, and that the visual stimulus trainings
      significantly affected the final scores for badminton athletes.This study will mainly recruit
      the healthy adolescent athletes of the athletics sprint and other kinds of sports in the age
      range 13-18 years, and will evaluate the athletes of anthropometric measurements and physical
      fitness, 100m sprint performance, muscle characteristic, jump ability, agility, and nerve
      potential measurements.The outcome of this study will be able to be one of the comprehensive
      trials for coaches to take into consideration when choosing their own athletes. And also, the
      athletes may choose their own specialties that fit their own physical conditions. Moreover,
      the adolescent athletes will be trained more precisely and effectively. These will positively
      lead to reaching their personal best results and decreasing the occurrences of the sport
      injuries due to unsuitable events and trainings.
    
  