
    
      The primary objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of administration routine
      bowel cleansing medication (Bowklean) for the Bowel Preparation at Different Times Prior
      Colonoscopy in the morning or in the afternoon.

      After bowel preparation, colonoscopy operator will evaluate the overall colon cleansing based
      on Aronchick and Ottawa scale. A total of 600 eligible subjects scheduled to a colonoscopy
      will be randomly assigned with equal allocation to 1 of 3 treatment groups. The 1st group:
      split dose, day before, colonoscopy in the morning. The 2nd group: split dose, day before,
      colonoscopy in the afternoon. The 3rd group: same day, colonoscopy in the afternoon. Each
      subject's participation is expected to be maximally 3 weeks in study duration.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Subject is 20 and 99 years, inclusive.

        2. Men or non-pregnant women who are scheduled for an elective colonoscopy.

        3. Subjects should be willing, able to complete the entire procedure and to comply with
           study instructions.

        4. Written informed consent obtained prior to study.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients who are not suitable for colonoscopy

             -  Acute surgical abdominal conditions (e.g. acute obstruction or perforation, etc.)

             -  Active (acute/exacerbation of/severe/uncontrolled) Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)

             -  Colon disease (history of colonic cancer, toxic megacolon, toxic colitis,
                idiopathic pseudo- obstruction, hypomotility syndrome)

             -  Gastrointestinal disorder (active ulcer, outlet obstruction, gastric retention,
                gastroparesis, ileus)

             -  Uncontrolled angina and/or Myocardial Infarction (MI) within last 3 months before
                randomization, Congestive Heart Failure (CHF), arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy or
                uncontrolled hypertension

             -  Renal insufficiency

        2. Any prior colorectal surgery

             -  in the past 3 months, excluding appendectomy, hemorrhoid surgery or prior
                endoscopic procedures

             -  History of upper gastrointestinal surgery (gastric resection, gastric banding,
                gastric by-pass)

        3. Severe chronic constipation

        4. Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in the study medication
    
  