
    
      Adhesive capsulitis is a painful shoulder condition characterized by a gradual loss of both
      passive and active range of motion due to inflammatory changes and eventual fibrosis and
      contracture of the shoulder joint capsule. It occurs in about 2% to 5% of the population, and
      a majority of patients are female. The true cause of the condition remains unclear, however,
      it has been proposed that the initial synovitis stimulates the development of a fibrotic
      cascade. The development of adhesive capsulitis has been associated with diabetes mellitus,
      thyroid dysfunction, Dupuytrens contractures, autoimmune diseases and treatments for certain
      cancers. Adhesive capsulitis progresses through four predictable phases, defined by symptoms,
      physical examination, arthroscopic appearance and biopsies.

      Regardless of stage, the mainstay of treatment for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder is
      conservative, focused mainly on physical therapy combined with a home exercise program,
      regardless of stage. Pharmacologic agents are often used as adjuncts to physical therapy, and
      include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs), oral corticosteroids and
      intra-articular injections of corticosteroids. Although a large percentage of patients in the
      early stages of disease respond well to conservative treatments, those who fail therapy and
      injections may require surgical intervention, including arthroscopy with lysis of adhesions
      and/or manipulation under anesthesia.

      Numerous studies have investigated the effect and success of injections combined with
      standard physical therapy for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. In general,
      intra-articular injection of corticosteroids has been found to be superior to administration
      of oral cortisone and at least equivalent to manipulation under anesthesia alone. Injections
      have been shown to reduce pain quicker and result in earlier return of range of motion. Low
      doses of steroid appear equally as effective as higher doses. Image-guided injections,
      whether ultrasound or fluoroscopic guided injections, have also been shown to be more
      effective than blinded injections.

      Failure of an injection and therapy to provide relief either results in a repeat image-guided
      injection or surgical intervention, both of which have significant associated cost and
      potential morbidity. Thus, there would be significant potential value to a long-acting,
      sustained release intra-articular steroid injection for the treatment of adhesive capsulitis
      of the shoulder. Zilretta®, triamcinolone acetonide extended release suspension 32 mg, is a
      microsphere formulation of injectable steroid which is FDA-approved for and has shown
      significant promise for the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. This long-acting steroid could
      have several important advantages in the treatment of shoulder adhesive capsulitis. It may
      potentiate and prolong the anti-inflammatory effect of the steroid, and potentially avoid the
      need for costly additional image-guided injections or expensive and potentially morbid
      surgery. An additional potential benefit is less elevation of peripheral blood glucose in
      diabetics, a known complication of traditional steroid injections that has been demonstrated
      to be mitigated using a sustained release formulation.

      Out primary aim in this study is to assess patient reported pain and outcomes in patients
      with idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder at 3, 6 and 12 months following single,
      image guided ZILRETTA injection.
    
  