
    
      Enhanced anticipatory counseling detailing side effects when initiating progestin-only
      injectable contraception improved its continued use among women.While continuation rates at
      one year among levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) users are considerably higher
      than those for progestin-only injectable users in the United States (80% versus 56%),
      enhanced anticipatory counseling could have an impact on the 20% of LNG IUS users who choose
      to discontinue the method within one year of use. For this reason, the investigators propose
      a study that would develop and pilot-test an anticipatory counseling intervention detailing
      unscheduled bleeding and other side effects such as pelvic pain or cramping among new LNG IUS
      users and compare this with a "control," using video technology. The investigators have
      chosen video technology for the counseling intervention to ensure that all participants
      receive the exact same information about LNG side effects, which would be not possible using
      a face-to-face clinician-participant counseling model.

      The investigators propose three phases for this study. In Phase 1, a systematic literature
      search evaluating effective components in videos used for contraceptive counseling and the
      development of two separate video scripts will lead to: (1) an intervention, detailing
      expected side effects and safety of the LNG IUS, and (2) a similar-looking "control,"
      detailing only recommended screening guidelines for women, as well as information about LNG
      IUS safety. This phase of the study uses focus groups prior to the development of the video
      interventions, initially with family planning experts for content accuracy and cultural
      sensitivity, and secondarily with new LNG IUS users for acceptability. Findings from this
      phase will be used to fine-tune the scripts prior to the development of the videos.

      In Phase 2 of the study, the investigators will pilot a trial in the clinical setting to
      evaluate the anticipatory counseling video intervention and its impact on LNG-IUS knowledge,
      continuation, health care utilization, and satisfaction. After receiving comprehensive
      contraceptive counseling from their clinicians, women who choose to have the LNG IUS inserted
      will be given a brochure that asks them to participate in an online study. After signing-on
      to an innovative website, participants will be randomized to either an intervention or
      control video and complete short questionnaires related to demographics, baseline
      menstruation, satisfaction, and LNG IUS knowledge before and after viewing their assigned
      video. Women will be followed for six months. They will be asked to complete a short online
      survey at three and six months regarding LNG IUS continuation, health care utilization, and
      satisfaction. Findings from this study will serve to design a future, appropriately powered
      randomized controlled trial assessing LNG IUS continuation, utilization, and satisfaction
      rates at 12 months.

      In Phase 3, we will use the findings from Phase 2 to develop a similar protocol and recruit
      up to 178 women at three sites across the US to test the same primary aims of the video:
      LNG-IUS continuation, utilization, and satisfaction over a 12 month period. In phase 3,
      subjects will be randomized to watch either the control or intervention video.
    
  