
    
      This study will compare the effectiveness of two-handed V-E mask ventilation technique with
      the C-E technique. The study hypothesis is based on following considerations:

        1. Using C-E technique, the operator's fingers pressure mouth closed and push posteriorily
           the soft tissue of submandibular region.

        2. V-E approach maintains mouth open, creates larger oral cavity and allow positive
           pressure generated during inspiration to push forwards submandibular region.

      Anesthesia care team members, residents or CRNAs familiar with bag-valve mask ventilation,
      will perform mask ventilation. After receiving preoperative medications, subjects will be
      placed on the operating table, and electrocardiogram, noninvasive blood pressure, and
      cutaneous oxyhemoglobin saturation monitoring will be applied. The depth of sedation will be
      assessed and kept by the care team with IV bolus of propofol.

      The sizes of masks will be chosen by the care team and only one size will be used for both
      techniques. The subject's head will be placed in the neutral position on a pillow and elevate
      10 cm from the operating room table, but no backward head tilt or jaw thrust will be
      performed. One hundred percent oxygen will be delivered throughout the study. The subject
      will be encouraged to hyperventilate by taking deep breaths to facilitate preoxygenation
      before the induction of anesthesia.

      Pre-oxygenation will be carried out with maximal fresh gas flow and FiO2 1.0 until the
      expired O2 at or greater than 80%. Then anesthesia will be induced by an intravenous bolus
      injection of propofol (1-2 mg/kg) after an intravenous bolus injection of fentanyl (50-150
      ug).

      When the apnea occurs, the subjects will be ventilated with one of the two techniques
      randomly, either two-handed "C-E" facemask ventilation technique (Group A) or with "V-E"
      technique (Group B). Ventilation will be carried out using pressure mode ventilation at
      respiratory rate of 10 breaths per minute, I:E ration of 1:2, peak inspiratory pressure of
      20cmH2O and no PEEP. If the expiratory tidal volume is greater than 15ml/kg of ideal body
      weight, then peak inspiratory pressure will be reduced to 15 cmH2O and 15cm H2O peak
      inspiratory pressure will be used through the entire the study. The study will be in two
      steps. Subject will start with one technique (Step 1) and then cross over (Step 2). The
      subjects in Group A will be first ventilated with "C-E" grip. If the subjects can be
      adequately ventilated, as defined by perceivable chest movement and carbon dioxide measured
      during exhalation in the first three breaths, ventilation will continue and complete total 10
      breaths (Step 1). Then the subject will be ventilated with two-handed "V-E" grip (Step 2). In
      Step 1, if the subject cannot be adequately ventilated with C-E grip for even one of the
      first three breaths, then the subject crosses over and receives V-E grip. If the subject can
      be adequately ventilated with V-E for at least one of the first 3 breaths, ventilation will
      continue and complete total 10 breaths. The study will be completed. If the subject cannot be
      ventilated adequately for at least one of the first three breathes with C-E for the first
      breaths, nor after crossover with V-E grip, then the study will be terminated and routine
      care is applied including oral or nasal airway placement, intubation with LMA or tube or
      waking up the patient.

      If subjects are randomized to start with "V-E" technique (Group B), the protocol will be
      identical to that in Group A except the sequence of applying the two ventilation techniques
      is reversed.

      Upon completion of the study, narcotic and paralytic agent will be given in the usual way and
      the trachea will be intubated. The oxyhemoglobin saturation will be monitored throughout the
      study by pulse oximetry and will be maintained > 90%. The study will last about 5 minutes.
    
  