
    
      One type of hip fracture, called a femoral neck fracture, involves a break in the narrow part
      of the femur bone where the head of the femur is joined to the main shaft. The break can be
      either undisplaced, which involves very little separation at the fracture site, or displaced,
      in which there is substantial separation. Surgeons agree that the best surgical procedure for
      an undisplaced fracture is internal fixation, in which a mechanical implant reconnects the
      two separated segments of bone. For displaced fractures, surgeons usually choose between
      internal fixation and a hip joint replacement.

      There is more than one way to perform internal fixation. The majority of orthopaedic surgeons
      currently favor the use of multiple small diameter cancellous screws. However, an alternative
      method that uses a single large diameter screw attached to a sideplate, called a sliding hip
      screw, has been gaining popularity and might reduce post-surgical complications and the need
      for revision surgery. Which surgical method is best for the patient is unknown. This study
      will compare the use of multiple small diameter cancellous screws versus a single sliding hip
      screw on rates of revision surgery 2 years after patients sustain femoral neck fractures and
      undergo internal fixation. The study will also compare the impact of the two different
      surgical procedures on the overall health, function, and quality of life of patients. Results
      from this study may impact current orthopaedic practice.

      Participation in this study will last 2 years. Before surgery, participants will complete a
      baseline assessment that will include x-rays, a medical history review, and a physical
      examination. Participants will then be randomly assigned to undergo one of two types of
      internal fixation surgeries for repairing their hip fractures. In one group of participants,
      surgeons will use at least two small cancellous threaded screws that have a diameter of at
      least 6.5 mm. In the other group of participants, surgeons will use a single large diameter
      screw that is partially threaded. This screw, called a sliding hip screw, will be affixed to
      the femur bone with a sideplate, and there will be no other fixations. All surgeons, who will
      need to meet certain criteria to partake in the study, will follow the manufacturers'
      technique guidelines for using either type of screw. Specific aspects of both the
      pre-operative and post-operative care, such as the use of antibiotics and calcium
      supplementation, will be standardized for all participants.

      Follow-up assessments will be completed either by phone or in-person at the hospital or
      clinic. They will occur 1, 2, and 10 weeks after surgery and 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months
      after surgery. All assessments will include questionnaires and interviews on health status,
      hip function, pain, and revision surgery. Some of the in-person assessments will also include
      x-rays.
    
  