
    
      The current project is aimed at validating Syantra DX Breast Cancer in a UK population.
      Results of the UK study will be combined with those from additional sites, including those in
      Canada, with additional samples expected from the United States and South Korea. Syantra DX
      Breast Cancer measures gene expression signatures in whole blood, and has been
      retrospectively demonstrated in 780 samples. The test uses proprietary algorithms to analyse
      gene expression characteristics from a novel multi-biomarker panel, and then classify a
      sample as positive or negative for breast cancer. Based upon test performance in a
      retrospective environment, a prospective validation study is being proposed, and is described
      below.

      The study seeks to evaluate performance of Syantra DX Breast Cancer in prospective samples
      and to optimize test methodology and biomarkers. Key to performance of the study is
      recruitment of women who have received an abnormal mammography report, and have been
      classified under the UK Royal College of Radiologists Breast Group (RCRBG) scoring system in
      categories 3 - 5. This will support the ability to employ the test for breast cancer
      detection in a screening/call-back environment. To complete the study cohort, additional
      women will be recruited from the population who have normal or benign mammography results
      (RCRBG category 1 and 2), and/or a recent normal physical breast exam, with no history of
      breast cancer. Blood samples will be acquired from all women following completion of an
      informed consent procedure.

      For those with an abnormal mammogram, blood will be drawn before a biopsy is performed. All
      sample information will be de-identified, and the samples will be processed and analysed
      according to Syantra DX Breast Cancer standard operating procedures. These procedures include
      extracting sample RNA and aliquoting for storage in a manner that maintains sample anonymity.
      All processing and analysis will be conducted in a blind environment without knowing the
      associated RCRBG or pathology outcomes for any samples. Only after testing is complete will
      sample classifications be revealed. Syantra DX Breast Cancer results will then be compared to
      RCRBG, biopsy and pathology data to determine concordance, and statistics will be calculated.
      If or when biomarker panel or test methodology is modified during the performance of the
      study, samples will be reanalysed with updated test parameters. This reanalysis will make use
      of a de-identified aliquot of sample RNA to ensure that testing is maintained in a blind
      environment.

      There is an optional part of the study procedure that is included as 'additional research'. A
      specific question seeking approval for the additional research is included on the study
      consent form. For individuals who agree to participate in the additional research, material
      extracted from their blood sample will be stored for additional investigations.
    
  