
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess pneumonitis response to additional immunosuppression (infliximab or intravenous
      immunoglobulin therapy [IVIG]) in patients with steroid-refractory pneumonitis at 28-days.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess functional parameters of steroid-refractory pneumonitis at day 1, 14-days and
      28-days after day 1 of receipt of additional immunosuppression (infliximab or IVIG).

      II. To assess radiologic parameters of steroid-refractory pneumonitis at day 1, 14-days and
      28-days after day 1 of receipt of additional immunosuppression (infliximab or IVIG).

      III. To assess patient-reported outcomes of steroid-refractory pneumonitis at day 1, 14-days
      and 28-days after day 1 of receipt of additional immunosuppression (infliximab or IVIG).

      IV. To assess death after additional immunosuppression. V. To assess the rate of infections
      in the 28-day period after additional immunosuppression.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine lung tissue, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and serial blood samples in patients
      who develop steroid-refractory pneumonitis.

      II. To examine associations between BAL phenotypes and pneumonitis response, functional and
      radiologic parameters of pneumonitis.

      III. To evaluate associations between pneumonitis and autoantibodies, T-cell expansion, and
      baseline cytokines in the blood.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive infliximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 followed by prednisone taper
      IV or orally (PO) for 4-6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may receive an additional dose of infliximab IV on day 14 at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      ARM B: Patients receive intravenous immunoglobulin therapy IV over 2-5 days per institutional
      guidelines followed by prednisone taper IV or PO for 4-6 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28, 42 and 56 days.
    
  