
    
      Chronic venous disease (CVD) represents one of the most common vascular disorder. It's
      different clinical manifestations (most often seen as varicose veins) can be observed in up
      to 40% of adult female population and in about 30% of adult males.

      Different mechanical and biological factors play role in the process of deterioration of
      venous wall tone and consequent vein valve disfunction that eventually lead to increase
      venous pressure . Evidence suggest that inflammation has a central place in this process even
      from the early stage of CVD.

      Usual symptoms of venous insufficiency are pain, leg heaviness, night cramping, itching, and
      are often accompanied with leg edema. The extent of clinical manifestation may not correlate
      with patients' symptoms. Treatment of varicose veins encompasses vein surgery (stripping,
      phlebectomy, radiofrequency and laser ablation), sclerotherapy and compression therapy.
      Detralex (in some countries registered as Daflon) is an oral flavonoid that consists of 90%
      micronized diosmin and 10% flavonoids expressed as hesperidin. Several studies showed some
      beneficial effects of Detralex in alleviating symptoms in patients with CVD. It may be used
      in conjunction with surgery, sclerotherapy, or compression therapy or it may be the only
      therapy when other therapeutical modalities are not indicated or not feasable.

      Animal studies showed antiinflammatory effects of Daflon in way that Daflon acts favorably on
      microcirculatory complications by normalizing the synthesis of prostaglandins and free
      radicals. It decreases bradykinin-induced microvascular leakage and inhibits leukocyte
      activation, trapping, and migration.

      However, by searching the available literature (MEDLINE) we found no study that investigated
      what are the antiinflammatory effects of flavonoids in humans.

      The aim of this study is to investigate if there is a differences in expression of
      inflammatory markers in venous wall and blood between patients treated with Detralex and
      those not treated with Detralex (control group).
    
  