
    
      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To test the effect of HEPA filtration on markers of cardiovascular risk for
      adults who live near urban highways. 240 participants will be enrolled in a double blind,
      randomized crossover trial of 30-day periods with and without filtration separated by a
      30-day wash out period. The intervention will be during colder months (Oct-Mar) when ambient
      UFP are elevated and windows tend to be closed, thereby allowing for maximization of the
      exposure contrast between HEPA and sham conditions. The investigators hypothesize that the
      HEPA filtration intervention will be associated with indications of improved health in the
      primary health outcomes: blood pressure (systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressure); and hsCRP
      (a measure of inflammation).

      Specific Aim 2: To assess whether the intervention succeeded or failed in participant homes.
      To determine effectiveness of the filtration intervention, the investigators will 1) measure
      particle pollution levels inside and outside 20% of the homes, and 2) use quantitative
      surveys and open-ended questions to evaluate how participants interacted with the
      intervention.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess biomarkers that can suggest biological pathways by which filtration
      affects cardiovascular risk. Study participants will be measured for IL-6 (inflammation),
      D-dimer (coagulation), central blood pressure, and arterial stiffness (endothelial
      dysfunction), which constitute key steps along the presumed biological pathways. The
      peripheral blood plasma of all participants will also undergo metabolome analysis to provide
      additional evidence of biological pathways. The investigators propose this to follow on an
      exciting recent study that used a similar approach 24, and preliminary metabolome analysis.

      Exploratory Aims: To analyze particle composition. In a subset of homes (30 homes total,
      10/year), the investigators will perform detailed physical and chemical analysis of PM1
      (particles <1,000 nm) to inform future work on composition-dependent health impacts and
      filtration effectiveness for UFP. Also in a subset of homes, assess personal exposures for 24
      participants. The scientific premise is that HEPA filtration in homes without mechanical
      ventilation systems can reduce UFP (and overall PM) levels leading to positive changes in
      biomarkers. The study design and approach are rigorous, using a double blind, randomized
      cross over trial. The investigators will also measure objective biomarkers of risk of
      cardiovascular disease. The primary innovation is that this will be the first HEPA
      intervention trial near highways that is large enough to rule in or out efficacy of
      stand-alone HEPA filters from traffic pollution

      Hypotheses:

        1. For Aim 1, the investigators hypothesize that the HEPA filtration intervention will be
           associated with statistically significant improvements of peripheral blood pressure (BP)
           and C-reactive protein (hsCRP).

        2. The investigators hypothesize that measures collected for Aim 3 will show that UFP is
           associated with antioxidant pathways, in vivo generation of reactive oxygen species, and
           processes critical to endothelial functions, as well as indicators of early vascular
           aging.
    
  