
    
      A 2019 Centers for Disease Control (CDC) report describes the rate of antibiotic resistance
      as alarmingly high and says clinicians must make efforts to lower the development of
      resistance through more discerning antibiotic use. Complicated intra-abdominal infections
      (CIAIs), defined as an infection that extends beyond the hollow viscus of origin and into the
      peritoneal space, are a common problem with a 9.2% mortality rate worldwide, a morbidity of
      5-50% and a 21.5% risk of extra-abdominal infections. The basic principles for treatment of
      CIAIs include source control and appropriate antibiotic coverage; however, source control
      cannot always be achieved in CIAIs, i.e. diverticular or appendiceal abscesses. The STOP-IT
      trial concluded that shorter courses of antibiotics for CIAIs with source control are
      equivalent to the traditional longer courses with regard to recurrent infections and
      mortality, even in the setting of sepsis, but the optimal duration of antibiotic treatment is
      unknown for patients with CIAIs without source control. Due to lack of guidelines, these
      patients are routinely treated with long antibiotic courses. Given the association of
      prolonged antibiotic courses and increased rates of post-treatment infectious complications
      and antimicrobial resistance, the Infectious Disease Society of America and the Surgical
      Infection Society acknowledge that there is an urgent need to study the appropriate duration
      of antimicrobial therapy for CIAIs. The biomarker procalcitonin is expressed by human
      epithelial cells in response to bacterial infections, distinguishes true bacterial infection
      from Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) and has been used in studies to identify
      CIAIs.

      Procalcitonin-guided antibiotic management has been shown to decrease the number of
      antibiotic days in respiratory infections and reduce mortality among medical and surgical
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU) populations (including those with CIAIs). However, there is little
      data evaluating its role in guiding antibiotic therapy specifically for CIAIs.
    
  