
    
      The proposed trial is a single-centre, phase II/III, open, parallel-group, randomized
      controlled trial. To have an evaluable population of 114 participants and assuming a 20% loss
      to follow-up, approximately 146 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either
      approximately 2 weeks of oral vancomycin followed by a single fecal transplant via enema
      (hereon referred to as the "fecal transplant arm") or a 6-week taper of oral vancomycin
      (hereon referred to as the "vancomycin taper arm"). The 2 weeks of vancomycin pre-treatment
      in the fecal transplant arm will allow for a fecal transplant donor to be screened for
      potentially transmissible infectious diseases (clinically and through blood and stool tests),
      in order to ensure appropriateness and safety of donation.

      If patients fail treatment during the follow-up period of 120 days, they will be offered the
      opportunity to cross over to the alternate treatment arm. Those who cross over will be
      followed for an additional 120 days from the second intervention.

      Participants will be assessed clinically for recurrence in CDI symptoms and adverse events at
      the following time points after the intervention: 4 days, 7 days, 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks
      and 16 weeks. All recurrences of CDI symptoms will be investigated with C. difficile
      laboratory testing to confirm the etiology of these symptoms.

      Analysis will be intention to treat. An interim analysis may take place after completion of
      follow-up of 30 patients. This interim analysis is meant to establish the safety and
      feasibility of the study, not measure efficacy. Although there were no formal sample size
      calculations to assess safety of the procedure, with a sample size of 70 participants, an
      adverse event rate, for example of 2.5%, can be detected with a probability of 0.83 for the
      fecal transplantation group.
    
  