
    
      Fetal aortic stenosis is an anatomically simple birth defect in which there is partial
      blockage of the aortic valve, limiting blood flow out of the left side of the heart. If the
      blockage becomes severe in fetal life, the left heart structures may stop growing and the
      baby may be born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), a lethal condition without
      neonatal heart surgery or heart transplantation. Standard treatment for babies born with HLHS
      includes three major cardiac operations before the age of 6 years. Postnatal outcomes for
      HLHS are uncertain and vary with patient; however, the few adult survivors are currently
      suffering substantial medical problems, including a high incidence of neurologic problems.
      For fetuses with severe obstruction, fetal intervention may improve outcomes by increasing
      flow through the left heart, thus improving left heart function and encouraging continued
      growth of the left heart structures. If fetal intervention can preserve left heart function
      and growth, this should provide a better prognosis for the baby and allow for biventricular
      repair strategies after birth.

      This research study is a prospective, non-randomized clinical trial of 30 patients that will
      assess the safety and efficacy of in utero percutaneous balloon dilation of fetal aortic
      valve with severe stenosis. This technique has been successfully used to perform postnatal
      aortic valve dilations for several decades, but has had limited application and study in
      utero.

      Pregnant women carrying a fetus diagnosed with severe aortic stenosis will be referred to the
      University of California, San Francisco Fetal Treatment Center for evaluation, initial
      screening and counseling. If all fetal and maternal inclusion criteria are met, the balloon
      aortic valvuloplasty operation will be offered to the pregnant woman. Patients who do not
      meet study eligibility or decline prenatal intervention will be offered the option to enroll
      as a study control.
    
  