
    
      Rationale:

      Patients and breast cancer surgeons are frequently confronted with complications after
      mastectomy. These complications are manifold and mainly consist of: surgical site infections,
      seroma, wound dehiscence and wound necrosis. These complications are caused by numerous
      variables and therefore a multifactorial approach is required. Due to extensive research over
      the years, insight has been gained in how to reduce the rate of surgical site infections and
      wound healing problems. For example, pre-operatively and intra-operatively the complication
      rate can partly be influenced by optimizing intrinsic patient factors before surgery and
      using prophylactic antibiotics (1). There is however room for improvement in the
      postoperative phase. Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) has proven to be useful in
      reducing wound complications in all sorts of wounds. Limited evidence has been published on
      NPWT after breast cancer surgery and the effect of such in reducing wound complications.

      This is a pilot study to evaluate the effect of negative pressure wound therapy in reducing
      postoperative wound complications after mastectomy, which might serve as a basis for a
      randomized controlled trial..

      Objective:

      To evaluate the risk of postoperative wound complications following the use of Avelle
      negative pressure wound therapy in patients undergoing mastectomy and flap fixation, which
      might serve as a basis for a randomized controlled trial

      Study design:

      A prospective cohort will be compared to a historical control group. Fifty consecutive
      patients will undergo mastectomy with flap fixation using tissue glue and skin sutures,
      closed suction drainage AND Avelle negative pressure wound therapy.

      These results will be compared to the results of a historical control group consisting of 112
      patients who have undergone mastectomy with flap fixation using tissue glue and sutures and
      closed suction drainage and in whom negative wound pressure therapy was omitted.

      Follow-up will be conducted for three months post mastectomy.

      Study population:

      Female patients > 18 years diagnosed with invasive breast cancer or DCIS ( ductal carcinoma
      in situ) with an indication to perform mastectomy.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      Application of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy after standard mastectomy with flap
      fixation and closed suction drainage.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Patients with postoperative wound complications during the first three postoperative months.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients will be informed about the study before inclusion in the outpatient clinic. Informed
      consent will be obtained in the outpatient clinic a week after patients were initially
      informed. Postoperative check-ups will be done more frequently. Standard postoperative
      check-ups are planned at one week and three months. Additional study postoperative check-up
      will be performed at six weeks. Therefore, patients will be required to undergo one
      additional check-up. During out patients' visits, wound complication will be evaluated.
      Application of Avelle negative pressure wound therapy is expected to reduce wound
      complications and thereby benefit the post mastectomy wound healing process. The only
      potential risk for the patient is that the wound therapy would be ineffective or that the
      patient could develop an allergic reaction to the product. The latter is also a known risk of
      standard wound dressings.
    
  