
    
      Different Candida species, including albicans, tropicalis, and parapsilosis, are present in
      the human oral microbiota, gastrointestinal tract and vagina. These species are typically
      harmless commensals. Candida albicans, the most prevalent species, may be present in up to
      80% of healthy individuals. This species is found with high frequency in dental prostheses
      and is thought to be the main pathogen associated with stomatitis in elderly denture wearers.
      Biofilms of Candida albicans are usually found in intravenous catheters, prostheses, and
      these biofilms promote a high resistance to antifungal drugs. The standard treatment of
      stomatitis is topical antifungal agents, including nystatin and miconazole. The use of
      topical antifungal agents has caused some problems. Poor responses to these agents are the
      result of dilution and fast elimination of the drug because of the action of the saliva,
      which reduced the drug's concentration. The drug's toxicity can cause mild and transient
      gastrointestinal side effects, such as nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Alternative treatments
      or adjuvant treatments have been used to treat these diseases, such as the use of probiotic
      bacteria and photodynamic therapy (PDT) using a non-toxic dye (photosensitizer - PS) in
      combination with a source of visible light with a peak wavelength suitable for absorption by
      the PS. The photodynamic process rapidly generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as
      peroxides, hydroxyl radicals, superoxide ions and singlet oxygen. Singlet oxygen has been
      implicated as the major causative agent of cellular damage in the photodynamic process, but
      it does not cause cellular damage in host tissues. The amount of ROS formation is the main
      predictor of yeast killing.

      This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in the treatment
      of denture stomatitis in complete denture wearers.
    
  