
    
      Aim 1/Objective 1. Establish the feasibility of oligosaccharide supplementation and twice a
      week stool collections among 12 C. difficile colonized hematology-oncology inpatients. It
      will be determined if at least 70% of the oligosaccharide dosages are taken by at least 8
      (>=66%) of the 12 enrolled patients. Additionally, the ability to collect at least 50% of the
      scheduled stool samples will be evaluated.

      Aim 1 will provide important information about the ideal food/drink to mix the potato starch
      supplemented in this study. The knowledge gained in this pilot will be used to design a
      future phase II or III clinical trial.

      Aim 2. Explore the impact of oligosaccharide supplementation on C. difficile loads and
      relative abundance of Firmicutes. All stool samples will undergo 16S ribosomal ribonucleic
      acid (rRNA) and bioinformatics at the MCW's Genomic and Precision Medicine Center and C.
      difficile quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) at the PI's research laboratory.
      Historical controls will be obtained from a group of over 450 hematology-oncology inpatients
      who underwent at least one C. difficile surveillance test and whose stool samples are
      currently being processed for 16S rRNA by the PI's team. Controls at a 3:1 ratio with cases
      will be matched based on underlying disease, unit of admission, antibiotic use, baseline C.
      difficile fecal loads, and baseline relative abundance of Firmicutes.

      Objective 2a. Evaluate the impact of oligosaccharide supplementation on the change of C.
      difficile fecal loads when compared to historical controls.

      Objective 2b. Explore the effect of oligosaccharide supplementation on the change in relative
      abundance of Firmicutes when compared to historical controls.

      It is expected a reduction will occur in C. difficile fecal loads during oligosaccharide
      supplementation when compared to matched controls. Conversely, it is expected an increase in
      the relative abundance of Firmicutes (or some of its operational taxonomic units; OTUs)
      during oligosaccharide replacement will occur when compared to matched controls. The
      knowledge gained with Objectives 2a and 2b will be used to determine the sample size needed
      to design future phase II or phase III clinical trials.
    
  