
    
      Schizophrenia is a severely debilitating psychiatric disorder that afflicts approximately 1%
      of the population (American Psychiatric Association, 1994) and is a serious public health
      problem. The specific mechanism of schizophrenia remains unknown. Affective responsivity and
      adaptive social behaviors are fundamental impairments in people with schizophrenia. These
      features have a detrimental impact on function in many areas of daily life. Unfortunately,
      the brain mechanisms that underlie these problems are still not understood. This study will
      use positron emission tomography (PET) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measures to
      ascertain the timing (1.5 hour period) of OT action on absolute regional brain activity in
      schizophrenia (SZ) and healthy control (HC) subjects. Particular focus will be on the
      amygdala, ventral striatum, anterior hippocampus and hypothalamus (neural regions involved in
      affliative behavior). Subjects will be studied with intranasally administered oxytocin and
      placebo while at rest and while making judgments about emotional faces. This approach will
      tell us to what extent the amygdala and limbic system's physiological response to oxytocin is
      predictive of a subject's behavioral sensitivity to this neuropeptide. The elucidation of
      this information may have a significant impact on predicting functional outcome and novel
      drug treatments in schizophrenia.

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies show that oxytocin modulates the
      amygdala's response during social and emotional decisions. When administered intranasally, OT
      may be beneficial for the treatment of negative symptoms in schizophrenia by enhancing a
      person's affiliative behavior and diminishing distrust. It is not, however, known to what
      extent intranasal oxytocin modifies regional neurotransmission and human brain metabolism.
      There are at present no studies in animals or humans specifically examining the time course
      action of OT on whole brain activity.
    
  