
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To assess the safety and feasibility of hyperpolarized 13C MR metabolic imaging as a new
           and unique tool for evaluating tumor burden and detecting early response to standard
           therapy in patients with glioma.

        2. To define the most appropriate imaging parameters for obtaining hyperpolarized 13C data
           from the brain, one hundred patients with evidence of residual disease from a prior MRI
           examination will have hyperpolarized metabolic imaging after receiving one or two
           injections of hyperpolarized 13 C pyruvate. For subjects who are willing to receive two
           injections, the 2nd injection will be used to assess reproducibility, evaluate the
           performance of new acquisition methods, or compare metabolism between [1-13C]pyruvate
           and [213C]pyruvate.

        3. To establish the time course of changes in hyperpolarized pyruvate and lactate peaks on
           a voxel by voxel basis from the dynamic hyperpolarized data after the injection(s) of
           hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate. Twenty patients will be studied before and after treatment
           with standard radiation and temozolomide in order to determine the time course of
           delivery of 13C pyruvate and the location of maximum pyruvate and lactate or glutamate
           signals in normal brain and in the region of T2 hyperintensity (T2L).

        4. To evaluate if patients who receive treatment with standard radiation and temozolomide
           exhibit a reduction in hyperpolarized 13C lactate/pyruvate or 13C glutamate/pyruvate at
           post-radiation follow-up compared to their baseline scan. A second group of twenty
           patients will be studied at the time determined from the prior group to provide the
           maximum contrast between lactate/pyruvate or glutamate/pyruvate in the lesion versus
           normal brain.

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive one or two hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate injections
      intravenously (IV) and undergo MRI.

      COHORT II: Patients receive hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV and undergo MRI before
      standard treatment with radiation therapy and temozolomide and 4 weeks after completion of
      radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed for up to 24 months.
    
  