
    
      We plan to assess up to 30 junior surgical trainees from training hospitals nationwide. All
      will have baseline assessment of fundamental abilities (FA) such as psychomotor, visuospatial
      and perceptual abilities. The trainees will then be randomised to one of two groups:

      Group A-will receive the 'traditional' training programme; i.e. will receive whatever
      clinical training on a patient their supervising consultant deems appropriate. This is the
      way junior surgeons are currently trained. They will also receive the standard didactic
      teaching on the School for Surgeons e-learning resource.

      Group B-will be assigned to the 'proficiency-based progression' training programme. These
      trainees will be required to train on the virtual reality (VR) simulator (Lap Sim™) for a
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Trainees will have objectively set goals to reach on the
      simulator and will have to demonstrate proficiency before they are permitted to progress to
      the next, more challenging level. These supervised sessions will last no longer than one hour
      at a time. The proficiency measures will be predetermined errors, economy of instrument
      movement and economy and safety of diathermy usage.

      The benchmark or 'gold standard' of proficiency will be established from the objectively
      assessed performance of expert consultant surgeons.

      Group B will also receive the standard School for Surgeons instruction but, unlike Group A,
      they will have to demonstrate proficiency on the didactic module before they progress to the
      operating theatre.

      Trainees in both the VR and traditional group will then each perform five video-recorded
      laparoscopic cholecystectomies at their respective training hospitals. The first three will
      be carried out early in the trainees rotation and the last two towards the end of the
      rotation. Each trainee will be supervised by a consultant surgeon for all procedures; the
      consultant will be ready to take over the procedure should the trainee run into difficulties.

      The video recordings will be forwarded to the National Surgical Training Centre and will be
      assessed by two consultant surgeons blinded to the training status of the trainee.

      The LC will be divided into 3 distinct phases, exposure of the cystic duct and artery plus
      clip placement on these structures, tissue division and finally diathermy excision of the
      gallbladder from the liver-bed. The different phases of the procedure will be marked, using a
      scoring system which will enable the observers to record whether the event or a pre-described
      error had or had not occurred. Senior surgeon takeover events will also be scored as errors.
    
  