
    
      Clinicians' ability to accurately diagnose pneumonia and then choose the most appropriate
      treatment options is enhanced by well-designed clinical decision support (CDS). Pneumonia CDS
      has historically been focused on inpatient settings, but ambulatory care settings with high
      pneumonia patient volumes also might benefit. The investigators propose to adapt an
      innovative, validated emergency department (ED) CDS tool based on consensus guidelines for
      pneumonia care (ePNa) and deploy it to urgent care centers (UCC) using the CFIR framework.
      Electronic tools such as ePNa may become even more useful within UCCs as the COVID-19
      pandemic evolves, since recommendations can be readily updated as better methods of diagnosis
      and effective treatment develop. ePNa within the ED has already been adapted to recommend
      SARS-coV-2 testing for patients with pneumonia and signs and symptoms characteristic of viral
      pneumonia.

      The proposal supports four aims:

        1. Adapt ePNa for UCC and after in silico testing, pilot it among "super user" clinicians
           during UCC shifts and assess its usability. ePNa needs adaptation for more limited
           patient data available in UCCs, calibration of severity measures for lower observed
           mortality, and a chest imaging prompt in patients with pneumonia signs and symptoms.
           ePNa for UCC will incorporate Stanford University's artificial intelligence CheXED model
           to provide electronic classification of chest images in <10 seconds for elements of
           pneumonia diagnosis and treatment (radiographic pneumonia, single vs multiple lobes, and
           pleural effusion).

        2. Using the CFIR framework, our prior ED implementation experience, a focus group of UCC
           clinicians, semi-structured interviews, and direct observations of workflow including
           ePNa guided transitions of care between clinicians, the investigators will identify
           barriers and facilitators to adaptation and implementation of ePNa to UCCs.

        3. Test the implementation strategy by deploying ePNa at one of two randomly chosen
           Intermountain Healthcare UCC clusters each with about 800 annual pneumonia patients -
           the other a usual care control.

        4. Co-primary outcomes are a) accuracy of pneumonia diagnosis defined by compatible chief
           complaint plus ≥ 1 pneumonia sign/symptom and radiographic confirmation will be ≥10%
           higher in the ePNa cluster, and b) the percent of UCC pneumonia patients transferred to
           an emergency department for further evaluation will decrease by ≥ 3% in the ePNa cluster
           replaced by more direct hospital admissions or discharge home. Safety measures will be
           unplanned subsequent 7-day ED visits/hospitalizations and 30-day mortality. Based on
           this rigorous pilot study, the investigators anticipate a subsequent multi-system
           cluster-randomized trial.

      Our work incorporates the Five Rights of CDS to ensure that the strengths of this technology
      are optimized in the clinical environment. The investigators will leverage experience in
      innovative pneumonia research, pioneering CDS, and implementation science available at
      Intermountain to successfully complete this proposal.
    
  