
    
      Study Design and Duration

      Simon Optimal two-stage Phase II design will be used for this trial. With a null hypothesis
      of p0=5% and an alternative hypothesis of p1=20%, significance level, α=5% and power,
      (1-β)=90%, a total of 41 patients will be required, with 21 patients to be recruited for the
      first stage.

      Hence, 21 to 41 patients will be recruited at National Cancer Centre Singapore over 36 months

      Patient Sample

      Patients with newly diagnosed, histological confirmed HER-2 negative clinically node positive
      or locally advanced (cT3-T4, N0-3 or cTx, T0-4, N2-N3) primary breast cancer without evidence
      of metastatic disease.

      Dosage/ Dosage Form, Route and Dose Regimen

      Node Positive or Locally Advanced HER2 Negative Breast Cancer proceed to Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 +
      Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 q21 days x 6 proceed to surgery

      NOTE: cyclophosphamide is administered by intravenous infusion over 10 minutes followed by
      docetaxel over 90 minutes Patients will receive further chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endocrine
      therapy and targeted therapy as per institutional guidelines after surgery.

      Patients with clinical non-response after 4 cycles of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide are most
      unlikely to have a pathological complete response. Hence, discontinuation of study and cross
      over to an anthracycline based chemotherapy is allowed at that point at the discretion of the
      treating oncologist. These patients will be classified as pathological non complete response.

      Patients with progressive disease at any time will discontinue study treatment and receive
      salvage therapy.

      Efficacy Measurements

      Pathological response will be assessed by evaluation of resected surgical specimen after
      completion of protocol treatment.

      Safety Measurements

      Vital signs, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, adverse events
      (AEs), serial laboratory safety tests. Proportion of patients with febrile neutropenia
      despite primary prophylactic G-CSF will be reviewed when 6,12 ,18, 24 and 30 patients have
      been accrued. Increase in number of doses of primary prophylactic G-CSF will be implemented
      if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval of proportion exceeds 20%.

      Data Analysis

      All patients who have received at least 1 dose of study treatment will be included in the
      safety and efficacy analyses.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK), Pharmacogenetic (PG) and Correlative Studies

      Consent will be obtained for future analysis of any stored preoperative tumour biopsy
      specimens for possible gene expression profiles predictive of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide.
      Patients will undergo blood sampling for docetaxel and cyclophosphamide PK studies on cycle 1
      day 1 (see page 22 for detailed timing). Whole blood will be collected at baseline for
      genotyping for CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, ALDH, GST, ABCB1, SLCO1B3, PXR, CAR, HNF4α
      genes

      ALL PATIENTS WITH SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENTS MUST BE FOLLOWED UP FOR OUTCOME.
    
  