
    
      The PI identified two priority needs of RR women: (1) adequate HIV/HCV prevention counseling
      and services, including HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) medications for women at high
      risk, and (2) primary care as an avenue to address co-occurring SUD, MH disorders, and trauma
      that interfere with HIV preventive care. WISH is a gender, trauma, and culturally-specific,
      peer-delivered intervention designed to improve health services utilization and health
      behaviors. The proposed pilot RCT will examine the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary
      effectiveness of the WISH intervention in a community setting.

      The WISH intervention is grounded in Self-Determination Theory (SDT), which shows that
      support for autonomy increases autonomous regulation and perceived competence which mediate
      engagement in healthy behaviors by overcoming internal and structural barriers. A novel and
      exploratory aim of the proposed study is to examine whether related biologic changes vary in
      association with SDT mediation measures. Serum inflammatory biomarkers interleukin (IL) -6,
      IL-8, C-reactive protein (CRP) and coagulation marker D-dimer variations are associated with
      HIV vulnerability and depression, and these biomarkers have not been studied in relation to
      SDT.

      This study will randomize RR women to the WISH intervention or enhanced treatment-as-usual
      (eTAU) control. WISH peer community health workers (CHW) will conduct SDT-based individual
      sessions with women addressing autonomy and competence regarding linkage to HIV risk
      reduction treatment, SUD treatment, primary care, and structural empowerment. Structurally,
      the peers will be a part of the primary care medical team to: (1) inform providers regarding
      women's treatment needs and readiness; (2) navigate RR women to link with HIV risk reduction
      services including prophylaxis providers; and (3) help women overcome systemic barriers to
      care. The investigator will examine SDT mediation measures, associated internal and
      structural barriers, treatment engagement and adherence, HIV risk behaviors, and
      inflammation. Specific aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the WISH intervention in a community
      setting:

      Aim 1 Outcomes: Participant mixed method feedback for all study and intervention procedures.

      Aim 2: Assess the preliminary effectiveness of WISH to improve engagement in and adherence to
      needed treatments and associated outcomes

        1. Linkage to HIV prevention services; HIV risk behaviors: Assess WISH intervention effects
           on HIV prevention services engagement as primary outcome, adherence, and reductions in
           HIV risk behaviors 2a. Hypothesis: WISH intervention will show preliminary effectiveness
           to improve use of preventative services, including pre-exposure prophylaxis,
           self-reported HIV risk behaviors, and STIs

        2. SUD and other tx: Examine engagement and adherence for treatment as secondary WISH
           outcome. Hypothesis: WISH intervention will show preliminary effectiveness to increase
           SUD, primary care, and MH treatment initiation, engagement, and continuity of care, and
           reduced substance use & MH symptoms.

      Aim 3: Assess WISH mechanisms of action: Assess preliminary effect differences in known SDT
      mediators in relation to Aim 2 outcomes. Hypothesis: SDT measures will mediate relationship
      between the intervention and Aim 2 outcomes.

      Exploratory Aim: Explore inflammatory biomarker outcomes of WISH: Measure serum IL-6, IL-8,
      CRP, and D-dimer and associated SDT mediators in intervention and control subjects.
      Hypotheses: IL-6, IL-8, CRP, and D-dimer levels and associated SDT mediators will correlate.

      Implications: RR women are at high risk for syndemic risk factors of HIV/HCV, SUD, mental
      health disorders, and trauma. Yet, engagement in needed care in this group is exceedingly low
      and innovative interventions are needed to address this problem. To the investigator's
      knowledge, this is the first study to assess a SDT-based intervention designed to address
      urgently needed improvements in the provision and utilization of HIV and primary care
      services for RR persons. The intervention incorporates health behavior change, CHW training,
      peer-navigation, and targets biological and behavioral mechanisms of changes in HIV risk. It
      further develops community and training infrastructures which will lead to reduced
      disparities in HIV acquisition
    
  