
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of everolimus in combination with sequential
           fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin calcium, panitumumab, modified 5-FU, leucovorin
           calcium, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX6), and mFOLFOX6 with panitumumab in patients with
           refractory solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the adverse event profile of these regimens.

        -  To correlate response with S6-phosphorylation and AKT-phosphorylation in available
           archived tumor samples.

        -  To evaluate preliminary evidence of antitumor activity of these regimens using RECIST
           criteria for a subset of patients with measurable disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Cohorts of patients are enrolled into treatment
      groups 1 or 2. If a final cohort of patients is reached in groups 1 and/or 2, additional
      cohorts of patients are enrolled into treatment group 3.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28. Patients also receive
           leucovorin calcium IV followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours beginning
           on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28 and panitumumab IV
           over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Group 3: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28, leucovorin calcium IV
           followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours beginning on day 1, and
           oxaliplatin IV over 2-4 hours on day 1. Some patients may also receive panitumumab IV
           over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Archived tumor samples are assessed for phospho-AKT, phospho-S6K, and phospho-S6 by
      immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  