
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of LDE225 (sonidegib) (days 1-28) in
      combination with azacitidine (overall); LDE225 (days 1-7) in combination with azacitidine
      (overall); and LDE225 (days 1-28) in combination with decitabine (overall). (Phase I) II. To
      estimate the efficacy of LDE225 (days 1-28) in combination with azacitidine in the following
      subgroups: untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML)/chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
      (CMML)/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) overlap;
      relapsed/refractory AML/CMML/MDS/MPN overlap; and myelofibrosis (MF) only. (Phase Ib)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the duration of response, time to progression, overall survival, and time to
      AML or death (for MDS subjects) of LDE225 (days 1-28) in combination with azacitidine
      (overall and by cohort). (Phase I/1b)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct correlative studies to measure HH pathway activation and inhibition and explore
      biomarkers of response.

      II. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) and patient-reported symptoms using the
      Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF) and European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Core (C)30 in
      subjects treated with LDE225 in combination with azacitidine or decitabine.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of erismodegib.

      Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) on days 1-7, sonidegib
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 or 1-7* or decitabine IV on days 1-5. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      *NOTE: Sonidegib PO QD is given on days 1-7 if in combination with azacitidine or on days
      1-28 is given if in combination with decitabine.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until
      progressive disease and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  