
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of pembrolizumab in combination with pTVG-HP (pTVG-HP plasmid DNA
      vaccine) in patients with castration-resistant, metastatic prostate cancer.

      II. To determine the 6-month progression-free survival and median time to radiographic
      progression in patients with castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer treated with
      pembrolizumab in combination with pTVG-HP.

      III. To evaluate the anti-tumor response rates (objective response rate and prostate specific
      antigen [PSA] response rate, using Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 2 [PCWG2]
      criteria) in patients with castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer treated with
      pembrolizumab in combination with pTVG-HP.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether either treatment sequence, or prostatic acid phosphatase
      (PAP)-specific immune response, is associated with prolonged (6-month) radiographic
      progression-free survival.

      II. To evaluate effects of schedule (concurrent versus delayed administration of
      pembrolizumab) on the magnitude of PAP-specific T-cell responses, programmed death receptor-1
      (PD-1) expression on circulating T cells, and ligands for PD-1 (PD-L1) expression on
      circulating epithelial cells (CEC) and on tumor biopsies.

      III. To determine the median time to radiographic progression using a concurrent
      administration schedule

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate effects of treatment on number of circulating tumor cells. II. To evaluate
      PAP-specific antibody responses following treatment with pembrolizumab and pTVG-HP DNA
      vaccine (pTVG-HP plasmid DNA vaccine).

      III. To determine whether either treatment sequence elicits immunologic antigen spread to
      other prostate-associated antigens.

      IV. To determine whether pre-existing or vaccine-induced PD-L1 expression on CEC or tumor
      biopsies is predictive of objective clinical response.

      V. To determine whether treatment elicits expression of other regulatory molecules on
      tumor-specific T cells (e.g. hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2 [TIM3], B and T lymphocyte
      associated [BTLA], and lymphocyte-activation gene 3 [LAG3]) or tumor cells (e.g. tumor
      necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 14 [HVEM], phosphatidyl serine, ligands for
      programmed death receptor-2 [PD-2] [PD-L2]).

      VI. To determine whether PD-1-regulated antigen-specific T cells identified by trans vivo
      delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) testing can identify patients who develop objective
      clinical responses with PD-1 blockade therapy in combination with pTVG-HP.

      VII. To determine whether changes in lymph nodes and soft tissue tumor lesions are observed
      by fluorothymidine F-18 (FLT) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT)
      after treatment with vaccine with or without pembrolizumab.

      VIII. To determine if PD-1 inhibitor therapy in combination with pTVG-HP will change number
      and activity (SUV) in osteoblastic metastases as measured by NaF PET/CT.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pTVG-HP plasmid DNA vaccine intradermally (ID) every other week on
      days 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, and 71 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3
      weeks on days 1, 22, 43, and 64.

      ARM II: Patients receive pTVG-HP plasmid DNA vaccine ID as in Arm I and pembrolizumab IV over
      30 minutes every 3 weeks on days 85, 106, 127, and 148.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and then
      annually for 2 years.

      ARM III: Extended Treatment. Patients received pTVG-HP + Pembrolizumab Extended Treatment

      ARM IV: Extended Treatment. Patients receive pTVG-HP every two weeks, and Pembrolizumab every
      4 weeks
    
  