
    
      The purpose of this clinical study is to evaluate the imaging performance of the
      investigational devices as compared to the currently marketed predicate device. The
      evaluation will consist primarily of comparing the diagnostic image quality of pediatric and
      adult cadaver studies and adult live human subject studies acquired under the same exposure
      technique.

      Under the same position and radiological technique, pediatric and adult cadaver studies, and
      adult live human subject studies, using double-exposed images will be acquired to evaluate
      the diagnostic image quality of the investigational device versus the predicate device.
      Target images will be assembled and reviewed in a side-by-side Comparative Evaluation to
      statistically confirm the findings of this evaluation.

      The live human subject portion of this study will be performed on healthy volunteers. Each
      volunteer will sign an Informed Consent after which they will have two (2) x-rays taken.The
      first x-ray will follow standard technique using the cleared predicate detector currently in
      use at the site. Following the first x-ray, we will take one additional x-ray of the same
      part of the body with one (1) of the investigational detectors. The x-ray from the
      investigational detector will not be used to diagnose.

      If the x-ray obtained by the standard DR x-ray detector shows any unforeseen, unusual or
      abnormal findings, these findings will be communicated to the subject and their doctor by
      USPS mail.

      Reason for Observational Study Type: There are three (3) physical detectors being used in
      this study. Each detector is 35 centimeters by 43 centimeters. None of the subjects will
      given a detector. All subjects are healthy volunteers recruited by flyer. All subjects will
      be imaged with the same predicate detector and one (1) of the investigational detectors.
    
  