
    
      Many vaccine-preventable diseases, like influenza, pertussis, and tetanus cause substantial
      morbidity and mortality in pregnant women, newborns and infants. Immunization during
      pregnancy has the potential to provide protection to the newborn and infant by the
      transplacental transfer of vaccine-specific maternal antibodies. However, the immunobiology
      underlying immunization during pregnancy, that leads to the protection of the newborn are not
      understood. Current vaccine formulations were designed for and tested in non-pregnant
      populations; yet substantial immune modulations take place during different stages of
      pregnancy and potentially can impact the humoral response following maternal immunization.
      The investigators thus have insufficient data on quantity and quality of the immune response
      during pregnancy and how this relates to immunity provided from the mother to the newborn.
      First, The investigators hypothesize that the nature and breadth of the humoral immune
      response following vaccination differs in pregnant and non-pregnant vaccinees. Next, The
      investigators hypothesize that the vaccine-specific antibodies that cross the placenta,
      comprise distinct repertoire features thus, the placenta functions as a differential barrier
      for antibody transfer. To test these hypotheses, The investigators will use proteomic and
      genomic/transcriptomic measurements of antibody repertoires in the maternal and cord blood
      compartments. The measurements will be based on antibody clonal diversity/frequency, V(D)J
      germline usage and SHM, where we expect to find changes in i) vaccine-specific B cell
      frequency, antibody clonal diversity, germline usage and SHM in pregnant women and ii)
      distinct repertoire features in the transplacental vaccine-specific antibody compartment
      compared the maternal compartment. The investigators will utilize deep sequencing and
      proteomic technologies to provide, for the first time, insight into the immunobiology of a
      promising intervention aimed to prevent early life infectious morbidity and mortality and
      establish new research avenues for vaccine research in vulnerable populations.
    
  