
    
      The CLL Research Consortium (CRC) is conducting a two-arm, multi-center phase II trial of
      Revlimid® and rituximab for the first-line treatment of patients with CLL.

      Revlimid® (lenalidomide) a derivative of thalidomide with immune-modulating properties.
      Revlimid® is FDA approved for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma and 5q- myelodysplastic
      syndrome. Revlimid® has promising clinical activity in relapsed CLL in two early clinical
      trials. However, the mechanism(s) whereby Revlimid® is active in CLL is unknown. Rituximab
      (Rituxan®) is a protein that binds to CD20 expressed on normal and leukemia B cells.
      Rituximab is FDA approved for the treatment of lymphoma and is used commonly for the
      treatment of CLL. The purposes of this study are to evaluate the safety and activity of the
      combination of Revlimid® and rituximab in CLL, elucidate the mechanism of Revlimid® in CLL,
      and to assess whether prognostic factors might predict those patients likely to benefit from
      this therapy in the future.

      As older patients are commonly under-represented in CLL clinical trials and are less
      tolerable of frontline therapy that utilizes combinations of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide
      the trial has two arms; one to specifically assess for the tolerability of the regimen in
      older subjects.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the response rate of the combination of
      Revlimid® and Rituximab in previously untreated CLL patients in two arms- those aged 65 years
      and above and those younger than 65. Secondary objectives will evaluate the safety of the
      combination of Revlimid® and Rituximab, response duration, improvement in hematologic
      parameters, activity of the combination in high-risk CLL subsets, and the significance of the
      tumor flare reaction.

      All patients will have baseline assessment of known CLL prognostic factors including:
      immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) gene mutational status, interphase cytogenetics,
      intracellular ZAP-70 expression, and CD38 expression through the CRC tissue core. These known
      prognostic features in CLL together with novel prognostic factors will be evaluated for the
      ability to predict response to treatment with Revlimid® and the combination of Revlimid® and
      Rituximab. Extensive biologic corollary studies are designed to evaluate the mechanism of
      Revlimid® in CLL, the impact of Revlimid® on the CLL microenvironment, and Revlimid®'s impact
      on and rituximab mediated cytotoxicity.

      All patients will receive the same treatment. Revlimid® will be started at a low dose and
      slowly escalated based on patient tolerability. Rituximab will be administered following 21
      days of Revlimid® monotherapy. Patients will continue treatment for up to 7 cycles unless
      there is toxicity or progressive disease. There are three planned response assessments for
      the subjects: a single agent Revlimid® response assessment prior to the addition of
      rituximab, after 3 cycles of treatment, and following all the therapy.
    
  