
    
      Amplitude titration, as proposed in this current proposal, can reduce the variability related
      to fixed amplitude dosing and optimize clinical and cognitive outcomes. The goal of this
      project is to change standard ECT parameter selection from a fixed amplitude to an
      individualized and empirically determined amplitude. To achieve this goal, the investigators
      will focus on the relationship between amplitude titration and treatment-responsive changes
      in hippocampal neuroplasticity with RUL fixed amplitude ECT. Fixed amplitude ECT results in
      variable E-field or ECT dose. Over the course of an ECT series, the variable ECT dose will
      result in inconsistent changes in hippocampal neuroplasticity. In contrast, pre-translational
      investigations have demonstrated that amplitude titration results in a consistent E-field or
      ECT "dose". Seizure titration amplitudes (based on historic data, 233 to544mA) are below the
      amplitude range of FDA-approved ECT devices (500 to 900mA) and will require an adaptor to
      reduce the output amplitude (Investigational Device Exemption). Amplitude titration will also
      be below the hippocampal neuroplasticity threshold and insufficient for antidepressant
      response. The difference between RUL amplitude titration and RUL fixed amplitude (800mA) ECT
      will determine the degree of target engagement with the hippocampus. To illustrate, subjects
      with low amplitude titration of ~250 mA (800/250, high fixed/titration amplitude ratio) will
      have significant changes in hippocampal neuroplasticity. Subjects with high amplitude
      titration ~500mA (800/500, low fixed/titration ratio) will have minimal changes in
      hippocampal neuroplasticity. The relationship between amplitude titration and fixed amplitude
      hippocampal neuroplasticity will be used to develop the amplitude multiplier required for
      consistent and clinically effective ECT dosing.
    
  