
    
      A prospective multicenter study to compare the cost, time, complications, and migrations rate
      of two commercially available FDA approved needles; 19 gauge endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) fine
      needle aspiration (FNA) BNX needles to 22 gauge EUS FNA BNX needles.

      There will be fiducials placed in the pancreas according to facility policy and procedure.

      This is a randomized prospective multicenter trial. A minimum of 14 patients and a maximum of
      30 patients will be enrolled at up to ten participating sites. Enrollment is projected to be
      complete within approximately one year.

      Adult subjects with a diagnosis of pancreatic cancer who will receive SBRT for pancreatic
      cancer via Cyberknife or Tomotherapy will undergo EUS guided fiducial marker placement.

      Subjects will be randomized to receive fiducial marker placement with either a 19 gauge EUS,
      FNA BNX needle or a 22 gauge EUS, FNA BNX needle. For all patients, standard hospital
      protocol will be followed for EUS procedures and patient care management.

      The study duration will commence at the time of EUS guided fiducial marker placement and
      conclude at the time of last SBRT to the pancreas.

      Cost effectiveness will be evaluated by providing an itemized statement, including
      anesthesiologist, and endoscopist charges. Time of procedure will be evaluated at time point
      of first lead needle loaded to time of last marker placed. Time measurement will begin when
      Endoscopist inserts the echoendoscope into the patient. Thus the patient is under anesthesia,
      in position, and staff is ready for the case. The time ends once last fiducial marker is
      placed. Complications will be reported and may include but not limited to pain, bleeding,
      peritonitis, and pancreatitis. Migration will be reported during the timeframe from
      simulation to the last day of SBRT.

      The ability to receive SBRT from this EUS guided fiducial placement will be reported as
      simply a yes or no. Sites will provide a de-identified itemized statement for EUS guided
      fiducial placement procedure, prior to any discounted rate, including the endoscopist and
      anesthesiologist.

      Follow up evaluations and treatment for pancreatic cancer will be performed in accordance
      with standard of care procedures and procedures deemed necessary by the attending physician.
    
  