
    
      EMF-exposure has been related to reported symptoms of sleep-disorders, headaches,
      nervousness, fatigue, and concentration difficulties. This study intends to focus on these
      symptoms related to the UMTS control signal.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the possible annoyance from very low intensity
      electromagnetic radiation, as it exists from modern antenna masts supporting mobile
      communication. Also we try to get a better understanding of the specific parts of the signal
      leading to symptoms. This investigation tries to clarify the risk for both adults and
      adolescents, other susceptibility factors, and whether the radiation changes cognitive
      functions. The above mentioned complaints have been related to psychological distress and
      somatization, and EMF-related complaints have been reported more by individuals with higher
      somatization tendency. In the present study, we therefore propose to control for symptoms of
      somatization and personality traits thought to influence perception and reporting of
      symptoms.

      In this study a signal level of 1 volt/meter (2.6 mW/m2) will be used. This level should
      correspond to the level, experienced by the general public living rather near a base station
      antenna. The antenna arrangement will produce an approximation to a plane wave, so that the
      intensity is constant (within 2 dB) over the volume occupied by the subjects. The subjects
      are required to sit close to a computer screen and keyboard, which will modify the
      distribution slightly. The climatic chamber used for the study is modified with absorbing
      lining to dampen reflections from the walls. The chamber is also modified to make it a
      screened room to prevent external RF fields, and to some extent low frequency fields, to
      enter the chamber. Except for cables to the keyboard and screen there will be no other
      electromagnetic radiators in the chamber. The four different exposure types used, are Sham
      exposure (no radiation from the antennas), a UMTS signal (typical base station signal, 2140
      MHz), a CW (continuous wave) of 2140 MHz. and a Wideband W-CDMA signal, f=2140 MHz, modulated
      with a random data sequence at a chip rate of 3.8 MHz, corresponding to a pure UMTS
      modulation signal, without the control signals.
    
  