
    
      Informal caregivers, typically family members or friends, provide more than half of the care
      needed for the 5.7 million cancer survivors (defined as individuals from diagnosis to
      end-of-life) in the United States, often with negative consequences to their health.
      Caregivers assist with the management of the survivor's symptoms such as fatigue, pain and
      insomnia, and others.Psychological distress (depression and anxiety) has been reported in at
      least 30% of survivors and their caregivers who are not always prepared for the task of
      symptom management. This research assists both the caregiver and survivor (the dyad in this
      study) to manage the survivor's cancer- and treatment-related symptoms and the distress of
      both members of the dyad in a sample of 298 survivors with elevated depression or anxiety and
      their 298 caregivers. Dyads will be recruited during the survivor's chemotherapy or targeted
      therapy for a solid tumor, a time when symptom burden and psychological distress are
      particularly high.

      The investigators will use two evidence-based interventions extensively tested against active
      and passive controls in traditional randomized controlled trials (RCTs). While overall
      efficacy of these interventions has been established, individuals differ in their responses.
      When an intervention does not initially work, clinical logic is to either extend the
      timeframe or prescribe a different intervention. Yet, these alternatives are seldom tested
      and not evidence-based. The proposed project advances beyond a traditional RCT of testing
      fixed "one size fits all" interventions to the sequential multiple assignment randomized
      trial (SMART) design to build the evidence base for intervention sequencing that accounts for
      heterogeneity of responses.

      The first intervention, a printed symptom management and survivorship handbook (Handbook)
      with strategies for self-management of symptoms common during chemotherapy will be given to
      both survivor and caregiver (the dyad). Handbook strategies, if successfully enacted, produce
      positive symptom responses for the survivor. However, psychological distress of the survivor
      or the caregiver may diminish the receipt and enactment of the Handbook strategies and also
      exacerbate the severity of other symptoms which, in turn, produces poor symptom responses.
      Research by this team has documented dyadic effects where survivors' psychosocial distress
      impacts that of the caregiver and vice versa. The survivor's and caregiver's distress exhibit
      similar trajectories. Therefore, the second intervention tested in sequencing is the 8-week
      telephone interpersonal counseling intervention (TIP-C) to manage psychological distress of
      the dyad.

      The dyad (survivor-caregiver) will be randomly assigned to either: 1) Symptom Management and
      Survivorship Guideline (Handbook) alone or 2) Telephone Interpersonal Counseling (TIP-C)
      +Handbook for 8 weeks followed by continued Handbook alone for 4 weeks. During 12 weeks
      following initial randomization, all participants will receive weekly telephone contacts to
      assess symptoms, deliver the assigned intervention and assess its enactment and fidelity.
      After the initial 4 weeks in the Handbook alone group, the survivor's response to the
      intervention will be determined. If the survivor responds (defined as a reduced score on
      depression and/or anxiety), the dyad will continue with the Handbook alone for 8 more weeks.
      If the survivor is a non-responder (defined as no improvement or a worsening score for
      depression and/or anxiety), the dyad will be re-randomized to either continue with Handbook
      alone for 8 more weeks, or add 8 weeks of TIP-C. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, weeks
      13 and 17 for both members of the dyad.

      The following specific aims will be tested.

        1. Determine if dyads in the TIP-C+Handbook as compared to the Handbook alone group created
           by the first randomization will have: a) lower depression, anxiety, and summed severity
           of 13 other symptoms at weeks 1-12, 13, and 17 (primary outcomes); b) lower use of
           healthcare services (hospitalizations, urgent care or emergency department [ED] visits)
           during 17 weeks (secondary outcomes); c) greater self-efficacy, social support, and
           lower caregiver burden during weeks 13 and 17 (potential mediators).

        2. Among non-responders to the Handbook alone after 4 weeks, determine if dyads in
           TIP-C+Handbook as compared to the Handbook alone group created by the second
           randomization will have better primary and secondary outcomes and potential mediators at
           weeks 5-12, 13, and 17.

        3. Test the interdependence in survivors' and caregivers' primary and secondary outcomes.

        4. Determine which characteristics of the dyad are associated with responses to the
           Handbook alone during weeks 1-4 and optimal outcomes for the dyad during weeks 1-12, 13
           and 17 so as to determine tailoring variables for the decision rules of individualized
           sequencing of interventions in the future.
    
  