
    
      Background: Physical activity is associated with management and/or prevention of over 25
      chronic health conditions; however the majority of adults in North America are not active
      enough to experience these benefits. Behavioral strategies have been shown to be effective
      for increasing physical activity, and our online platform includes components of several
      behavioral strategies including goal setting and feedback.

      Target Population: Participants will be Canadian adults over 18 who have

        1. recently started practising social distancing due to our current COVID-19 situation

        2. currently are participating in physical activity below Canadian recommended guidelines
           (150 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity per week).

        3. Participants must have access to the Internet. Sample Size: 40 participants, 20
           participants per group - (Control) 20 participants (intervention) Participants will be
           excluded from the project if they do not have access to the Internet, are unable to
           speak/read English, are not engaging in moderate-to vigorous PA (MVPA) sufficient to
           meet the PA Guidelines, have an existing chronic medical condition potentially making
           them at risk of injury or ill health from increasing their physical activity (assessed
           using the GAQ. Screening will be completed formally over the phone, and participants
           will give their consent online.

      Condition one: Waitlist control group: One group (evenly representing Adults practising
      social distancing) will complete the baseline and final questionnaires (online). At the end
      of the study this group will have the option to receive access to the other group's materials
      (online platform) if they wish, for the 6 week period following the study. Access to the
      online platform is for study participant use and benefit only and no participant data/website
      analytics will be collected at this point in the study.

      Condition two: One group (evenly representing Adults practising social distancing) will
      complete the online baseline questionnaire, and receive access to the online platform.
      Briefly, the participants will be shown (via skype, Face time, Zoom or other alternate online
      technology) how to use it .

      At 3 weeks, a check-in session will occur, depending on what the participant prefers, a
      researcher will arrange a virtual visit or phone call with the participant to chat about how
      their physical activity has been going and to ensure the web application' usability. Again at
      this point on-going consent will be secured. At 6 weeks a researcher will arrange a virtual
      visit or phone call with the participant & ask them to complete the final online
      questionnaire and do a wrap up interview. The end-of-trial qualitative interview will
      evaluate participant satisfaction and feasibility of the intervention. For this reason a lab
      employee unaffiliated with this study will complete these interviews via skype or alternate
      technology. The interview will be audio-recorded transcribed verbatim. After the intervention
      group participants have completed the 6 week online program, data collection will be complete
      and while they may still access the platform for an additional 6 weeks, data collection from
      participants or website use analytics will not be ongoing.
    
  