
    
      In the post-HAART era, patients continue to suffer from the adverse medical consequences of
      HIV/AIDS. The adverse effects include incomplete immune reconstitution, chronic inflammation,
      depression, increased risk of cardiovascular and metabolic disease, and low bone density.
      Clinical trials suggest that vitamin D supplements can increase bone density, reduce
      inflammation, alleviate depression, and increase longevity if given in adequate doses. To
      achieve maximum benefits, most vitamin D experts in the HIV field agree that vitamin D
      treatments should raise the concentration of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] above 30 ng/ml. A
      growing number of HIV care providers desire an evidence-based protocol for achieving these
      25(OH)D target levels. This project addresses the need for a validated protocol for treating
      vitamin D deficiency in HIV-positive individuals on HAART. The goal of Aim I is to conduct a
      12-mo randomized, double-blinded trial comparing two dosing regimens of oral vitamin D plus
      0.5 g/d of calcium in patients on stable HAART who have 25(OH)D levels ≤ 25 ng/ml and
      undetectable HIV viral load at baseline (100 per arm). Medication event monitoring system
      (MEMS) caps will be used to record supplement use and to promote adherence. Subjects in
      Protocol A will receive 50,000 IU/wk of vitamin D2 for 8 wk followed by 1000 IU/d of vitamin
      D3 for 48 wk. Subjects in Protocol B will receive 2000-4000 IU/d of vitamin D3, depending on
      the basal 25(OH)D level, with dose titration, as necessary, based on the slope of the initial
      response. The primary outcome measure is the difference in the percentage of subjects with
      25(OH)D levels in the range of 30-60 ng/ml at 12 mo. The secondary outcome is the slope of
      the 25(OH)D response curve during various time intervals. The goal of Aim II is to compare
      the impact of the two protocols on markers of disease. The primary outcome measure is the
      change in the CD4+T cell count. Secondary outcomes include changes in CD4+ T cell subsets,
      markers of inflammation, markers of bone and calcium metabolism, self-reported psychological
      status, viral load, side effects, safety, and adherence. To our knowledge, this trial is the
      first head-to-head comparison of a regimen that uses a loading dose of vitamin D2 with a
      regimen that uses a tiered starting dose of vitamin D3. The project will yield a validated
      protocol for treating vitamin D deficiency in HIV-infected patients on HAART and will provide
      initial data about the risks and health benefits of vitamin D and calcium supplements. This
      information is essential for designing definitive multicenter trials in the future.
    
  