
    
      This is an interventional, unblinded RCT where a total of 30 patients who have consented to
      undergo partial nephrectomy for a T1 renal mass under the care of a uro-oncologist at
      Princess Margaret Cancer Centre will be randomized 1:1 to one of two arms:

      Arm A: Robotic Partial Nephrectomy Arm B: Open Partial Nephrectomy

      Patients will complete all pre-admission testing as per standard of care, regardless of arm
      allocation. Creatinine and eGFR are measured routinely pre-operatively and these values will
      be used as a baseline for all patients. In addition to standard pre-admission testing,
      participants will complete the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer
      Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) offered either on paper at the visit or online
      via an emailed link.

      Following either open or robotic partial nephrectomy, participants will be followed as per
      standard of care. Generally, this includes follow-up at 4-6 weeks, 6 months, 12 months and
      then either every 6 months thereafter or yearly, depending on pathology. All clinical outcome
      measures for this study are routinely reported post-operatively and in the follow-up period
      for partial nephrectomy patients. Quality of life will be assessed at the 4-7 week and 6
      month follow-up visits using the EORTC QLQ-C30 offered either on paper at the visit or online
      via an emailed link. Participants will also be asked to complete a Surgical Recovery/Flank
      Bulge questionnaire regarding their incision healing and recovery from surgery at the 6-month
      follow-up visit.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility of a full RCT comparing
      perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing robotic vs. open partial nephrectomy at the
      investigator's institution.

      The secondary objective of the study is to compare pilot outcome measures addressing
      oncologic, functional, and health economics outcomes to assess whether a full RCT is
      worthwhile and feasible.
    
  