
    
      Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is one of the most effective treatments for chronic back
      pain. However, only half of Veterans have access to trained CBT therapists, and program
      expansion is costly. Moreover, VA CBT programs consist of 10 weekly hour-long sessions
      delivered using an approach that is out-of-sync with stepped-care models designed to ensure
      that scarce resources are used as effectively and efficiently as possible. Data from prior
      CBT trials have documented substantial variation in patients' needs for extended treatment,
      and the characteristics of effective programs vary significantly. Some patients improve after
      the first few sessions while others need more extensive contact. After initially establishing
      a behavioral plan, still other Veterans may be able to reach behavioral and symptom goals
      using a personalized combination of manuals, shorter follow-up contacts with a therapist, and
      automated telephone monitoring and self-care support calls. In partnership with the National
      Pain Management Program, the investigators propose to apply state-of-the-art principles from
      "reinforcement learning" (a field of artificial intelligence or AI used successfully in
      robotics and on-line consumer targeting) to develop an evidence-based, personalized CBT pain
      management service that automatically adapts to each Veteran's unique and changing needs
      (AI-CBT). AI-CBT will use feedback from patients about their progress in pain-related
      functioning measured daily via pedometer step-counts to automatically personalize the
      intensity and type of patient support; thereby ensuring that scarce therapist resources are
      used as efficiently as possible and potentially allowing programs with fixed budgets to serve
      many more Veterans. The specific aims of the study are to: (1) demonstrate that AI-CBT has
      non-inferior pain-related outcomes compared to standard telephone CBT; (2) document that
      AI-CBT achieves these outcomes with more efficient use of scarce clinician resources as
      evidenced by less overall therapist time and no increase in the use of other VA health
      services; and (3) demonstrate the intervention's impact on proximal outcomes associated with
      treatment response, including program engagement, pain management skill acquisition,
      satisfaction with care, and patients' likelihood of dropout. The investigators will use
      qualitative interviews with patients, clinicians, and VA operational partners to ensure that
      the service has features that maximize scalability, broad scale adoption, and impact. 278
      patients with chronic back pain will be recruited from the VA Connecticut Healthcare System
      and the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, and randomized to standard 10-sessions of telephone
      CBT versus AI-CBT. All patients will begin with weekly hour-long telephone counseling, but
      for patients in the AI-CBT group, those who demonstrate a significant treatment response will
      be stepped down through less resource-intensive alternatives to hour-long contacts,
      including: (a) 15 minute contacts with a therapist, and (b) CBT clinician feedback provided
      via interactive voice response calls (IVR). The AI engine will learn what works best in terms
      of patients' personally-tailored treatment plan based on daily feedback via IVR about
      patients' pedometer-measured step counts as well as their CBT skill practice and physical
      functioning. The AI algorithm the investigators will use is designed to be as efficient as
      possible, so that the system can learn what works best for a given patient based on the
      collective experience of other similar patients as well as the individual's own history. The
      investigator's hypothesis is that AI-CBT will result in pain-related functional outcomes that
      are no worse (and possibly better) than the standard approach, but by scaling back the
      intensity of contact that is not resulting in marginal gains in pain control, the AI-CBT
      approach will be significantly less costly in terms of therapy time. Secondary hypotheses are
      that AI-CBT will result in greater patient engagement and patient satisfaction. Outcomes will
      be measured at three and six months post recruitment and will include pain-related
      interference, treatment satisfaction, and treatment dropout.
    
  