
    
      Ankle fractures were among the most common injuries of the lower extremity. Peri-operative,
      multimodal pain therapy is of great importance in the surgical treatment of those injuries.
      Whereas simple (uni- and bimalleolar) ankle fractures are covered peri-operatively by oral
      pain medication and Piritramid-PCA (PCA=Patient-controlled analgesia), complex, trimalleolar
      fractures usually receive additional regional pain catheters (femoralis blockade and
      ischiadicus blockade).

      Regional pain catheters have the major downside of motor paresis and are therefore critically
      discussed. Various studies have explored new techniques for perioperative pain therapy. An
      established procedure in midfoot and forefoot surgery is the foot block. It can be inserted
      at different heights around the ankle joint. However, the effectiveness of the high foot
      block has not yet been investigated for ankle fractures. The aim of the herein presented
      double-blinded is to compare the effectiveness of the high foot block against placebo
      infiltration in simple, uni- and bimalleolar ankle fractures.

      All patients who are operated on in our department due to a uni- or bimalleolar ankle
      fracture, who are over 18 years of age and have no serious pre-existing conditions or
      contraindications to local anaesthesia (LA) are eligible for inclusion.

      The perioperative procedure does not change to the current treatment standard at the
      University Hospital Munich - Ludwig Maximilians University (LMU) except for randomization for
      high foot block or placebo. Both the anesthesia and the postoperative pain therapy correspond
      to the current treatment standard and are the same for both groups. The intraoperative opioid
      requirement, the VAS and the postoperative opioid requirement will be assessed.

      The data is collected using the RedCap database (#19-177), which has already been reviewed by
      the ethics committee. The evaluation will be performed using SPSS 25.0 (IBM).
    
  