
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1
      determined by Ia. Computed tomography (CT) or Ib. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate progression-free survival at 1-year. II. To correlate blood pressure control
      and change/discontinuation of antihypertensive medications with tumor responses in patients
      with pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PHPGs).

      III. To correlate plasma metanephrines and chromogranin A with tumor responses in patients
      with PHPGs.

      IV. To correlate calcitonin, carcinoembryonic antigen, and chromogranin A with tumor
      responses in patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTCs).

      V. To correlate pituitary hormones (depending on particular tumor, e.g. prolactin for
      prolactinomas, insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) for acromegaly, adrenocorticotropic hormone
      (ACTH) and 24-hour urine free cortisol for Cushing disease, and chromogranin A with tumor
      responses in patients with functional pituitary carcinomas).

      VI. To correlate calcium, intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), and chromogranin A with tumor
      responses in patients with parathyroid carcinoma.

      VII. Toxicity assessment by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0
      (CTCAE 5.0).

      VIII. To correlate tumor responses with tumor uptake score in somatostatin receptor
      scintigraphy, overall prognosis and responsiveness to lutetium Lu 177 dotatate
      (177Lu-DOTATATE).

      IX. To determine the percentage of tumors that demonstrate uptake on diagnostic
      68Gallium-DOTATATE positron emission tomography (PET)/CT that would make treatment with
      177Lu-DOTATATE feasible.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pituitary function in all patients to look for possible radiation late effects
      on the pituitary gland.

      II. To estimate best biochemical response for specific tumor markers in patients with
      non-measurable disease.

      III. To correlate biochemical response in patients with non-measurable disease with RECIST
      1.1 tumor response criteria for patients with non-measurable disease.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive 177Lu-DOTATATE intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 8-16 weeks.
      Treatment continues for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at week 72 and then every 24
      weeks for up to 5 years.
    
  