
    
      Arsenal and limitations in the treatment of uveitis Uveitis is a major cause of severe visual
      loss or even blindness in children and young adults. In almost one third of cases, it is
      associated with an infectious agent, another third is integrated in the field of autoimmune
      diseases as systemic entities including (Behçet's disease, sarcoidosis, spondyloarthropathy
      ...) or limited to the eye (Birdshot type retinochoroidopathy, sympathetic ophthalmia,
      idiopathic retinal vasculitis). The last third remains idiopathic, where despite a careful
      etiological research, no cause is identified. The systemic corticosteroids are often
      effective but have significant side effects and patient compliance is often poor. That is why
      they are sometimes administered directly into the posterior segment of the eye (vitreous),
      but the effect is only temporary, often ineffective, and also associated with side effects.
      In addition, some are steroid-dependent, requiring treatment with immunosuppressive agents;
      which also may be responsible for many adverse effects and are not always effective. In these
      therapeutic impasse situations, investigators propose a cell therapy approach injection of
      CD4 + CD25 + Foxp3 regulators + (Tregs), directly into the vitreous of patients.

      A new therapy approach uveitis by cell therapy It is now clearly established that Tregs play
      a critical role in the control of autoimmune diseases. In man or mouse, a deep deficit in
      Tregs is associated with a very severe autoimmune syndrome, leading to death .In uveitis, it
      is also shown that Tregs control this disease in deficient mice. Tregs have been reported in
      humans . In addition, our group and others have shown that various autoimmune diseases can be
      prevented by transfer of Tregs in mice .Thus, cell therapy by injection of Tregs raises hopes
      for the treatment of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases . However, only specific
      and not polyclonal Tregs, have a strong therapeutic potential when administered systemically.
      The only Tregs that can be used in clinic are polyclonal Tregs purified by magnetic beads to
      which, are adsorbed anti- CD25 antibody . This technology provides a cell preparation
      enriched in Tregs for 50 to 70%, the balance consisting of effector T cells (Teffs ) , B
      lymphocytes and NK cells. A therapeutic alternative to the systemic injection of specific
      Tregs is to inject, preactivated polyclonal Tregs directly into the target site of autoimmune
      disease, in purified clinical grade condition.

      Description of the study population. Patients with bilateral severe steroid-dependent
      non-infectious uveitis. Infectious or tumoral etiologies have been excluded after completion
      of a comprehensive review of systems. All patients had a negative Quantiferon test and a
      normal Mantoux test. Biological tests sent to specialized laboratories will eliminate an
      active infection. In some cases, aqueous humor obtained after AC tap and / or vitreous biopsy
      obtained after vitrectomy will be analyzed for diagnostic assay IL-10, immune load factor or
      PCR analysis (toxoplasmosis, herpes viruses).

      Pathophysiology of uveitis in humans. Inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, such as IL-6,
      IFN-g, IL-8 and MCP-1 and sometimes IL-1ß, IL-2 and TNF-alpha were found in the aqueous humor
      and vitreous of patients with uveitis . Given the small volume available in these human
      samples (around 100 ml), data are obtained with multiple detection techniques using flow
      cytometry, for measuring the concentration of thirty different cytokines and chemokines in a
      50 microl volume.

      In order to expand the study to other cytokines and chemokines, investigators also used a
      semi-quantitative technique named ""antibody array"" which allows the analysis of a number of
      different molecules ranging from 30 to 170. These preliminary results, evaluated in some
      patients, confirm the presence of Th1 inflammatory profile in the eye of patients suffering
      from uveitis (not shown) and confirm our strategy

      Risks associated with injected cells. No side effects of Tregs injection has been observed in
      preclinical mouse model. In our Biotherapies facilities, production of Tregs, as provided in
      this essay, will contain 50 to 70% of Tregs, defined by the phenotype CD4 + Foxp3 + CD25 +.
      Therefore investigators tested the effect of leukocyte contaminants on therapeutic effect in
      uveitis in mice. The presence of such contaminants effector T cells, B cells, NK cells,
      dendritic cells or macrophages did not cause visible side effects at the clinical or
      histological levels. A second potential risk is that the injected of polyclonal Tregs have
      been differentiated into a different celltype. Anterior study showed that natural human Tregs
      can differentiate into Th17 type T lymphocytes in the presence of IL-2 or IL-15. This
      differentiation is accentuated by the addition of IL-1ß, IL-6, IL-21 or IL-23 . Although
      investigators can not formally exclude the possibility that Tregs injected IVT may
      differentiate into Th17 cells, since this event is not probably been detected in uveitis eye
      (data not shown).

      Another potential risk of dissemination of the injected cells from the eye due to reflux at
      conjunctiva during the IVT. The last risk that can be considered is the development of non-
      Hodgkin lymphoma by creating a tolerogenic environment due to regulatory T cells. This risk
      is identical than the one associated with the current reference treatment of uveitis :
      immunosuppressives agent and corticosteroids. These risks have never been fully described in
      the literature in both animals and humans.

      Dosage and number of patients. The 3 levels of Tregs doses will be respectively 0.4, 1.2 and
      3.6 million. The lowest dose of 0.4 million Tregs corresponding to 2 times the effective dose
      in mice.

      Two to 18 patients will be enrolled in this trial. Funding is provided for 12 patients.

      Good clinical practice( GCP) The research will be conducted in accordance with GCP and the
      current legislative and regulation. Investigators certify that the research will be conducted
      in accordance with the protocol of GCP The Biotherapies facilities perform production
      activities, quality control according to current regulations for cell therapy and compliance
      with good practices of Cellular Therapy (BPTC) and also according to standard operating
      procedures (SOP). Specific authorization is required from ANSM for the realization of this
      essay To conclude, it is now clearly established that cell therapy approach of CD4 + CD25 +
      Foxp3 regulators (Tregs) play a critical role in the control of autoimmune diseases in human
      or mouse clinical test . Therefore this clinical trial assess the effect of Tolerance- dose
      of in patients treated by Tregs for bilateral severe steroid-dependent non-infectious
      uveitis.
    
  