
    
      Research suggests that modifying microbial ecology therapeutically via the intake of
      so-called 'psychobiotics' could help reduce stress responses and symptoms of anxiety and
      depression (Burnet & Cowen, 2013; Dinan, Stanton, & Cryan, 2013; Tang, Reddy, & Saier, 2014).
      The term psychobiotics refers to both, beneficial gut bacteria (probiotics), as well as
      prebiotics, which enhance the growth of beneficial gut bacteria (Sarkar et al., 2016). In a
      recent study, Schmidt and colleagues explored the effects of prebiotics on the secretion of
      the stress hormone cortisol and emotional processing in healthy volunteers (Schmidt et al.,
      2015). They found that cortical awakening response was significantly lower after
      BimunoÒ-galacto-oligosaccharides (Bimuno) intake over 4 weeks compared with placebo.
      Moreover, participants exhibited decreased attentional vigilance to negative information in a
      dot-probe task. Given that anxious people show increased biases towards negative information
      (Bar-Haim, Lamy, Pergamin, Bakermans-Kranenburg, & van, 2007), this suggests that prebiotic
      intake may be useful in modifying anxiety-related cognitive mechanisms.

      These findings will be extended to a sample of late adolescents in order to investigate how
      prebiotic intake for 4 weeks affects cognitive functioning, psychological well-being and gut
      microbiota a sample of 60 undergraduate students (aged 18-25 years).

      At time 1 (pre-assessment), participants in both groups will undergo comprehensive
      behavioural and psychological testing to establish baseline measures of cognitive functioning
      and psychological well-being (such as anxiety levels) and asked to collect a stool sample at
      home for 16s rRNA sequencing of the microbiome. Group 1 will then receive a daily dosage of a
      galactooligosaccharide (GOS) prebiotic over 4 weeks, whereas group 2 will receive a placebo
      over the same period. At time 2 (post-assessment), both groups will again undergo cognitive
      and psychological testing and stool sampling.

      Hypothesis: It is predicted that the treatment group (GOS) will show improvements in
      behavioural indices of emotion regulation (e.g. dot probe task) and in self reported
      psychological measures related to emotion regulation (e.g. anxiety) in comparison to the
      placebo group. Changes/differences in gut microbiome samples will be explored.
    
  