
    
      Joint contractures are characterized by a restriction in the full passive range of motion
      (ROM) of a joint and are a major burden on public health. They restrict mobility, have a
      negative impact on quality of life, limit an individual's productivity and earning potential,
      and can prevent basic activities of daily living such as dressing and eating. The geriatric
      population is particularly vulnerable to contractures due to accumulated comorbidities
      leading to restricted joint movement and permanent loss of ROM.

      A knee flexion contracture (KFlC) is a limitation in knee extension. Patients with KFlCs limp
      and are afflicted with a constant enhanced energy demand on the quadriceps muscle, putting
      them at higher risk for falls and injury. Walking is slow and abnormally tiring for those
      with KFlC such that patients may choose to walk less or not at all. Murphy et al. identified
      a significant increase in energy cost of walking with a KFlC of ≥15°. In addition, KFlCs
      cause a functional shortening in the affected limb resulting in a leg length discrepancy
      (LLD). LLDs contribute to even greater energy requirements for ambulation, worse pain due to
      premature joint wear, and are associated with knee osteoarthritis progression. One study
      identified shoe modification as a means of correcting this treatable risk factor. To the
      investigators' knowledge, no study has examined the effect of shoe modification on KFlC.

      Contractures are associated with many conditions including arthritis. In the setting of
      osteoarthritis (OA), the most common arthritis and a world-leading cause of disability in the
      elderly, contractures are highly prevalent: over one third of 3,400 patients with OA
      presenting for total knee arthroplasty (TKA) had a KFlC. The burden of KFlC in OA is further
      compounded by the pre-operative contracture putting the patient at a higher risk for
      contracture, knee pain and poor outcome post-operatively. Loss of pre-operative ROM was found
      to be the best predictor of lost post-operative ROM.

      During TKA, surgeons are often able to restore some or all knee ROM which transiently
      eliminates the contracture in the immediate post-operative period. Unfortunately, full ROM is
      lost over time in a notable proportion of patients. The overall incidence of KFlC following
      TKA has been reported to be between 1 to 5%. In patients with pre-operative KFlC, this has
      been reported as high as 15% with the resulting post-operative KFlCs still present at 3-year
      follow-up4. Patients who develop post-operative KFlC report less satisfaction, poorer
      function and more pain post-surgically. Post-operative loss of ROM has been described as one
      of the most common causes of readmission within the first 90 days after surgery and was
      identified as being the primary reason for nearly 20% of revision TKAs. These large
      percentages represent a significant number considering that 719,000 replacements were
      performed in the USA in 2010 and that the Ottawa hospital alone performs over 500 TKAs per
      year. KFlCs therefore contribute to increased health care costs.

      Treatment of KFlC includes aggressive physiotherapy, therapeutic modalities, continuous
      passive ROM devices, bracing, manipulation under anesthesia, arthroscopy, open arthrolysis,
      or TKA revision surgery. Despite these numerous and costly options however, treatment is
      often unrewarding. Overall, contractures draw heavily on health care resources because of
      their chronic nature and poor response to treatment.

      In a previous study, the investigators' group examined factors associated with KFlC in
      patients with end-stage OA going for TKA. By comparing those with contracture to those
      without, the investigators found that having a KFlC in the knee scheduled for TKA (the
      surgical knee) was associated with having a KFlC in the other (non-surgical) knee1. Once the
      surgical KFlC was corrected intra-operatively, these patients would suffer from a
      functionally shorter limb on the unoperated side. Given the disadvantages of walking on limbs
      of unequal length, patients may inadvertently flex the surgical knee when walking in order to
      equalize the limb lengths. By not accessing the full range of extension in the surgical knee,
      this could, over time, result in the re-development of a KFlC in the surgical knee. In this
      study the investigators propose to correct the LLD using a shoe lift for the unoperated knee
      with KFlC. The investigators believe this will reduce the likelihood of re-developing KFlC
      after TKA in the surgical knee. This simple, relatively inexpensive, intervention could
      reduce post-surgical morbidity, TKA revision rate and long-term costs to the healthcare
      system. Unfortunately, there is little data in the literature outlining the benefits of shoe
      lifts post-operatively.

      Innovation: The investigators will use a simple inexpensive intervention (a shoe lift) to
      correct leg length shortening in the non-surgical limb in patients with OA and bilateral knee
      flexion contractures who have had a unilateral total knee replacement.

      Objective: Determining the feasibility of studying the effects of shoe lift treatment on
      post-arthroplasty range of motion in the surgical knee in patients with bilateral
      pre-operative knee flexion contractures

      Rationale: Post-operative KFlCs cause pain, and reduce function and patient satisfaction.
      They are a common cause of chronic disability and are costly and difficult to treat.
      Prevention of post-operative KFlC would therefore be beneficial to patients and the health
      care system. The investigators believe that providing a shoe lift to the non-surgical knee
      will reduce the incidence of developing post-operative KFlC in the surgical knee in patients
      with pre-operative KFlC. To the investigators knowledge, there is presently insufficient data
      in the literature upon which to design a study testing this hypothesis, either in terms of
      power analysis or outcome measures. By completing this Objective the investigators will
      accomplish 3 goals: (1) determine data variance for a power analysis for a future study, (2)
      determine if either of two validated pain and functional outcome measures are sensitive to
      differences in knee ROM, and (3) determine the number of subjects that the investigators are
      able to recruit within the timeframe of the study.

      In this Objective, the investigators will recruit subjects and randomly allocate them to 1 of
      2 groups, both having 1° knee OA with bilateral KFlCs who are scheduled for TKA:

      Group 1: Leg length discrepancy (LLD) 2° to KFlC in the non-operated limb will be corrected
      using a shoe lift after TKA.

      Group 2: "Sham" shoe modification that does not correct LLD in the non-surgical limb after
      TKA.

      Hypothesis: It is feasible to design a larger randomized control trial to evaluate the pain
      and functional outcome benefits of using a shoe lift for the non-surgical knee
      post-operatively in patients with OA and bilateral pre-operative KFlCs. These benefits can be
      detected using a validated OA outcome tool.

      During their post-operative inpatient stay, participants will have both their anatomic leg
      lengths measured (ASIS to medial malleolus) and will then be referred to be fitted with the
      appropriate shoe adjustment.
    
  