
    
      Specific Aim 1: To investigate the physiological significance of lifestyle intervention in
      preparation for pregnancy (LIPP) on maternal and neonatal metabolism and adiposity.

      Introduction/Rationale: Our preliminary data demonstrate that supervised lifestyle
      intervention leads to significant weight loss, improved insulin sensitivity, glucose
      tolerance and incretin secretion, together with healthier cardiovascular and body composition
      outcomes in overweight and obese adults. We expect that timing and implementation of the
      proposed lifestyle intervention will produce similar health benefits in overweight/obese
      women planning a second pregnancy, and lead to greater insulin sensitivity, reduced insulin
      secretion, and less inflammation. These improvements will result in the prevention of excess
      nutrient availability (glucose and lipids) from contributing to excess fetal
      growth/adiposity. The working hypothesis for this Aim is that in contrast to GWG, the
      decreased pre-pregnancy insulin sensitivity in obese mothers accounts for the greatest
      clinical variance in fat accretion in the infant. Although clinically we anticipate a
      decrease in weight and BMI in the LIPP group, the improvement in insulin sensitivity and
      metabolic profile are the key physiological measures related to the primary outcome of
      decreased neonatal adiposity, and not the weight loss per se.

      The rationale is that the optimal time to implement lifestyle intervention that effectively
      improves maternal health at the physiological, cellular and molecular level, and results in
      optimal adiposity in the baby, is prior to pregnancy. Women who lose weight postpartum,
      experience a decrease in neonatal birth weight (primarily adipose tissue) in subsequent
      pregnancy, whereas women who gain weight, experience an increase in neonatal birth weight and
      adiposity. We hypothesize that maternal pre-pregnancy metabolic condition determines the
      obesogenic in-utero environment, which in turn affects placental programming of mitochondrial
      and lipid pathways (Specific Aim 2), and body composition of the baby. An additional
      rationale is that there is a need to understand how improved pregravid metabolic condition
      affects maternal physiological and molecular function. We anticipate that obese women who
      complete the LIPP program will enter pregnancy with improved insulin regulated metabolism and
      reduced insulin resistance, thus facilitating a lower neonatal birth weight and adiposity. We
      will recruit mothers who delivered their first baby at MHMC. We recognize that these mothers
      represent a demographic that has limited access to exercise facilities or family support
      systems that would facilitate free time for exercise. In order to reduce barriers to
      participation, we will conduct the exercise sessions in local Community Recreation Centers.
      The Centers have child care facilities and we will support the cost so participants may bring
      their babies to the LIPP sessions. To further increase participation and maximize retention,
      we will provide transportation to and from the Recreation Centers. Support for transportation
      will be requested from the Cleveland Mt. Sinai Foundation. Lifestyle Intervention Weight Loss
      Phase: The LIPP program is designed to promote weight loss that is 5-10% of body weight. The
      4-month weight loss phase consists of aerobic exercise training with diet and behavioral
      counseling to induce weight loss as was successfully achieved in prior studies. Initially,
      supervised exercise will be prescribed at 55-60% of HRmax and gradually increased so that
      after 1-2 weeks, the subjects are exercising at 75-85% of HRmax (~65-70% VO2max). Supervised
      exercise will consist of walking/jogging on a treadmill and stationary cycling, 3 days/week,
      60 min/session (i.e., 500 kcal/session). The women will wear heart rate (HR) monitors (Polar
      Electro, Woodbury, NY) during each exercise session so that they have visual feedback of
      their personalized target heart rate goal. Participants will be advised to reduce caloric
      intake by ~500 kcal/d in order to support their weight loss goals. The recommended diet will
      provide ~55% of calories as carbohydrate, 25% as fat, and 20% as protein. Participants will
      be instructed to consume complex carbohydrates and to avoid simple sugars. Specific caloric
      needs will be estimated by indirect calorimetry and a sedentary (x1.3) physical activity
      correction factor. Energy intake will be estimated using the food photo diary app, Meal Snap.
      Digital photography provides an excellent estimate of energy intake (67). Participants who do
      not own a smart phone will have one provided through support from the Cleveland Foundation.

      Records covering a 72-hour diet period will be shared with the research team for
      determination of calorie and nutrient intake. Meal Snap has a food database of over 350,000
      items. However, some meals will not be in this database, therefore our Lifestyle Coaches will
      enter all foods eaten into our diet database (NDSR, Minneapolis, MN) to facilitate analysis
      of calorie, and macro/micro nutrient intake. Subjects will generate photos from before and
      after the meal in order to estimate the amount of food that was eaten. Data will be obtained
      at baseline, and at 2-week intervals during the initial 16-week supervised weight loss
      period.

      Lifestyle Intervention - Weight Management/Maintenance: The pre-pregnancy weight management
      program (phase 2A, 2B and 2C) is designed to facilitate personalized weight loss goals using
      lifestyle behaviors that include, exercise, diet and behavioral modification, and is based in
      part on the Look AHEAD trial. The intervention includes a toolbox concept to help meet weight
      loss goals. The Lifestyle Coaches will provide personalized instruction on physical
      activity/exercise - 10,000 steps/day, and the participants will use FitBit Flex (Fitbit.com),
      to track step count and exercise time. During the first phase of weight maintenance (2A) the
      women will attend 2 supervised group sessions/week. These sessions include structured
      exercise (e.g., Zumba, jazzercise, stroller walking), review of dietary photo records, where
      meals have been eaten (home or away; recorded on smart phone app), and behavioral counseling
      (with their Lifestyle Coach). Participants will be encouraged to eat 1,200-1,500 kcal/d (~55%
      carbohydrate, 25% fat, 20% protein) if below 113 kg, or 1,500-1,800 kcal/d if >113 kg.
      Dietary data will be analyzed at 4-week intervals during the weight maintenance period.
      Importantly, to minimize subject burden and to maximize retention and data acquisition, the
      Lifestyle Coach will track calorie intake using the participant's photo diary. Behavioral
      strategies to motivate healthy lifestyle decisions will include: self-monitoring (food,
      activity, and weight, using FitBit online resources), goal setting (steps/day, weight loss),
      stimulus control (i.e., social eating, fast food, sitting vs. standing), problem solving
      (have snacks available, exercise at home), and relapse prevention (i.e., holidays, alcohol,
      fast food, sweets, problem foods, compulsive eating). After 4 months and the desired weight
      loss, subjects move to Phase 2B. During this phase subjects maintain an exercise goal of
      10,000 steps/day, but will be required to attend only 1 supervised session/week. If a subject
      fails to maintain weight loss, defined as weight gain of 3% of current body weight,
      participants will return to Phase 2A for more supervised weight management. Alternatively, if
      weight loss is maintained after 3 months, subjects will progress to Phase 2C until the
      subsequent pregnancy. Phase 2C consists of no supervised exercise sessions. However, the
      subject and Lifestyle Coach will converse weekly by phone to review progress, including
      Fitbit exercise data and diet. Data suggest that weight management programs delivered by
      phone are comparable to clinically delivered programs. During the calls participants will be
      counseled to continue to exercise at the intensity and duration prescribed during Phase 2B.
      They will be provided with language-specific food and exercise log books. These will be used
      to guide calorie intake and will provide another record of compliance. Participants
      randomized to the Control group will receive information on post-pregnancy diet/weight loss
      from the CRU nutritionist as distinct from the LIPP nutritionist (HB) to decrease cross
      contamination between groups. Weight Management during Pregnancy: All LIPP and usual
      care/control groups will be followed by their primary Obstetrical provider. The OB/GYN
      department at MHMC has recently revised its clinical guidelines for the management of the
      overweight/obese women based on the December 2015 ACOG practice bulletin (2). All
      overweight/obese women will be offered nutrition counseling early in pregnancy by a
      registered dietician from the MHMC Nutrition Department with follow-up visits as needed to
      support GWG within the IOM guidelines. Nutritional therapy will consider maternal pregravid
      BMI, ethnic, cultural and social factors in individualizing healthy eating. The electronic
      health record (EPIC) includes a graphic GWG nomogram and so GWG will be monitored at each
      visit. All subjects will be encouraged to increase physical activity for at least 30
      minutes/day (primarily walking). Clinical management such as, ultrasounds to estimate fetal
      growth, and fetal surveillance will be based on the ACOG recommendations. The Lifestyle Coach
      will continue to follow-up only with the LIPP subjects as described in the maintenance phase
      of the research design.

      Metabolic Evaluations: Metabolic evaluations will be performed at baseline (3 months ? 2
      weeks) postpartum. Follow-up evaluations will be performed after 4 (+/-2 weeks) and 12 months
      (+/-2 weeks), and then every 6 months (+/-2 weeks) prior to pregnancy up to a maximum of 24
      months. Once a subject has pregnancy dating and viability confirmed by ultrasound, metabolic
      evaluations will continue at 12-16 and 32-36 weeks of gestation.

      Maternal Body Composition: Anthropometry measurements will include height, weight, and hip
      and waist circumferences. Total body fat will be measured by whole body plethysmography (Bod
      Pod; Cosmed, Rome, Italy). We will use a hydration constant of 76% for fat free mass during
      late pregnancy.

      Resting Energy Expenditure: Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) will be determined after an
      overnight fast using the Cosmed OMNIA metabolic cart (Cosmed, Rome Italy) with a canopy
      system. We will control for diet by providing a standardized energy balanced meal the evening
      prior to the test from the CRU. Participants will relax in a quiet low-light metabolic room
      for 30 min prior to obtaining a 30 min measure of exhaled breath. Oxidative and non-oxidative
      glucose metabolism will be estimated and urine samples will be obtained before and after the
      measure in order to calculate non-protein RQ (NPRQ). These data will be used in conjunction
      with Specific Aim 2, and will be correlated with change in mitochondrial function during
      pregnancy.

      Exercise Capacity: An incremental graded treadmill test will be performed at baseline, 4, and
      6 month time points in both groups. Oxygen consumption (Jaeger OxyCon Pro/Delta System,
      Hoechberg, Germany), heart rate, and ratings of perceived exertion will be performed as
      previously described.

      Insulin Sensitivity and ?-Cell Function: A 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be
      used to assess postprandial glycemia, and insulin sensitivity and secretion. After an
      overnight fast, blood samples will be drawn at 10 min intervals for the first 60 min, and at
      20 min intervals thereafter. C-peptide data will be analyzed using a combined model approach
      to provide pre-hepatic insulin secretion rates, insulin sensitivity, disposition index, and
      relate insulin and Cpeptide kinetics (73). Plasma glucose will be measured using the glucose
      oxidase method (YSI; Yellow Springs, OH).

      Insulin will be assayed by RIA (Millipore, Billerica, MA). Diagnosis of GDM will be made
      using criteria recommended by the ACOG (74).

      Enteroinsular Axis Responses: Plasma samples (with appropriate additives) will be obtained to
      measure incretin hormones (glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and glucose-dependent
      insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), and satietyrelated gut peptides (cholecystokinin (CCK), and
      peptide YY (PYY). Measurements will be made under static (fasting) and dynamic
      (glucose-stimulated) conditions (10 min intervals up to 1 hour).

      Metabolic and Inflammatory Biomarkers: Fasting blood samples will be obtained to measure CBC,
      TSH, HbA1c, lipid panel, and total free fatty acids (FFA). Adipocytokines (adiponectin,
      leptin interleukin-6, interleukin- 8, TNF-? and hsCRP) will be measured using ELISA (R&D
      Systems, Minneapolis, MN). All samples from each subject will be stored at -80oC and run in
      the same assay at completion to decrease variability.

      Quality of Life Questionnaire: The SF-36 health survey will be used at baseline, 4 and 12
      months, and then at 6 month intervals until pregnancy to assess the subject's health-related
      quality of life. These data will provide a generic measure of physical and mental health
      through assessment of physical functioning, bodily pain, limitations due to physical,
      personal, or emotional problems and well-being, energy/fatigue, and general health
      perceptions. During pregnancy the questionnaire will be administered at 12-16 and 32-36
      weeks.

      Measuring Fat Mass in the Infant: We have extensive experience in estimating body composition
      in neonates, and were one of the first centers to procure a Pea Pod (pediatric air
      densitometry), which is housed in the CRU next to Labor & Delivery and the postpartum unit.

      Insulin Resistance at Birth: At birth we will obtain umbilical cord blood for insulin and
      glucose to estimate insulin resistance using HOMA. Full lipid profile, CRP, and the
      adipokines IL-6 and leptin (an excellent marker of neonatal fat mass) will be measured in
      cord blood as described above.

      Anticipated Results, Challenges, and Alternative Approaches:

      The primary outcome measure of this proposal is lower neonatal adiposity at birth in the LIPP
      group relative to: 1) the Control group and 2) with the subject's firstborn. As secondary
      outcomes we anticipate that prior to a subsequent pregnancy, LIPP will produce significant
      improvement (absolute and percent changes) in maternal weight and body composition, and more
      importantly improved insulin sensitivity, beta-cell function, incretin response to glucose,
      lipid and inflammatory biomarkers, compared to the Control group. We also expect reduced
      insulin resistance, cord lipids and inflammatory profiles in babies born to LIPP compared to
      Controls.

      Recruitment is a well-recognized problem for the successful implementation and completion of
      lifestyle intervention trials. However, given the novel strategy for recruitment detailed
      above, our unique access to the patient population, and our extensive experience in metabolic
      research in pregnancy, we do not anticipate recruitment to present an insurmountable
      challenge. We will recruit 200 subjects in the first 4 years and complete all mother/baby
      evaluations according to the proposed timeline. If necessary we will recruit subjects from
      Cleveland Clinic and University Hospitals, both affiliated with Case Western Reserve
      University (CWRU). Retention strategies include free transportation to the exercise sessions,
      free childcare service during the lifestyle sessions and consults with the Lifestyle Coach,
      cell phone apps to reduce subject burden with data entry, regular telephone contacts, and
      financial incentives, including an infant car seat at delivery.

      Our team has had outstanding success in retaining pregnant women in our previous metabolic
      research and lifestyle intervention studies in overweight and obese populations (48,64). In
      the current proposal, additional strategies are also in place to maximize retention and
      minimize dropout. These include phone calls and emails from the Lifestyle Coach to review and
      reinforce problem solving and self-monitoring skills as described for participants in the
      Diabetes Prevention Program. We will also establish a buddy system where each participant
      becomes a buddy to another participant, the two buddies may prepare meals together, exercise
      together, share problems, etc. The buddy system fosters the sense that staying in the study
      is important not just for the individual's health but also for the buddy's as well. If
      subjects in the LIPP program do not meet their target weight loss goal, we will implement a
      meal replacement strategy using the resources of the CRU/CTSC metabolic kitchen, with
      attention to the caloric and nutrient needs of the mother depending on breast feeding. Not
      all participants will conceive. Since the primary outcome is neonatal adiposity, subjects who
      do not become pregnant will not be included in the primary analysis but will be included in
      secondary analyses relating to pregravid metabolic improvement. By recruiting women with a
      previous pregnancy the risk of infertility is significantly reduced. We anticipate that
      approximately 20% of women will experience a spontaneous abortion, but they will be allowed
      to continue and resume their previous participation in either the LIPP or Control group. We
      anticipate that approximately 25% of subjects will drop out before becoming pregnant, and
      another 15% may drop out during pregnancy. We will enroll 100 subjects in each arm to account
      for the unlikely event of 40% dropout. Adopting an even more stringent strategy, we report
      statistical power is available for as low as 50 subjects per group as a worst-case scenario.
      If retention lags behind projections we will recruit additional subjects at MHMC and CWRU
      affiliated hospitals. The CRU staff will assist in collecting cord blood and placenta at
      delivery and performing the Pea Pod body measures. If there is a Pea Pod equipment
      malfunction we will estimate body composition using neonatal anthropometrics.

      Although LIPP subjects will be encouraged to delay a second pregnancy until they are in the
      maintenance phase of the program, we will exclude LIPP subjects only if they conceive during
      the first 4 month weight loss phase. For the Control subjects, exclusion will occur if a
      subject becomes pregnant before the 3 month postpartum CRU randomization visit. Use of birth
      control in this phase is an inclusion criterion. Not all LIPP subjects will conceive at
      similar times after the 4 month weight loss intervention. We will not adjust for the time
      between pregnancies between the LIPP and Control subjects. We will use the LIPP and control
      subject's metabolic status (body composition, insulin sensitivity and response, etc.) at the
      last metabolic evaluation in the CRU before becoming pregnant as their pregravid or baseline
      status for the subsequent pregnancy. Because this is a pregnancy study only women with be
      recruited. However, we will assess the effect of LIPP on males and female offspring, together
      and independently, based on sex.

      Statistical Approach:

      The primary analyses of Specific Aim 1a will be intent-to-treat comparisons of the LIPP and
      Control groups in regard to changes in maternal insulin sensitivity, BMI, and fat mass. The
      comparisons will be performed first with two-sample t-tests at p=0.05. Should any imbalance
      of confounding factors in the groups be recognized, linear regression models that include
      significant differences (e.g. GDM) will be used to perform covariate adjustments. Based on
      our 1 year postpartum follow-up studies (62,63), we will have 90% power to detect an absolute
      or covariate-adjusted improvement in insulin sensitivity of 30% and an 80% power to detect an
      improvement as small as 25% in the LIPP vs. Control group. Corresponding 95% confidence
      intervals (95% CI) for the absolute or covariate-adjusted differences or percent improvements
      in insulin sensitivity between groups will be reported. We estimate the standard deviation
      (SD) of change in BMI from randomization until subsequent pregnancy to be 5.1 kg/m2. We will
      have 90% power to detect an absolute or covariate-adjusted difference in BMI of 2.6 kg/m2 and
      80% power to detect a difference of 2.26 kg/m2 and 90% power to detect an absolute or
      covariate-adjusted difference in fat mass of 5.9 kg and 80% power to detect a difference of
      5.1 kg between groups prior to the second pregnancy. The primary analysis for Specific Aim 1b
      is an intent-to-treat comparison of LIPP versus Control neonates with respect to fat mass at
      birth. The comparison will be performed using a two-sample t-test at p=0.05. Linear
      regression will be performed, which will include weight (body composition measures) of the
      subject's first child as a covariate. Should any imbalance of confounding factors (for
      example gestational age) in the groups be recognized, linear regression models will be used
      to perform a covariate adjustment. Based on our preliminary data, we estimate the SD of
      neonatal fat mass between the LIPP and Control groups to be no more than 225g. With at least
      50 women in each group, (assuming a 50% dropout), the t-test or linear regression will have
      90% power to detect an absolute or covariate-adjusted difference of 146 g fat mass between
      groups. We have 80% power to detect an absolute or covariate-adjusted difference as small as
      126 g fat mass between groups. Corresponding 95% CI for the absolute or covariate-adjusted
      difference in neonatal fat mass between groups will be reported. For secondary analyses, we
      will be using the same statistical approach. Based on our preliminary data, we estimate the
      SD of birth weight to be 700 g; with 50 neonates in each group we will have 90% power to
      detect an absolute or covariate-adjusted difference of 455 g in birth weight and 80% power to
      detect a 393 g difference between groups. Additional secondary analyses will include
      umbilical cord cytokines. Comparisons will be performed using a two-sample t-test at a
      significance level of p=0.05; however, Mann- Whitney U tests or log transformations will be
      employed if data are not normally distributed. Linear regression models, including
      confounding factors, will be used to perform covariate adjustments. Based on our published
      data (80), we estimate the standard deviations of umbilical cord IL-6 and CRP to be 3.4 pg/ml
      and 7,900 ng/ml, respectively. With 50 women in each group, we will have 90% power to detect
      an improvement in IL-6 and CRP levels of 50% and 42%, and 80% power to detect an improvement
      of 42% and 36%, respectively.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the molecular effects whereby lifestyle intervention initiated
      before pregnancy can improve placental mitochondrial lipid oxidation and accumulation.

      Introduction/Rationale: Our data suggest that in obese women, a mitochondrial defect in
      placental tissue is present early in pregnancy, inhibiting the placental capacity for fatty
      acid oxidation and shunting fatty acids to esterification pathways and lipid accumulation,
      potentially leading to increased nutrient availability to the fetus and higher adiposity at
      term. Our group has shown that other mitochondrial processes, such as cholesterol transport
      and steroidogenesis are impaired in placentas of obese, insulin resistant women at term.
      Placental mitochondrial content (assessed by mtDNA and citrate synthase activity) is not
      affected by maternal obesity and insulin resistance at term, suggesting that the observed
      defects in function are due to changes in mitochondrial activity, rather than number.
      Previous dietary interventions initiated during pregnancy were unable to alter placental
      ?-oxidation or fetal fat deposition, potentially because the intervention was begun after
      placental mitochondrial function was impaired. We anticipate that LIPP will improve placental
      mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation, which will be measurable at term and associated with
      lower fatty acid esterification and accumulation, and neonatal fat mass. The hypothesis is
      that the decreased insulin sensitivity and increased inflammatory environment in obese
      mothers impairs mitochondrial ?-oxidation in the developing placenta. It is the changes in
      placental metabolism beginning early in pregnancy that lead to altered nutrient delivery and
      increased fetal fat deposition. Our rationale is based on the need to understand how changes
      in placental lipid metabolism mediate the effects of improved pregravid metabolism on
      neonatal adiposity. We expect that placentas of obese women in the LIPP program will show
      improved fatty acid oxidation and decreased lipid esterification and accumulation at term.
      Furthermore, we expect that these changes will correlate with lower maternal inflammation and
      insulin resistance in early pregnancy and lower neonatal adiposity at term.

      Anticipated Results and Endpoints: We anticipate that compared to the Control group,
      placentas of women in LIPP will have: 1) increased ?-oxidation, 2) decreased fatty acid
      esterification, 3) lower lipid content, 4) increased activity of mitochondrial CPT1B, the
      rate-limiting enzyme in ?-oxidation, and higher phosphor ACC, which, when phosphorylated,
      produces less malonyl CoA, the main inhibitory regulator of CPT1B, and 5) no difference in
      mitochondrial content (as measured by mtDNA and citrate synthase activity). We also
      anticipate that mitochondrial ?-oxidation and CPT1B activity will negatively correlate with
      early pregnancy maternal serum inflammatory cytokine markers and insulin resistance and
      neonatal adiposity.

      Experimental Design: We will accomplish the objectives of Specific Aim 2 by measuring changes
      in placental mitochondrial enzyme activity and lipid metabolism in women enrolled in the
      Control or LIPP groups described in Specific Aim 1. Placental tissue will be collected at
      delivery from all study participants and embedded in paraffin, or snap frozen in liquid
      nitrogen, and stored at -80oC for molecular analysis. In a subset of women delivering by
      scheduled Cesarean delivery (we estimate ~30% of our participants or N=15-18/group), we will
      also collect fresh placental tissue for lipid metabolism activity assays.

      Placental lipid metabolism: These assays are well established in the O'Tierney-Ginn lab.
      Mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and esterification into total lipid assays will be
      performed in placental explants as described previously, with some modifications. Freshly
      isolated placental explants will be incubated in the presence of 100 ?M cold palmitate and
      3H-palmitate (Moravek Radiochemicals) for 18 hrs. At the end of the incubation period, media
      will be collected to quantify the FAO rate by detection of 3H2O using the vapor phase
      equilibration method of Hughes. Esterificationinto total lipids will be determined by
      homogenizing the treated explants in HPLC-grade acetone and incubating with agitation at room
      temperature overnight. An aliquot of the acetone-extract lipid suspension will be used to
      determine the radioactive content by liquid scintillation counting. Oxidation and
      esterification rates will be defined as nmol palmitate/mg tissue/hr.

      Assessment of placental mitochondria: Mitochondria will be isolated from frozen placental
      tissue as previously described. Markers of lipid oxidation (CPT1B) and
      synthesis/esterification (phospho-ACC) activity will be measured using commercially available
      kits (Cell Signaling, Abcam) in isolated mitochondria from all samples. Markers of
      mitochondrial content (mtDNA and citrate synthase activity) will be measured in whole
      placental tissue in all samples as previously described.

      Placental Lipid Accumulation: Total placental lipid content will be measured using the Folch
      method.

      Anticipated Challenges and Alternatives: 1) We will use only placentas delivered by scheduled
      cesarean delivery for in vitro oxidation and esterification assays, to avoid changes
      pertinent to labor. At our hospital, the rate of cesarean for obese women is ~40%. Our
      conservative estimate of 40-50% drop-out followed by 30% of subjects delivering by cesarean,
      results in N=15-18/group. Based on our preliminary data, this will leave us adequately
      powered to detect differences in placental lipid metabolism due to LIPP. We will collect
      placental samples from all study participants for mitochondrial enzyme activity assays,
      providing us with an additional assessment of metabolic activity in a larger number of
      participants. 2) Placental mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation capacity may be affected by
      mitochondrial number, oxidative phosphorylation activity, and energetic efficiency
      (coupling). Assessment of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation capacity or energetic
      efficiency requires freshly isolated mitochondria and/or living cells which, for our
      proposal, would be overly ambitious and costly considering the unpredictable nature of
      delivery and the large number of participants. Alternatively, we will measure markers of
      mitochondrial content and key enzymes in mitochondrial lipid metabolism in all placental
      samples to assess some potential mechanisms underlying changes in placental fatty acid
      oxidation. Additionally, frozen samples collected from all placentas can be used to measure
      enzymes involved in electron transport (e.g., ATP synthase) as a marker of mitochondrial
      oxidative phosphorylation.

      Statistical Analysis: The primary goal of Aim 2 is to determine the effect of lifestyle
      intervention prior to pregnancy on placental mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation at term. We
      hypothesize that placental ?-oxidation will be higher in the LIPP group. We will conduct an
      intent-to-treat analysis using two sample t-test or non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test to
      assess differences between groups. Regression analysis will be used to assess the association
      of placental ?-oxidation and enzyme activity with maternal inflammatory cytokine levels and
      insulin resistance in early pregnancy, along with neonatal fat mass with adjustment for
      gestational age and gender. Descriptive statistics, such as mean, median and range will be
      calculated for all variables. Power and sample size analysis based on our preliminary
      mitochondrial ?-oxidation data in obese women (38?14 nmol/mg/hr) showed that a sample size of
      N=18/group achieves 80% power to detect a difference of 25% between groups using a two-sample
      t-test with a significance level of 0.05.
    
  