
    
      Despite improvements in the management of diabetes, the incidence of severe diabetes -related
      eye disease remains high. Laser treatment (panretinal photocoagulation (PRP)) is the gold
      standard treatment for reducing the risk of visual loss. However, evidence suggests that PRP
      can be damaging on visual field function and thus jeopardize patients' eligibility to drive.
      In the UK, it is the patient's responsibility to inform the DVLA that they are receiving
      retinal laser.

      With the use of a multi-spot Photocoagulator for application of PRP at Moorfields the
      investigators are in a unique position to assess the effects of laser applied with this new
      delivery system on visual fields in a detailed fashion. Thus providing more accurate advice
      on visual prognosis and visual field function and addressing the risk of losing the ability
      to drive.

      All treatment-naive patients with severe diabetic retinopathy requiring bilateral retinal
      laser treatment will be identified. Following informed consent these patients will undergo
      baseline visual field testing which will be of a duration of approximately 30 minutes and
      complete a quality of life questionnaire. All patients will receive their laser treatment as
      part of standard clinical care via the multi-spot Photocoagulator which will require
      approximately four 20 minute sessions. At 6 months following the completion of treatment the
      patients will undergo repeat visual field testing as conducted at baseline and complete a
      quality of life questionnaire. The investigators hope to recruit 100 patients.

      Analysis of visual fields will principally involve assessment of whether patients have met
      the UK driving standards on Estermann VF testing. A quantitative assessment of change in
      retinal sensitivity will be undertaken by comparing retinal sensitivity pre and post-PRP.
    
  