
    
      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, also termed primary, induction, or preoperative chemotherapy, is
      defined as chemotherapy administered before locoregional treatment. It was first used in
      locally advanced breast cancer 30 years ago. Classically, these tumors were treated with
      radical surgery and/or radiotherapy. However, despite this aggressive local therapy, most
      patients relapsed with distant metastases and eventually died (1,2). The aim of neoadjuvant
      therapy is to reduce the tumor volume in patients before surgical resection, thus increasing
      the likelihood of breast conservation. More recently, neoadjuvant therapy has been studied as
      a way of testing the relevance of biological markers in predicting disease outcome.

      At least six randomized trials have compared survival in patients managed with either the
      neoadjuvant or adjuvant approaches(3,4,5,6,7,8,9). Two of the smaller trials suggested a
      survival advantage for patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy (5,6). Other studies,
      including the largest trial (1523 patients) run by the NSABP, found no differences in
      disease-free and overall survival (4,6,9).

      Induction of a pCR should be one of the primary goals of neoadjuvant therapy because patients
      with no evidence of tumor cells in breast and lymph nodes after treatment may have a longer
      disease-free and overall survival (10).

      Biweekly and weekly regimens may enhance dose intensity by minimizing re-growth of cells
      between cycles of treatment. In fact, dose dense regimens have even shown a survival benefit
      in an adjuvant setting in lymph node positive breast cancer, made possible with use of G-CSF
      (11). There is as yet no standard best neoadjuvant treatment. Generally patients receive AC
      (NSABP 14) on 3-weekly regimens in neoadjuvant setting. In addition, incorporation of taxanes
      on a 3 weekly schedule has resulted in statistically higher pathological CR (12,13). More
      recently, weekly paclitaxel regimens have reported increased pathological responses compared
      to 3 weekly taxane regimens. Carboplatin has also emerged as an effective agent in the
      treatment of metastatic breast cancer (14). Moreover, the combination of carboplatin and
      paclitaxel has been found to be synergistic both in three-weekly regimens and weekly
      regimens. In fact, combination of carboplatin, paclitaxel and trastuzumab has demonstrated a
      survival advantage over paclitaxel and trastuzumab alone. The Phase III study, the
      preliminary results of which were presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, show
      that the addition of carboplatin to trastuzumab and paclitaxel resulted in a six-month
      improvement in the time it took for the disease to progress, compared to the standard
      trastuzumab and paclitaxel regimen. The study found median survival in the trastuzumab and
      paclitaxel arm was 33.5 months, while the group receiving the tripartite therapy had yet to
      reach that point after 36 months of follow-up. Furthermore, the weekly regimens of these
      drugs have been found to have significantly improved tolerability over three weekly regimens
      (15). Therefore, we propose to use 4 cycles of AC q 2 weeks, as used in the dose dense
      adjuvant study with GM-CSF support on days 5-14 of the cycle. After the completion of AC we
      plan to administer taxol and carboplatin weekly for a total of 9 doses with one week rest
      after every 3 weeks of treatment over 12 weeks.

      Patients who are her-2 overexpressors by FISH will also receive Trastuzumab with weekly
      carboplatin and paclitaxel as the combination has been found to be synergistic in advanced
      breast cancer with improved clinical outcome.

      In a separate trial, GMCSF was used in breast cancer patients treated with adriamycin based
      chemotherapy as the preferred growth factor in a neoadjuvant setting (16). The initial
      results are suggestive of improved survival of breast cancer patients given 6 versus 5 versus
      4 cycles of chemotherapy with GMCSF support. Higher dendritic cell (DC) trafficking showed a
      trend toward improved survival. Moreover, intrapatient comparison before and after treatment
      showed that the percentage of S100+ DC significantly increased over the course of GM-CSF
      treatment. The results form the basis of current hypothesis that the primary tumor may be an
      in vivo antigenic stimulus for dendritic cell trafficking, and that the combination of
      prolonged neoadjuvant chemotherapy with GM-CSF induced immune enhancement may contribute to
      better tumor control and better survival.
    
  