
    
      Fifteen TMS treatment subjects will be selected from a patient population served in a
      free-standing psychiatric hospital program (i.e., Sheppard Pratt Health System). There are
      approximately 40 patients currently enrolled in the TMS program and this is the TMS sampling
      frame of reference. Fifteen standard medication therapy subjects will be selected from a
      patient population treated in a private, outpatient psychiatric practice in Northern
      Virginia. There are hundreds of outpatients being treated in this outpatient practice and
      this is the standard medication therapy sampling frame of reference.

      The sample size will be adequate to achieve a 95% level of confidence with an acceptable
      margin of error. Consistent with stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria, it is
      anticipated that a fairly homogeneous and comparable study groupings can be identified.
      Again, due to the limited number of TMS patients eligible for enrollment in the study, a
      non-random, non-probability assignment or matching method will be used to make sure the study
      groups, based upon the demographics and clinical characteristics, are similar in the most
      important respects.

      TMS treatments will be administered utilizing the NeuroStar TMS Therapy® Machine manufactured
      by Neuronetics, Inc. of Malvern, Pennsylvania. Treatment will be fixed at 120% of magnetic
      field intensity relative to the subject's resting motor threshold at a repetition rate of ten
      magnetic pulses per second, with a stimulus train duration (i.e., on time) of 4 seconds and
      an inter train interval (i.e., off time) of 26 seconds. The left dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex will be the treatment location and this site will be determined by adjusting the TMS
      coil 5 cm anterior to the motor threshold location along a left superior oblique plane with a
      rotation point at about the tip of the patient's nose. Each treatment session will last
      approximately 37.5 minutes administering 3,000 magnetic pulses over the course of the
      treatment session. Repetitive TMS will be performed over the left dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex. Each TMS subject received a minimum of thirty TMS treatments (i.e., ideally five
      treatments per week for six weeks) of 10 - Hz treatments (1,200 pulses per treatment day) at
      90% of motor threshold.

      The standard medication treatment group received only standard medication treatment for a
      period of eight weeks. As described in an earlier table, these medications could include
      bupropion (Wellbutrin and others), citalopram (Celexa and others), Clomipramine (Ananfranil
      and others), duloxetine (Cymbalta), escitalopram (Lexapro and others), fluoxetine (Prozac and
      others), fluvoxamine (Luvox and others), imipramine (Tofranil and others), mirtazapine
      (Remeron and others), nortriptylatine (Pamelor, Aventyl, and others), paroxetine (Paxil,
      Pexeva, and others), phenelzine (Nardil), sertraline (Zoloft and others), tranylcypromine
      (Parnate and others), venlafaxine (Effexor and others).

      Consents and base line measures will be obtained. The TMS and standard medication therapy
      subjects will be selected from a patient population with at one to three less than adequate
      responses to standard medication therapy. One group (15 patients) will receive TMS as well as
      standard medication therapy and the other group (15 patients) will continue with their
      current medication.

      The study will include an analysis of pre-treatment and post-treatment psychiatric
      assessments of depression treatment outcomes using the Antidepressant Treatment Response
      Questionnaire (ATRQ), Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and Hamilton Rating
      Scale for Depression (HAMD) administered by a psychiatrist as well as the patient self-report
      version of the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (IDS-SR). Satisfaction and utility data
      will be obtained through the administration of the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ
      8)/3 Supplemental Questions and eleven utility questions.

      Measures that will be utilized in this study can be divided into two groups. One group is
      observer rated and the other group is subject rated. The observer-rated instruments include
      the Antidepressant Treatment Response Questionnaire (ATRQ), Montgomery-Åsberg Depression
      Rating Scale (MADRS) and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD 17). Subject-Rated
      measures include the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self Report Version (IDS-SR) and
      the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ 8).

      It has been empirically demonstrated that these widely recognized instruments have
      significant reliability and internal consistency. Inter - rater reliability will be insured
      through observation and comparison. One psychiatrist will be the rater for the TMS plus
      medication group and another psychiatrist will be the rater for the medication group. Both
      researchers are experienced clinicians and both will subscribe to generally accepted and
      clearly defined scoring criteria and scoring rules. Additional efforts to maximize inter -
      rater consistency by providing these raters with the opportunity to discuss previous
      practical experience as raters utilizing these particular instruments as well as practice
      rating exercises. Statistically, the degree of consistency between the two psychiatrists will
      be determined by calculating of a coefficient of correlation or coefficient of inter - scorer
      reliability.

      The study has four measurement points: baseline, four weeks, six weeks and eight weeks during
      which TMS treatment and standard medication therapy will be provided to one group and only
      standard medication therapy to the other group. TMS sessions will be scheduled daily in a
      five day sequence each week, for a minimum of twenty sessions (four weeks) and a maximum of
      thirty sessions (six weeks). TMS sessions will be administered on a Monday through Friday
      basis. Even though both TMS and standard medication therapy are FDA approved treatments and
      all treatments will be delivered in accordance with FDA approval for the TMS medical device
      and FDA approval for the prescribed medications, subject safety will be assessed at all
      treatment sites after every treatment session and, if necessary, adverse event reports will
      be generated and submitted to the IRB.

      Again, in this proposed study, the sample size is relatively small, but based upon the
      results of earlier studies of TMS, effect size is projected to be a value greater than zero
      in the population under consideration and the greater this "nonzero" value is, the greater
      the probability that TMS or standard medication therapy is manifesting the effect being
      hypothesized. This is entirely consistent with the Bayesian design of experiments in which
      the outcomes of earlier studies influence the design of the proposed clinical trial of TMS
      and standard medication therapy.

      Bayesian experimental design is predicated on the belief that sound decisions and optimal
      utility can be made and achieved regarding a proposed experimental design despite uncertainty
      of the future and resource limitations as well as ethical constraints involving human
      subjects. The goal of experimental design in most circumstances is to maximize the
      probability of accruing accurate data within criterion such as financial, timing, geographic
      and cost considerations. It should also be noted that Bayesian techniques cannot only
      contribute to sound experimental design, but also affords statistical techniques that promote
      a "Bayesian" approach that emphasizes probabilities rather than frequencies to interpret and
      summarize data. This has proven to be particularly useful in experimental designs with small
      sample sizes.

      All personal and clinical information will be kept strictly confidential. Only the treating
      psychiatrists and the principle investigator will have access to identifying information. As
      soon as practicably possible, subject information will be assigned a number in lieu of
      subject name to further protect confidentiality. All data that is reported will be in the
      aggregate, which will further safeguard confidentiality.

      The confidentiality of study participants will be maintained by following these established
      procedures:

        1. Data sheets and other paper records will be properly disposed.

        2. Access will be limited.

        3. Research records and data will be stored in locked cabinets and secured databases.

      All direct identifiers of participants will be removed from the data in order to allow the
      data to be analyzed without any risk of accidental disclosure of private information. The
      de-identifying of the data will be accomplished through a combination coding and anonymizing.
    
  