
    
      Background: Severe sepsis and septic shock are the most common causes of mortality among
      critically ill patients and account for approximately 10% of admissions to the intensive care
      unit (ICU) and 3% of all admissions to hospital. Despite decades of therapeutic
      investigation, mortality of septic shock has remained at approximately 40-50%. Fluid
      resuscitation is an integral component of early treatment, as several liters of fluid may be
      administered in the first hours of septic shock in an attempt to re-establish hemodynamic
      stability. The two main classes of fluid expand the plasma volume include crystalloids and
      colloids.

      In Canada, the main crystalloid fluids used for resuscitation are normal saline and ringers
      lactate; the main colloid fluids used for resuscitation are hydroxyethyl starches (HES) and
      albumin. Until recently, no randomized controlled (RCT) or systematic review had confirmed
      benefit or harm with either colloidal or crystalloid fluids in this patient population. An
      RCT published in 2008 demonstrated that 10% pentastarch (HES fluid) causes acute renal
      failure defined by the requirement for renal replacement therapy. In contrast, a subgroup
      analysis from a RCT of severe sepsis suggests that 4% albumin fluid may reduce death.
      However, these hypothesis-generating findings require confirmation in the context of a large
      RCT.

      There are limited observational mechanistic studies designed to understand the potential
      biological mechanisms for albumin's potential protective effects in sepsis. Moreover,
      mechanistic data in the clinical trial setting are lacking. The PRECISE pilot RCT (Five
      Percent Albumin versus Normal Saline as Fluid Resuscitation Strategies for the Management of
      Early Suspected Septic Shock) will help to understand the biological mechanisms of albumin in
      early septic shock and explore feasibility issues in preparation for a large RCT.

      Study Hypotheses: We hypothesize that resuscitation with 5% albumin as compared to normal
      saline in early septic shock may exert some of its protective effects through the following
      biological mechanisms: 1) Limiting thrombin generation, 2) Supporting endogenous protein C
      and activated protein C (APC) generation, 3) Limiting the production of systemic
      pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines and supporting the production of cytokines and
      chemokines with anti-inflammatory potential, and 4) Reducing the ability of septic plasma to
      generate Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs).

      Study Design/Setting: A multi-centre randomized controlled trial conducted in 6 Canadian
      academic centres.

      Participants: The study will enroll 50 adult patients who are identified with early suspected
      septic shock from the emergency department (ED) and the intensive care unit (ICU). Patients
      need to be hypotensive or require vasopressor agents, have at least 2 systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome criteria, and have no other form of shock (e.g., cardiogenic, obstructive,
      or hemorrhagic shock) and no previous ICU admission for severe sepsis or septic shock after
      receiving at least 1 litre of crystalloid and not more than 250 mls of colloid fluid within 8
      hours of the first hypotensive event.

      Interventions: Participants will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 arms. Patients, families,
      clinicians, and research personnel will be blinded to the fluid administered (5% albumin or
      0.9% normal saline). Fluid resuscitation will begin immediately after randomization and
      continue for the first 7 days or until discharge from the ICU or ED if this occurs sooner.
      Blood and urine will be collected at randomization and then at 6, 12, 24, 72 hrs and 7 days
      later. Study fluid will be administered as rapidly as possible as 500 ml fluid challenges.
      All other co-interventions of care will not be protocolized or mandated during the study
      period.

      Main Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is a comparison of thrombin generation at 72
      hours, and protein C and APC levels at 7 days. Secondary outcomes include a comparison of
      inflammatory cytokine and chemokine levels in the blood and urine. Other clinical outcomes
      will include mortality in ICU, hospital, and at 30 days, length of stay in ICU and hospital,
      development of organ failure, and need for organ support (defined by the number of days
      requiring mechanical ventilation and renal replacement therapy) and feasibility measured in
      terms of patient recruitment.

      Trial Team: The trial will be led by 3 primary investigators (Lauralyn McIntyre, Alison
      Fox-Robichaud, and Alan Tinmouth), who will have responsibility for all aspects of the trial.
      They have expertise in hematology, transfusion medicine, basic science and clinical trials in
      critical care. Our team includes co-investigators from the ICU (Drs. Lauralyn McIntyre, Joe
      Pagliarello, Anand Kumar, Sean Bagshaw, Alison Fox-Robichaud, Alexis Turgeon), ED (Drs. Ian
      Stiell, Brian Rowe, Andrew Worster, Marcel Emond), and ICU/ED (Drs. Robert Green, David
      Easton) who will act as clinical champions at each participating site. Many co-investigators
      have extensive experience in the conduct of multi-centre RCTs (Drs. Paul Hebert, Deborah
      Cook, Dean Fergusson, John Marshall, Ian Stiell, Brian Rowe, Simon Finfer, Alan Tinmouth,
      Lauralyn McIntyre). The translational co-investigative team includes critical care physicians
      with expertise in sepsis pathophysiology (Drs. Alison Fox Robichaud, Paul Kubes, Patricia
      Liaw, Anand Kumar, John Marshall, Tao Rui, and Claudio Martin).

      Significance of findings: Results from our PRECISE pilot RCT may provide a biologic rationale
      for a beneficial effect of 5% albumin in early septic shock resuscitation. If a biologic
      rationale is confirmed, the study will also provide essential information to determine the
      feasibility and aid the design of a definitive phase III trial of albumin in resuscitation of
      septic shock.
    
  