
    
      This is an open-label, multicenter, single arm, single-stage phase II trial. After the
      patient signs the written informed consent the patient will enter the screening phase
      planning baseline assessments and a concomitant upfront confirmation of diagnosis of
      Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma Not Otherwise Specified (PTCL-NOS), Angioimmunoblastic T-cell
      lymphoma (AITL) or Nodal Lymphoma of T Follicular Helper cells (TFH cells) origin and a
      central evaluation of immunohistochemical positivity of CD38 (cluster of differentiation 38)
      on bioptic material used to perform local diagnosis of relapsed disease, or that used for the
      more recent biopsy in the case of refractory patients. A core needle biopsy is considered
      sufficient for review and CD38 evaluation. Evaluation at central laboratory can be performed
      in bone marrow sections in those patients with only bone marrow lymphoma infiltration.

      Only patients with confirmed eligible diagnosis and a percentage of CD38 positive tumor cells
      ≥ 5% will be considered eligible for study treatment.

      The treatment consists of an induction phase and a maintenance phase.

      Induction phase:

      4-6 courses (according to response after cycle 4 and to patient compliance) of D-GDP
      (Daratumumab in combination with Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone) every 21 days
      pursuant to the following schedule:

        -  Daratumumab cycle 1: 8 mg/kg i.v. on day 2 and on day 9; cycle 2-6: 16 mg/kg i.v. on day
           2 and day 9)

        -  Gemcitabine 1000 mg/sm i.v. day 1 and day 8 (gemcitabine on day 8 to be skipped in case
           of grade 3-4 toxicity)

        -  Cisplatin 75 mg/sm i.v. day 1

        -  Dexamethasone 40 mg i.v. or po days 1-2-3-4-9

        -  Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) from day 3 to 6, and from day 10 to 13 (to
           be prolonged if necessary) After 4 courses of D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with
           Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone), patients in Complete Remission/Partial Remission
           (CR/PR) and eligible for allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) will be
           addressed to allo-SCT consolidation.

      Otherwise, patients in Complete Remission (CR) will enter the maintenance phase at this point
      of the study.

      Patients in Partial Remission (PR) (not eligible for allogeneic stem cell transplantation) or
      in Stable Disease (SD) after D-GDP x 4 cycles can receive 2 additional courses of D-GDP
      before maintenance or can move directly to maintenance, according to center choice (based on
      patient condition, performance status and quality of response).

      Patients who respond (Complete Remission/Partial Remission) after 6 courses of induction
      phase (end of induction, EOI) and eligible to allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT)
      will be addressed to allo-SCT consolidation.

      Patients who respond to the induction phase (Complete Remission/Partial Remission) and are
      not eligible for allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) and patients in stable
      disease (SD) at the End Of Induction (EOI), will move to the maintenance phase.

      Patients in Progressive disease (PD) at any time will discontinue treatment, as well as
      patients experiencing at any time unacceptable toxicity.

      Maintenance phase:

      starting 28 days after the beginning of cycle 4 or 6 (or, in case of toxicity grade > 1,
      after toxicity is resolved) and up to 24 cycles from start of D-GDP (Daratumumab in
      combination with Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone) according to the following schedule:

      • Daratumumab 16 mg/kg single administration every 28 days

      Treatment with D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone)
      or daratumumab single agent will be discontinued before completion of 24 cycles in case of:

        -  decision of the investigator to consolidate D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with
           Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone) response with allogeneic stem cell transplant

        -  disease progression

        -  unacceptable toxicity

        -  withdrawal of consent

        -  investigator determines that further therapy is not in the patient's best interest
           (e.g., due to non-compliance, toxicity, etc.) Adverse events ("Common Terminology
           Criteria for Adverse Events", CTCAE v. 5.0) will be monitored from the first
           study-related procedure, throughout treatment, maintenance and for 30 days after the end
           of treatment with the study drug.

      Safety monitoring and stopping rules:

      In order to monitor the safety and the activity of the treatment in small cohorts of
      patients, the Bayesian approach of Thall et al. (1995), as extended by Thall and Sung (1998)
      will be used.

      Monitoring of relevant toxicity after 4 cycles of D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with
      Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, Dexamethasone) will be done to ensure that it is not higher than an
      acceptable toxicity of 30% (as defined in the safety endpoints) and the monitoring of
      activity after 4 cycles of D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with Gemcitabine, Cisplatin,
      Dexamethasone) will be done to ensure that Complete Remission (CR) proportion is not lower
      than 40%.

      The prior probability of toxicity and activity are modeled by beta distributions [Beta
      (0.6,1.4) and Beta (0.8,1.2), respectively].

      The enrolment will be stopped if the posterior probability of the treatment being more toxic
      or less active than expected is greater than 95%.

      The primary efficacy analysis will be performed after enrolment of 35 patients. The primary
      efficacy analysis will consist of an estimate of Complete Remission Rate (CRR) on the
      efficacy population after 4 cycles of D-GDP (Daratumumab in combination with Gemcitabine,
      Cisplatin, Dexamethasone) therapy, with 90% confidence intervals (according to 1-sided alpha
      error of 0.05). To conclude that the new treatment is promising, the minimum number of
      patients with a Complete Remission (CR) is 12/35.

      The time-to-event functions (Overall Survival (OS) and Progression Free Survival (PFS)) will
      be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier product-limit method.

      Subgroup analyses on primary efficacy parameter (Complete Remission Rate (CRR)) will be
      performed to assess the role of daratumumab maintenance and to explore potential prognostic
      role of CD38 expression. A logistic regression model will be used and the effect (Complete
      Remission Rate (CRR)) and its 95% Interval of Confidence (CI) will be presented.

      For safety analysis, both at patient level and at therapy cycle level, summaries of incidence
      rates (frequencies and percentages) and intensity of individual adverse events by CTCAE
      (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)) v. 5.0 will be reported.

      The results of this study will support the rationale of a phase III randomized trial if both
      efficacy and safety endpoints will be considered promising.
    
  