
    
      Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the pathogenesis of any damage to the central
      nervous system (CNS) profoundly affecting the ability of neural cells to survive and to
      regenerate. Macrophages play a key role in the regulation of neuroinflammation, but their
      role is ambiguous. In fact, macrophages can both induce neuronal and glial toxicity and
      promote tissue repair. The opposite effects of macrophages are largely due to their
      plasticity and functional heterogeneity. Thus, classical pro-inflammatory macrophages (M1)
      are tissue-destructive, while anti-inflammatory (M2) macrophages mediate tissue repair. In
      addition, M2 predominantly induce the Th2 response, which is particularly beneficial in CNS
      repair. Using low serum conditions the investigators have generated M2-like macrophages and
      evaluated their phenotypic and functional features [1]. The data indicate that M2, in
      contrast to pro-inflammatory M1, produced significantly lower levels of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines (IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-6, IL-18, IL-12), chemokines (IL-8, monocyte
      chemoattractant protein 1-1) and Th1/Th2-cytokines (interferon-γ, IL-2, IL-4) coupled with a
      high IL-10 level. M2 were capable of producing neurotrophic (brain-derived neurotrophic
      factor, insulin-like growth factor-1), angiogenic (vascular endothelial growth factor), and
      other growth factors (erythropoietin, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, basic fibroblast
      growth factor, epidermal growth factor) with neuroprotective and regenerative activity.

      Pilot clinical trials have demonstrated the safety and clinical efficacy of intrathecal
      administration of M2 in children with severe cerebral palsy [2, 3] and in nonacute stroke
      patients [4]. Moreover, intranasal delivery of M2 macrophage-derived soluble products reduces
      neuropsychological deficit in patients with cerebrovascular disease [5]. Given this data, the
      investigators expect that intranasal administration of the M2-BFs (Bioactive Factors) will
      reduce the severity of speech disorders in children, including improving speech
      understanding, sensorimotor speech level, word formation skills, as well as the formation of
      the grammatical structure of speech and coherent speech. Of note, intranasal administration
      of M2 soluble factors allow to delivery bioactive agents to brain through the olfactory and
      trigeminal ways across brain-blood barrier.
    
  