
    
      Delirium is a common and challenging complication to manage at the end of life. An estimated
      75% (range 58-88%) of patients experience delirium during a palliative inpatient admission in
      the weeks prior to death. Delirium is classified on the basis of psychomotor activity into
      hypoactive, hyperactive, and mixed subtypes. Agitation is a feature of both the hyperactive
      and mixed subtypes and, when present, the episode of delirium is conventionally referred to
      as agitated delirium. Agitated delirium is characterized by increased agitation, verbal or
      physical aggression, and perceptual disturbance. Furthermore, these episodes can cause the
      patient, their families, and the care team significant distress by decreasing a patient's
      ability to communicate with loved ones and the care team. Studies of patients who recall
      their delirium experience during an inpatient hospital admission report high levels of
      distress, and that this distress is exacerbated by being aware of their inability to
      communicate with family and the healthcare team.

      However, studies demonstrate distress associated with delirium is greater among family
      members compared to that experienced by patients. In the context of palliative care, agitated
      delirium in the dying phase is particularly devastating for family members - the inability to
      meaningfully communicate with a loved one during final interactions with them, and to witness
      the visible distress that characterizes agitated delirium, can cause significant anguish.
      Several studies demonstrate severe levels of distress among a majority of caregivers who have
      cared for a loved one with delirium. Family members of patients with terminal delirium report
      negative physical and psychological burden associated with delirium, including family member
      feelings of distress, anxiety, and helplessness, exhaustion, and difficulty coping.
      Additionally, caregiver-perceived delirium in the last 6 months of life has been found to be
      associated with significantly increased risk - up to 12x - of symptoms of generalized anxiety
      among family caregivers. In particular, patient symptoms characteristic of agitated delirium,
      such as restlessness and agitation, psychotic symptoms, cognitive impairment, and
      communication difficulties, are associated with greater levels of psychological and emotional
      distress among family members. Bereaved family members express experiencing anger and sadness
      that they could not have meaningful interactions with their loved one at the end of life, and
      felt delirium robbed them prematurely of these interactions before death and hindered their
      opportunity to say goodbye. Family members have further described this phenomenon as distress
      related to premature loss of the caregiver-patient relationship and the loss of a familiar
      person becoming a stranger. Family members also report distress related to decision-making
      that balances their desire for meaningful communication at the end of life with reducing
      patient suffering. Most commonly, this dilemma is manifested in family member decisions
      around the use of sedation.

      Agitated delirium also has a marked impact on nursing staff and their ability to assess
      patient needs. Qualitative investigations of palliative care nurses' experiences caring for
      patients with delirium found nurses had difficulty managing patient delirium in a way they
      felt maintained patients' dignity and "minimized chaos", and reported delirium and related
      symptoms were highly distressing for them. Specifically, delirium-related distress
      experienced by nurses has been shown to be significantly associated with patient delirium
      severity and the presence and severity of perceptual disturbances. Clinical professionals
      have also expressed negative effects of delirium on their interactions with family members,
      with disagreements and tension arising from different understandings of patient needs.

      There is limited evidence to support the use of pharmacological interventions for the
      management of delirium symptoms in palliative care patients, and no medication currently
      approved in Canada for the indication of delirium. However, published guidelines do recognize
      a limited role for the use of medications (such as low doses of antipsychotics and/or
      benzodiazepines) in distressed delirious patients or if there are safety concerns. Among
      imminently dying patients, pharmacological sedation (e.g., with midazolam, methotrimeprazine,
      or phenobarbital) is often used to manage agitated delirium; however, use of these
      medications to manage delirium in the dying phase is based on case series and expert opinion.
      More broadly, clinical guidelines and systematic reviews of palliative pharmacological
      sedation conclude that evidence for the efficacy of sedation for symptom control using these
      medications is insufficient. Additionally, sedation to treat agitated delirium is limited in
      that it generally eliminates patients' ability to be alert and interact with others, a
      limitation that, as outlined above, is often contrary to patients' goals of care and the
      well-being of family members. There is a need for alternative interventions that better align
      with patients' goals of care and support patients, family members, and clinical staff through
      meaningful communication at the end of life.

      An increasing number of small case series and reviews suggest dexmedetomidine may be an
      effective and safe option for managing agitated delirium in palliative care. Dexmedetomidine
      is a centrally active alpha-2 receptor agonist that has mild sedative and opioid co-analgesic
      effects without suppressing respiratory drive. In most acute care hospital settings,
      dexmedetomidine is restricted for use in the intensive care unit and by anesthesia for short
      term sedation. Delirium treatment and prevention has commonly been studied as a secondary
      endpoint in clinical trials of sedation for critically ill patients, largely demonstrating
      the effectiveness of dexmedetomidine for delirium management over currently used medications
      in palliative care, including haloperidol, midazolam, and propofol. Given dexmedetomidine is
      currently the only agent recommended for treatment of agitated delirium in critically ill
      patients, pilot data reports have emerged regarding its use in other settings where agitated
      delirium is highly prevalent, namely palliative care. The largest and most recent case series
      (n=6) of dexmedetomidine to manage agitated delirium reported improved patient agitation and
      distress in all cases while maintaining a rousable, conscious state, providing patients the
      opportunity to interact with others at the end of life. Similarly, additional case studies of
      agitated delirium in palliative care (total n=4) have all reported successful resolution
      and/or symptom control of patients' agitated delirium at the end of life.

      In contrast to other medications commonly used to manage agitated delirium, dexmedetomidine
      provides rousable sedation, better supporting communication needs and goals of care at the
      end of life. Dexmedetomidine is now off-patent, reducing previous cost barriers to use. In
      addition, while dexmedetomidine is administered intravenously in critical care, advance
      preparation for subcutaneous administration is more conducive to use in palliative care. To
      facilitate this, our team recently completed stability testing and demonstrated >90%
      retention of dexmedetomidine 20mcg/ml in 0.9% sodium chloride in polyvinylchloride bags after
      9 days of storage at both room temperature (25°C ± 2°C) and refrigeration (4°C ± 2°C )
      (accepted for publication). Furthermore, evidence demonstrates subcutaneous administration of
      dexmedetomidine results in a relative bioavailability of about 80%.

      The investigators propose to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of
      dexmedetomidine for the management of agitated delirium in palliative care. There are
      currently no approved therapies for agitated delirium in palliative care, but evidence from
      critical care, reduced medication costs, and published case series in palliative care suggest
      dexmedetomidine may be effective to treat this challenging condition. A therapy that might
      treat delirium without causing excess sedation, allowing patients to continue interactions
      with their loved ones and care team, would be a "game changer" in palliative care. There is
      the potential to improve end-of-life care for patients and their families in a manner that is
      more consistent with their goals of care and provides necessary symptom management while
      reducing the distress experienced by family and healthcare team members.

      Details of Eligibility, Intervention Protocol, and Outcome Measures are provided elsewhere.
    
  