
    
      The prevalence of diverticular disease of sigmoid in the Western has increased over the past
      century and our know-how of this disease and its management continues to evolve.
      International experts have tried to standardize the surgical approach to patients with
      recurrent episodes of sigmoid diverticulitis but, to date, no guidelines are universally
      recognized.The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons (ASCRS) and the World Society of
      Emergency Surgery (WSES) recommend an individualized approach after recovery from
      uncomplicated acute diverticulitis to plan an elective sigmoid resection. The impact of
      ongoing disorders on quality of life (QoL) and not the number of previous episodes of
      diverticulitis should be the most determining factor. The German guideline by the Deutsche
      Gesellschaft für Allgemein- und Viszeralchirurgie (DGAV) recommend an elective sigmoid
      resection after a careful risk/benefit assessment depending on the clinical presentation in
      the disease-free interval in patients with chronic relapsing diverticulitis.The Danish
      Surgical Society (DSS) is more restrained and mentions the unnecessary risk in terms of
      morbidity and mortality to the individual as well as costs to society in prophylactic
      resection of the sigmoid. Therefore, they recommend that elective surgery should be probably
      limited to symptomatic cases not amenable to conservative measures. Moreover, recent studies
      have demonstrated that the number of attacks of diverticulitis is not necessarily a
      prevailing factor in defining the suitability of surgery and the operation itself carries
      significant morbidity and mortality. The German guidelines describe also a persistence of the
      symptoms in patients who underwent sigmoid resection in 22-25%. An uncomplicated
      diverticulitis is generally considered a mild and self-limiting disease, performing a
      potentially harmful procedure in these patients does not seem justified. However, elective
      resection may be an appropriate solution for a more selective group of patients who suffer
      greatly from their disease. Many studies have consistently shown that 40-80% remain
      symptomatic after conservative treatment, leading to impaired health-related Quality of life
      (HRQoL) and increased costs.
    
  