
    
      Up to forty-four participants (22 for Aim 1; 22 for Aim 2) with knee OA will be recruited
      using advertisements, the Legacy Scholars research registry maintained by UNE's Center of
      Excellence in Aging and Health, from participants with knee OA previously involved in the
      investigator's research who indicated their willingness to participate in other studies, and
      from a local orthopedic surgeon group practice. Potential participants will complete a
      per-participation survey online or by phone that will be used to determine eligibility based
      on inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      For Aims 1 and 2, eligible individuals will be asked to defer any plan for knee joint
      injections until after the testing period. Participants will be asked to refrain from taking
      any pain medications for at least 4 hours prior to testing. After giving informed consent,
      individuals who have diabetes will undergo sensory testing to confirm that their sensory
      detection threshold is no lower than the mean (+ 2 standard deviations) of the detection
      threshold of healthy older adults which is 1.4 g of force applied by a size 4.17
      monofilament. This threshold is based on data collected in our laboratory using the 4-2-1-
      method of steps. If the individual is unable to perceive 1.4 g stimulus s/he will not
      continue in the study.

      Protocol for Aim 1- Data collected for Aim 1 will occur over 4 sessions. The purpose of this
      aim is to determine the magnitude and duration of the day-to-day effects on clinical pain
      relief and quantitative sensory tests related to pain after a single NxES treatment.

      Session 1: In this session we will gain informed consent, then perform a sensory screen (if
      necessary), collect demographic data and baseline questionnaire data and familiarize
      participants with the quantitative sensory testing (QST) procedures and to briefly experience
      the NxES treatment.

      Session 2: During this session, participants will experience a single treatment with NxES and
      we will assess changes in pain and function and QST measures before and after the treatment.
      For the NxES Intervention, a pair of 2x3 inch electrodes will be placed on the medial and
      lateral sides of the knee. Pulses of electrical current (400 µs biphasic square wave pulses
      delivered at 50-100 pulses/second; 10-seconds on: 10-seconds off) will be applied for 20
      minutes. The amplitude of the current will be increased until the participant rates the pain
      50/100 on numeric pain rating scale. Pain intensity and unpleasantness will be assessed every
      two-min. and amplitude will be increased to maintain the 5/10 pain intensity level during the
      treatment. QST will be performed immediately after the treatment and 1 hour later. One- to
      two-minute washout periods will be provided between QST test repetitions and a 20-minute
      washout period will be provided after the NxES treatment and the post-treatment test of
      conditioned pain modulation.

      Sessions 3-4: These sessions will occur 24-hours and 72-hours after session 2 and pain and
      function along with QST will be performed.

      Protocol for Aim 2- The purpose of this aim is to determine if there is a cumulative response
      to NxES treatment on clinical pain and quantitative sensory tests related to pain. Data
      collected for Aim 2 will begin at least 1-week after the testing for Aim 1 and take place
      over a 2-week treatment period. Follow-up testing will take place 72-hours and 4-weeks after
      the last NxES treatment session.

      Session 1: This session will be used to re-collect baseline questionnaire data and
      re-familiarize participants with procedures if it has been greater than 2-weeks since
      participation in Aim 1 or if they declined participation in Aim 1.

      Session 2: During this session, participants will receive the first NxES treatment and
      undergo assessment of QST, pain, and function.

      Session 3-7: These sessions are NxES treatment sessions. Pain and QST assessment will be
      collected at the beginning of sessions 3,5 & 7 only.

      Session 8: No treatments will be performed; post-treatment assessments will occur at 72 hours
      after session 7.

      Session 9: No treatments will be performed; post-treatment assessments will be completed 4
      weeks after session 7.

      Sessions 2-7 must be completed within 18 calendar days in order to preserve the fidelity of
      the intervention dosage.
    
  