
    
      A number of 90 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I and II patients undergoing
      elective open abdominal hysterectomies will be randomly distributed in two groups of 45
      patient's each and assigned to receive one of the of the following:

        1. Treatment Group: intravenous S+ketamine 0.25 mg/kg (i.v. bolus) at the beginning and
           0.25 mg/kg (i.v. bolus) 20 minutes before extubation along with remifentanil according
           to Minto model and propofol infusion according to Marsh model through target control
           infusion pump.

        2. Control Group: intravenous normal saline (as placebo, with similar volume) at the
           beginning and 20 minutes before extubation along with remifentanil according to Minto
           model and propofol according to Schnider model through target control infusion pump.

      Randomization procedure is performed by the unblinded study team investigator. Patients will
      be randomized to either the treatment or control groups with a 1:1 allocation ratio. Sequence
      generation will be performed using a computerized random number generator, employing a
      permuted block randomization scheme. Allocation concealment will be maintained by having the
      random numbers pre-generated by an off-site statistician who will not be involved in subject
      recruitment. Implementation will be via serially numbered opaque sealed envelopes.

      Throughout the study period, blinded study members will perform drug administration and data
      collection, while unblinded study members will be in charge for the investigational drug
      storage, dispensing and preparation. Any premature unblinding (e.g. accidental unblinding,
      unblinding due a serious adverse event) of the investigational product will be promptly
      documented and explained. In the case of adverse effect or severe adverse effect requiring
      information on the study treatment to manage a patient, the treatment code of the patient
      will be unblinded.
    
  