
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the safety and tolerability of giving prophylactic moxifloxacin hydrochloride
           during the post-engraftment phase in patients who have undergone allogeneic stem cell
           transplantation. (Pilot study)

        -  Compare the efficacy, in terms of reducing the incidence of clinically and
           microbiologically documented bacterial infections, in patients who have undergone
           allogeneic stem cell transplantation treated with prophylactic moxifloxacin
           hydrochloride vs placebo during the post-engraftment phase. (Phase III)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incidence of clinically and microbiologically documented bacterial
           infections in these patients. (Pilot study)

        -  Assess the impact of moxifloxacin hydrochloride on the incidence of bacteremia in these
           patients. (Phase III)

        -  Compare the percentage of time on systemic antibiotics and days hospitalized in patients
           treated with these regimens. (Phase III)

        -  Compare the incidence of veno-occlusive disease of the liver in patients treated with
           these regimens. (Phase III)

        -  Compare the incidence and severity of graft-versus-host disease in patients treated with
           these regimens. (Phase III)

        -  Compare the infection-related mortality and overall mortality of patients treated with
           these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study followed by a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      multicenter phase III study. Patients are stratified according to gender and race (white vs.
      non-white). The first 20 patients are assigned to the pilot study.

      Patients assigned to the pilot study receive oral moxifloxacin hydrochloride once daily
      beginning after neutrophil recovery (ANC > 1,500/mm³) from allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation (ASCT) and continuing until day 100 post-transplantation in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Subsequent patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral moxifloxacin hydrochloride once daily beginning after
           neutrophil recovery (ANC > 1,500/mm³) from ASCT and continuing until day 100
           post-transplantation.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily beginning after neutrophil recovery
           (ANC > 1,500/mm³) from ASCT and continuing until day 100 post-transplantation.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at day 120 post-transplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 240 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  