
    
      Preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) occurs in approximately 3% of all pregnancies
      and is associated with approximately one-third of preterm births. The incidence of
      chorioamnionitis in women with premature rupture of membranes (PROM) at < 27, 28 to 36, and >
      37weeks' gestation is 41, 15, and 2%, respectively. Intra-amniotic infection is usually
      polymicrobial, comprised vaginal or enteric flora including aerobic and anaerobic bacteria
      and atypical agents, such as Mycoplasma. Group B streptococcus (GBS) has been a frequent
      pathogen. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists approach to PPROM consists
      of recommending induction of labor in all women > 34 weeks' gestation. In the absence of
      intrauterine infection, placental abruption or non-reassuring fetal heart rate, management of
      women with PPROM < 34 weeks consists of hospitalization from the time of diagnosis until
      delivery, administration of antenatal corticosteroids, and a 7-day course of antibiotic
      prophylactic therapy to prolong the latency period. Antibiotic therapy has been associated
      with significant reductions in chorioamnionitis, deliveries within 48 hours, and early-onset
      (within 3 days of delivery) neonatal sepsis (EOS). The antibiotic regimen in PPROM usually
      consists of ampicillin intravenously for 48 hours, followed by oral amoxicillin for 5 days
      (specifically targeting GBS), and a macrolide targeting atypical agents.

      An increase in EOS due to gram negative Enterobacteriaceae have been reported lately with a
      relative decrease in GBS related EOS . These data may have an impact on the antibiotic
      regimen used for PPROM. The Local pathogens distribution in cases of EOS and their antibiotic
      sensitivity profiles in Northern Israel have been explored in a multicenter study There were
      27 neonates diagnosed with EOS with positive blood cultures. Aerobic Enterobacteriaceae
      accounted for 14 cases (52%) and group B streptococcus for 7 cases (26%). Of the Escherichia
      coli and Klebsiella sp.,only 38% were sensitive to ampicillin. As a result the most effective
      antibiotic protocol to cover those pathogens is required. The purpose of the current study is
      to compare a new antibiotic protocol with the current prophylactic treatment in use and to
      evaluate pregnancy and neonatal outcome.

      The diagnosis of preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) is clinical, and is based on
      visualization of amniotic fluid in the vagina of a woman who presents with a history of
      leaking fluid. Laboratory tests as "Amniosure" can be used to confirm the clinical diagnosis
      when it is uncertain.

      Women who meet the study criteria and have signed inform consent will be randomly divided in
      two groups to receive prophylactic antibiotic treatment as follow:

        1. I.V ampicillin 2 gram x4/d for 2 days followed by P.O moxypen 500 mgx3/d for additional
           5 days+ P.O roxithromycin 150 mg*2/d for 7 days

        2. I.V cefuroxime 750 mg*3/d for 2days followed by P.O cefuroxime 500 mgx2/d + P.O
           roxithromycin 150 mg*2/d for 7 days

      A course of corticosteroids will be given to all women participating in the study

      Expectant management:

        1. Vital signs *3/day

        2. Uterine tenderness evaluation

        3. Complete Blood Count + C-reactive protein every second day

        4. Urine culture and GBS recto-vaginal swab

        5. Fetal heart monitoring*6 /d

        6. Sonography evaluation every 2-3 days

        7. Vaginal swab once a week

        8. Fetal movements follow up

      Labor induction will be conducted at 34 weeks of gestation If chorioamnionitis is suspected
      amniocentesis should be considered or expeditious delivery
    
  