
    
      More than ever before, people are eating more calories from food than what they are burning
      off through exercise and other activities, and this imbalance is causing the rising rates of
      obesity and diabetes in the US and throughout the world. The different types of body fat are
      central players in this process. The white fat stores excess calories coming from food, while
      brown fat also known as brown adipose tissue, or BAT consumes the energy from food to
      generate heat. This important process in BAT is achieved through the action of a special
      protein found only in BAT, called uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1).

      Scientists used to believe that BAT was important only in small animals and human infants,
      but it was recently discovered by us and others that in response to mild cold exposure, adult
      human BAT (hBAT) consumes more glucose by weight than any other tissue . In addition, human
      BAT may also combat weight gain by becoming more active in the setting of increased food
      consumption. This phenomenon has already been demonstrated in mice and rats, and its presence
      suggests that activation of human BAT could be used as a safe treatment for obesity and
      metabolic disease. Finally, emerging evidence indicates that human BAT may be an endocrine
      organ, which means that it releases hormones into the blood and regulates other organs of the
      body as well, including skeletal muscle, liver, and the insulin-releasing pancreatic
      Beta-cell.

      If we are going to understand how hBAT functions in the body physiology and use its
      calorie-burning ability to treat illnesses of metabolism such as diabetes, we will need to
      approach the challenge using several different methods. One key reason is that BAT is not
      easy to find in the body, and the cells that make it up are different depending on where they
      are and what the body needs. Brown fat is composed of at least two known types of distinct
      cells, termed constitutive /brown and inducible /beige; and there are also white fat cells in
      varying proportions. Given that there is currently no known way to estimate the amount of
      brown fat in the body from a simple blood test, our lab group has successfully relied on
      collecting small amounts of fat from the site of surgery in patients who are already
      undergoing clinically indicated procedures. Information obtained from these fat tissues has
      addressed questions related to (a) how brown fat cells develop from immature stem cells; (b)
      what genes are active; and (c) how many calories the brown fat can burn. These earlier
      studies have also provided the preliminary cells necessary for establishing long-lasting
      human brown and white cells that can be grown indefinitely in the laboratory. Despite this
      progress, much remains unknown about the functional differences between brown and beige fat
      cells and how these could affect metabolism in humans of different age, sex, and genetic
      backgrounds, as well as the changes seen in the brown fat cells in different illnesses. The
      goal of this study is to address these and related questions.
    
  