
    
      Patients with implanted devices for electrical baroreflex stimulation are recruited according
      to inclusion and exclusion criteria until good quality recordings have been obtained in 10
      out of maximally 15 patients. After obtaining written informed consent patients will be
      investigated in the laboratory on one day. In up to 20% of the patients we may fail to find
      an appropriate nerve recording position. In these cases we will ask the patient to repeat the
      experiment.

      Patients will be investigated in the post-absorptive state after emptying their bladder.
      During instrumentation and measurements they will rest in supine position. We will fix chest
      electrodes for ECG and impedance cardiography. A peripheral venous catheter will be
      introduced for later dopamine infusion. Cuffs will be used at the upper arm and the finger in
      order to monitor blood pressure and to allow for pulse-contour analysis. Finally, we will
      search for a suitable nerve recording position in the peroneal nerve for recordings of muscle
      sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA, postganglionic vasoconstrictor sympathetic drive). All
      bioelectric signals will be recorded continuously for the duration of the experiments.

      After the preparations baseline recordings will be performed. Subsequently, the electrical
      baroreflex stimulator is switched OFF and ON repeatedly (toggling) under normoxic conditions.
      Every OFF and ON state will last for 4 minutes. Oscillometric blood-pressure readings are
      taken every two minutes so as to acquire two readings per stimulation period. Toggling under
      normoxia is meant to ensure that the patient is a responder at the experimental day and to
      rule out that the blood pressure rises are too high off stimulation (safety concern).
      Afterwards, the breathing gas will be changed in order to have the patient inhale a hypoxic
      or hyperoxic mixture in a blinded manner. After reaching a stable ventilatory and autonomic
      state, stimulator toggling and blood-pressure measurements will be repeated. The same
      procedures will take place after establishing the opposite oxygenation state. Stimulation
      will be ON in between the oxygen states implying that the first switches will be OFF switches
      with all oxygenation conditions. Afterwards, the last oxygenation state will be maintained
      and additional low-dose dopamine infusion will be applied. Again, the electrical baroreflex
      stimulator will be switched off and on repeatedly and blood-pressure readings are taken.
      During the last two stimulator toggling states of each oxygenation level, venous blood
      samples are drawn for hormone measurements and inert gas rebreathing will take place for
      cardiac output determination. Finally, the correct positioning of the microneurography
      electrode is checked again.

      The duration of such an experiment depends on the time needed to find the sympathetic nerve
      bundles before the measurements and during the experiment, in case the recording position
      gets lost. However, experiments will rarely exceed 5 hours in total.
    
  