
    
      The detrimental effects of aging on auditory temporal processing have been well documented in
      humans and animal models. At present, there are gaps in knowledge of the extent to which
      these auditory temporal processing deficits can be mitigated in older adults with or without
      hearing loss through auditory training and neuroplasticity, to improve precision of neural
      timing and speech understanding. The long-term goal is to determine the extent to which
      hearing deficits in older adults can be ameliorated with auditory training. The investigators
      propose an innovative approach to the investigation of aging, hearing, and neuroplasticity by
      marrying perceptual training experiments with electrophysiological measurements. The
      objectives are to compare young normal-hearing (YNH), older normal-hearing (ONH), and older
      hearing-impaired (OHI) adult listeners, and evaluate the improvements in perceptual and
      electrophysiological measures of temporal processing after explicit training on auditory
      temporal processing tasks. The central hypothesis is that training of auditory temporal
      processing will produce concomitant improvements in both perceptual performance and neural
      encoding, which will close the gap in the age-related differences between groups. The central
      hypothesis will be tested by pursuing two specific aims: (Aim 1) Determine the extent to
      which perceptual training on temporal rate discrimination using simple non-speech stimuli
      improves perceptual and neural encoding in YNH, ONH, and OHI listeners; and (Aim 2) Determine
      the extent to which perceptual training on the processing of sentences with increasing
      presentation rate can improve behavioral performance and neural encoding in YNH, ONH, and OHI
      listeners. The expected outcomes are that the investigators will learn what perceptual
      training tasks lead to simultaneous improvements in perceptual and neural auditory temporal
      processing and the findings will produce a significant impact in older listeners who
      experience difficulty in communicating in daily life because they will lead directly to
      focused and novel forms of rehabilitation. This research is innovative because the
      investigators will have established techniques that are proven to provide significant
      improvements in auditory temporal processing and speech perception, combined with evidence of
      improvements to neural encoding. These studies will serve the larger goals of the program
      project grant because they will help identify the neuroplastic mechanisms in the brain of
      humans that correspond to successful behavioral outcomes in younger and older adults.
    
  