
    
      Study design

      In this trial, we plan to conduct a single-centered, prospective, parallel-group randomized
      clinical trial. The study protocol observes the Standard Protocol Items rules:
      Recommendations for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) 2013. The leader of the sponsoring
      organization strictly implements oversight of the protocol. We intend to compare the
      effectiveness of improving re-bleeding rates of cirrhotic patients with AVB between the
      urgent endoscopy and non-urgent endoscopy groups. Department of gastroenterology, affiliated
      Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing University will take full charge of this trial,
      including recruitment of patients, endoscopic intervention, admission education, in-hospital
      nursing, subsequent follow-up work, etc. Informed consent forms from every patient will be
      signed before enrollment, and approval from the Ethical Committees of Jinling Hospital has
      been obtained (authorized ethic No. DZQH-KYLL-21-01).

      Data processing

      Two investigators in our department are responsible for the data collection and storage. One
      investigator will inspect the data collected by another one. After finishing the inspection,
      the data will be input in the off-line database constructed by the investigators. Instantly
      they complete all of the data storage, the two investigators will conduct a double
      inspection. The eventual data will be used for data analysis. Theoretically, there will be no
      missing data because the investigators will inspect and record every patient's data timely.
      Patients with missing data will be excluded from the trial. We will perform source data
      verification by comparing them with authentic medical records to assess the accuracy,
      completeness, or representativeness of registry data.

      Patients enrollment

      An estimated 400 patients will be consecutively included in the study between March 2021 and
      December 2023. Original Glasgow-Blatchford Score is used to evaluate the condition of each
      patient instead of modified version. The indicators (measured within 2 hours after admission)
      are blood urea, hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, pulse, melena, syncope, hepatic disease,
      and cardiac failure.

      Sample size

      According to research from Ardevol A et al, in the 646 cirrhotic patients with AVB performing
      endoscopy within 6h after admission, the 45-day re-bleeding rate was 26%, the results of
      which was similar to that in another research by Ping-Hsien Chen (the overall 6-week
      re-bleeding rate for cirrhotic patients with AVB was 25.7%). Then, we hypothesized a
      difference of 14% would be clinically significant in re-bleeding rate. Next, we calculated at
      least 189 patients in each group would embody the discrepancy (26% vs. 40%), with the
      statistical power of 80% and a two-sided α level of 5%. Assuming that a certain number of
      patients in each group will be lost to follow-up, a minimum of about 200 patients would be
      necessary for each group.

      Randomization and time set

      Eligible patients are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive endoscopic intervention
      either within 6h or 6-24h. Randomization is conducted by permuted block randomization
      stratified by age, systolic blood pressure (SBP), and heart rate (HR). The block size is
      pre-specified, but physicians and investigators are not notified of this during the study.
      Allocation concealment is implemented by the mobile client randomization tool "Randomization
      Allocation Tool (RAT)". There are two primary sources of patients. The majority of these
      patients are from the emergency department, and the others are patients with cirrhosis who
      developed AVB during hospitalization. For patients from the emergency department, the
      interval between admission and receiving gastroenterological consultation will be controlled
      within 10 minutes by applying the emergency green channel. However, for patients during
      hospitalization, the time should be calculated as receiving an evaluation by the emergency
      endoscopic team (gastroenterological consultation). In order to make it easier to record, the
      time will be uniformly calculated as receiving gastroenterological consultation, whatever the
      sources of patients are. The patients will be randomly allocated to undergo urgent endoscopy
      within 6h or non-urgent endoscopy between 6h and 24h after gastroenterological consultation.
      The following time data will be recorded: (I) time from presenting with symptoms of acute
      variceal bleeding to admission (patients from the emergency department); (II) time from
      admission to gastroenterological consultation (patients from the emergency department); (III)
      time from admission to endoscopy (patients from the emergency department); (IV) time from
      presentation to gastroenterological consultation (patients develop AVB during
      hospitalization); (V) time from gastroenterological consultation to endoscopy (all of the
      patients).

      Control of acute bleeding, persistent bleeding, and re-bleeding

      AVB under endoscopy refers to bleed gushing or seeping from esophageal or gastric varices.
      Control of AVB refers to persistent bleeding signs that do not occur within 24h after the
      initial endoscopic intervention. Persistent bleeding refers to bleeding that can not be
      controlled after initial endoscopic intervention within 24h. Persistent bleeding is defined
      as follows (at least one item appears): (I) vomiting of fresh blood or suction of more than
      100 ml fresh blood from the nasogastric tube; (II) occurring hemorrhagic shock; (III) review
      of hemoglobin level decreasing by 30 g/L in the absence of a blood transfusion. Re-bleeding
      refers to recurrent bleeding after control of acute bleeding. The re-bleeding is defined as
      follows (at least one item appears): (I) hematemesis/melena/hematochezia; (II) with systolic
      blood pressure dropping by more than 20mmHg from the original level or heart rate increases
      by 20 beats/min; (III) review of hemoglobin level decreasing by 30 g/L in the absence of a
      blood transfusion. Patients with persistent or re-bleeding will take secondary endoscopic
      intervention or be transferred to undergo other treatment (surgery or transjugular
      intrahepatic portosystemic stent-shunt [TIPSS]) instantaneously according to the patient's
      condition.

      Treatment

      (I) Before endoscopic intervention: all the patients take uninterrupted intravenous
      administration of high dose proton pump inhibitors (PPIs, 8 mg/h), somatostatin (250 μg/h),
      and preventive application of antibiotics; (II) Initial endoscopic intervention: patients who
      conform to non-variceal bleeding under endoscopy will not be included in this trial, but the
      emergency endoscopic team will still strictly follow the procedure to conduct standard
      treatment for them. For patients conforming to AVB, we use tissue
      adhesive/sclerotherapy/variceal ligation/covered stent as the treatment methods for varicose
      veins. The patient's position is chosen to expose the best field of vision under endoscopy,
      and the external cannula for endoscopy is used to prevent aspiration according to the
      patient's condition. Furthermore, initial endoscopic treatment aim at the varicose vein of
      the bleeding site solely. After the endoscopic treatment, the patients will be transferred to
      the gastroenterological care unit; (III) After the initial endoscopic intervention: all the
      patients are treated with continuous high dose PPIs (8 mg/h) and intravenous infusion of
      somatostatin (250 μg/h) for 72h, with the preventive application of antibiotics for no more
      than 120h; during the follow-up, oral propranolol and ultrasound-guided tissue glue injection
      therapy could be used as secondary prevention according to the patient's condition; (IV) The
      emergency endoscopic team consists of three experienced endoscopists, each with more than ten
      years of experience in endoscopy and over 500 cases of variceal hemostasis under endoscopy.
      Also, there are several seasoned endoscopic nurses included, who have experience in
      endoscopic work for more than five years, are proficient in applying endoscopic treatment
      instruments, and cooperate with endoscopists.

      Follow-up time

      After randomization, the follow-up work will begin. All the patients included will be
      followed up to no less than 42 days after control of AVB. When patients' conditions are
      stable, further treatment of varicose veins should be decided according to their wishes and
      statutory agents. Patients with good compliance will take standard endoscopic treatment every
      3-4 weeks after control of AVB or re-bleeding, and the follow-up time should be once a week;
      patients who decline to accept further treatment are followed up only once a week. The
      follow-up forms could be either by telephone or outpatient review. If the patients are lost
      to follow-up during the follow-up period, the eventual outpatient review or telephone dates
      will be treated as the follow-up endpoints.

      Statistical analysis

      The statistical analyses are performed using SAS software, version 9.4 (SAS Institute).
      Continuous variables are expressed in terms of mean ± standard deviation. Student's t-test
      and Wilcoxon rank-sum test are applied to compare normally and non-normally distributed data,
      respectively. Categorical variables are compared employing Fisher's exact test. The analyses
      for the primary efficacy endpoint of re-bleeding rate within 42 days between the urgent
      endoscopy and non-urgent endoscopy groups are performed in the intention-to-treat population.
      The rates difference and 95% CI of the two groups are calculated with and without the
      randomization stratification factors. Besides, the re-bleeding rates are also estimated using
      the Kaplan-Meier method. The log-rank test is used to compare the difference in mortality and
      re-bleeding rates between the two groups. Cox proportional hazards regression model is used
      to estimate the hazard ratio and 95% CI. A forest plot is employed to analyze risk factors
      affecting mortality and re-bleeding rates. Schoenfeld residual test is applied to verify
      whether the model meets the proportional risk (PH) hypothesis. The secondary efficacy
      endpoints are assessed in the per-protocol population. There is no prespecified plan to
      adjust for multiple comparisons of the secondary efficacy endpoints; the analyses for
      secondary efficacy endpoints should not be used to infer treatment effects. Prespecified
      subgroup analyses include age (≥40 ys or <40 ys), SBP (≥100 mmHg or <100 mmHg), HR (≥120
      beats/min or <120 beats/min), hemoglobin (≥80 g/L or <80 g/L), etc. All the P values are
      two-tailed, and p < 0.05 is considered to be a significant difference.
    
  