
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To support current and future investigations into drug resistance and sensitivity and
      other National Cancer Institute (NCI)-sponsored cancer research initiatives through the
      procurement and distribution of multiple longitudinal biospecimens and associated data from a
      diverse group of cancer patients who are undergoing standard of care treatment at NCI
      Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) sites.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To provide a service of value to study participants and their medical providers through
      the performance of a molecular profiling assay on tumor samples in a Clinical Laboratory
      Improvement Act (CLIA)-certified laboratory and reporting of results to physicians and
      patients that they may opt to use in clinical management, including analysis of data for
      acquired resistance mechanisms.

      II. To enable the development of patient-derived models such as cell lines and xenografts for
      cancer researchers through the provision of biospecimens from 20% of study participants to
      the NCI's Patient Derived Models Repository (PDMR), a national resource available to
      investigators.

      III. To develop and implement robust approaches in patient and provider engagement to improve
      understanding of biobanking and its relationship to cancer research and increase
      representation of minority and underserved study participants in cancer research.

      IV. To develop increased capabilities in United States (U.S.) community hospitals and clinics
      for contribution to cancer research through biobanking activities.

      V. To enable secondary research generated from the project through deposition of data in
      public repositories such as Cancer Research Data Commons (CRDC), The Cancer Imaging Archive
      (TCIA) and database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGAP), including clinical, radiology and
      pathology data with an emphasis on treatment response and outcome data.

      VI. To provide residual biospecimens and associated data from the project to the cancer
      research community.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo collection of tissue and blood samples prior to initiation of treatment,
      during treatment, and at disease progression. Patients with hematological malignancies also
      undergo collection of bone marrow and cerebral spinal fluid at the same time points. Archival
      blood and tissue, as well as bone marrow of patients with hematological malignancies, is also
      collected, if available. Patient medical records are reviewed, and data is collected for at
      least 10 years.
    
  