
    
      This study is retrospective, longitudinal, descriptive and observational. Children aged 0 to
      1 years hospitalized for introduction of Hemangiol between January 2014 and November 2018
      will be included. Patients refuse the use of medical data will be excluded.

      The main objective is to describe the population who received Hemangiol. The secondary
      objectives is to evaluate

        -  the effectiveness of Hemangiol on proliferative infantile hemangiomas, -the tolerance of
           Hemangiol in children with proliferative infantile hemangiomas

        -  the interest of systematic cardiological consultation in children with proliferative
           infantile hemangiomas receiving Hemangiol

      The following criteria will be collected

      Demographic description: age, sex, height, weight

      Personal history

      Description of the hemangioma:

        -  organ concerned: skin, liver, parotid, mixed.

        -  location: head, thorax, pelvis, limbs, diffuse ...

        -  single or multiple

        -  indication of treatment: aesthetic, functional, ulcerated, cardiac hyperacidity

      Rhythm of follow-up: duration of treatment and observance of treatment

      Prescribed dose: 1, 2, 3 or 4 mg / kg / day in 2 doses

      Evolution of the hemangioma: progression, regression, stagnation. Needed a second medical
      therapeutic line by specifying the treatment introduced. Necessity of surgical management by
      specifying the delay between surgery and the introduction of treatment

      Description of serious adverse events: hypotension, bradycardia, bronchospasm, hypoglycaemia.
      Description of other adverse events.

      Number of cardio-pediatric consultations, specifying:

        -  incidence of diagnosed heart disease through systematic cardiac consultation

        -  effect on ECG data of increasing dosage of Hemangiol: heart rate, PR duration, QRS
           duration, QT duration
    
  