
    
      Transabdominal ultrasound examination to obtain full obstetric ultrasound report including
      estimated gestational age, fetal lie, presentation, amniotic fluid volume, placental location
      with special focus on relation to the uterine scar.

      The second step was to measure the thickness of the LUS using 2D ultrasound. View of the LUS
      was obtained in the mid-sagittal plane and the view was magnified looking for the thinnest
      area of the LUS. Also, the LUS was examined in a lateral view to detect any apparent rupture,
      ballooning or funneling. The measurement was taken with the cursors at the urine-Urinary
      bladder interface and the amniotic fluid -decidua interface after sufficient magnification
      and measurement was taken to the nearest tenth of millimeter. The numeric display was covered
      during the examination to avoid bias when performing the 3D measurement in the next step.
      Three measurements were taken and the least measurement was recorded.

      After the entire thickness was measured by 2D ultrasound, 3 D measurement were taken in the
      mid-saggittal plan using the multiplanar display mode and then moving through the acquired
      3-D volume in the saggittal plane till the thinnest area was seen and then measurements were
      taken.3-D volume dataset was obtained of the LUS by the same operator. The acquired volume
      was manipulated on the multiplanar display mode, searching for the thinnest part of the LUS
      avoiding obliquity.

      Transvaginal ultrasound examination was done following the transabdominal one. The vaginal
      probe was inserted into the posterior vaginal fornix with the patient lying supine and the
      patient's knees are gently flexed and hips are slightly elevated with a pillow. Clear view of
      the LUS was obtained in the midsagittal plane visualizing the cervical canal to ensure that
      the view is midline one and avoiding obliquity.

      On transvaginal examination the muscular layer of the LUS was clearly seen as hypoechoic line
      between the hyperechoic uterovesical fold and the decidualized endometrium and the
      chorioamniotic membranes. The scar area was magnified so the scar occupies at least 75% of
      the image to ensure consistent and accurate measurements. The thickness of the muscular layer
      of LUS was taken with the measuring caliber placed at the urinary bladder wall-myometrium
      interface and the myometrial/ chorioamniotic membrane interface .Three measurements of the
      LUS were taken, and again, the least measurement was recorded.

      Again, 3D volume data set of the LUS was obtained .The acquired volume was manipulated on the
      multiplanar display looking for the thinnest part of the muscular layer. The thickness was
      measured to the nearest tenth of millimeter and recorded. The same operator has performed the
      transabdominal and transvaginal sonographic examination, and the surgeon performing the CS
      was always blinded of the sonographic findings.

      The ultrasound examination to CS time interval varied from one to forty eight hours. During
      Cesarean delivery the LUS was defined as the part of the uterus below the uterovesical
      peritoneal reflection. After opening the visceral peritoneum and performing the bladder
      dissection, the LUS was assessed for integrity of the CS scar by the operating surgeon to
      avoid bias by the sonographic findings. Scar dehiscence was defined as the presence of either
      transparent LUS with visible contents, presence of well-circumscribed scar defect or presence
      of frank uterine rupture.
    
  