
    
      Introduction Shock is defined as a state of impaired cellular energy (ATP) synthesis when
      tissue oxygen delivery no longer satisfies tissue oxygen demand (Kleinman etal., 2012)

      Shock is an independent predictor of early neonatal mortality and more often a problem in
      preterm infants than in term infants, even late preterm infants are at much higher risk
      (Femitha and Bhat, 2012)

      In the first phase of shock, perfusion and oxygen delivery is maintained towards the
      so-called vital organs (heart, brain, and adrenal glands) by selective regional vasodilation
      in combination with vasoconstriction to non-essential tissues, such as muscles, skin,
      kidneys, and the splanchnic tissues. This is the compensated stage of shock. As the product
      of cardiac output (which falls) and systemic vascular resistance (which increases), blood
      pressure actually remains in the normal range in a compensated shock. When this
      redistribution fails, perfusion and oxygenation of the vital organs will become impaired,
      resulting in multi-organ dysfunction. In this phase of uncompensated shock, systemic
      hypotension might be expected (Willem etal., 2018)

      Echocardiography is one of the emerging technologies that can be used to measure cardiac
      output in critically ill newborn infants, especially since the clinical estimation of cardiac
      output is rather inaccurate (de Boode, 2010)

      Diagnosis of Shock

      The clinical diagnosis of shock in the early compensated phase often depends on assessment of
      peripheral perfusion,pulse volume, heart rate changes, metabolic acidosis and urine output.

      Ideally, shock should be diagnosed at this stage. In the later uncompensated phase, blood
      pressure (BP) becomes a key parameter for monitoring and for titrating inotropes and fluids
      Willem etal.,2018). )

      Clinicians rely on BP measurements to diagnose hypotension and to titrate therapy.
      Hypotension in preterm infants has been associated with an increased risk of intraventricular
      hemorrhage (Vishnu and Plakkal, 2015)

      Treatment of Shock:

        1. Volume Expanders

           It is common practice to give one or two normal saline boluses when neonates present in
           shock, before assessing the need for inotropes.

           Apart from saline, albumin or other colloids are also sometimes used for volume
           expansion.

        2. Drug Therapy of Neonatal Shock

      Dopamine is an endogenous catecholamine and has been shown to raise the blood pressure in
      hypotensive infants better than either albumin or dobutamine (Osborn and Evan, 2005) Cardiac
      arrhythmias And extravasation injury are potential adverse effects (Osborn etal., 2004)

      Dobutamine, unlike dopamine, does not have endocrine effects and does not depend on the
      release of endogenous catecholamines for effect. It is predominantly inotropic, with some
      vasodilator effects, Indeed, there is some evidence that dobutamine is better than dopamine
      at increasing and maintaining systemic blood flow in preterm infants with low systemicblood
      flow (Subhedar and Shaw, 2003).

      Epinephrine is usually used when shock is refractory to dopamine and dobutamine, although
      some use it as a first line drug, especially when septic shock is suspected (Maria etal.,
      2004)

      Norepinephrine use in neonates is uncommon due to its vasoconstrictive effects, resulting in
      organ hypoperfusion and increased myocardial work (Pierre etal., 2008)

      Hydrocortisone is most commonly used in catecholamine resistant shock in treatment of
      hypotension in very low birth weight infants (vishnu and plakkal, 2015). Hyperglycemia can be
      a troublesome short-term side effect (Ng etal., 2006)

      Vasopressin is a potent vasoconstrictor and useful in vasodilatory shock (Brierley etal.,
      2009).

      Supportive Treatment:

      Pulmonary Support. Most neonates with shock requiring inotropic support will also require
      mechanical ventilation.(especially <28 wk) (Saugstad and Aune, 2014].

      Antibiotics.

        -  Empirical antibiotics should be chosen based on prevailing infection patterns in each
           NICU (Adrienne etal., 2003)

      Newer Developments in the Management of Neonatal Shock

      Milrinone and amrinone are phosphodiesterase III inhibitors. they are vasodilators,
      hypotension can result. However, they are excellent inotropes and can also reduce pulmonary
      pressures (Nick etal., 2009)

      Levosimendan is a newer drug which causes vasodilatation and improves calcium coupling to
      troponin, resulting in an increase in myocardial contractility (Papoff etal., 2012)
    
  