
    
      PTSD is a common co-occurring disorder with substance use disorders (SUDs). When present,
      PTSD causes more negative outcomes in treatments designed to address substance use disorders.
      These negative outcomes include: 1) Early drop-out from treatment; 2) More frequent relapse
      to alcohol and other drugs; 3) Greater difficulty utilizing group therapies and self-help
      recovery groups; 4) Worsening of PTSD symptoms; and 5) Addiction treatment clinician
      distress. Nonetheless, the traditional practice in addiction treatment programs has been to
      address the problems of addiction, and delay treatment for PTSD and other psychiatric
      conditions. The evidence for negative outcomes for persons with co-occurring PTSD and SUDs
      challenges this practice, and suggests the need for new intervention strategies. A promising
      intervention for PTSD has emerged in another at-risk and vulnerable population of persons
      already receiving treatment for their "primary" disorder. This is a cognitive behavioral
      therapy for PTSD in persons with severe mental illness (SMI). Pilot studies with this
      intervention have demonstrated effectiveness, that it is well tolerated by patients, and that
      it fits within existing treatment services. Given the high prevalence of co-occurring PTSD
      and SUDs in addiction treatment settings (33-59%), the negative outcomes associated with this
      comorbidity, and the potential availability of a promising intervention, a stage one
      feasibility study appears warranted.

      Patients admitted to an addiction treatment program are routinely screened for PTSD using a
      brief self-report survey, the PTSD Checklist (PCL). These forms are collected by clinical
      staff of the treatment program and scored for PTSD diagnostic criteria. If a patient exceeds
      threshold criteria (PCL score of greater than or equal to 44) they are approached by a
      clinical staff member about their potential interest in the study. If they wish to learn more
      about the study the PI or designee is contacted, a suitable time arranged, and the patient
      approached for their interest in consenting to the study.

      If consent is granted, the subject is interviewed by a member of the research team and
      demographic, substance use, and treatment history information is extracted from the subject's
      medical record. The interview consists of standardized procedures (Clinician Administered
      PTSD Scale [CAPS], SCID-Axis II borderline personality disorder) designed to assess PTSD and
      other commonly associated psychiatric disorders. A urine screen and breathalyzer are
      conducted to test for alcohol and other drugs. Self-report measures of depression (Beck
      Depression Inventory-II [BDI-II]), anxiety (Beck Anxiety Inventory [BAI]), alcohol and drug
      use (Addiction Severity Index [ASI] and Time-line Follow-back Calendar), treatment readiness
      for substance use (Stages of Change Readiness and Treatment Eagerness Scale [SOCRATES]) and
      for PTSD (SOC-PTSD), HIV risk (HIV-risk Screening Instrument [HSI]), and treatment
      utilization (Recent Treatment Survey [RTS]) are also administered. If the subject again meets
      criteria for PTSD (CAPS confirms diagnosis of DSM-IV PTSD), he or she is presented with the
      opportunity to receive the PTSD cognitive behavioral therapy. In either case, the subject
      receives $25 for participating in the interview.

      The cognitive behavioral therapy is conducted in individual sessions, approximately 50
      minutes in duration. The therapy is manual-guided, focused on the PTSD symptoms only, and
      designed to work in conjunction with the addiction treatment program services. The therapy is
      offered in weekly sessions, for 12-14 total sessions. At monthly intervals, the subject will
      complete the RTS and a trauma event checklist based on the PCL, and will be tested for
      alcohol (breathalyzer) and drug use (urine screen). The subject will also complete the
      Working Alliance Inventory (WAI - client version) after the second PTSD therapy session.

      At completion of the PTSD therapy the patient will again be interviewed by a member of the
      research team. The post-therapy assessment will consist of the CAPS, the Time-line
      Follow-back, BAI, BDI-II, RTS, ASI, HSI, and a measure of treatment satisfaction (Client
      Satisfaction Questionnaire [CSQ-8]). The subject is again compensated $25 for the
      post-therapy assessment. At three months post completion, the subject participates in a
      follow-up interview. This interview will consist of the same measures used at the
      post-therapy assessment, with the exception of the CSQ-8 and with the addition of the trauma
      event checklist. The subject is again compensated $25 for their participation in the
      follow-up interview. All research activities, including all assessments and therapy sessions,
      will be conducted on-site at the addiction treatment program.

      We plan to enroll approximately 100 subjects in the feasibility phase of the study. The
      subject outcome and program experiences with the protocol will be used in planning the
      subsequent pilot trial phase of the study. The pilot trial will be a larger, randomized
      controlled trial comparing the study cognitive behavioral therapy with a matched-attention
      control condition.
    
  