
    
      This is a randomized, placebo controlled, multicenter, double dummy, parallel groups, phase
      III type pivotal trial.

      Included participants are randomly assigned to one of the 3 groups:

      A) Control group: Electronic cigarette without nicotine (ECwoN) plus placebo tablets of
      varenicline: placebo condition B) Experimental group: Electronic cigarette with nicotine
      (ECwN) plus placebo tablets of varenicline: ECwN condition C) Reference group: ECwoN plus
      varenicline tablets: varenicline condition Ratio: A:B:C= 1:3:3 Each participant uses an EC
      and 2x2 tablets per day. Group allocation is stratified by age at cut off of 45 years.

      Enrolment is initiated by two ways:

      • Potential participants aware of the study register at the study's recruitment website; call
      in or send an email followed by a phone screen. The screening starts with the participant's
      information about the study's aims, constraints, benefits and risks. A maximum one week delay
      of reflection is allowed if the potential participant is asking for a delay to sign his/her
      consent form.

      After screening, an appointment for the inclusion visit is provided at the closest
      investigation center.

      • Referred or self-referred potential participants consulting for smoking cessation are
      proposed an inclusion visit.

      The participant is informed that in this study, the smoking cessation shall occur within 15
      days following the signature of the written consent.

      Baseline visit = inclusion visit = V0 The Inclusion visit can immediately follow the
      screening visit if the participant does not need time for reflection.

      The investigator checks the inclusion and exclusion criteria and if the participant is
      conform to them, the investigator collects informed written consent from the participant and
      he/she is included in the trial. The randomization can immediately follow the inclusion.

      A target quit date (TQD) is defined together with the participant. The TQD defines the date
      when the randomized participant stops smoking. This is the starting date of the post-quit
      period. Start of treatment should occur within 7 days after the randomization visit.

      All treatments are launched one week before the TQD. During this period smoking conventional
      cigarettes is allowed.

      Follow-up visits : Visit 1 to Visit 6 Target quit date (TQD) should occur between 7 and 15
      days after randomization. The first post-quit date visit (Visit 1)is at Week 2 after TQD i.e.
      3 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 21 after treatment initiation.

      Visit 2 is at Week 4 after TQD i.e. 5 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 35 after
      treatment initiation.

      Visit 3 is at Week 8 after TQD i.e. 9 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 63 after
      treatment initiation.

      Visit 4 is at Week 10 after TQD i.e. 11 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 77 after
      treatment initiation.

      Visit 5 is at Week 12 after TQD i.e. 13 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 91 after
      treatment initiation.

      Visit 6 is at Week 24 after TQD i.e. 25 weeks after treatment initiation = Day 175 after
      treatment initiation.

      The visits should be realized +/- 5 days with respect to the planned date of the visits.

      End of study visit The end of research visit is the Visit 6, at week 24 after TQD. This visit
      is identical to the previous follow up visits.
    
  