
    
      Primary Objective

        1. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in phase I of lenalidomide and recommended
           dose in an extension cohort of lenalidomide of anti-MAG patients

        2. To examine the safety profile of lenalidomide in anti-MAG patients Secondary Objective
           To explore preliminary efficacy by using preselected, specifically tailored outcome
           measures that encompass quality of life, neurologic function, serum protein levels, and
           focused measures of proprioception

      Study Design Part 1: Dose Escalation

      Patients in the dose escalation phase will receive oral treatment with:

      Lenalidomide: 10, 15, or 25 mg on Days 1-21 of every 28-day cycle Dexamethasone: 20mg on Days
      1,8,15 and 22

      Starting doses of Lenalidomide will be assigned at the time of registration.

      To find the MTD and select the dose level for each cohort enrolled, we will use the Bayesian
      optimal interval design (BOIN).3-4 BOIN is implemented in a way that is similar to the
      traditional 3+3 design but has superior operating characteristics that are comparable to much
      more complex model-based designs, like the continual reassessment method (CRM).

      The target toxicity rate will be 0.3 and the maximum sample size will be 12 patients. The
      BOIN design does not require a fixed cohort size throughout the trial. Thus, we will
      initially enroll in cohorts of size 1 but can modify subsequent cohort sizes as desired.

      After the enrollment of the maximum sample size, the MTD will be selected using isotonic
      regression. The MTD will be the dose with the estimated toxicity rate closest to the target
      rate of 0.3.

      Part 2: Dose Expansion

      Once the MTD has been established or determined, 8 additional patients will be treated at the
      MTD of lenalidomide at the same schedule as above. Dexamethasone will be given at the same
      dose as in the dose escalation portion of the study.

      Patients who have not had disease progression, have experienced acceptable toxicity or have
      not withdrawn for any other reason after 24 months will be eligible to continue protocol
      treatment at their current dose level until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or
      refusal. Those patients who have not progressed and who have experienced unacceptable
      toxicity may be eligible for re-treatment at a lower dose. A maximum of 2 reductions are
      allowed.

      Criteria for discontinuation of protocol therapy include:

        -  Request by the patient to withdraw

        -  Unacceptable adverse events

        -  Treatment delay of >4weeks

        -  Intercurrent illness which would, in the judgment of the investigator, affect
           assessments of clinical status to a significant degree that require discontinuation of
           drug

        -  Non-protocol chemotherapy, or an experimental drug during the trial

      Patients who discontinue treatment for any of the above reasons will go to event monitoring.
      Once a patient has entered the event monitoring phase of the trial, his/her therapy is at the
      discretion of the treating physician. Patients' charts will be reviewed for progression and
      survival endpoints during visits with treating physicians.

      Peripheral blood (10ml purple top EDTA for immediate analysis and 6ml red top for possible
      later cytokine evaluation) will be collected at pre-treatment and after cycles 1,2,3,6,9,12,
      as well as 18 and 24 (for extension phase) for immunome correlative studies.
    
  