
    
      Primary Biliary Cirrhosis (PBC) is a liver disease that predominantly affects females, can
      present for the first time at any age, and which develops over many years. It is caused by
      the immune system attacking the body's own tissues. People with PBC frequently experience
      profound fatigue or tiredness which they liken to their "batteries running down", and
      although people still want to undertake normal activities they simply lack the energy to be
      able to do them. This reduces quality of life, makes it difficult for people to work, and can
      end up with them becoming isolated in the community. At present we have no treatment for
      fatigue in PBC. Finding a treatment for fatigue in PBC is one of the highest research
      priorities identified by patient groups.

      We have shown that PBC patients with fatigue have an abnormality in the way they generate
      energy within their muscles. This appears to be associated with the presence of an antibody
      in the blood which is directed against an important protein which normal cells in the body
      use to generate energy. In recent years new drug treatments have been developed which allow
      us to safely suppress the part of the immune system which produces antibodies of the type
      that seem to cause energy production problems in PBC. As yet, however, the extent to which
      these medicines can improve fatigue through removal of antibodies in PBC has not been tested.

      The aim of this study is to undertake a clinical trial to examine the effects of this
      treatment ("Rituximab") on severe fatigue in PBC to help us understand whether this will be a
      potentially useful treatment. This will give us information about how energy generation
      changes in patients with PBC and will also help us to develop new treatments for fatigue in
      other diseases. The study has the potential to improve the quality of life of many patients
      with PBC, for whom there is currently no licensed treatment.

      We will perform a randomised controlled trial of Rituximab therapy in PBC compared to placebo
      with the primary end point of fatigue severity. The study will be performed in a specialised
      PBC clinical centre.

      Our hypothesis is that the B-cell-directed immunotherapeutic agent Rituximab will improve
      fatigue in PBC (an important and disabling symptom) through its effect on B-cells producing
      antibodies which inhibit the function of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) an important energy
      generating enzyme.

      Fatigue is a common and debilitating symptom which frequently impacts significantly on
      quality of life and ability to function in patients with PBC. There are currently no
      effective treatments for fatigue in PBC and new approaches are urgently required to address
      this unmet need. Rituximab, a B-cell depleting agent, holds specific promise (with evidence
      from a small-scale proof-of-concept pilot trial) as a therapy for fatigue in PBC, given the
      strong evidence linking the antibody response to PDH in the pathogenesis of fatigue in this
      disease. We also believe, given the robust diagnostic criteria and the availability of
      validated clinical tools, that PBC is an important and useful human model in which to study
      the pathogenesis and treatment of fatigue.

      There are currently no treatments for fatigue in PBC and we are not aware of any other
      treatments under evaluation.

      A pilot study performed in Canada exploring the use of Rituximab in PBC (in 13 patients) has
      provided proof-of-concept, showing that the agent is safe and well-tolerated in patients, and
      is associated with a clinically significant reduction in fatigue. Fatigue severity was
      assessed using the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) (potential range 9-63 points) with a fall
      being seen from pre-treatment (median FSS=36, range 11-59) to post-treatment (median=29,
      range 12-55). Taking into account the floor value for the FSS, this represents a median fall
      in fatigue severity over 6 months of 26%. This compares with our own case-control study of
      fatigue in PBC which suggests that fatigue severity in age and sex matched normal controls is
      30% lower than in PBC patients1 suggesting the potential for Rituximab therapy to return PBC
      patients to close to normal with regards to their perceived fatigue. However, this pilot
      study did not attempt to explore the mechanism of the effect, and since it did not use severe
      fatigue as an inclusion criteria, the extent of possible improvement for such patients is
      unclear; moreover, the study was not optimised for the study of fatigue (fatigue was a
      secondary outcome and only some of the patients who participated had fatigue potentially
      under-estimating the clinical effect). Patients showed a sustained reduction in anti-PDH
      antibody levels of all isotypes, supporting the concept that Rituximab has a beneficial
      effect on fatigue through depletion of PDH-reactive antibody.

      The importance of severe fatigue in PBC and the current lack of treatments, the strong
      theoretical basis for the approach, and the supportive pilot trial proof-of-concept data all,
      we believe, justify a formal clinical trial of Rituximab targeting fatigue in PBC. Data from
      animal models of PBC implicating activated B-cells in promoting autoreactivity, from human in
      vitro studies showing increased TLR-mediated B-cell activation in PBC, from human genetic
      studies showing disease associations with loci implicated in regulation of the B-cell pool
      size and the pilot trial data showing improvement in liver biochemistry in PBC patients
      treated with Rituximab all point to the potential for an additional, more generic benefit for
      this treatment in terms of underlying liver inflammation further justifying a substantive
      clinical trial in PBC.
    
  