
    
      1. Ten full-term neonates (> 36 week gestation), between 1-30 days of age, who present for
           arterial switch operation or Norwood operation will have 2 ml of blood drawn prior to
           cardiac surgery, 2 ml blood drawn each day after cardiac surgery as long as the patient
           remains in the intensive care unit with indwelling lines (maximum of 5 days) and 2 ml
           blood drawn on the day of the followup brain magnetic resonance imaging study (if not
           within the maximum of 5 days) to determine blood concentrations S100B and NSE.

        2. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including T1, 2, DWI, spectroscopy, and magnetic
           resonance angiography, will be performed prior to cardiac surgery and following cardiac
           surgery in all study patients. Timing of the follow-up brain magnetic resonance imaging
           including T1, 2, DWI, spectroscopy, and magnetic resonance angiography, will be based on
           stability of the patient as assessed by the attending physician. Optimal timing for
           brain magnetic resonance imaging is 4 days postop.

        3. Maternal information including level of education, medications, and medical history will
           be obtained. Two mls of blood will also be obtained from the mother to determine
           maternal blood concentrations of S100B and NSE.

        4. Study patient clinical variables, including vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure,
           respiratory rate), systemic oxygen saturation by extremity pulse oximetry, near infrared
           spectroscopy (NIRS), routine laboratory values will be obtained at the time of each
           study blood sample.

        5. Operative variables including cardiopulmonary bypass time, aortic cross clamp time,
           circulatory arrest time, and hematocrit on bypass will be obtained. Transfusion quantity
           of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma, platelets, and cryoprecipitate used in
           the operating room and in the cardiac intensive care unit will also be obtained

        6. Outcome variables including length of mechanical ventilation, hospital stay, and gross
           neurological abnormalities (clinical seizures) will be obtained.

           Follow-up:

        7. All patients will have neurodevelopmental testing at 6 months after heart surgery.

        8. Another 2 mls of blood S100B and NSE will be obtained when the patient returns at 6
           months for neurodevelopmental testing.
    
  