
    
      Nipple-sparing mastectomy (NSM), which preserved the nipple areolar complex (NAC) and skin
      flap during mastectomy, was increasingly performed in breast cancer patients due to better
      cosmetic outcome, higher patient satisfaction, and maintained oncologic safety. Minimal
      invasive surgery had become the main stream of operations, and new surgical innovations of
      NSM, like endoscopic nipple sparing mastectomy (E-NSM) or robotic nipple sparing mastectomy
      (R-NSM), were emerging and applied in the surgical treatment of breast cancer. E-NSM, which
      is performed through small axillary and/or peri-areolar incisions, was reported to be
      associated with small inconspicuous incision and good cosmetic outcome. Conventional E-NSM
      was performed with two separate incisions over axilla and peri-areolar regions. E-NSM with
      areolar incision, just like NSM with areolar related incision (NAC ischemia/necrosis rate:
      range 7%-81.8%), was associated with increased NAC ischemia/necrosis (reported ranged:
      9.1-19%). New technique modifications of E-NSM were emerging focusing on single axillary
      incision NSM, which spare the peri-areolar incision and thereby decrease the compromise of
      bloody supply from mastectomy skin flap, was reported to have low NAC necrosis rate (0%).
      However, the 2-dimensional endoscopic in-line camera produces an inconsistent optical window
      around the curvature of the breast skin flap, and the internal mobility was limited and the
      dissection angles were inadequate with traditional endoscopic rigid tips instruments through
      single access. Due to the limitations of endoscopy instruments and technique difficulty,
      neither conventional E-NSM nor single access E-NSM was widespread used in breast cancer
      R-NSM, which introduce da Vinci surgical platform through a small extramammary axillary or
      lateral chest wound to perform NSM, had been applied in the surgical treatment of early
      breast cancer or risk reducing mastectomy. R-NSM, which incorporated 3- dimensional (3D)
      imaging system and flexibility of robotic arm and instruments, was reported to have the
      potential to overcome the technique difficulty of E-NSM. The preliminary results of R-NSM
      from current literature reported series and ours were safe, and associated with good cosmetic
      outcome and high patients' satisfaction. However, evidence comparing R-NSM to conventional
      NSM (CNSM) or E-NSM was lacking. In this study, the authors aim to investigate and analyze
      the clinical and aesthetic outcomes as well as the cost effectiveness of R-NSM through a
      longitudinal cohort study design whereby a retrospective review will be carried out for
      patients undergoing R-NSM, E-NSM or C-NSM. Multi-centers pooled data analysis would be
      performed for comparisons of R-NSM compared with C-NSM or E-NSM.
    
  