
    
      Traditional informed consent documents tend to be lengthy and technical, often too dense to
      facilitate proper patient-engagement. In this study, the investigators test the effectiveness
      of a previously developed patient-centered, short informed consent document and a
      patient-centered, short informed animated consent video as compared to a lengthy traditional
      informed consent document for the same clinical condition (i.e. severe asthma)

      In this study, self-identified asthma patients, aged 18 or older, attending an experimental
      session in a university computer laboratory will be randomly assigned to read either the full
      informed consent document (control) or the short, patient-centered informed consent document
      or to view the short patient-centered informed consent video. Participants will also complete
      a follow-up survey at 1-week.

      The main outcome measures are:

      Engagement in the information (1=not at all engaged, 2=not very engaged, 3= somewhat engaged,
      4=very engaged, 5=completely engaged).

      Intention to enroll in the clinical trial

      (1=definitely would not, 3=neutral, and 5=definitely would)

      Trial knowledge (12 multiple choice questions, e.g. ""When can [the participants] withdraw
      from the trial?")

      Trust in the clinical trial physician (Six questions beginning with, "If [the participant]
      decided to enroll in this study, how much would [the participant] trust Dr. Janet Taylor, the
      physician who is leading the study, to...")

      Perceived risks and benefits of the trial (Four questions, e.g. "Imagine that [the
      participant] enrolled in the clinical trial, how likely do [the participants] think it is
      that the drug would be more effective in treating [the participant's] asthma symptoms than an
      average asthma drug on the market?")

      The investigators hypothesize that the two experimental conditions will outperform the
      control condition on engagement and trial knowledge and would do as well as the control on
      the remaining outcome measures.
    
  