
    
      Methods: Describe, in detail, the research activities that will be conducted under this
      protocol:

      This study is a randomized controlled trial comparing laparoscopic suturing skills,
      specifically vaginal cuff closure, of OBGYN residents, fellows, and faculty using two
      different teaching methods and evaluate if there is any significant difference in their
      performance after teaching with the two different educational approaches. The laparoscopic
      camera/scope within a box trainer will video record the drills and the cuff suturing
      evaluation anonymously. These anonymous videos will be used to set proficiency standards for
      the drills and evaluate which educational approach is most effective.

      The educational video and high fidelity simulation practice group will watch a 10 minute
      educational video on how to suture laparoscopically and then practice using a high fidelity
      simulation model for 15 minutes.

      The second group is going to consist of "guided drills" as their laparoscopic training for 15
      minutes. The residents will perform 5 set of exercises:

        1. "Needle Dance" (Learning to manipulate the suture)

        2. "Loopy Loop" (Learning to place needle through a loop)

        3. "Slalom Course" (Passing the needle and suture through 5 rings right handed and left
           handed)

        4. "Dense Matter" (Passing the needle through dense material without losing control of the
           needle)

        5. "Respect for tissue" (Passing the needle through flimsy material without tearing)

      After these exercises have been completed the participants will proceed to the 5 minute
      laparoscopic suturing evaluation. The evaluation will consist of closing the vaginal cuff in
      a previously validated simulator. The residents will have a determined amount of time to
      complete this task and the laparoscopic suturing will be filmed anonymously. Once the
      encounter is finished, the video will be saved, reviewed and graded using the previously
      validated global operative assessment of laparoscopic skills (GOALS).

        -  needle handling,

        -  getting the needle into the loop

        -  vaginal mucosa incorporation

        -  depth perception

        -  bimanual dexterity

        -  efficiency

        -  tissue handling

        -  Autonomy. Each area will consist of a score between 1 and 5. The "passing score" that
           defines proficiency will be 32 points as this number has been related to advance
           novice-expert in the past.
    
  