
    
      We will use as a guide to define the degree of infection and the conduct to be taken in the
      classification of Mas Oxford Nuffield (Table 3), therefore the presence of infection
      occurring in patients classified as Grade 2 - erythema of the skin, serous or purulent
      secretion, pain and sensitivity in soft tissues capable of mobilizing with analgesia. We will
      also send to the culture the tip of two pins removed from each patient to evaluate possible
      colonization and to compare with the degree of classification presented in the pin in
      question, we will do this with a pin without signal of infection and with the pin with the
      highest degree of classification presented in each patient at the time of the external
      fixator removal.

      We will use as a method of insertion of the pin the pre-perforation irrigated before the
      insertion of the pins, to decrease the chances of thermal necrosis and consequent release or
      infection. We will use steel Shanz pins coated with hydroxyapatite or not in size between
      5-6mm. Comorbidities and risk factors such as diabetes mellitus, smoking, immunodepression,
      among others, will be computed for later comparison with the data collected. The degree of
      classification of the fractures, as well as the pathologies that were treated with the
      fixators, as well as the residence time with the external fixator will also be computed for
      later comparison with the data collected.

      For the elaboration of this study, the patients will be prospectively observed, which will be
      submitted to the treatment of several pathologies with external fixators, of any type. The
      occurrence of infection and / or loosening of the pins, as well as the influence of risk
      factors and the cultural examination results of the pins removed at the end of the treatment
      will be recorded. The objectives of the study are to comparatively evaluate the differences
      in complications of infection, pin loosening and microbiological results of cultural
      examinations, between patients submitted to external fixators with uncoated steel pins and
      steel pins coated with hydroxyapatite. The influence of risk factors on outcomes will also be
      observed.
    
  