
    
      Metabolic syndrome (syndrome X, insulin resistance) is a multifactorial disease with multiple
      risk factors that arises from insulin resistance accompanying abnormal adipose deposition and
      function . It comprises a combination of risk factors for coronary heart disease, as well as
      for diabetes type 2 , fatty liver, and several cancers.

      Sign and symptoms are ; Hypertension... Hyperglycemia.. Hypertriglyceridemia... Reduced
      high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C).. Abdominal obesity... Chest pain or shortness
      of breath: Suggesting the rise of cardiovascular and other complications.. The prevalence of
      the metabolic syndrome is often more in the urban population of some developing countries
      than in its Western counterparts . The syndrome feeds into the spread of the diseases like
      type 2 diabetes, coronary diseases, stroke, and other disabilities. The present trend is not
      sustainable unless a magic cure is found (unlikely) or concerted global/governmental/societal
      efforts are made to change the lifestyle that is promoting it.

      There has been a renewed interest in the association of uric acid with diabetes and its
      complications. Uric acid is a product of purine metabolism. Increased serum uric acid (SUA)
      level has been shown to be associated with hypertension(1) cardiovascular disease (CVD)(2)
      and chronic kidney disease(3) . Elevated SUA level was also associated with metabolic
      syndrome in both normal subjects as well as in patients with type 2 diabetes. And with type 2
      diabetes mellitus(4) Higher SUA level independently predicted the incidence of type 2
      diabetes in subjects who had abnormal fasting glucose levels (5) . It has been shown that SUA
      levels are higher in patients with prediabetic conditions and in patients with type 2
      diabetes compared with the level in normal controls (6) . SUA level has been shown to be
      positively associated with all cause mortality risk, but cardiovascular mortality was
      associated with SUA level only among those with hyperglycemia (prediabetes and type 2
      diabetes)(8) . Hyperuricemia has been found to be associated with risk factors of diabetes
      such as obesity and insulin resistance(9) . Uric acid has also been reported to be involved
      in the endothelial dysfunction by impairing nitric oxide production and causing
      inflammation(10) , These effects of uric acid likely account for its impact on CVD
      incidence(11) . In acute ischaemic stroke, the survivors with both lower (<4.7 mg/dL) and
      higher (>6.7 mg/dL) baseline SUA levels had poor outcomes after a 12 month follow up when
      compared with those who had SUA levels in the range of 4.7-6.7 mg/dL. This is suggestive of
      the protective nature of uric acid when it is within the optimal range.

      SUA level was positively associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases (CVD)
      in patients with abnormal eGFR (<90 mL/min/1.73 m2) . HbA1c was found to be inversely
      associated with hyperuricemia in patients with normal eGFR level (≥90 mL/min/1.73 m2).
      Incidence of metabolic syndrome did not show any relationship with SUA level. However, the
      incidence of hypertension, a component of metabolic syndrome, was significantly higher among
      patients with hyperuricemia. Waist circumference and serum triglycerides were higher, whereas
      serum high-density lipoprotein level was lower in patients with higher SUA level. (12) Serum
      urea and creatinine were elevated in hyperuricemic patients, suggesting impaired kidney
      function. Hyperuricemia is known to be associated with the decrease in kidney function (13)
      and because chronic kidney disease itself elevates SUA level,(14) it is difficult to
      interpret the causes of the elevated serum urea and creatinine in hyperuricemia. However,
      eGFR values were only slightly lower in hyperuricemic patients. Correlation analysis showed
      that both serum urea and creatinine levels were positively associated with SUA level.. This
      association was found to be significant in patients with normal eGFR levels as well. However,
      eGFR appears to be negatively associated with SUA level in patients with abnormal eGFR level.
      Decreased urine output leads to decreased excretion of uric acid, resulting in the elevated
      SUA level. Therefore, reduction in eGFR may increase SUA levels in these patients.

      The importance of uric acid has been increasingly appreciated because of its association with
      the development of diabetes mellitus and related diseases. SUA level and susceptibility to
      hyperuricemic conditions depend on the factors such as gender, age and ethnicity. (15) With
      the increasing incidence of diabetes studying the impact of hyperuricemia in patients with
      diabetes is necessary.
    
  