
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) is ineffective among 25 % of patients.
      However, treatment still reduces patients' quality of life.

      From clinical experience, interindividual dose requirements vary greatly among patients with
      mRCC treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

      The investigators expect this to partly be explained by great variation in the plasma
      concentration of treatment drugs. Furthermore, treatment failure among patients with mRCC
      treated with check point immunotherapy has not been fully investigated.

      RATIONALE:

      The few studies concerning plasma concentration measurement of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in
      patients with mRCC have found that a certain level of drug concentration is necessary for
      treatment efficacy. The role of plasma concentration in side effects is yet unknown.

      Anti drug antibodies against the check point inhibitor ipilimumab has been shown to reduce
      efficacy and lead to treatment failure among patients with malignant melanoma. The role of
      check point inhibitor binding to T lymphocytes and receptor polymorphism in CTLA-4 and PD-1
      receptors in terms of efficacy have not yet been studied.

      A therapeutic drug interval will allow for quicker and more precise dosing, and early signs
      of treatment failure of checkpoint immunotherapy will allow for quicker change of therapy.

      HYPOTHESIS:

        1. Patients treated with TKIs and CPI for more than 6 months have an optimal plasma trough
           concentration. Objective response rate, progression free survival (PFS), overall
           survival (OS), and toxicity in these patients are favorable compared with pivotal phase
           III study results.

        2. Patients treated with CPI obtaining response have a higher plasma trough concentration
           value of ipilimumab and nivolumab than patients with progressive disease (PD). Patients
           treated with CPI who develop PD have a higher amount of ADA than patients with response
           to treatment.

        3. The greater the amount of bound CPI to T lymphocytes the better the efficacy of CPI on
           clinical outcomes.

        4. Certain polymorphisms in CTLA-4 and PD-1 are associated with poor outcome.

        5. UGT1A1 polymorphism is associated with improved survival despite dose reductions in
           patients treated with pazopanib.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      All eligible patients will have blood samples drawn at each clinical visit during a 6-months
      period.

      The plasma concentration of TKIs will be measured with liquid chromatography-mass
      spectrometry at the Department of Clinical Biochemistry at Aarhus University Hospital.
      Analysis of checkpoint immunotherapy will be be done using in-house bead-based assays,
      anti-human IgG detection antibody and in-house developed flow cytometry-based assay at the
      Institute for Inflammation Research at Rigshospitalet.

      Overall survival, progression free survival and quality of life using FKSI-19 questionnaire
      will be recorded for each patient.

      This is an observational study among all Danish patients treated for mRCC over a two year
      period.
    
  