
    
      Introduction Syria is now the 11th country of origin for immigrants in Norway. During the
      last two years, the numbers of asylum seekers from Syria with permanent refugee status have
      rapidly grown from 9700 in 2016 to a total of 20800 registered by the 1st of January 2017.
      Given that more than 1 million Syrians applied for asylum in Europe between April and
      December 2017, the numbers are probably going to continue growing also in Norway in the
      months to come.

      Impact of stress on health The war in Syria began in 2011 and refugees from this country have
      faced stressors including security risks, lack of access and availability of basic services
      and resources as well as family, community, and socio political tensions. Exposure to
      stressful events or situations, either short or long lasting, of exceptionally threatening or
      catastrophic nature is likely to cause pervasive distress in almost anyone, which might
      disturb daily life function, integration in society and ability to function in work and
      society, although this stress does not necessarily need to become an established medical
      diagnose. For a long time now, somatic and mental health systems have been overburdened and
      inaccessible both in Syria and in transit countries. Although our knowledge of the health
      needs of refugees is still incomplete, several studies suggest a high degree of chronic pain
      disorders and mental health symptoms as a result of the previous factors.

      Arthrosis, arthritis and other forms for chronic pain are especially disabling among the
      chronic non-communicable diseases and have previously been described to be related to mental
      health problems. Though there is a lack of data regarding these conditions, some available
      studies point to a relatively high prevalence among refugees from Syria. Just to point out
      some examples: Among young Syrian refugees attending an emergency department in Austria
      between 2011 and 2014, 12% presented chronic musculoskeletal problems and 9% suffered from
      chronic headaches. A cross-sectional survey of 1550 refugees conducted outside of camps in
      Jordan found a prevalence of 7% of arthritis. In the previously referred paper on elderly
      Syrians, 47% reported difficulty walking.

      Regarding mental problems, 61% of older refugees from Syria living in Lebanon in 2011-2013
      reported feeling anxious, and significant proportions reported feelings of depression,
      loneliness, and believing they were a burden to their families. In another study, 44% of 310
      Syrian forced migrants in Lebanon in 2011 suffered from depression. In 2014, 54% of Syrians
      accessing International Medical Corps facilities in Syria and neighbouring countries suffered
      severe emotional disorders, including depression and anxiety.

      Once resettled in Norway, the municipalities have the responsibility to offer adequate health
      care services to refugees in need of health care. However, lack of evidence regarding the
      best treatment together with limited resources may compromise the offer given to refugees.
      Group treatment can be a strategy to maximize the effect of the treatment given the resources
      typically available at the municipalities for this group of patients, as well as a mean to
      increase social interaction and well-being among participants.

      Evidence on group-based physiotherapy on chronic pain among refugees is scarce. A study using
      basic body awareness therapy versus mixed physical activity for refugees with post traumatic
      stress disease (PSTD) is on-going in Denmark, but the authors chose to give personal
      treatment as opposed to group treatment due to a higher level of disease among their included
      participants. Norwegian group psychomotor physiotherapy and general physiotherapy exercises,
      on the other side, are well known and used in the Nordic countries. By using the knowledge of
      the body and reactions after trauma, the physiotherapist can recognize and normalize the
      participants emotions and movement patterns, capturing and preserving the individual needs
      within the group, at the same time as having an overview of the group and the social
      interactions within it.

      Teaching recovery techniques (TRT) is a group-based mental health intervention developed by
      the Children and war foundation to use on subjects exposed to war or nature catastrophes
      previously used in the Centre for migration and health at the municipality of Bergen. This
      treatment addresses the three main trauma symptoms: intrusion, arousal and avoidance. Several
      studies on the effect of TRT have been carried out with children surviving catastrophes and
      adolescent asylum seekers in Europe, all showing significant reductions in established mental
      health disorders (PTSD). Among adolescents in Palestine, TRT has recently been shown to
      significantly reduce posttraumatic stress symptoms and was evaluated as a cost-effective
      intervention. However, as far as theinvestigators know the effect on TRT has not previously
      been studied in an adult population with post-traumatic symptoms.

      Our hypotheses for the development of the interventions are the following: Among asylum
      seekers and refugees resettled in Norway

        -  Pain disorders and post-traumatic symptoms often coexist and are related to each other

        -  Group physiotherapy treatment reduces pain levels

        -  Group physiotherapy treatment improves mental health

        -  Self-help groups using TRT improve mental health

        -  Self-help groups using TRT reduce pain levels

        -  Social and contextual factors and previous migration experiences are related to the
           effect of treatment

      Aims of the study

      Among resettled asylum seekers and refugees, the primary aim is to separately study in a
      quantitative way the effect on both physical and mental health of two different
      interventions:

        1. Physiotherapy activity and awareness intervention (PAAI) for participants with pain
           disorders

        2. TRT for participants with post-traumatic symptoms In addition, in a qualitative mode,
           our secondary aim is to analyse the processes by which the interventions help/do not
           help the patients to improve their health. Last, as the third aim of the study, cost
           effectiveness analyses will be conducted.

      Interventions Two different interventions have been developed in close collaboration with all
      collaborating parts and based in both theory and experience.

        1. Physiotherapy activity and awareness intervention: PAAI The physiotherapy treatment will
           be held in groups based on principles from the Norwegian psychomotor physiotherapy and
           general physiotherapy exercises.

        2. Psychological intervention: Teaching recovery techniques (TRT) The mental health
           self-help groups are based on the manual TRT developed by Children and war foundation
           based on Trauma focused cognitive behavioural Therapy. Each group will be conducted by
           two members of the team. An effort has been done to certify collaborating interpreters
           and the investigators will try to use the same interpreters for a given group. TRT is
           designed to teach children in a step-by-step practical way to develop some skills and
           techniques helpful in coping with the psychological effects of war and violence.

      Study design Our study is designed as a randomised trial comparing the intervention with a
      control arm. The control arm will be offered the same intervention after a time lag enabling
      comparison (waiting-list-control trial). This design enables assessment of the intervention
      and has practical advantages in implementation. The same design will be used for both the
      PAAI and the TRT intervention. Participants with predominantly pain symptoms will be invited
      to the PAAI intervention and participants with predominantly post-traumatic symptoms will be
      invited to the TRT intervention. Participants scoring high on both symptoms will be offered
      the intervention for which they score highest in the respective symptoms scales. Once
      assessed for eligibility and given informed consent as explained above, randomisation of each
      participant to the appropriate trial will be conducted (individualised 1:1 randomisation into
      groups). Participants will be randomised to the immediate intervention group (IIG) or to a
      waiting list control group (WLG). The WLG will receive usual care during the first 7/8 weeks,
      depending on the intervention, at which point they will cross over to the intervention arm
      and receive the intervention for 7/8 weeks. Both groups will be reassessed 12 weeks after the
      intervention.

      In addition to the assessment of the effect of the intervention through quantitative methods
      as described under, an embedded qualitative process evaluation will be organised to learn how
      the interventions are perceived by the target group and the therapists, and receive input to
      make the necessary adjustments.
    
  