
    
      Background and study aims Many medical conditions that affect the heart and lungs can cause
      breathlessness. People affected by breathlessness often require a number of tests to diagnose
      the medical condition responsible for their symptoms.

      Cardiac MRI (magnetic resonance) scanning is already used to help diagnose and monitor
      patients with heart conditions (for example cardiomyopathy and pulmonary hypertension). By
      exercising while having an MRI scan, and at the same time measuring the gases breathed in and
      out from the air, it will be possible to more accurately understand the changes that occur in
      the heart, lungs and muscles.

      The purpose of this study is to develop our understanding of the cardiovascular response to
      exercise in patients with non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy.

      Who can participate? Patients aged 18 - 80 years with symptoms of breathlessness on exertion,
      and under the care of cardiology, pulmonary hypertension or rheumatology clinics for
      non-ischaemic cardiovascular disease.

      What does the study involve? Participants will be invited to an appointment at the
      cardiovascular MRI department at the Royal Free Hospital. On the day of the appointment,
      participants will be welcomed to the department by the research team and the researchers will
      check that participants are well enough to exercise and safe to have an MRI scan. There will
      be an opportunity to ask any further questions.

      The researchers will ask participants to perform exercise in one of three ways:

        1. Using our special MRI safe exercise bike: The researchers will show participants how to
           use this and then the researchers will help participants to get on it and into the MRI
           scanner.

        2. Lifting a weight using their arms: The researchers will check how much weight
           participants would be expected to manage before participants enter the scanner. The
           researchers will ask participants to lift and hold a weight using their dominant arm
           during the scan.

        3. Stepping one (or both) leg(s) using an elastic resistance band. The researchers will
           measure the band so it is of the appropriate length for participants, and the
           researchers will show participants how to perform the exercise when in the scanner.

      The researchers will give participants a special face mask to wear to measure the
      concentration of gases in exhaled breath (like carbon dioxide or oxygen) and breathing
      volumes. Most adults and children find the face mask comfortable and easy to wear.

      The researchers will give participants a head-set so that participants can communicate at all
      times with the person running the scan.

      First participants will have a MRI scan where the researchers ask participants to lie back
      and relax (this will take about 30 minutes).

      Then the researchers will ask participants to exercise on the MRI safe bike for about 7
      minutes, lift the weight for about 3 minutes, or perform leg stepping for about 3 minutes
      whilst participants are having continuous MRI scanning.

      After the scan, the researchers will help participants out of the scanner.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? There are no individual benefits
      to taking part. The researchers hope that information from this study will help improve the
      understanding and treatment of heart conditions that can limit exercise ability. If
      participants like the researchers can make participants a copy of their scan on CD to keep.
      Sometimes the researchers might find new information that the researchers need to tell their
      treating doctor straight away. If the researchers do find such information the researchers
      will let participants and their doctor know as soon as possible. The researchers will
      reimburse reasonable travel expenses for participants to attend the research scan (unless
      participants are already scheduled to have a clinical visit on the same day). MRI scanning is
      very safe.
    
  