
    
      SCIENTIFIC EXPLANATION - VIROLOGY & IMMUNOTHERAPY

        1. Hirayama E. et al. J. Virology 2004 (Virology)

           This paper is the key to how sauna therapy works against RNA viruses, including
           Covid-19. Heat shock protein-70 (HSP70) is increased by sauna therapy and inhibits viral
           protein export and replication.

           Thus heat kills Covid-19. Please note that there is no Covid-19 in Desert Areas or
           Tropical Countries. Covid-19 is imported from cold climate countries to desert and
           tropical countries.

        2. IMMUNOTHERAPY (High Temperature and Vitamin C Supplement)

      The immune system is enhanced by infrared energy which increases the body temperature. The
      normal body temperature is approximately 36.5 - 37.5 degrees C. Vital energy irradiation
      increases the body temperature to the range of 37.5 - 39 degrees C which is equivalent to
      fever temperature. The temperature could even be higher than 39 degrees C or high fever
      range, depending on the temperature setting of the infrared sauna. The high body temperature
      causes an unbearable environment for some pathogens and viruses. White blood cells also
      rapidly proliferate due to the suitable environment and can also help fight off the harmful
      viruses, pathogens and microbes that have invaded the body.

      The body temperature in the fever range has several important functions in the healing
      process including, but are not limited to the following:

      i. increased mobility of leukocytes ii. enhanced leukocytes phagocytosis iii. endotoxin
      effects decreased iv. increased proliferation of T Cells v. enhanced activity of interferon

      Vitamin C

      High doses of Vitamin C kills pathogens, viruses and disease-causing microbes. High doses of
      Vitamin C increases one's immune system. Vitamin C is an anti-oxidant, produces hydrogen
      peroxide and removes free radicals from the body. Vitamin C has several other medical
      benefits including repairing damaged tissues and organs.

      If one does not have an infrared sauna, one can use only high doses of Vitamin C to prevent
      and treat Covid-19. The combination treatment, however, achieves faster results.

      During the cold season, one should use high doses of Vitamin C (5 gm to 10 gm, depending on
      the body weight, daily) to prevent and treat colds and influenza.

      The only side effect of high doses of Vitamin C that I am aware of is that it may cause
      diarrhea. However, diarrhea is a good way to clean and detoxify the body.

      Some experts interpret the prevalence of Covid-19 pandemic worldwide based on:

        1. Youthful demographics

        2. Altitude

        3. Warmer temperatures

        4. Poorer communities

      Condition (3) above (i.e. Temperature) was dismissed. It is my opinion that warmer
      temperatures play critical role in the control, management and treatment of the coronavirus.

      i. Asia, Europe and North America have pronounced peaks because of cold temperature. A second
      wave of the pandemic is hence, expected when winter begins.

      ii. It is believed that, Latin America and the Caribbean have peaks as a result of poorer
      communities.

      iii. Middle East and Africa have low cases because of warmer temperatures. This is supported
      by the effect on the virus at higher temperatures (Virology) and heightened immune system
      when the human body is subject to high temperature (immunotherapy).
    
  