
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy (using response rate per RECIST v1.1) of nivolumab and
      temozolomide for the treatment of patients with either small cell lung cancer that have
      progressed or recurred after prior platinum-based chemotherapy and immunotherapy (cohort 1),
      or progressive metastatic neuroendocrine carcinoma of any grade or primary site in any line
      of therapy (cohort 2).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile and toxicity of combination nivolumab and temozolomide as
      per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 5.0.

      II. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients
      treated with combination nivolumab and temozolomide.

      III. To evaluate the central nervous system (CNS) PFS of patients with small cell lung cancer
      (SCLC) treated with nivolumab and temozolomide.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether treatment with nivolumab and temozolomide leads to a decrease in
      immune-suppressive cell populations (ie myeloid-derived suppressor cells [MDSC]) in
      peripheral blood.

      II. To determine whether objective response rate (ORR), PFS, OS vary by tumor
      O6-methylguanine deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase (MGMT) methylation at
      baseline.

      III. To determine whether baseline tumor mutational burden is predictive of response to
      therapy in patients with SCLC treated with nivolumab and temozolomide.

      IV. To determine whether changes in blood based mutation burden during treatment may predict
      clinical benefit.

      V. To determine whether a composite immune and tumor cell staining score can be developed
      with or without PD-L1 by immunohistochemistry (IHC) to predict response in the SCLC cohort.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of a 28 day cycle. Patients also
      receive temozolomide orally (PO) on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 8 weeks for
      12 months, then every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  