
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the complete response rate of patients with carcinoma in situ of the bladder
           treated with adjuvant intravesical BCG with or without intravesical mitomycin following
           transurethral resection.

        -  Compare the disease-free interval and type of recurrence after complete response in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the side effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one
      of two treatment arms.

      Arm I:

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive intravesical mitomycin over 1 hour once weekly on
           weeks 1-6 and intravesical BCG once weekly on weeks 7-12. Patients with visible lesions
           or disease recurrence or progression undergo transurethral resection (TUR) during weeks
           16-18 and receive one additional course of intravesical therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy:Patients with a complete response after either course of induction
           therapy proceed to maintenance therapy comprising intravesical mitomycin once on week 1
           and intravesical BCG once weekly on weeks 2 and 3. Maintenance therapy repeats every 6
           months through year 3.

      Arm II:

        -  Induction therapy:Patients receive intravesical BCG once weekly on weeks 1-6 and 10-12.
           Patients with visible lesions or disease recurrence or progression undergo transurethral
           resection (TUR) during weeks 16-18 and receive one additional course of intravesical
           therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients with a complete response after either course of induction
           therapy receive maintenance therapy comprising intravesical BCG once weekly on weeks
           1-3. Maintenance therapy repeats every 6 months through year 3.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 84-126 patients (42-63 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 3.5 years.
    
  