
    
      Diabetes mellitus is a systemic disease that produces a diverse array of complications. The
      pathogenesis of these complications refers back to two factors, one of which (high blood
      glucose) alters proteins leading to tissue and blood vessel damage, while the other (high
      blood pressure), exacerbates the vascular damage causing further damage to target organs. Our
      long term goal is to achieve targets for blood glucose and blood pressure as outlined by
      Clinical Practice Guidelines.

      Despite current Clinical Practice Guidelines and evidence-based practice by the medical
      community, including family physicians and the Home Care team, blood glucose control in
      general and in the First Nations community specifically is not meeting targets. Poor control
      of blood glucose in type 2 diabetes dramatically increases the risk of heart disease, stroke,
      vascular limb loss, blindness, kidney disease and the need for dialysis. Control of blood
      glucose levels prevents these complications. Additionally, the intensification of diabetes
      control, including the initiation of insulin, is not easily done during a regular primary
      care visit. The lack of intensification of diabetes management in people with poorly
      controlled diabetes has been referred to as 'clinical inertia'. While subjects referred to
      specialists have somewhat better control of diabetes, more than 50% still failed to have
      intensification of diabetes management within four months of a lab report showing a high
      level of A1c. Multidisciplinary care can overcome clinical inertia, even in difficult
      practice settings. Finally, the emerging technology of Bluetooth-enabled devices and secure
      web-based monitoring logs allows health care providers for the first time to remotely monitor
      progress providing a higher level of confidence in self blood glucose monitoring (SBGM) and
      blood pressure results. Based on these facts, the experimental focus of this proposal is on
      the introduction of a Home Care Team diabetes management program that can provide
      intensification of diabetes management right in the patient's home, supported by the emerging
      technology of Bluetooth- enabled devices. The specific aims are designed to provide a
      comprehensive assessment of the impact of the introduction of this program.
    
  