
    
      Tumor antigen-specific monoclonal antibodies, block oncogenic signaling and induce Fcγ
      receptor (FcγR)-mediated cytotoxicity, are considered to be one of the most successful
      strategies in cancer therapy. Trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against HER2, was
      investigated in combination with chemotherapy for first-line treatment of HER2-positive
      advanced gastric cancer. The use of cellular immunotherapy has increased significantly over
      the past two decades. Natural killer cells are lymphocytes of the innate immune system that
      have the ability to recognize and kill malignant cells. There is growing evidence show
      antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) by NK cells contributes to the efficacy
      of Herceptin. Therefore, methods to enhance ADCC, such as stimulating the innate immune
      response, may clinically translate to improved antitumor activity. In this study, the
      investigators sought to enhance the clinical activity of trastuzumab, administrated in
      combination with expanded autologous NK cells. The enrolled patients are diagnosed HER2+
      advanced gastric cancer. The eligible patient will administrate herceptin on 2 days prior to
      blood collection. The initial dose of herceptin is 8 mg/kg over 90 minutes IV infusion. On
      day 0 peripheral blood mononuclear cells were separated from 40-50ml blood by density
      gradient centrifugation. Then were cultured with human NK cell culture medium and stimulation
      cytokines in a humidified, 5% carbon dioxide incubator for about 14 days. After NK expansion
      and verification that the resulting NK cells meet purity, gram stain, and endotoxin release
      criteria, NK cells were washed and resuspended in isotonic sodium chloride. NK cellular
      therapy conduct 2 cycles per year. The maintenance dose of herceptin monotherapy is 6 mg/kg
      over 30 to 90 minutes IV infusion every 3 weeks. This study will determine the safety and
      efficacy of this novel combinational therapeutic strategy in HER2 positive gastric cancer.
    
  