
    
      Severe heart failure is a diagnosis with a very poor prognosis where the 2-year mortality
      rate for serious heart failure is over 50%, which exceeds many cancer diagnoses. Despite
      advances in pharmacological treatment and mechanical pumps, heart transplantation is
      considered to be the best treatment for terminal heart failure. However, heart
      transplantation as a treatment for terminal heart failure is limited by the number of
      available organs. If the investigators could take care of more organs, more patients could be
      transplanted. It is therefore of the utmost importance that every heart that can be
      transplanted successfully is considered.

      According to current recommendations, a heart should be in near perfect condition to be
      considered for transplantation. For a donor heart to be transplanted, it should not exhibit:

        -  More than mild-to-moderate cardiac impairment (EF < 40%)

        -  Regional discrete wall motion abnormalities

        -  Need for excessive inotropic support (dobutamine >20µg/kg/minute)

        -  Intractable ventricular arrhythmias.

      Cardiac dysfunction in organ donors, however, is usually secondary to the disease that led to
      brain death and is reversible; there is nothing wrong with the heart itself but it has ended
      up in an unfavorable environment that temporarily affects its function. A common cause of
      cardiac dysfunction in organ donors is stress-induced cardiomyopathy/Takotsubo
      cardiomyopathy. Stress-induced cardiomyopathy is a relatively newly described acute cardiac
      syndrome in which the heart develops regional wall motion abnormalities caused by severe
      catecholamine stimulation of the myocardium. In the organ donor, a strong catecholamine storm
      is observed in combination with compression and the development of brain death, which can
      trigger stress-induced cardiomyopathy. This type of change is seen in 20-25% of potential
      organ donors. One of the most important characteristics of stress-induced cardiomyopathy is
      its rapid recovery, however, and cardiac function is usually normalized within a few hours or
      Days 8-10. This is not only seen as a functional recovery, but also a structural and
      biochemical recovery of the heart. In addition to organ donors with intracranial events,
      stress-induced cardiomyopathy is also seen in patients with hypoxic/anoxic brain injuries as
      a result of hypoxic cardiac arrest, and even in these cases, cardiac events are temporary.

      There are potentially differential diagnoses for stress-induced cardiomyopathy in potential
      donors. The most important is ischemic heart disease which can quickly and relatively easily
      be diagnosed with coronary angiography. Coronary angiography is performed today on
      approximately one-third of potential donors and then primarily on donors with a risk profile
      for coronary artery disease. Another different diagnosis is myocarditis, which does not have
      the same reversibility as stress-induced cardiomyopathy and usually gives a different
      echocardiographic image.

      The recommendation not to utilize hearts with regional wall motion abnormalities has
      inadequate scientific support. The recommendation is based on a retrospective study that is
      over 30 years old and did not have cardiac dysfunction as the primary outcome measure. Upon
      review of this article, the data does not support the idea that regional wall motion
      abnormalities would be associated with worse outcomes. Despite this, this recommendation has
      been the basis for deciding whether to transplant the heart or not. There is a wariness,
      especially with American thoracic surgeons, to take into account such hearts. There is a
      number of retrospective studies that show that the outcome is not worse for patients who have
      been transplanted with hears that have/have had dysfunction. The main studies are presented
      below:

        -  A study based on material from the USA (UNOS database) in which patients who received a
           heart with ejection fraction <50% (n=740) were identified and compared with recipients
           of hearts with normal function (n=30253). No difference in mortality at one year after
           transplantation was observed between the groups.

        -  A study based on the same material showed that long-term survival was not inferior for
           recipients of hearts with ejection fraction<50%. Cardiac function was also the same for
           recipients of hearts with normal function and impaired function one year after
           transplantation.

        -  In a study based on the same database (UNOS database) 472 recipients who received a
           heart with improved function, defined as EF≤40% at one examination and EF≥50% at a
           follow-up examination, were identified. The control group were recipients of hearts with
           normal function EF≥55%. There was no difference in mortality, primary graft failure,
           allograft vasculopathy between the groups, even when propensity score matching was
           applied.

        -  A study based on other material from the USA (California Transplant Donor Network)
           reported figures where low ejection fraction (EF<50%, number of patients not reported)
           or regional hypokinesia (n=197) did not affect outcome.

        -  An older study based on material from the USA showed that regional hypokinesia has no
           bearing on recipients' mortality. The number of patients with regional hypokinesia was
           not reported but 1719 patients were included in the study.

        -  A study from Transplantation Centre, Sahlgrenska, analyzed donors and recipients during
           a 10-year period. In total, 641 donors were included in the analyses and 155 (24%) of
           the donors had cardiac dysfunction. Recipients of hearts with dysfunction (n=42) did not
           have worse outcomes (death, retransplantation) compared to recipients of hearts with
           normal function. Short-term outcomes (intensive care unit (ICU) care time, advanced
           hemodynamic support, postoperative dialysis, rejection) also did not differ between the
           groups. Cardiac function was rapidly recovered in the recipients and both groups had the
           same ejection fraction already a few days after transplantation.

      These retrospective studies form a relatively good foundation and cover almost 1400 patients.
      However, prospective studies on transplantation of hearts with functional impairment are
      missing.

      At Transplantation Centre, Sahlgrenska, there are many years of experience of handling hearts
      with impaired function. This clinical experience suggests that it is not associated with
      complications. The studies referenced above confirm this experience.

      Overall, there is room to increase the number of heart donors, and thus the number of heart
      transplantations, if the heart donors with reversible dysfunction are utilized. This study
      aims to prospectively investigate the cardiac function of donors and evaluate if it is of
      significance to the outcome of the recipient. The study sets guidelines for investigative
      procedures as well as which hearts should be transplanted, based on previous retrospective
      studies. The investigators expect that the recipients' outcome will not be affected by the
      cardiac function of the donor, provided the study's recommendations are followed. Our data
      shows that approximately every fourth potential heart donor suffers from functional
      impairment. This is in line with other studies that observed that about 20% of hearts are
      refused due to affected function. The investigators estimate that a systematic consideration
      of these hearts can increase the number of transplantations by 20-30%.
    
  