
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer form in Sweden with an incidence of
      approximately 6000 new cases annually. It affects mainly elderly people; 65 % of patients
      diagnosed with colon- or rectal cancer are older than 65 years, and more than half are 70
      years of age or older when diagnosed. Surgery is the treatment of choice for colon and rectal
      cancer if cure is to be achieved, sometimes in combination with radio- and/or chemotherapy.
      With increasing age many patients acquire other medical conditions which in turn can affect
      the patient's general status and thus impair their chances to recover from cancer treatment.

      Age is a well-known risk factor for post-operative complications. Furthermore, it has been
      established that assessing frailty in elderly patients is a more precise way of detecting
      patients with increased vulnerability. In recent years increasing research has focused on
      frailty in regards of different medical conditions and treatments. A large amount of studies
      has also been conducted on the concept of frailty and surgery, and there is solid knowledge
      of the impact of frailty on outcome after surgery. It is also known that elderly frail
      patients suffers a higher risk of severe post-operative complications and morbidity compared
      to elderly non frail patients in the terms of elective surgery for colon- and rectal cancer.

      Several different tools for determining and measuring frailty has been developed and studied.
      A commonly used definition is the accumulation of deficits model, which adds together a
      person's different diseases and disabilities. A widely used instrument based on this concept
      is the Canadian Study of Health and Aging (CSHA) Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS-9). It utilises
      a 9-point instrument to assess frailty. A score of 5 or more defines frailty, and the higher
      the score the more severe the degree of frailty. The instrument has been extensively studied
      and validated and is highly correlated to the degree of frailty as measured with much more
      extensive frailty tools. The instrument is easy to use and not very time-consuming which
      makes it practical to use in everyday clinical practice; therefore rendering it relevant to
      use in clinical studies.

      As stated, there are evidence that the group of frail elderly patients have inferior results
      after colorectal surgery, compared to elderly non-frail patients. Comprehensive geriatric
      assessment (CGA) and care is a well-established and effective way of providing health care.
      It has been proven to be beneficial in terms of outcome after hospitalization for the group
      of frail elderly in various other settings. A multicentre randomized controlled trial
      conducted in Norway evaluated preoperative geriatric assessment prior to surgery for
      colorectal cancer in frail patients ≥ 65 years of age. The patients in the intervention group
      were assessed by a medical doctor specializing in geriatric medicine who gave individual
      advice regarding medical changes, exercise, nutrition etc. The median time of intervention
      before surgery was six days. The study could not show any significant differences in
      post-operative complications. Except having a brief time span for the intervention, the study
      was smaller than the initial estimation, with a total of 116 included patients. Another
      randomized controlled study has been conducted regarding prehabilitation prior to surgery for
      colorectal cancer in frail patients, analysing 30-day complications. The prehabilitation in
      this study consisted of exercise, nutritional and psychological interventions four weeks
      prior to surgery, and could not establish any differences in 30-day complications rates
      compared to a group that received rehabilitation four weeks after surgery. Further, there is
      an ongoing randomized controlled international study aiming to evaluate the impact of
      multimodal prehabilitation - in terms of exercise, nutritional and psychological
      interventions prior to colorectal surgery in adults, not specifically frail patients. There
      is also an ongoing randomized controlled study - the GERICO study - on frail elderly patients
      receiving chemotherapy for colorectal cancer with the aim to see if geriatric intervention
      affects outcome.

      Intervention studies using CGA and care as an intervention to improve outcome for frail
      elderly patients has been conducted in terms om hip fracture and abdominal surgery, so far
      with mixed results. A systematic review of these studies from 2017 concluded that there is a
      need of a larger randomized multicentre study to evaluate the possible advantage of such an
      intervention for frail elderly patients prior to surgery.
    
  