
    
      Background:

        -  Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is an indolent B-cell leukemia comprising 2% of all leukemias,
           or approximately 1900 new cases/year in the US. The nucleoside analogs cladribine and
           pentostatin are highly active as monotherapy with complete remission (CR) rates of 80 to
           90%. However, there is no cure from chemotherapy and patients eventually relapse with
           worse efficacy and cumulative toxicity (stem cell damage and neuropathy) with each
           repeated chemotherapy course.

        -  About 90% of classic HCL patients have the BRAF V600E mutation, which leads to
           Rasindependent activation of the MAPK pathway, causing increased phosphorylation
           (hyperactivation) of MEK, followed by ERK, therefore promoting the proliferation and
           survival of

      HCL cells.

        -  The BRAF inhibitor, vemurafenib, when used as a single agent for the treatment of HCL
           achieved high response rate with CR rate of 38% in 50 patients reported from 2 trials,
           however, treatment was limited to several months and responses lacked durability, with
           median CR duration of 19 months in 1 trial. In this trial, 100% of the CRs were positive
           for minimal residual disease (MRD) by immunohistochemistry (IHC), and failure to
           eradicate MRD after several months of vemurafenib likely lead to the lack of CR
           durability.

        -  In a recent trial of combined inhibition of BRAF and MEK using dabrafenib and trametinib
           treatment, 49% of 41 evaluable patients achieved CR, and MRD was eradicated in 15% of
           patients on this trial. At NIH, we enrolled a total of 28 HCL patients on this trial and
           achieved a CR rate of 68% amongst our patients by managing toxicity and allowing
           patients to remain on treatment.

        -  A major challenge in the long-term treatment of HCL patients with dabrafenib and
           trametinib is managing fever, which has necessitated long-term or intermittent steroids
           use for most patients.

        -  In the COLOMBUS trial, the combination of the BRAF inhibitor, encorafenib and the MEK
           inhibitor, binimetinib was found to be superior to vemurafenib for BRAF V600E+ melanoma
           with respect to PFS and OS and was well tolerated with low rates of toxicities including
           pyrexia.

        -  To our knowledge, neither encorafenib nor binimetinib has been tested in HCL, but the
           low rate of pyrexia with encorafenib plus binimetinib in melanoma suggests that this
           combination may be well tolerated in HCL.

      Objective:

      -To determine if treatment with combination encorafenib and binimetinib in BRAF
      V600E/V600K+HCL is associated with a CR rate which exceeds that of vemurafenib.

      Eligibility:

        -  BRAF V600E/V600K mutant HCL with at least 1 prior purine analog treatment

        -  Need for treatment, as evidenced by any one of the following: ANC <1 x10(3)/mcL, Hgb
           <10g/dL, Platelet count <100 x10(3)/mcL, leukemia cell count >5 x10(3)/mcL, symptomatic
           splenomegaly, enlarging HCL mass > 2cm in short axis

        -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  No uncontrolled infection, cardiopulmonary dysfunction, or secondary malignancy
           requiring treatment.

        -  No chemotherapy, immunotherapy, investigational agent or radiotherapy within 4 weeks
           prior to the start of study treatment.

      Design:

        -  Phase 2 trial, single arm, non-randomized trial to determine if the combination of
           encorafenib and binimetinib achieves a CR rate in HCL which is historically higher than
           that of vemurafenib.

        -  Simon optimal 2-phase design will be used to rule out an unacceptable CR rate of 35% in
           favor of an improved 55% CR rate.

        -  Initially 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled. If 5 or more achieve CR, then accrual
           will continue to a total of 32 evaluable patients

        -  Encorafenib will be given at a dose of 450mg QD and binimetinib at a dose of 45mg BID
           for as long as patients can continue dosing chronically without significant toxicity
    
  