
    
      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation with high-dose chemotherapy affords a better chance of
      cure of malignant and non-malignant hematological diseases compared to autologous
      transplantation, because of the lack of stem cell contamination and the immune mediated graft
      vs. leukemia effect. Unfortunately, high-dose chemotherapy and allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation has a substantial treatment related mortality, that is particularly high in
      older patients (greater than 50 yrs of age), or in those with co-morbidities such as
      congestive heart disease and pulmonary disease. Patients who have pre-existing infections or
      who have had multiple relapses with prior chemotherapy are also at high risk. In all these
      groups, treatment related mortality may exceed 50%, making them ineligible for high-dose
      chemotherapy and allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

      Recently interest has increased in using less toxic chemotherapy protocols that are termed
      submyeloablative. The intent is to allow partial engraftment of a donor immune and
      hemopoietic systems with subsequent progressive replacement of the host's own hemopoiesis and
      immunity. As the donor immune system becomes established, patients may develop full donor
      chimerism, without passing through the period of prolonged aplasia associated with
      conventional conditioning regimens, and with less of the associated toxicity. Preliminary
      results in high-risk patients have shown treatment related mortality (TRM) of 15-20%, versus
      50% expected, with an overall survival rate of 70-80% at 1-2 years post transplant.

      As might be anticipated, the major problem with sub-ablative conditioning is that the graft
      failure rate is increased, with published figures of 5-30% versus 1-5% predicted in fully
      ablated patients. The incorporation of lymphodepleting antibodies in the preliminary
      conditioning regimen may allow these rejection rates to be diminished. Moreover, a highly
      efficient lymphodepleting MAb or MAb combination might be successfully substituted in part or
      in whole for cytotoxic and immunosuppressive drugs, further increasing the safety and
      efficacy of the subablative approach to stem cell transplantation. Our own data using the
      crude polyclonal mixture of antibodies in ATG as a component of pre-transplant conditioning
      revealed an improvement in engraftment during matched unrelated donor transplantation.The
      lymphodepleting monoclonal antibody Campath IH has many of the properties desired for this
      application, and we propose to incorporate it in our conditioning regimen. Since CAMPATH1H
      persists after infusion, we would expect it to have additional anti-GvHD effector function,
      further reducing treatment related mortality (TRM).

      The following preparative regimen will be delivered to all patients:

        1. Busulfan 3.2 mg/kg/day IV daily for 2 days, infused over 3 hours, on Day -5 and Day -4

        2. Fludarabine 30mg/m2/day IV daily for 4 days on Day -5 to D -2

        3. Campath 10 mg/day IV daily for 3 days on days -6 to D-4.

      Because CAMPATH-1H infusions will provide a persisting level of antibody over the transplant
      period, it will contribute to anti-GvHD activity. Additional Graft vs. host disease
      prophylaxis will consist of FK506 administered from Day-2.

      The stem cells will be infused on day 0.
    
  