
    
      Pelvic floor disorders negatively impact the quality of life of those afflicted by pelvic
      organ prolapse, lower urinary tract symptoms, defecatory or sexual dysfunction, or pain.
      Women who present for routine gynecologic care often have undiagnosed pelvic floor disorders,
      and physicians may not specifically question women to elicit pelvic floor symptoms. In the
      United States 24% of women report at least one pelvic floor disorder, which increases with
      age, parity , obesity. Gynecologic cancer survivors are a unique population who undergo a
      variety treatment regimens including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Radical
      hysterectomy, a common surgical treatment for gynecologic cancers, is a well-established
      cause for lower urinary tract dysfunction. In contrast, data are lacking regarding risk
      factors for pelvic organ prolapse or fecal incontinence. Survivors of gynecologic
      malignancies may be at increased risk for symptomatic pelvic floor disorders, but may not be
      diagnosed due to lack of inquiry of these symptoms by practitioners. In addition, a recent
      qualitative study found that survivors of gynecologic malignancies believed that pelvic floor
      symptoms were an inevitable, untreatable corollary to treatment for their cancer and thus did
      not seek treatment. Furthermore, the study participants reported that they felt healthy
      despite these symptoms because of their oncologists assessment of their remission status. The
      lack of diagnosis and treatment of pelvic floor disorders has clinical and quality of life
      implications for the growing numbers of gynecologic malignancy survivors. The objective of
      this study is to identify the prevalence of an risk factors for pelvic floor disorders in
      women after treatment for gynecologic cancer. Our rationale for this project is that the
      investigators believe that pelvic floor disorders affect the quality of life of gynecologic
      cancer survivors and should be quantified. Successful completion of this study will provide
      evidence for practitioners to screen and treat pelvic floor disorders in gynecologic
      malignancy survivors.
    
  