
    
      STUDY TITLE Medication Rationalization for Older People awaiting long-term nursing home care:
      a randomized controlled trial using the STOPPfrail criteria.

      AIMS Our primary aim is to test the feasibility of applying explicit deprescribing criteria
      (STOPPfrail) to the medication regimens of a cohort of older, frail hospitalized patients for
      whom long-term care is considered necessary and compare this intervention with usual care.

      Secondary aims are to estimate the effect of medication rationalization on mortality, acute
      hospital transfers, unscheduled medical reviews, falls and non vertebral fractures,
      prescription of neuroleptic antipsychotic medications and cost of medications.

      BACKGROUND The majority of people transferring to nursing home care are frail and highly
      dependent. The average survival following admission to a nursing home in Ireland is 1.9
      years.1 Despite frailty and shortened life expectancy, these patients are among the highest
      consumers of prescription medications. The SHELTER study reports the rate of polypharmacy
      (5-9 drugs) and excessive polypharmacy (≥10 drugs) in nursing home residents to be 48.7 and
      24.3%, respectively.2 This is important because the number of drugs that a patient is taking
      is the most important predictor of adverse drug reactions (ADRs).3 ADRs are associated with
      ill health,4 hospitalization,5 and higher mortality.6

      Transfer to a nursing home is major life event for older people and medication review in
      hospital prior to transfer is appropriate. Medication rationalization or deprescribing is the
      process of tapering and stopping medications. The goal is to prevent adverse drug reactions
      and to appropriately match medications to the goals of care and prognosis of the patient.
      Deprescribing trials have been promising to date. Garfinkel8 discontinued 332 different drugs
      in 119 nursing home residents (2.8 per person) and reported successful cessation of all
      target drugs in 82% of patients. The one-year mortality rate was 45% in the control group and
      21% in the intervention group. Overall, deprescribing of medications resulted in a 53%
      reduction in mortality(p<0.001). Potter et al9 successfully deprescribed 207 medications in
      47 residents (4.4 per patient) and while there was a trend towards improved survival in the
      intervention group, this did not reach statistical significance. Both trials use a similar
      deprescribing algorithm that requires the user to answer a series of questions about each
      medication before a deprescribing decision can be made. Expertise in geriatric
      pharmacotherapy as well as clinical judgement is required, and these factors, along with time
      constraints, may limit the use of these algorithms in everyday clinical practice.

      STOPPfrail is a validated explicit list of 27 drugs and drug classes that are potentially
      inappropriate in older adults with high morbidity burden and poor 1 year survival
      prognosis.10 The criteria were developed by Delphi consensus survey of an expert panel
      comprising academic geriatricians, clinical pharmacologists, palliative care physicians, old
      age psychiatrists, general practitioners and clinical pharmacists. The criteria are explicit
      and concise and therefore easy-to-use and time efficient. Observational work by our group,
      led by Dr. Amanda Lavan, has shown that 90% of people awaiting transfer to a nursing home bed
      are prescribed at least one potentially inappropriate medication (PIM) according to the
      STOPPfrail criteria and the median number of PIMs per person is three. Of those people deemed
      suitable for long-term care in a nursing home, 64.3% were eligible for the STOPPfrail
      intervention.

      In theory, the deprescribing of unnecessary, ineffective, potentially inappropriate
      medications should reduce medication burden as well as exposure to adverse drug events.
      Recent deprescribing trials have suggested a trend towards improved survival in patients who
      have their medications deprescribed. Deprescribing using the STOPPfrail criteria has not yet
      been evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.

      Recruitment Hospitalized patients applying for the Nursing Home Support Scheme undergo a
      multidisciplinary team assessment and the report of this assessment is compiled in the Common
      Summary Assessment Report (CSAR) form. At the Local Placement Forum (LPF), which takes place
      fortnightly in Cork University Hospital (CUH), city-wide applications are reviewed and
      suitability for long-term care (LTC) is determined.

      Potential participants will be identified at the Local Placement Forum (LPF) in CUH.
      Inpatients in CUH, the Mercy University Hospital and St. Finbarr's Hospital (Cork City
      Hospitals) who are transitioning to long-term care will be considered potentially eligible
      for recruitment. The CSAR form, which includes information about medical history as well as
      cognitive and functional status will be used to screen participants for eligibility.

      Prior to approaching potential participants, a senior physician (consultant, registrar
      overseeing the patient's care in hospital or the patient's own GP), will be contacted and
      requested to answer the 'surprise question'(SQ). If the physician indicates he or she "would
      not be surprised if the participant died in the next year" (SQ+), permission will be
      requested to review the patient's chart.

      Establishing informed consent (figure 2) The unblinded researcher will approach potential
      participants directly, explain the study aims and provide a participant information form
      (PIF). Any patient who declines to participate will not be enrolled in the study. Cognition
      will be assessed using the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) in individuals who agree to
      participate. Participants with a MMSE ≥24 will be considered competent to formally consent to
      inclusion in the study. If these participants agree, the unblinded researcher will also
      inform the nominated next-of-kin (NOK) of the participant's desire to participate in the
      trial and provide the NOK with a study information sheet. If a participant wishes to
      participate in the study, but is not competent to formally consent (MMSE <24), the unblinded
      researcher will request written agreement from the participant's nominated NOK.

      Baseline data A detailed medical history of each participant will be documented. The
      unblinded researcher will record the generic name, indication, dosage, and frequency of all
      medications taken by the participant, including all prescribed and over-the-counter
      medications and any herbal or mineral supplements. The unblinded researcher will determine
      the indication for each medication by discussion with the participant, the participant's
      doctor and by reviewing the participant's medical records. The unblinded researcher will
      determine medication compliance as well as challenges associated with administrating
      individual medications by communicating with nursing staff and reviewing the medication
      kardex. Cognitive status (MMSE) and functional status (Barthel index) as well as weight and
      blood pressure will be recorded. Quality of life will be measured using the ICECAP-O (proxy
      version) and, for those with a diagnosis of dementia, the QUALIDEM.

      Randomization:

      Each participant will be randomized to the intervention arm (STOPPfrail tool) or to the
      control arm receiving routine care on a 1:1 ratio using block randomization.

      Intervention group:

      The unblinded researcher will advise intervention group participants' doctors that their
      patient has been randomised to the intervention group. The unblinded researcher (an
      experienced Specialist Registrar in geriatric medicine) will offer medication advice based on
      the STOPPfrail criteria. Where there is a risk of an adverse drug withdrawal event, it will
      be recommended that that particular medication be withdrawn slowly according to an evidence
      based protocol .Prior to recommending the dose reduction or cessation of a medication, the
      unblinded researcher will inform the participant, NOK and nursing staff of potential adverse
      withdrawal effects associated with that drug. The nurse manager and medical team will have
      the mobile phone number of the primary researcher and will be encouraged to make contact if
      there are any concerns about adverse withdrawal effects in the participant.

      If the participant is discharged to a nursing home during the period of drug withdrawal, a
      written drug withdrawal plan will be sent to the nursing home director of nursing as well as
      to the medical officer overseeing the care of patients in that nursing home. The mobile phone
      number of the unblinded researcher will be included in this written plan and the unblinded
      researcher will be available to respond to queries or concerns.

      Follow-up data In order to minimize the risk of ascertainment bias, a different researcher,
      who is blinded to the group allocation of participants will provide follow-up and obtain
      outcome measurements. Follow-up will take place at the time of discharge from hospital and at
      3- months post-enrolment. All medications, falls and non-vertebral fractures, emergency
      transfers to hospital, unscheduled medical reviews and deaths will be recorded. Quality of
      life will be reassessed, and weight and sitting blood pressure will be measured.

      Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) SAEs are defined as death, emergency hospital admission, fall,
      non-vertebral fracture, non-fatal vascular event (MI or CVA), and an unscheduled medical
      review. The nurse managers overseeing the care of the participants will be asked to advise
      the unblinded researcher as soon as practical if any of these events occur in study
      participants. All SAEs are to be reported to the principle investigator (PI) within 24 hours
      upon becoming aware of the event.

      The principal investigator will evaluate whether the SAE is related to the deprescribing
      intervention. It is the PIs responsibility to report SAEs that are related or possibly
      related to the intervention within 7 days to the local ethics committee.

      Sample Size Calculation

      The investigators plan to enrol 160 participants (80 participants in each group). This allows
      for an anticipated attrition rate (deaths and dropouts) of 30%. This will allow a power to
      detect a difference of 2 in the mean number of medications between the groups (α = .05 and
      1-β =0.8, population variance 14). Of note, Garfinkel and Potter achieved a mean reduction of
      2.8 and 4.4 medications per subject respectively.
    
  