
    
      This clinical trial is dedicated to patients age 70 and older and is focused on understanding
      how the investigators can improve upon breast cancer outcomes for older women, a group of
      patients who often do worse than younger patients and who are not well represented in
      clinical trials to date. Through this clinical trial, the investigators aim to better
      understand the side effects, experiences, and changes in physical function that may occur
      with chemotherapy. The investigators are also very interested in the genomics (or
      gene-changes) and biological changes that may occur in breast cancers in older women that may
      be different from the changes we see in younger patients.

      Even though the chemotherapy agents being used in this study are used frequently when
      treating breast cancer, The investigators have limited information on how these agents are
      tolerated in older patients. This research study is called a Feasibility Study, because the
      investigators will be closely monitoring how easily it is to administer chemotherapy to a
      relatively small group of participants (up to 40) and to what degree side effects occur. The
      investigators will administer commercially available chemotherapy agents used in breast
      cancer in the specific setting of the treating older patients with early-stage breast cancer
      and with some mild modification of how these agents are given and in what combination.

      For participants with triple negative breast cancer, paclitaxel and carboplatin will be
      administered in standard, weekly doses. Both agents are FDA-approved for use in early breast
      cancer. However, carboplatin and paclitaxel are not typically used as a 'stand-alone'
      treatment for breast cancer, meaning they are often used together along with other
      chemotherapy agent(s) over a longer period.

      For participants with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, paclitaxel and
      cyclophosphamide will be administered, which are both FDA-approved agents to treat breast
      cancer as part of a longer regimen to treat early breast cancer. In this clinical trial the
      investigators are modifying the way the chemotherapy is delivered so that it may be more
      tolerable than the longer treatment course. This clinical trial does not limit the use of
      other chemotherapy or other treatments being recommended for breast cancer, but any other
      recommended treatments would be given after the participants receive their paclitaxel and
      carboplatin on the clinical trial.
    
  