
    
      Patients who are diagnosed with cataracts and for whom surgery is indicated shall be
      evaluated in terms of their visual acuity and refractive error and via biomicroscopy,
      automated keratometry (Auto Kerato Refractometer KR 8000® Alcon), Goldmann applanation
      tonometry, fundoscopy, biometric assessment (Ocuscan RxP® Alcon or Lenstar LS900® Haag-Streit
      International), and specular microscopy of the cornea (EM-3000® Tomey) to count the corneal
      endothelial cells. Each cataract case shall be classified based on the Lens Opacities
      Classification System III (LOCS III).

      Patients who choose to sign the informed consent form after being informed of all of the
      aspects of the surgery and this trial shall be randomly divided into 2 groups that shall be
      approximately equal in size and stratified by gender. Group A shall receive an intracameral
      injection of 0.03ml of 0.5% moxifloxacin (150 micrograms in 0.03 ml) at the end of the
      cataract surgery, followed by the use of a 0.5% moxifloxacin in eye drop form associated with
      0.1% dexamethasone before the bandage is applied. Group B shall not receive the intracameral
      moxifloxacin injection at the end of the cataract surgery; these patients shall receive only
      0.5% moxifloxacin in eye drop form associated with 0.1% dexamethasone before the bandage is
      applied.

      The cataract surgery shall be performed using the standards followed by the Department of
      Ophthalmology at São Paulo State University, Campinas (UNICAMP). It shall be performed by
      second-, third-, and fourth-year ophthalmology residents and by attendings when cases are
      more complex. Preoperative pupil dilation shall be performed through the use of 10%
      phenylephrine and 1% tropicamide 3 times in five-minute increments. The anesthesiology
      technique used shall depend on each case and shall be either topical anesthesia, peribulbar
      anesthesia, sub-Tenon anesthesia, or general anesthesia. Skin sterilization shall be
      performed using an aqueous solution of 10% povidone-iodine. After the sterile surgical field
      is established and the eyelashes are isolated, 4 eye drops containing 5% povidone-iodine
      shall be administered in the conjunctival sac with subsequent irrigation using a 10% balanced
      salt solution. In cases of allergy to povidone-iodine, an aqueous solution of 0.05%
      chlorhexidine shall be used. The principal incision (using a clear corneal incision or the
      near clear approach) shall be 2.2mm to 3.0mm in length. The phacoemulsification technique
      shall be either the stop and chop, the phaco chop, the pre-slice, the pre-chop, or the divide
      and conquer; it shall be applied through the use of the Infiniti® or the Laureate®
      phacoemulsifier (Alcon), with an AcrySof® intraocular foldable lens (Alcon). In cases of
      posterior capsule rupture and vitreous loss, a complication that increases the chance of
      endophthalmitis,3,4,15 a mechanical or manual anterior vitrectomy shall be performed (the
      choice shall depend on the case). In cases of thermal burn of the principal incision or other
      situations in which surgical injury is not self-sealing and in which there is a consequent
      leak of the aqueous humor and an inability to keep the anterior chamber in adequate
      dimensions, the incision shall be sutured using Mononylon 10.0.

      The moxifloxacin injection shall be prepared by a trained nurse or physician: 0.03ml (150
      micrograms) of 0.5% moxifloxacin as an ophthalmic solution (Vigamox®) shall be aspirated. The
      eye drop bottles shall be opened at the moment of preparation with a 0.3ml coupled syringe
      (Terumo®) through the use of an asseptic technique. The solution shall then be injected into
      the anterior chamber via paracentesis as the last step in the phacoemulsification surgery.
      The patients from the two groups shall receive 0.5% moxifloxacin drops associated with 0.1%
      dexamethasone after the surgery is completed and before the bandage is applied. The
      postoperative prescription shall consist of 0.5% moxifloxacin associated with 0.1%
      dexamethasone. Administration shall begin 3 hours after the surgery is completed and should
      continue every 3 hours for 7 days (except when the patient is sleeping). After the 7th
      postoperative day, 0.1% dexamethasone without association with moxifloxacin shall be
      prescribed. Its application shall be gradually reduced over the course of 3 weeks according
      to each individual's inflammatory response.

      Patients from both groups shall be masked, while the surgeons and ophthalmologists who
      perform the postoperative examinations will not. In suspected cases of endophthalmitis, an
      independent ophthalmologist from a retina and vitreous practice shall perform the patient's
      examination without knowing whether the patient belongs to Group A or Group B. This
      independent ophthalmologist shall then recommend the most adequate course of action.
      Endophthalmitis treatment shall follow the usual protocol. The postoperative consults shall
      be held on the 1st, 7th, 30th, and 45th postoperative days and shall include evaluations of
      visual acuity (7th, 30th, and 45th postoperative day), refractive error (30th postoperative
      day), biomicroscopy (1st, 7th, 30th, and 45th postoperative day), applanation tonometry (7th,
      30th, and 45th postoperative day), keratometry (30th postoperative day), fundoscopy (30th,
      and 45th post operative day), and endothelial cell counts (45th postoperative day).

      The diagnosis of acute endophthalmitis following cataract surgery shall initially be clinical
      and shall be considered presumed until the microorganism in question can be identified
      through laboratory exams.

      Cases of sudden worsening in vision after cataract surgery (up to 6 weeks post-operation) and
      associated with pain, palpebral edema, red eye, corneal edema, signs of intraocular
      inflammation (such as inflammatory cells in the vitreous, anterior chamber reaction,
      hypopyon, and effects on the vitreous detected via ultrasound) shall be considered suspected
      cases of endophthalmitis. These patients shall undergo aqueous humor and vitreous humor
      sample collections under surgical conditions in order to detect the etiological agent
      (bacterioscopy and culture). In addition, broad-spectrum empiric antibiotic therapy shall be
      employed due to the high morbidity of this complication.

      The diagnosis of endophthalmitis shall be based on the laboratory confirmation of the
      presence of microorganisms in aqueous humor or vitreous humor samples, or by the evaluation
      of the clinical findings (presumed endophthalmitis) if an etiological agent is not identified
      in a case that is characteristic of endophthalmitis.

      Based on the 0.3% frequency of endophthalmitis in 2015 in cataract surgeries without
      prophylactic treatment with antibiotics at the Clinical Hospital of São Paulo State
      University, Campinas (UNICAMP), a one-tailed confidence interval of 95%, 80% power, an
      exposed :non-exposed correlation of 1:1, and a null endophthalmitis frequency were applied to
      the group treated with the antibiotic. Approximately 2,600 volunteers will be needed for each
      group.

      The trial shall be suspended with a difference between the two groups that is inferior to a
      type I error (α) of 4% is found in a pre-analysis with 25%, 50%, 62.5%, 75%, and 87.5%of the
      total number of patients to be analyzed.

      Scheduled surgeries shall be distributed in blocks of four volunteers stratified by gender.
      This step will ensure that each block of four patients will include two volunteers from each
      group.

      After the attribution of the interventions, each patient shall be masked to the type of
      intervention. The surgeons and the ophthalmologists who will perform the postoperative
      examinations (usually the surgeons themselves) will not be masked. In suspected cases of
      endophthalmitis, an independent ophthalmologist from a retina and vitreous practice shall
      evaluate the patient and recommend the most adequate course of action.

      Measures of central tendency and dispersion shall be determined using averages and standard
      deviations. Tests shall be performed to detect differences between the categorical variables.
      The chi-square test and Fisher's exact test shall be used. One-way ANOVA and Student's t-test
      shall be used to detect differences between quantitative variables. The results of these
      analyses shall be considered significant if the p-value is lower than 5%. The statistical
      analysis shall be performed within the EpiInfoTM 2000 software (Centers for Disease Control
      and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA) and within SPSS®,
    
  