
    
      Primary Angle Closure Glaucoma (PACG) continues to be a major concern in Asia. It is a major
      cause of visual morbidity in the region1 being the most prevalent type of glaucoma especially
      in Chinese and Mongoloid descent.2,3 During the acute stage of the disease, prompt
      institution of measures to break the attack is necessary. Two recognized approaches are
      utilized in practice in lowering intraocular pressure and preparing for the definitive
      treatment of laser peripheral iridotomy. These are conventional topical and systemic medical
      therapy and immediate peripheral iridoplasty using either argon or diode lasers.

      In the study of Lim, Tan, Chew, Seah et al., laser iridoplasty was noted to have a useful
      role in the management of medically unresponsive acute angle closure, particularly in those
      cases where laser peripheral iridotomy (PI) could not be successfully performed4 . Randomized
      controlled trials of Lam, Lai, Tham et al. comparing immediate laser peripheral iridoplasty
      plus topical medications and topical and systemic medical treatment found no significant
      difference in the eventual mean IOP and requirement for glaucoma medications 5 . However,
      significant difference in efficacy was observed between the two treatment arms within the
      first two hours of treatment with argon laser peripheral iridoplasty and topical medications
      lowering IOP faster than conventional medications6. In all the trials cited, there was no
      mention of sudden IOP lowering effects of either argon laser iridoplasty or conventional
      medications on the optic nerve head and visual field status, as well as its effect on other
      ocular structures like the cornea, lens and retina . In our literature search, two papers
      studied the optic nerve head structure and function in angle closure glaucoma, but not in the
      immediate period of sudden IOP lowering. Ang, Aung, Chua, Yip and Chew made a comparative
      assessment of the visual field loss between symptomatic and asymptomatic PACG, with 50% of
      asymptomatic PACG subjects presenting with end stage visual field loss in contrast to just 7%
      of symptomatic PACG.7 Lai, Tham, Lam et al. compared the retinal nerve fiber layer
      measurements of attack eyes and their fellow eyes after a single unilateral attack of acute
      primary angle closure (APAC) using scanning laser polarimetry six months after the acute
      attack8. Retinal nerve fiber layer damage was documented in eyes where the duration of the
      APAC attack lasted more than 48 hours8. Decompression retinopathy following laser peripheral
      iridoplasty for acute primary angle closure was reported in two cases reported by Lai, Lee,
      Leung and Chung.9 In order to compare the efficiency of laser peripheral iridoplasty and
      medical treatment, as well as to identify any morbidity that may come from sudden
      decompression of the eye, we undertake this randomized controlled trial.
    
  