
    
      The Comparison of Outcomes of Antibiotic Drugs and Appendectomy (CODA) trial aims to test, if
      from a patient's perspective, the antibiotics strategy is "just as good as" surgery. The
      investigators believe that patients, clinicians, and the people who pay for healthcare (both
      patients and insurers) will find the antibiotics approach acceptable if 1) it results in high
      rates of treatment success, 2) does not increase complications, and 3) provides an equivalent
      or better patient experience. A large-scale non-inferiority trial is expected to result in a
      change in the management of one of the most common human illnesses. If non-inferiority is
      demonstrated (or superiority of the antibiotics approach identified), that finding will
      improve patient choice and should support a shift to the less invasive approach. If
      non-inferiority is not established, results may help to delineate the trade-offs between the
      two treatment approaches and inform decision-making.

      The observation that patients with acute uncomplicated appendicitis (AUA) can be cured with
      antibiotics-alone has a scientific rationale. Traditionally, appendicitis was thought to
      result from a blockage of the appendix and that, if left untreated, inevitably led to a
      perforation. Contrary to this physiologic model, Carr demonstrated that obstruction of the
      appendix is an unlikely primary cause in the majority of patients and that most are caused by
      an enteric infection. A recent randomized trial found an increased rate of appendectomy with
      early use of computed tomography (CT) imaging and diagnostic laparoscopy, but case reports of
      appendicitis remission documented by serial CT all suggest that leaving the appendix in place
      does not inexorably lead to clinical compromise. A common concern of clinicians when
      considering treating AUA with antibiotics is that not removing the appendix may lead to
      perforation and complications from complicated appendicitis. Evidence suggests, however, that
      perforated appendicitis is a pre-hospital event and that non-perforated appendicitis is a
      "different" disease. This theory is supported by a general lack of relation between a delay
      in surgery of up to 24-36 hours and perforation rates. Most recently, Fusobacterium sp., a
      genus of enteric Gram-negative anaerobic bacteria, rather than an obstructive stone, was
      found to be correlated with the presence of appendicitis and the degree of inflammation. What
      remains to be determined is whether certain bacterial colonies or features of individual
      immune response are most associated with progression of appendicitis without appendectomy and
      whether successful outcomes for people undergoing antibiotics can be predicted based on the
      patient's characteristics.

      An additional rationale for this study is to address limitations of prior trials. To avoid
      misclassification problems of other trials, all patients will undergo standard radiographic
      imaging including CT, ultrasound (US), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patients with an
      appendicolith will be included in the trial but considered a unique subgroup and will be
      evaluated as part of a pre-specified analysis (potentially excluding them from future
      recruitment if an early analysis demonstrates futility related to the primary antibiotic
      approach not being successful). To reflect usual and emerging techniques in treatment, the
      study includes both types of appendectomy (open and laparoscopic) and a broad range of
      antibiotic strategies including the option for an "all outpatient" treatment schedule with
      once daily dosing of longer-acting agents. Patients in the antibiotics arm will be given a
      minimum of 24 hours of intravenous (IV) antibiotics (using any appropriate dosing schedule
      and based on the patient's ability to tolerate oral medication), followed by oral antibiotics
      for a total of 10 days of antibiotic treatment). Discharge from the hospital or emergency
      department (ED) or a change in treatment arms will be guided by clinical targets and reasons
      for change in treatment arms will be assessed. Patients will be followed for up to two years
      to assess for longer-term complications, eventual appendectomy (performed anywhere), quality
      of life (QoL), gastrointestinal symptoms, and decisional regret. To quantify selection bias
      and to promote generalizability, all patients approached for the study and those who refuse
      randomization will be characterized at baseline. A parallel cohort of patients who refuse
      randomization (250 who initiate the antibiotics strategy and 250 who select the appendectomy
      strategy) will be surveyed for two years.
    
  