
    
      The prognosis and survival rate of breast cancer varies depending on the extent of the
      disease, performance status of patients and the type of tumour including the status of
      oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 (HER2). Expression of ER and PR generally indicates better prognosis than the
      overexpression of HER2 and triple negative breast cancer generally indicates more aggressive
      cancers with a high growth rate [1].

      Preoperative or neoadjuvant therapy which is also known as primary systemic therapy followed
      by surgery and adjuvant radiation therapy is recommended for patients with locally advanced
      breast cancer [2]. Studies using primary systemic therapy have demonstrated useful rates of
      clinical response and pathological complete response(pCR) rates in the breast alone and
      pathological complete response rates in the axillary notes. The response rates vary
      considerably, however response rates to cytotoxic chemotherapy have been uniformally higher
      in ER negative tumors. There is additional improvement in the pathological complete response
      rates of about 10 % with the addition of a taxane [4]. For operable breast cancer, primary
      systemic therapy can be considered as an alternative to adjuvant systemic therapy for
      patients who require a mastectomy but who desire breast conservation surgery. In patients
      with large tumours who can technically have a lumpectomy, primary systemic therapy may permit
      less extensive surgery and may result in a better cosmetic result. Primary systemic therapy
      may also be advisable in patients who have medical contraindications to surgery or where
      delayed surgery is required.

      Nanoparticle albumin bound paclitaxel is reported to achieve a higher intracellular tumour
      paclitaxel concentration via the albumin mediated transendothelial transport system [5].
      Better tolerability and efficacy has been demonstrated when compared to paclitaxel or
      docetaxel in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer [6, 7]. Nab paclitaxel is being
      evaluated in the adjuvant treatment of patients with breast cancer [8, 9] and in the
      neoadjuvant setting [10.] The preoperative setting provides an opportunity to study the early
      molecular changes that may occur in response to treatment. Alteration of biomarkers between
      pre and post chemotherapy including hormone receptors, the Human Epidermal growth factor
      receptor (HER2)and Ki67 [11, 12] as well as gene pathways [13] are areas of possible
      exploration in neoadjuvant studies whereby tissue is available for analysis before and after
      the chemotherapy treatment. Particular patterns of reduction in tumour size on MRI can be
      predictive of successful response, detecting residual tumour not apparent on mammogram or U/S
      and in accurate evaluation of tumour volume [14.] Functional imaging biomarkers of response
      also have potential utility in assessing treatment response [15.] A recent study reported
      that 4 cycles of adjuvant therapy with the combination of nab Paclitaxel and
      cyclophosphamide, with or without trastuzumab, is feasible and well tolerated in patients
      with early stage breast cancer. Another small study demonstrated feasibility of nab
      Paclitaxel followed by 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (FEC) [16.] An
      anthracycline containing regimen followed by conventional paclitaxel is amongst the most
      commonly prescribed adjuvant chemotherapy regime for early breast cancer. Cyclophosphamide is
      given in combination with doxorubicin or its epimer epirubicin. Epirubicin achieves similar
      efficacy results to doxorubicin but causes less cardiotoxicity [17 19].

      Although standards of care are varied, adjuvant chemotherapy in 2011 is generally recommended
      in women with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and HER amplified tumors. In women with
      hormone receptor positive tumors without HER2 amplification, chemotherapy is reserved for
      tumors that are large or with extensive nodal involvement and/ or high risk biology. The
      latter includes young age, presence of lymphovascular space invasion, a high proliferative
      index (Ki67 expression), lower ER/PR expression, higher Oncotype Dx score and luminal B
      tumors[20]. Thus there are evolving trends to tailor therapy based on the tumor
      characteristics indicating perceived risk, patient factors, particularly comorbid illness and
      patient preferences as well as prediction of response.

      In breast cancer, immunohistochemical assessment of the proportion of cells staining for the
      nuclear antigen Ki67 has become a widely used method for comparing proliferation between
      tumour samples[21]. Potential uses include prognosis, prediction of relative responsiveness
      or resistance to chemotherapy or endocrine therapy, estimation of residual risk in patients
      on standard therapy and as a dynamic biomarker of treatment efficacy in samples taken before,
      during, and after neoadjuvant therapy[21, 22]. Ki67 labeling Index has been incorporated as
      one of the means of identifying tumor subtypes by the 2011 St Gallen International Expert
      Consensus on the Primary Therapy of Early Breast Cancer[20]. Analysis of gene expression
      arrays has resulted in the recognition of several fundamentally different subtypes of breast
      cancer[23]. Using gene expression profile distinction can be made between luminal A and
      luminal B tumors. While both subtypes could be ER positive but luminal A tumours are unlikely
      to benefit from cytotoxic chemotherapy. Because it is not always feasible to obtain gene
      expression array information, a simplified classification, closely following that proposed by
      Cheang et al whereby a cutpoint for Ki67 labeling index of <15% was established by comparison
      with PAM50 intrinsic subtyping to differentiate between luminal A and luminal B tumours[24].
      Local quality control of Ki67 staining is important[20].

      The Oncotype Recurrence Score is a validated a 21-gene assay that is now offered as a
      commercial reference laboratory test (Oncotype DX, Genomic Health Inc. Redwood City, CA). The
      21-gene panel includes genes involved in tumour cell proliferation and hormonal response,
      characteristics that have been reported to be associated with chemotherapy response in
      general. Oncotype DX not only quantifies the likelihood of breast cancer recurrence in women
      with node-negative, oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, but also predicts the
      magnitude of chemotherapy benefit [21, 26]. Likelihood of chemotherapy benefit is reported as
      low (Recurrence Score <18, intermediate RS 18-30 and high >30).[26] The main utility of
      Oncotype DX is in the adjuvant setting where it could be a powerful tool to guide decision
      regarding the role of cytotoxic chemotherapy in hormone positive tumours. In this neoadjuvant
      study we will employ Oncotype DX to guide decision about use of chemotherapy in patients with
      tumours that have high Ki67 (>15) but low ER expression and also in the other groups that may
      have low Ki67 (<15) but high ER expression by IHC.

      The goal is to use the best combination, sequence and duration of therapy together with
      predicting and monitoring response with high fidelity in the individual patient. Further
      studies are needed to optimize treatment regimens so as to increase pathologic response rates
      and ultimately survival, with a further goal of reducing risk and adverse events.

      This study uses a tailored approach to select treatment involving the choice of NAB
      Paclitaxel and EC based on the individual patient and tumour characteristics.

      Breast Cancer Stem Cells

      It is now widely accepted that our inability to cure cancer is largely due to the presence of
      a subset of cells within a cancer that constitutes a reservoir of self sustaining [25].
      Current radiation and cytotoxic chemotherapies more effectively destroy the proliferating
      cells that form the bulk of the tumour, but are largely ineffective against the cancer stem
      cells (CSC)[26, 27]. Breast cancer was the first solid malignancy from which CSCs were
      identified[28], via specific cell surface marker proteins CD44 and epithelial cell adhesion
      molecules (EpCAM)[29, 30]. EpCAM and CD44v6 are among best available, clinically relevant
      breast cancer stem cell markers for the proof of principle work in this project [30] .

      Aptamers

      Aptamers are short, singlestranded RNA or DNA that fold into specific 3D structures and bind
      to their target molecules with high affinity and specificity[31]. Unlike antibodies, aptamers
      remain structurally stable across a wide range of temperature and storage conditions. They
      are generally nonimmunogenic, nontoxic and are 20 to 25 times smaller than monoclonal
      antibodies. Thus aptamers offer several advantages for tissue penetration and have shorter
      circulation time and faster body clearance resulting in a low background noise during imaging
      and lower radiation dose. In addition, aptamers can be produced rapidly, relatively
      inexpensively, and with high homogeneity [32, 33].

      HDACi

      Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play an important role in gene regulation. Inhibitors of HDACs
      (HDACi) are novel anticancer drugs, which induce histone (hyper) acetylation and counteract
      aberrant gene repression[34]. HDACi also evoke nonhistone protein acetylation, which can
      alter signalling networks relevant for tumorigenesis and these agents can also promote the
      degradation of (proto) oncoproteins. Adult stem cells are maintained in a quiescent state but
      are able to exit quiescence and rapidly expand and differentiate in response to stress. The
      quiescence of cancer stem cells (CSCs) is highly relevant to cancer therapy since the
      quiescent CSC is often resistant to both conventional therapy and targeted therapies. The p53
      gene plays a critical role in regulating stem cell quiescence [35]. CSCs promote chemotherapy
      and radiation resistance through an increase in DNA repair capacity and in histone H3
      deacetylation[35]. Recently the role of HDACi in moving latent or quiescent cells to an
      activated state and sensitizing them to other treatments has become a focus of investigation
      in both HIV and cancer. The HDAC inhibitors have been studied in many hematologic and solid
      malignancies but little work has focused on breast cancer and particularly CSC[36, 37]. A
      study of HDACi on quiescent CSCs in breast tumours and their radiation and chemotherapy
      responses would be of great interest in developing new therapeutic paradigms using this class
      of agents.

      NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 and NQO1*2 genotype (P187S)

      Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, (NAD+), is a coenzyme found in all cells. In metabolism,
      NAD+ is involved in reduction oxidation (redox) reactions, carrying electrons from one
      reaction to another. The coenzyme is found as NAD+, which is an oxidizing agent and forms
      NADH. This can then be used as a reducing agent. Electron transfer reactions are the main
      function of NAD+. However, it is also used in other cellular processes, the most notable one
      being a substrate of enzymes that add or remove chemical groups from proteins, in
      posttranslational modifications. There is evidence that genetic variants in oxidative stress
      related genes predict resistance to chemotherapy in primary breast cancer and that germline
      polymorphisms can affect chemotherapy sensitivity in patients with breastcancer[38].

      The status of superoxide dismutases and NAD (P) H quinone oxidoreductases have prognostic
      significance in breast carcinomas[39]. The NQO1 enzyme guards against oxidative stress and
      carcinogenesis and stabilizes p53 tumor suppressor[40, 41]. NQO1 deficient mice show reduced
      p53 induction and apoptosis. NQO1*2 is a missense variant (NP_000894:p.187P4S) that is
      homozygous in 4-20% of human population[42]. Cells with the homozygous NQO1*2 genotype have
      no measurable NQO1 activity, reflecting the very low levels of the NQO1 P187S protein, which
      undergoes rapid turnover via the ubiquitin proteasome pathway[43]. Response to epirubicin is
      impaired in NQO1*2homozygous breast carcinoma cells in vitro, reflecting both p53linked and
      p53independentroles of NQO1. A potential defective anthracycline response in NQO1deficient
      breast tumors may confer increased genomic instability promoted by elevated reactive oxygen
      species, and suggest that the NQO1 genotype is a prognostic and predictive marker for breast
      cancer. A homozygous common missense variant (NQO1*2, rs1800566(T), NM_000903.2:c.558C4T)
      that disables NQO1 strongly has been shown to predicts poor survival among two independent
      series of women with breast cancer, an effect particularly evident after anthracycline based
      adjuvant chemotherapy with epirubicin[44]. As part of this study the NQO1*2 genotype status
      of all patients will be assessed. A correlation can be explored between NQO1*2 genotype
      status and response rate in this setting. The study will evaluate the feasibility and safety
      of tailored primary systemic therapy in the study population.
    
  