
    
      Screening (-7 days to Day 0)

        -  Physical exam and medical history;

        -  Vital signs;

        -  Blood tests;

        -  Pain measurements (6 daily pain questionnaires for 7 days prior to receiving study
           drug);

        -  Urine tests;

        -  Pregnancy test;

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG), a tracing of the electrical activity of the heart;

        -  Collection of demographic information (age, sex, ethnic origin);

      Study Drug:

      SP-SAP will be administered via a spinal injection. Depending on when the subject is enrolled
      in the study, the dose of SP-SAP will be between 1 and 90 micrograms of SP-SAP

      Therapy:

      Subject will arrive at the UTSW Eugene McDermott Center for Pain Management 2 hours prior to
      treatment. The following will take place:

        -  Physical exam;

        -  Pain measurements (6 pain questionnaires);

        -  EKG;

        -  The subject will have a catheter inserted into their spine and will receive the study
           drug intrathecally (into their spine). The catheter will remain in their spine for 4
           hours. Less than 1 tablespoon of spinal fluid will be collected for research purposes;
           and

        -  They will remain in the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center Hospital for 24
           hours for observation as a precaution.

      Follow-Up will occur weekly for 8 weeks and then monthly for 4 months as needed.

      During these visits the following will take place:

        -  Physical exam (including sensory and motor skills) and medical history;

        -  Vital signs;

        -  Two tablespoons of blood will be drawn from your arm by needle stick for blood tests;

        -  Pain measurements (6 pain questionnaires);

        -  Urine tests; and

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG), a tracing of the electrical activity of the heart.

      The subject will be asked to keep a diary to record any nausea and vomiting as well as a
      medication log to record the pain medications and dosage that they take between visits.

      Each visit will take approximately 2 hours to complete

      4 Month Follow-Up Informational data on the level of pain, adverse events, and sensory and
      motor function will be collected for the remaining 4 months of the study or until time of
      death. This information may be collected via patient diary, office visit or telephone
      interview.
    
  