
    
      This was a single site, single dose, open-label study with one group of male or female
      patients between 18-80 years old with a diagnosis of Probable or Definite Amyotrophic Lateral
      Sclerosis (ALS) according to revised El-Escorial Criteria. Patients seen in the ALS Clinic at
      the University of Florida were screened to determine eligibility for participation in the
      study according to the specified inclusion/exclusion criteria. Following informed consent and
      enrollment, subjects were given a complete physical and neurological examination including
      the validated Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale-Revised (ALSFRS-R).
      Swallowing safety was assessed using the gold standard Videofluoroscopic Swallowing Study
      (VFSS) to allow direct visualization of the swallowing process and any episodes of
      penetration or aspiration were quantified using the validated Penetration Aspiration Scale
      (PAS). Subjects participated in a standardized protocol that includes 11 bolus stimuli
      presentations of different liquid and food materials to test swallowing function using a
      progression of textures and materials. Immediately following this assessment, subjects were
      given a single dose of ROSF 50 mg, placed on the median lingual sulcus of the dorsum of the
      tongue (area under the tongue on the midline groove that separates the surface of the tongue
      into right and left halves). Three minutes after the administration of ROSF, the identical
      standardized VFSS protocol was re-administered to allow a comparison of swallowing safety
      (using the PAS scale) pre- versus post-ROSF administration.

      The original plan was to enroll 30 patients for a final sample size of 25 completed patients.
      The protocol stipulated that, depending upon the study enrollment rate, the Sponsor could
      elect to perform an interim analysis using available data from the subset of subjects who had
      completed the study at that time. An interim assessment of the data was performed after 8
      subjects had completed the study and a ninth patient had been screened and was awaiting VFSS.
      With agreement from the FDA, the Sponsor decided to terminate the study after 9 completed
      patients, based on the analysis of the first 8 completed patients showing no evidence of a
      harmful effect of one dose of ROSF 50 mg on swallowing function.
    
  