
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the change in endoxifen levels after an increase in tamoxifen citrate dose
           from 20 mg to 40 mg in women with breast cancer or ductal breast carcinoma in situ with
           intermediate-metabolizing CYP2D6 genotypes.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the tolerability of increasing the dose of tamoxifen citrate from 20 to 40
           mg per day in these patients.

        -  To assess the feasibility of obtaining pharmacogenomic information from patients in the
           clinical setting and using it to guide changes in therapy.

        -  To examine CYP2D6 allele frequencies and endoxifen levels among African-American women
           taking tamoxifen citrate.

        -  To evaluate the change in plasma endoxifen levels after an increase in the tamoxifen
           citrate dose from 20 mg to 40 mg daily in patients with poor-metabolizing genotypes.

        -  To study patient understanding of pharmacogenomics and obstacles to participation in
           clinical trials based upon germline DNA.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline to determine CYP2D6 genotype and tamoxifen citrate
      metabolic status: poor-metabolizing (PM), intermediate-metabolizing (IM), or
      extensive-metabolizing (EM) alleles. Samples are also analyzed for plasma levels of endoxifen
      and N-desmethyltamoxifen and for endoxifen/N-desmethyltamoxifen ratio. Patients found to be
      IM or PM are notified to increased tamoxifen citrate to 40 mg/day for 4 months (in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity) with repeat endoxifen and N-desmethyltamoxifen levels (and
      the ratio) at the end of this time.

      All patients complete Quality Of Life (QOL) and Menopausal Symptoms Scale (MSS)
      questionnaires at baseline and after 4 months of treatment. Toxicities are assessed at the
      end of 4 months. Patients undergo repeat questionnaire assessment of their understanding of
      the use of pharmacogenomics in clinical decision-making. Some patients also undergo a
      30-minute, baseline interview regarding attitudes and experience towards participation in a
      pharmacogenomics study.

      Patients who choose to be informed of the results of their genotyping are contacted by
      letter, along with their physicians, and offered genetic counseling to discuss the
      significance of these results.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3-6 months, including toxicity
      assessment and QOL and MSS questionnaires.
    
  