
    
      Promoting child mental health in low-resource or low-income country settings faces numerous
      challenges in global health research. Although efforts have been made to improve mental
      health interventions and services for young children, evidence-based interventions (EBIs) for
      children in low-and middle-income countries (LMICs) are limited. Most mental health EBIs in
      LMICs have not been scaled widely, and do not focus on early childhood. Mechanisms of action
      and effectiveness are not well understood. Additionally, most EBIs in LMICs rely on community
      health workers (CHWs) or a task-shifting approach of implementation because of resource
      barriers and shortage of mental health professionals (MHPs). However, challenges related to
      task-shifting (e.g., CHW stress and job burnout) have rarely been studied. For task-shifting
      to be successful, strategies to overcome challenges faced by CHWs and understanding
      mechanisms to conduct effective task-shifting are paramount. The overall goal of this study
      is to address these EBI effectiveness and implementation knowledge gaps by providing a
      preventive EBI (ParentCorps-Professional Development; PD) that utilizes a task-shifting and a
      scalable implementation model to promote early childhood students' mental health in a
      LMIC-Uganda. PD is a school-based EBI and preventive mental health service provision model
      that supports teachers and school personnel to apply EBI strategies to promote young
      children's mental health. The PD approach represents a task-shifting model of mental
      healthcare by shifting mental health preventive duties from professionals to teachers to
      optimize school children's mental health. Therefore, teachers are considered as CHWs. This
      study examines impacts and cost-effectiveness of the EBI/PD on teachers and students, as well
      as examines underlying mechanisms (or theories of change) that contribute to intervention
      effect. In addition, considering most Ugandan teachers (or CHWs) experience occupational
      stress that threatens PD uptake, effectiveness, and sustainment, this study will also test a
      teacher stress management package (T-Wellness, adapted from EBIs) as an enhancement to PD.
      This study will investigate whether PD + T-Wellness (PDT) is more effective for CHWs/teachers
      than PD alone.
    
  