
    
      Aim 1: Determine if vascular dysfunction is a mechanism for excessive fatigability in people
      with Pre-D.

      Aim 1.1. Compare leg blood flow and skeletal muscle oxygenation in response to dynamic
      fatiguing exercise of the lower limb between people with Pre-D, T2D and controls. Skeletal
      muscle blood flow through the femoral artery will be quantified with Doppler ultrasonography
      and skeletal muscle oxygenation will be measured with near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS)
      during a dynamic fatiguing knee extension exercise. Hypothesis: People with Pre-D will have a
      blunted leg blood flow response and lower skeletal muscle oxygenation during dynamic
      fatiguing exercise than matched controls, but less than people with T2D.

      Aim 1.2. Determine endothelial vascular function at macro- and micro-vascular levels in
      people with Pre-D. Nitric oxide-mediated dilation will be assessed in vivo with flow-mediated
      dilation (FMD) of the femoral artery using Doppler ultrasonography and ex-vivo with both
      flow-induced and acetylcholine-induced dilation of isolated arterioles extracted from vastus
      lateralis muscle biopsies using videomicroscopy from the same participants studied in Aim
      1.1. Hypothesis: Participants with vascular dysfunction (reduced nitric oxide-mediated
      dilation in the femoral artery and isolated skeletal muscle arteriole) will have increased
      fatigability.

      Aim 2: Assess the vascular mechanisms for improved blood flow and fatigability in response to
      dynamic exercise training with blood flow restriction in people with Pre-D. People with Pre-D
      and T2D will perform 8 weeks of bilateral dynamic strength training with and without BFR.
      Hypothesis 2: Vascular function and fatigability will improve with dynamic resistance
      exercise training coupled with BRF, and these improvements will be greater than exercise
      training without BFR.
    
  