
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of two Phase 1 cohorts (cohort receiving
      succimer [DMSA] and cohort receiving edetate calcium disodium [Ca-EDTA]) in acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients undergoing therapy combined with
      DMSA and Ca-EDTA.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the complete remission (CR) rate and the 1-year overall survival (OS) rate in
      AML patients and the CR rate, partial remission (PR) rate and 6-month cytogenetic response in
      MDS patients undergoing MDS/AML therapy combined with DMSA and Ca-EDTA.

      II. To assess overall survival in AML and MDS patients undergoing AML and MDS therapy
      combined with DMSA and Ca-EDTA.

      III. To assess remission duration in AML and MDS patients undergoing AML and MDS therapy
      combined with DMSA and Ca-EDTA.

      IV. To monitor toxic and essential metal levels during AML and MDS therapy combined with DMSA
      and Ca-EDTA and to evaluate the reduction in metals in the bone marrow and blood of newly
      diagnosed AML and MDS patients undergoing metal detoxification combined with standard AML/MDS
      therapy.

      V. To evaluate the safety profile in AML and MDS patients undergoing AML and MDS therapy
      combined with DMSA and Ca-EDTA.

      VI. Correlate metal and copper isotopic abundance ratios of AML and MDS patients with
      clinical data, conventional cytogenetics, extensive next generation sequencing (NGS)
      (300-gene panel), exposure survey data, and clinical outcome data.

      VII. Estimate the progression rate in MDS patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate the degree of metal chelation with the degree of therapeutic response and
      minimal residual disease (MRD).

      II. To collect environmental exposure data on the environmental health assessment survey.

      III. To assess P53 folding before and after the first dose of Ca-EDTA chelation in MDS and
      AML patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: During standard of care chemotherapy, patients receive edetate calcium disodium
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes for 4 doses for each cycle. Treatment continues for up to
      6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also
      receive up to 12 multivitamin capsules PO daily while on study.

      COHORT II: During standard of care chemotherapy, patients receive succimer orally (PO) for 8
      days of each cycle. Treatment continues for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive up to 12 multivitamin capsules PO
      daily while on study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-12 months for up to 10
      years.
    
  