
    
      Background In 2015 the Norwegian government, after initiative from user organizations,
      decided to implement medication free inpatient treatment units. The goal is to secure real
      options to medication for psychiatric illness, and to gather experiences with medication free
      options. Freedom of choice is a main concern. (Aksjon for medisinfrie tilbud) The local unit
      under study DPS døgn Moenga at Akershus University Hospital has been given the assignment of
      developing a medication free treatment unit. This is an inpatient treatment unit for
      voluntary, planned treatment. High suicidal risk, severe acting out, active drug abuse etc.
      is excluded. The treatment program is 8 weeks long.

      Status of knowledge The project has been controversial, especially with reference to the
      status of knowledge. Critiques have stated that the knowledge base for treating serious
      psychiatric disorders without medication is lacking (Gundersen, 2016; Røssberg, 2016).
      Concerns are raised about whether it can be harmful (Røssberg, 2016), whether it is necessary
      (Røssberg, Andreassen, & Malt, 2016) and whether it creates unfortunate dividing lines within
      health care (Røssberg et al., 2016). National guidelines recommend considering/offering
      medication for bipolar disorders, deep depression and psychosis (Helsedirektoratet, 2009,
      2012, 2013). On the other hand, the knowledge base for use of psychotropic drugs is also
      being questioned, especially regarding long term effects (Bentall, 2009; Forand & DeRubeis,
      2013; Moncrieff, 2009; Sohler et al., 2016; Whitaker, 2010/2014 (no), 2016). Studies on
      medication are amongst others criticized for not taking withdrawal effect sufficiently into
      account (Bentall, 2009; Forand & DeRubeis, 2013; Moncrieff, 2009; Whitaker, 2010/2014 (no),
      2016). A randomized controlled study by Wunderink, Nieboer, Wiersma, Sytema, and Nienhuis
      (2013) indicates a follow up period of at least 3 years is necessary to see the benefits of
      drug reduction regarding antipsychotics.

      Summing up, one can argue that generally, a considerable research base point to psychosocial
      treatment methods having an important place in the treatment of most psychiatric problems
      (Lambert, 2013; Wampold, 2001; Wampold & Imel, 2015). The more specific questions regarding
      pure psychosocial treatment for serious disorders and long term effects of psychotropic drugs
      are at least disputable, and probably under-researched.

      Research questions

        1. Does medication free treatment differ from treatment as usual? Patient characteristics,
           treatment received, experience, medication use.

        2. Why do patients choose medication free treatment? What are their reasons? What
           experiences lead to this wish?

        3. What is the outcome of medication free treatment compared to treatment as usual?
           Hypotheses The treatment outcome of medication free treatment is not inferior to
           treatment as usual.

      Patients in medication free treatment will use less medication. Medication withdrawal may
      affect outcome in the short run.

      Project methodology The design of the study is a mixed methods, observational design within a
      naturalistic treatment setting using qualitative and quantitative methods to address the
      research questions.

      Moenga consist of two units, the medication free unit and a regular unit, which will be
      included for comparison. In addition we include a treatment unit on a different location for
      comparison; DPS Myrvegen. We aim for at least 200 n.

      One complication is that this autumn it was decided that the units at Moenga shall move and
      reorganize sometime during 2018. This entail change of location, possible reorganizing of
      personnel and that the comparison unit at Moenga is joined with another inpatient unit at the
      new location. This may cause disruptions that can affect our results. We will study possible
      effects of this in our data, and may exclude parts of the gathered data and prolong the
      inclusion period.

      We will collect survey data at start of treatment, weekly during treatment, at end of
      treatment (Work package 1), and at 6 months, 1 year, 2 years and 3 years follow up (work
      package 3). Register data will be collected 3 years back and 3 years follow up (work package
      3). Patient interviews (work package 2) and personnel interviews (work package 4) are
      performed during spring 2018, the patient interviews near the end of the treatment stay. See
      measures for details.

      Plan for data analyses Quantitative and qualitative analyses will be done according to the
      research questions. We will seek to compare the medication free unit and treatment as usual.
      Calculating propensity scores in the observational part of the study will be considered, to
      balance comparison groups (Austin, 2011).

      Statistical power Exact power calculations are only possible in concrete, delimited
      statistical designs, and must necessarily be based on assumptions not always known before
      starting the study. In a design with 200 persons the total effect of one-way analysis of
      variance yield a statistical power of .80 for small to medium effect sizes. That is, the
      probability of detecting differences between groups will be .80 for effect sizes in the range
      .40 -.50. For pairwise comparisons between groups (with N=50), the probability of detecting
      effects in the range of Cohen's d >=. 40 will be about .80. In Cohen's pragmatic system,
      effect sizes with such magnitudes represent a "small to medium effect size". These
      estimations will also apply to change-scores between two points in time, given that the
      correlation between the two repeated measurements are r >= .5.

      Study plan

      Data collection:

      Work package 1: Inclusion of patients for quantitative measurements starts April 2018 with a
      12 months inclusion period. This may be prolonged if necessary.

      Work package 2: Patient interviews will be performed during spring 2018. Work package 3:
      Follow up measures and register data will be collected until spring 2022.

      Work package 4: Personnel interviews will be performed during spring 2018. Analysis
      Qualitative analyses will be performed within end of 2018. Quantitative analyses will start
      January 2019 Publishing Publishing of the results in scientific papers will take place mainly
      in 2019-2023.

      Articles

        1. "Medication free treatment: Does it differ from treatment as usual?" This article will
           address research question 1 and include qualitative data, Collaborate, BMQ, Inspire,
           CSQ-8, WAI, treatment received, use of medication and background data.

        2. "Medication free treatment: Why?" This article will address research question 2 (Why do
           patients choose medication free treatment) and include qualitative data.

        3. "Medication free treatment: Does it work?" This article will address the research
           questions and will include the outcome measures OQ-45, AII, Quality of life, HoNOs, GAF,
           CGI, drug use, diagnoses and register data. We will also look for correlations between
           use of medication and outcome, and therefore include measures of medication use.

      Research group PhD Kristin S. Heiervang, head of the research group Quality and
      implementation in Mental Health Services at Akershus university hospital, is project manager
      (principal investigator) for the project.

      Anders S. Wenneberg, specialist in clinical psychology, is the leader of the inpatient
      treatment facility. Wenneberg is also the project manager of the "Medication Free Treatment"
      at Akershus University Hospital, Moenga.

      Ole André Solbakken is associate professor of clinical psychology and head of section at the
      Department of Psychology, University of Oslo.

      Odd Arne Tjersland is professor of clinical psychology at the Department of Psychology,
      University of Oslo.

      Jon T. Monsen is professor of clinical psychology at the Department of Psychology, University
      of Oslo.

      Allan Abbass is professor, psychiatrist, and founding Director of the Centre for Emotions and
      Health at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Canada.

      Kari Standal will be the PhD candidate. She is a psychologist at Akershus university
      hospital, specialized in adult treatment and psychotherapy (group treatment and affect
      consciousness).

      Jill Arild, board member of "Mental Helse" and leader of the action group for medication free
      treatment is user represantive in the project.

      Astrid Ringen Martinsen is a psychology student who will write her main thesis on the
      qualitative patient data.

      Ingrid Engeseth Brakstad is a psychology student who will write her main thesis on the
      qualitative personnel data.
    
  