
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The investigators have shown that undiagnosed sleep disordered breathing is prevalent for
      both men and women throughout the range of middle age; multidisciplinary research findings
      suggest that untreated sleep disordered breathing may lead to significant behavioral and
      cardiovascular morbidity. The relative risks are of direct application to public health
      estimates of: How much behavioral and cardiovascular morbidity would be eliminated if
      prevalence of untreated sleep disordered breathing were significantly reduced? How much
      reduction in sleep disordered breathing prevalence could be achieved by eliminating the
      modifiable etiologic factors? Should high risk groups be targeted for early detection of risk
      factor reduction programs?

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study quantified the etiologic role of hypothesized risk factors for sleep disordered
      breathing, described progression of the pathophysiologic process, and tested causal
      hypotheses of adverse health outcomes. The study was conducted on a unique, established
      cohort of over 800 subjects, representative of middle-aged employed adults. Extensive
      baseline polysomnographic and other data were available on the established cohort of 800
      subjects; additional cohorts of 50 perimenopausal women and 200 older adults were added for
      maximum study power. The research resulted in longitudinal data, over a 5-9 year period, on
      multiple parameters of sleep, breathing, risk factors and outcomes. The independent relative
      risks were calculated with multivariate techniques to express the temporal relationships for
      sleep disordered breathing etiologic factors and for consequences of sleep disordered
      breathing.

      The study was renewed in 1993 and used longitudinal studies to focus on specific questions of
      greatest relevance to public health, namely: the roles of aging and menopause in the
      development of sleep-disordered breathing and the effect of sleep disordered breathing on
      hypersomnolence and systemic hypertension.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  