
    
      Cutaneous melanoma is increasing in incidence. UK incidence has quadrupled since 1970. With
      corresponding increased public skin cancer awareness, GPs are frequently asked to examine
      pigmented lesions. Definitively diagnosing melanoma on clinical features alone is extremely
      challenging and many lesions exhibiting worrying features require a skin biopsy. Existing
      guidelines discourage initial primary care biopsy of suspicious skin lesions despite evidence
      that it leads to earlier diagnosis and may benefit patients and the NHS.

      Results from Previous Research To the investigators conducted the first blinded study
      comparing relative performance of primary and secondary care in excising melanomas and found
      patients receiving initial excision of melanoma in primary care were no more likely to have
      it inadequately excised than those initially biopsied in secondary care. In a further study,
      we found that patients receiving their initial diagnostic excision biopsy for melanoma in
      primary versus secondary care were no more likely to be dead, or to have died of metastatic
      malignant melanoma. Patients who had their initial diagnostic excision biopsy for melanoma in
      primary care had significantly fewer subsequent hospital admissions and spent fewer days in
      hospital.

      Aims

        1. To determine whether there is any difference in mortality for people diagnosed with
           cutaneous melanoma in Scotland between 2005-2013 following initial excision in primary
           versus secondary care.

        2. To determine whether there is any difference in morbidity following initial excision in
           primary versus secondary care.

      Research Questions

        1. Is there a difference in survival between people having initial excision of melanoma in
           primary versus secondary care?

        2. Is there a difference in subsequent risk of death from recurrent melanoma between those
           having initial excision of melanoma in primary versus secondary care?

        3. Do people having initial excision of cutaneous melanoma in primary care versus secondary
           care subsequently have more hospital admissions?

        4. Do people having initial excision of cutaneous melanoma in primary care versus secondary
           care subsequently have more outpatient attendances?

      Methods Data from four national datasets will be linked: the Scottish Cancer Registry
      (SMR06); general/acute inpatient and day cases (SMR01), outpatients (SMR00) and the GRO(S)
      death registry. Following approval via the PBPP mechanism the data will be linked and
      provided to the research team by Dr Fiona Campbell and team and the Information Statistics
      Division of the NHS in Scotland, Edinburgh.

      The Scottish Cancer Registry is maintained by the Information Services Division (ISD) and has
      been collecting information on cancer since 1958. Approximately 47,000 registrations are made
      annually in Scotland and the database currently holds over 1,500,000. The registry has high
      levels of completeness and accuracy, with notifications from hospital, pathology, and death
      records. Date of diagnosis, 'stage' at diagnosis, (Breslow thickness and Clark levels),
      histological verification, tumour grade, initial treatment received and treatment dates are
      all recorded.

      The Scottish Morbidity Record SMR01 database is an episode-based record containing all
      general/acute inpatient and day cases discharged from Scottish hospitals. The quality of the
      database has been assured. The Scottish Morbidity Record SMR00 database records all new
      outpatient attendances, although recording of re-attendances is variable. Diagnosis is not
      recorded on SMR00, but hospital speciality and outpatient procedures are. General Register
      Office for Scotland (GROS) Death Registry data include date of death, primary and secondary
      causes.

      Data Linkage Following appropriate approvals all individuals in the Scottish Cancer Registry
      recorded with cutaneous melanoma between 2005- 2013 will be linked to SMR01, SMR00, and
      GRO(S) using the CHI number, a unique patient identifying number issued to every person
      registered with a GP in Scotland used to link health data for research purposes.

      For all individuals with cutaneous melanoma, SMR01 data for 10 years prior to cancer
      diagnosis will be used to construct co-morbidity scores in two ways. First, principal and
      supplementary diagnostic codes from hospital attendances and admissions will be used to
      construct Charlson scores. These scores are used to predict prognosis based on age and
      comorbid conditions. With each increased level of the comorbidity index the cumulative
      mortality attributable to comorbid disease increases in a step-wise fashion. The Charlson
      score, an estimate of 10-year survival can be used in longitudinal studies. A second proxy
      co-morbidity score will be constructed from total number of inpatient bed days during a
      pre-defined interval preceding presentation with cancer.

      The date of cutaneous melanoma diagnosis will be the date of issue of the pathology report,
      which will be available for all individuals included in the cohort.

      Data Storage Once linked these data will be placed into the National Data Safe Haven where it
      will be accessed remotely by the members of the research team approved to access it. These
      data will be accessible by the team for 3 months and subsequently archived for 5 years in
      full compliance with the Research and Information Governance Procedures of the NHS in
      Scotland, ISD and the National Safe Haven.

      Main Outcomes

        1. All all-cause survival from the date of melanoma diagnosis.

        2. Cause-specific survival (including recurrent melanoma) from date of melanoma diagnosis.

        3. Total number of hospital attendances (inpatient and outpatient visits) and total number
           of days from date of melanoma diagnosis.

      Main Exposure Location of primary excision, (primary or secondary care) - identified from
      electronic histopathology records.

      Other Independent Variables Patient level: age, gender, residence category, deprivation ,
      Charlson co-morbidity score; inpatient bed days; type of biopsy type; anatomical site;
      melanoma type; Breslow depth and Clark level.

      Operator level: operator specialty (plastic surgeon, dermatologist, other hospital
      specialist, GP frequent exciser, volume of biopsies submitted.

      Statistical Analysis Analyses will be conducted using a hierarchical, multilevel framework,
      with patients nested within operators. Estimated survival probability at the end of follow up
      will be obtained. Univariate Cox regression will be used to compare survival probabilities
      between individuals receiving initial diagnostic excision biopsy in primary versus secondary
      care. Cox proportional hazards regression, with robust standard error estimates, will be used
      to explore associations between patient-and operator-level factors with all-cause and
      melanoma related mortality.

      To explore morbidity, number and duration of admissions and outpatient attendances (all and
      individual specialty) will be calculated for each individual for each year following
      diagnosis. Association between location of initial diagnostic excision biopsy and morbidity
      will be examined using GLMs with (a) a Poisson distribution and log link function for outcome
      factors which are counts (b) a Binomial distribution and log link function for outcome
      factors which are binary, and (c) a Gaussian distribution and identity link function for
      outcome factors which are continuous. Models will be unadjusted and then adjusted for
      patient-and operator-level factors.

      Analyses will use Stata (version 13) or MLwiN software. A p-value of < 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant throughout.
    
  