
    
      Varenicline has shown to increase abstinence rates compared to other pharmacological
      interventions (including nicotine patch) or placebo in outpatients with psychiatric
      disorders. Safety of varenicline in this population has also been stated as adverse events
      are similar to other smoking cessation medications.

      Taking into account that varenicline has shown to increase abstinence rates in outpatients
      with psychiatric disorders compared to other smoking cessation medications, and no previous
      studies have measured the impact of initiating varenicline during psychiatric
      hospitalization, this study will compare varenicline to nicotine patch initiated during
      hospitalization on smoking abstinence rates (treatment will last 12 weeks; and there will be
      additional 4 weeks of non-treatment).

      Regarding safety, inpatient wards are probably the best setting to test safety as any adverse
      effect can be reported immediately and in case of an intervention needed, this can be
      provided at once.

      This study will have three phases: screening phase (1), treatment phase (2a and 2b), and
      non-treatment phase (3).

        1. Screening phase: Psychiatrists and psychologists will be responsible for informing to
           potential participants about the study, and check eligibility for each patient.
           Investigators will give informed consent and information sheet to the participant, and
           all doubts will be resolved appropriately. If subject decides to participate the
           informed consent will be signed. The screening period will take place during first 72
           hours after admission and participants will be randomized before 96 hours after
           admission.

        2. Treatment phase: Treatment will take 12 weeks, therefore varenicline and nicotine patch
           will be dispensed during hospitalization and after discharge up to complete 12 weeks.
           All participants randomized to varenicline will be titrated to the full dose during the
           first week and continued up to week 12 following standard dosage. This would be
           independent of time of discharge, so patients will continue the same treatment after
           discharge up to complete the 12 weeks. Patients randomized to nicotine patch will
           receive 8 weeks of 21mg patch followed by 2 weeks of 14 mg patch and 2 weeks of 7 mg
           patch.

             1. During hospitalization: All participants will be assessed regarding their
                psychiatric and drug use history (including smoking) as well as past and current
                psychiatric disorders diagnosed by their psychiatrist. Adverse events (volunteered,
                observed, or solicited) will be also evaluated and recorded by their psychiatrist.
                Serious adverse events will be considered as an untoward medical occurrence at any
                dose that results in death, or is life-threatening, or requires prolongation of the
                hospitalization, or results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or
                results in congenital anomaly birth defect (following the same criteria of other
                studies). In case of serious adverse events (SAEs) at any point of the study,
                Principal Investigators will report to Pfizer within 24 hours of first awareness of
                the event. Cigarette Dependence, Tobacco withdrawal, Global Clinical Impression,
                nicotine use, suicide ideation/behavior, anxiety and depression will be assessed
                via scales and questionnaires by a trained smoking cessation psychologist. This
                psychologist will be also in charge of delivering weekly a motivationally tailored
                smoking cessation group counseling (30-45 minutes) following an adaptation of the
                manualized curriculum. A nurse will be responsible for measuring the end-expiratory
                exhaled CO, record body height and weight, vital signs (blood pressure and heart
                rate) and dispense medication.

             2. After discharge: There will be weekly visits until week 5, and visits at weeks 7, 9
                and 12. Post-hospitalization visits will include tobacco use assessment, mental
                health assessment, adverse-events assessment, smoking cessation counseling and
                varenicline or nicotine patch delivery up to following visit. A psychiatrist will
                be responsible for assessing adverse-events and mental health. A psychologist will
                be responsible for delivering smoking cessation counseling tailored to each
                participant's needs according to the manualized curriculum and assessing tobacco
                use, withdrawal, suicide ideation/behavior, Global Clinical Impression, anxiety and
                depression. Counseling and mental health assessment will be conducted by the same
                professional whenever possible. A nurse will be responsible for measuring the
                end-expiratory exhaled CO, record body weight, vital signs (blood pressure and
                heart rate) and dispense medication. Whenever participant does not attend a study
                visit, counseling and Nicotine Use Inventory (NUI) will be delivered by telephone.

        3. Non-treatment phase: This will include a telephone visit at week 14 and a face-to-face
           visit at week 16. Telephone visit will be made by the psychologist and it will include
           tobacco use assessment and smoking cessation counseling. A psychiatrist will be
           responsible for assessing adverse-events and mental health at week 16 visit and a
           psychologist will assess tobacco use, withdrawal, suicide ideation/behavior, Global
           Clinical Impression, anxiety and depression, and deliver smoking cessation counseling.
           Counseling and mental health assessment will be conducted by the same professional
           whenever possible. Also at this point,an End-of-study questionnaire will be completed. A
           nurse will be responsible for measuring the end-expiratory exhaled CO, record body
           weight and vital signs (blood pressure and heart rate). Whenever participant does not
           attend a study visit, NUI will be delivered by telephone. In case of early termination
           at any point of the study, an End-of-study questionnaire will be also completed.
    
  