
    
      (Based on Protocol of 27 October 2015 approved by the Regional Committee for Medical and
      Health Research Ethics 17 December 2015, with some adjustments of June and August 2016.)

      BACKGROUND: During the last two decades, several evidence-based practices and clinical
      guidelines have been developed to improve treatment for psychoses. But there is limited
      knowledge on to what extent guidelines and evidence-based practices for psychoses are
      implemented in everyday routine practice in Norway and elsewhere, and on how implementation
      support and readiness for change influence the implementation process and degree of
      implementation. There is even less knowledge whether implementation of clinical guidelines
      and evidence-based practices actually improves clinical outcome and patient satisfaction in
      routine practice. In efficacy studies that guidelines build upon, clinicians may be
      especially skilled and motivated, and patients with additional problems are often excluded.
      But in routine practice non-selected clinicians are expected to implement evidence-based
      practices in treatment of unselected patients. FIDELITY SCALES: Fidelity measures for
      implementation have been developed for several evidence-based practices in treatments for
      psychoses, giving data on whether a clinical team or program have implemented key components
      of the specific evidence-based model. IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT: Research has shown that several
      strategies need to be combined both on the system level and for clinicians to achieve a
      successful implementation of a new practice. Strategies include engaging leaders and
      clinicians, understanding of the needs to change practice, supervision frequently over some
      time with small group discussions on feedback from fidelity assessments and other measures,
      toolkits with a practice manual and other tools to help implement the practice, a "kickoff"
      to build enthusiasm, and initial training for the practitioners. The implementation support
      must be reasonably intensive during the first months, must be sensitive to site-specific
      conditions, and helpful to implementers through three phases of implementation: building
      momentum for change, making the changes, and reinforcing the changes. Clinicians' readiness
      to change seems to be an important factor in the implementation process.

      SETTING: The mental health clinics of six of the 19 Norwegian health trusts are partners in
      the project, representing three of the four health regions in Norway and serving a population
      of 1.9 million (38 % of Norway's population). Altogether they have 30 community mental health
      centers (CMHCs), each serving a specific area and population in collaboration with other
      departments. The target group for the project is persons with psychoses served by these
      mental health services.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      RQ1.What is the current level of implementation of evidence-based practices recommended in
      the national clinical guidelines for treatment of persons with psychoses? RQ2.How and to what
      degree Is the implementation of evidence-based practices influenced by an implementation
      support program and by clinician readiness for change? RQ3.Does implementation of
      evidence-based practices improve patient clinical course and patient satisfaction with the
      services?

      HYPOTHESES

      (H1).Current implementation of evidence-based practices is low. (H2).Implementation support
      for an evidence-based practice gives significant increase in implementation of the practice
      compared to no such support. (H3).Higher implementation of evidence-based practices is
      associated with better patient clinical course and higher patient satisfaction with the
      services.

      DESIGN

      Pairwise randomized study in six health trusts on implementation of the four evidence-based
      practices physical health care, antipsychotic medication, family psychoeducation, and illness
      management and recovery. Data on model fidelity and patient course/experience are collected
      at baseline and after 6, 12 and 18 months. 39 clinical units (CMHCs/departments) choose two
      practices and receive implementation support on one for 18 months after randomization. RQ1 is
      answered from baseline data, and RQ2 and RQ3 from data after 6-18 months compared with
      baseline.

      THE IMPLEMENTATION STUDY (Study of health services)

      The unit of analysis for the implementation study is the CMHC/department. CMHCs are the
      primary type of clinical units because they give a whole range of outpatient and inpatient
      services over time for the population in a local area, including for persons with psychosis.
      But other departments serving patients with psychosis may also participate in the study.

      Primary outcome measure is fidelity to models for the four evidence-based practices. Each
      practice covering a set of core recommendations in the Norwegian guidelines, has been chosen
      based on a set of specific criteria (see below) and on a survey among the units
      (CMHCs/departments) in May 2015 on their interest for five evidence-based practices. Each
      unit chooses two practices that they will implement. For each unit one practice is randomized
      to implementation support and the other to be control with no implementation support.

      Power calculation with 5% two-tailed significance and 90% power based on data from the US
      National Evidence Based Project (US NEBP) shows that 8 units are needed in each arm to show
      that implementation support for a practice gives a significant increase in fidelity compared
      to baseline with low fidelity. Average fidelity scores in the US NEBP project for five
      practices and 51 sites with implementation support were 2.28 at baseline and 3.76 after 12
      months, with effect size 1.70.

      The four practices for randomization were selected based on specific criteria like covering
      guidelines recommendation with high evidence and/or importance, considered to be among core
      elements in services for persons with psychosis, fidelity scales were available or could be
      developed, relevance for most patients with psychosis, and the required competence is
      available or within reach by training. The four selected practices are described below.

      Antipsychotic medication: The model for this practice includes limiting polypharmacy,
      avoiding high doses and fast dose increase, adjusting medication to phases and situations,
      monitoring effect and side effects, and assessing and supporting adherence. As no established
      fidelity scale were found to cover the specified practice, a fidelity scale had to be
      developed.

      Family psychoeducation: Family and the patient is offered psychoeducation with frequent
      sessions over some time alone or together with other families. A model and fidelity scales
      existed for this evidence-based practice.

      Physical health care: The need for physical health care is great due to the documented higher
      morbidity and mortality of persons with schizophrenia and related psychoses. As no
      established fidelity scale were found to cover the specified practice, a fidelity scale had
      to be developed.

      Illness management and recovery (IMR): IMR is a training program with several modules with
      emphasis on illness management, independent living and personal recovery. The IMR manual and
      fidelity scales were translated to Norwegian and made available by another project.

      Emphasis on personal recovery and shared decision making are recommended in the guidelines.
      These will also be measured and included in data analyses as additional outcome measures of
      patient experiences with the services.

      Data collection in Implementation study: Fidelity assessment of the two practices in each
      clinical unit (CMHC/department) is done every 6 months independently by two fidelity
      assessors to calculate inter-rater reliability. Consensus score will be used in data
      analyses. The assessments are done at site visits where the researchers gather information
      from the sources specified in the fidelity measure (written material, interviews,
      observations and reading randomly selected patient records).

      PATIENT OUTCOMES SUBSTUDY (Clinical study of patients)

      A sub-study of patient clinical course and patient satisfaction with key elements of each
      evidence-based practice aims to measure whether the patients experience differences in
      implementation of the practices (RQ3). The unit of analysis for this sub-study is the
      patient.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients 16+ years old with psychoses (diagnosis F20-29 in the ICD-10).
      Based on national statistics the aim is to include 20% of the persons with psychoses seen by
      the mental health services during a year, which would be a total of 1074 patients (96-280 per
      health trust based on population in the area). Only patients giving written informed consent
      will be included. There are no exclusion criteria.

      The inclusion period of 6 months will start when the implementation support starts and will
      be coordinated by the local coordinator. Eligible patients already in contact with the clinic
      will be invited to take part, and new referred patients assessed to have psychosis will be
      invited consecutively until the requisite number is met. Each included patient will be
      followed for 18 months from inclusion.

      Data collection will be coordinated by the local coordinator, and done by the clinical units
      at baseline (inclusion) and after 6, 12 and 18 months, as long as the patient is in contact
      with the mental health services. Clinicians will administer questionnaires to patients and do
      clinical ratings of outcome measures.

      The project will order data extraction from official registers on use of health services,
      primary care, social benefits, prescriptions, and causes of death. This will be done for the
      whole period (18 months before inclusion and 18 months during the study) when such data will
      be available after the data collection of the study has been finished in 2018.

      ANALYSES

      Data analyses for the first available data (baseline data) will start in September 2017.

      Analyses of RQ1: The percentage of sites achieving high fidelity (4.0) will be calculated for
      each practice at baseline. The distribution of fidelity scores and exploration of
      contributing factors will also be analyzed based on data collected on implementation support
      and readiness to change.

      Analyses of RQ2: First, the experimental and control conditions on fidelity will be compared
      across time, controlling for baseline and ignoring the content of practice. This analysis
      will consist of 39 pairs of sites, measured 4 points in time. Baseline scores will be used as
      covariates. Various ANOVA analyses is considered. Second, for each practice all experimental
      sites will be compared to all control sites. The number of observation in this analysis will
      depend on how many units choose each practice. Baseline scores will be used as covariates.
      Third, within-group changes over time will be examined for each practice receiving
      implementation support, calculating effect size and determining percentage of sites achieving
      various levels of fidelity at each point in time. Readiness for change may be included as a
      moderator in these analyses.

      Analyses of RQ3: Data analysis on primary and secondary patient outcomes will include
      multi-level analysis with patient as individual level and CMHC/department (clinical unit) as
      system level. Correlations between fidelity and various patient outcomes may be done as
      secondary analyses.
    
  