
    
      1. INTRODUCTION:

           The local method of autologous bone marrow stem cells transplantation consists of
           harvesting bone marrow from the iliac crest, its separation using cell separator to
           generate ABMSCs (CD 34 positive) and their subsequent multiple injections into a limb
           suffering from chronic and critical ischemia. The aim of this therapy is to induce
           angiogenesis and vasculogenesis which would correct ischemia and hypoxia, improve tissue
           perfusion and metabolism and thus prevent limb amputation. Due to correction of hypoxia
           and ischemia by improvement of blood supply regeneration of damaged tissues is
           initiated. Improved tissue perfusion is achieved by a large number of mediators
           including growth and angiogenic factors which in turn stimulate growth of primitive
           vessel wall within the ischemic tissue, a part of healing process. In general, such
           reparative process could be divided into the initial phase characterized by the release
           of inflammatory mediators and neurotransmitters followed by phase of formation of
           primitive vascular tubes composed of the endothelial cell precursors which are later on
           adhered to and stabilized by pericyte cells. Process of angiogenesis (by sprouting as
           well as nonsprouting) takes usually between 4-6 weeks depending on degree of the initial
           tissue ischemia and hypoxia. Development of new collateral blood flow in the
           ischemic/hypoxic tissue can be monitored by the Laser Doppler - Flowmetry, level of
           Transcutaneous TcpO2 and TcpCO2, Toe Pressure and Skin Perfusion Pressure measurements,
           the Index Ankle-Arm ABI using Duplex Doppler Ultrasound, angiography, MRI or
           alternatively by common methods used in nuclear medicine. Analysis and interpretation of
           all these measurements should define degree of efficacy and safety of this therapeutic
           modality and may suggest future directions in optimization of this therapy.

        2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES:

      Primary objective: To evaluate an efficacy-safety profile of autologous bone marrow stem
      cells (ABMSCs) transplantated into chronically and critically ischemic limb (CLI) and into
      diabetic foot in stage IV Fontaine classification.

      Secondary objectives: To assess effect of ABMSCs on tissue perfusion of ischemic limb after
      transplantation by transcutaneous oximetry and the laser Doppler flowmetry using Periflux
      5000 system under normal and provocation test conditions. In addition, wound healing of
      ulcers will be evaluated using a planimetry method from photographs of affected skin taken
      pre- and post-transplantation.

      Relationship between CD 34 progenitor counts separated on gradient-density separation
      centrifuge from Harvest Technologies and overall effectiveness and safety to treat ischemic
      limb.

      Priorities: Beside assessment of effectiveness and safety of ABMSCs transplantation ultimate
      emphasis will be put on avoiding limb amputation. This has significant socioeconomic impact.
      Therefore this project belongs to the priority programs of clinical research in
      cardiovascular diseases.

      METHODOLOGY AND PATIENT RECRUITMENT:

      A total of 90 patients (45 patients per year) will be recruited over the period of 2 years
      for this study.

      Separation of ABMSCs and their application:

      Concentrate of autologous stem cells (CD 34 positive) will be separated from the bone marrow
      aspirate using the cell separator from Harvest Technologies. Bone marrow is collected from
      both iliac bone shovels according to standard Yamshidi puncture aspiration methodology.
      During this procedure the patient is under analgosedation using propophol iv bolus and
      physiological signs including blood pressure (BP), pulse, ECG, pO2 saturation are
      continuously monitored and adjusted according to needs. In brief, 240 ml of the bone marrow
      is aspirated into an aspiration set pre filed with ACD-A anticoagulant (30 ml) by
      hematologist and processed using the cell separator from Harvest Technologies. This equipment
      is easy to operate and has several advantages compared to other cell separators on the
      market. The methodology is (a) simple, easy, fast, and safe using gradient density
      centrifugation to separate all blood elements including white cells, platelets, red cells
      from collected bone marrow in centrifuge containers into a sample with 5 % hematocrit
      (containing ABMSCs and platelets) within 15 minutes. Thereafter 40 ml of sample is aspirated
      into a syringe and immediately applied by multiple injections in the ischemic limb. Whole
      procedure should take less than one hour.

      Monitoring of quality and clinical effects of ABMSCs transplantation:

      Bone marrow will be examined before and after separation of ABMSCs to assess number of CD 34
      positive progenitors as well as number of other cellular components including platelets.
      Prior- (0 days-baseline) and post transplantation (1, 7, 14, 30, 60, and 120 days) all
      patients will undergo following examinations: Laser Doppler Flowmetry - assessment of blood
      flow; measurements of transcutaneous oxygen (TcpO2) and CO2 (TcpCO2) levels with and without
      provocation test (with O2 inhalation). Complete battery of tests such as CBC and
      differential, fibrinogen and CPR will also be established. In addition, ABI-Ankle-Brachial
      Index, TP-Toe Pressure, SPP-Skin Perfusion Pressure, Rutherford and Fontaine Cathegory,
      analgetics consumption (requirements), claudication interval in non-amputated patients will
      also be monitored. These values will be collected and then correlated with the degree of
      initial ischemia/hypoxia as well as with changes in ischemia/hypoxia developed within 120
      postoperative days (6 intervals).

      4 / EXPECTED RESULTS AND THE IMPORTANCE OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT Our preliminary pilot data
      suggest that in 60% of patients suffering from chronic critical limb ischemia which failed to
      common therapy, limb amputations were prevented. In this patients leg wound healed very well
      within the 120 days following ABMSCs transplantation. This is a remarkable success when
      compared to historical controls with 100% amputations, particularly in ischemic leg at the
      end-stages with failed therapy (Rutherford 4-6 and Fontaine IV classification) of CLI and
      diabetic foot with wounds. We expect to confirm these results and set a new standard for the
      treatment of this condition with ABMSCs transplantation in Faculty Hospital Ostrava and the
      Czech Republic as well. We feel that our new treatment will have significant positive
      socioeconomic impact on our patients and entire Czech society.

      5 / MATERIALS AND HUMAN RESOURCES 5.1 Patients included in the project will be examined in
      the interventional angiology FN Ostrava laboratory were inclusion end exclusion criteria will
      be considered. They will be included to the study after completing standard revascularisation
      (Bypass or PTA-stent of the leg arteries) treatment, meeting the criteria of end-stage
      Fontaine - IV and Rutherford 4-6 classification of the CLI.

      5.2 Entrance examinations - will be carried out by the duplex doppler legs examination,
      measuring of ankle pressure, ankle-brachial index and toe pressure, measurement of SPP- skin
      perfusion pressure with laser doppler and measurement of transcutaneous TcpO2 and TcpCO2. The
      patient will have initial angiographic examination by DSA, CTA or MRA to assess depleted
      basic revascularisation treatment.

      5.3 Personnel cooperation: The candidate -Vaclav Prochazka, MD, PhD, MSc will coordinate
      patients recruitment, entry examinations carry out and will be involved in data collection
      and data management. Jaromir Gumulec, MD will participate in the bone marrow collection and
      separation and data-processing, blood samples laboratory tests and data management. Prof..
      Peter Klement, MVDr, Ph.D. will contribute to ensure the logistics and processing of
      statistical datas and ensure the publications and presentations in the foreign journals.
      Frantisek Jaluvka, MD will contribute patients hospitalisation to the surgical clinic,
      subsequent podology ambulatory care for these patients and will participate in the BMSC
      transplantatation procedure to ensure desinfection and sterility of operating environment.
      Jana Chmelova, MD. will participate on the transplantation programe procedures, data
      processing and ensuring the creation of publications.

      6 / TIME WORK PLAN During the first and second year 45 patients each will be enrolled (in
      total 90). All patients will be treated with autologous BMSC Tx and monitoring of clinical
      state with endpoints of limb amputation or wound healing will be donne. Hematology datas of
      separated bone marrow samples will be analysed and examination of peripheral venous blood
      samples laboratory datas at day 0,1,3,7,14,30 will be carried out. Entire datas of tissue
      perfusion with laser doppler flow (LDP), including provocation tests and measurements of
      TcpO2 and TcpCO2 including inhalation tests for appreciation of the tissue perfusion state
      will be evaluated. Ankle pressures with the ABI- index, SPP- skin perfusion pressure and TP-
      toe pressure will be examined. Simultaneously dynamic legs scintigraphy before and 6 months
      after the procedure will be carried out. In the non-amputated patients claudication interval
      will be tested and Rutherford plus Fontaine stage classification will be counted. In the last
      3rd year of the project, patients follow-up will continue with data files and statistical
      evaluation managements. In the 1st. and 2nd year, interim period report with the economic
      data assessment will be taken out and in the 3rd year final report will be completed.

      7 / INFORMED CONSENT Dear patient Mr/Mrs.., You have been invited by Your doctor for the
      therapeutic procedure of autologous bone marrow stem cells transplantation. You have the
      right to freely decide on about further proposed procedure (if specific legislation do not
      exclude this right) and you have the inalienable right to be fully informed about these
      procedure. Based on Your current health status, therapeutic procedure of the bone marrow stem
      cells transplantation for the treatment of chronical critical limb ischemia was designed to
      You by Your medical specialist.

      8 / CONCLUSION OF THE PROJECT The project will be prepared for publication in the Circulation
      and Stem Cell Therapy journals and will be presented at domestic and foreign angiology,
      haematology and vascular surgery meetings, with the publication of abstracts accompanied by
      IGA grant annotations.
    
  