
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess 2 doses of 5-ALA, 10kg/mg and 20kg/mg, to determine the optimum ALA dose in terms
           of both sensitivity and specificity for residual tumor. We will compare residual tumor
           detection by both in vivo qualitative and quantitative fluorescence imaging using
           histology of the biopsied tissue as the gold standard.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the correlation between the recorded in vivo qualitative assessment of
           fluorescence signal from the neurosurgeon with the post-surgical (i.e., ex vivo)
           absolute PpIX concentration detected both intraoperatively and in ex vivo tissue
           biopsies.

      Tertiary

        -  To determine the association between the presence of fluorescence in the surgical cavity
           and the post-operative image enhancement on MRI. This includes the relationship between
           the amount and location of residual tumor detected by fluorescence, PpIX concentration,
           and intra-operative frameless stereotaxy following maximal resection versus the amount
           and location of tumor imaged post-operatively via CT and/or MRI.

      OUTLINE: This study will enroll evaluable participants undergoing surgical resection of
      malignant, grade IV gliomas in both of two groups: those with , newly diagnosed GBM and those
      with recurrent GBM. Participants in each group (primary vs recurrent GBM) will be randomized
      to one of 2 levels of ALA dose (10 and20 mg/kg) to be given orally at 6 hours prior to
      anticipated midpoint of surgery.

      Participants who have consented to this protocol will be randomly assigned to one of two ALA
      dose groups. Randomization will be stratified by whether the tumor is newly diagnosed (i.e.
      de novo) or recurrent. The data center will prepare sealed, opaque envelopes with the
      randomized assignment to ALA dose and administration time and notify the pharmacy of the
      trial site so that so that the correct ALA dose can be prepared.

        -  Arm I: Newly diagnosed GBM participants receive oral aminolevulinic acid(10mg/kg)at 6
           hours before the midpoint of surgery.

        -  Arm II: Newly diagnosed GBM participants receive oral aminolevulinic acid (20mg/kg)at 6
           hours before the midpoint of surgery.

        -  Arm III: Recurrent GBM participants receive oral aminolevulinic acid (10mg/kg)at 6 hours
           before the midpoint of surgery.

        -  Arm IV: Recurrent GBM participants receive oral aminolevulinic acid (20mg/kg)at 6 hours
           before the midpoint of surgery.

      For both participants with new and recurrent disease, biopsies will be taken at up to six
      sites identified by the surgeon: in the tumor center, tumor edge, area surrounding the tumor
      (if safe), areas seen to fluoresce intraoperatively and an area with MR enhancement outside
      the tumor region (if this can be accomplished safely). Prior to collecting these biopsies
      readings will be taken at the biopsied location with the PpIX point probe by the surgeon. For
      each of the 6 biopsies, they will be divided into 3 parts and distributed for further
      analysis as follows: one portion will be sent to the pathologist for assessment of tumor
      percentage, one portion will be evaluated by the Division of Biophysics at the University of
      Toronto for PpIX concentration and the other for assessment of fluorescence.
    
  