
    
      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are either superficial or deep and may involve the organs, or
      spaces accessed during an operation. The reported incidence of SSIs in coronary artery bypass
      grafting (CABG) surgery ranges between 0.3% and 8%.

      There is a strong suggestion that an impairment of vascular supply of the sternum may be one
      of the most important factors influencing the incidence of deep sternal wound infection
      (DSWI). Several studies have studied the risk factors for SSIs including DSWI in cardiac
      surgery. These risk factors included obesity, diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD), connective tissue disease, steroid use, smoking, peripheral
      vascular disease and renal insufficiency. In addition, intraoperative factors (e.g., use of
      bilateral internal mammary arteries [BIMA] grafting, prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass [CPB]
      duration) and postoperative variables (e.g., prolonged mechanical ventilation, reoperation
      for bleeding, postoperative transfusions and gastrointestinal, nephrological and respiratory
      complications) have been shown to be associated with DSWI.

      The risk for sternal wound infection (SWI) is increased if cardiac surgery involves internal
      thoracic arteries grafting and a valve procedure, or use of a ventricular assist device.

      Leg wound infections at donor sites account for >70% of cases with severe infection following
      cardiac surgery.

      Cardiac SSIs increase the length of hospital stay (LOS) and increase treatment costs in
      proportion to the severity of the infection. These costs increase by 3.8%, 14.7% and 29.4% in
      mild, moderate and severe infections respectively.

      Treatment is often confounded by the emergence of antibiotic-resistant pathogens and in
      addition, substantial proportions of these infected patients are elderly and have co-existing
      medical problems. In the past, such elderly patients with significant comorbidities would not
      have been considered for surgery.[8] As the population ages, it is reasonable to assume that
      older and sicker patients will be admitted for surgery, and this will inevitably increase the
      risk and incidence of SSIs.
    
  