
    
      Acquired brain injury (ABI) incidence is 369 per 100,000 people internationally and 260 per
      100,000 in the UK resulting in more than 900,000 people living with the long term effects of
      a cerebrovascular accident (CVA) and over 380,000 with impairments following traumatic brain
      injury. The ABI population often experience long term health problems affecting physical
      functioning, cognition, communication, emotion and behaviour with a loss of physical
      functioning and an inability to walk highlighted as the most negative aspect by patients.
      Several studies have identified people with neurological impairment who regain walking often
      mobilise at slower speeds with a mean gait velocity of 73.07cm/s for CVA survivors (60cm/s
      slower than healthy adults).

      The gait cycle is described as having two major components, stance and swing phase. Stance
      has been determined as a pre-requisite for gait and a literature review found reduced stance
      ability correlates with gait abnormalities in CVA survivors. Consequently, given that a
      stronger and longer stance phase leads to a better swing phase and stance accounts for 60% of
      the gait cycle, stance can be considered the most important part of the gait cycle.

      A person's ability to achieve SLS can be measured using the SLS test which assesses the time
      a person can stand on one leg. SLS test has excellent intra-rater reliability with an
      intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.83 and excellent validity with a correlation of
      <10 seconds being a high predictor of mobility impairments for people with ABI. There is
      currently no definitive minimal clinical important difference (MCID) for the SLS test -
      current literature varies from 5.5 - 16.0 seconds - but as this study will assess the quality
      of each person's SLS test as opposed to the time the results will still be clinically
      relevant.

      Goal Attainment Scale (GAS) based on the single leg stance (SLS) test will be used to assess
      quality as it is responsive to change, person-specific and quantitative, able to assess
      treatment interventions at the impairment and functional level, and is suitable for assessing
      and evaluating patient outcomes in the ABI population and is frequently used within
      neuro-rehabilitation. GAS has excellent intra-rater reliability (ICC 0.88-0.93) and
      inter-rater reliability (ICC 0.95) with good concurrent and predictive and moderate to good
      content and construct validity (r=0.28-0.63) across the ABI population.

      The ten metre walk test (10MWT) will be used to assess gait efficiency. The 10MWT requires a
      patient to walk ten metres at a comfortable speed and the time taken to cover that distance
      is measured. Studies have found a relationship between reduced SLS and reduced speed in the
      10MWT with improvements in gait speed demonstrated following intervention based on SLS. It is
      also hypothesised that increased gait speed results in a more efficient and fluent gait
      pattern. Consequently, 10MWT will be used in this study to demonstrate gait velocity and
      efficiency improvements. 10MWT is also one of the most common, reliable, efficient and robust
      outcomes measures within neuro-rehabilitation. 10MWT demonstrates excellent test-retest
      reliability (ICC 0.95-0.99) and excellent intra-rater (ICC 0.87-0.98) and inter-rater
      reliability (ICC 0.99). 10MWT also has excellent criterion validity of r=0.76-0.78 and
      excellent construct validity (r=0.62-0.92) for various outcome measures within the ABI
      population with an MCID of 0.14-0.16m/s.

      Consequently, ABI results in a reduced ability to achieve SLS which has a negative influence
      on gait speed and efficiency. Studies of predominantly small samples have demonstrated
      working on SLS can improve gait speed and efficiency in CVA survivors and to a lesser extent
      the traumatic brain injury (TBI) population meaning there is a gap in the research
      surrounding the ABI population as a whole including TBI. Therefore, this study will aim to
      answer the question 'does improved ability to achieve SLS lead to a more efficient gait
      pattern in adults with acquired brain injury?' The null hypothesis is 'improved ability to
      achieve SLS does not lead to a more efficient gait pattern in patients with ABI'. The
      experimental hypothesis is 'improved ability to achieve SLS does lead to a more efficient
      gait pattern in patients with ABI'. This is a two-tailed hypothesis due to limited evidence
      regarding the testing direction.

      This will be an exploratory pre-test - post-test experimental design as it allows testing of
      two variables (dependent and independent) to identify the cause and effect of specific
      events. This research design also helps determine if the subjects' performance is better,
      worse or unchanged and the inclusion of a control group will provide more convincing evidence
      of success or failure of treatment. The control group will receive an individualised
      physiotherapy treatment approach, but it will not work specifically on SLS i.e. they will
      receive their normal physiotherapy treatment.
    
  