
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. Phase I: To determine the optimal timing for combining LITT and pembrolizumab in
           patients with rGBM:

           • To determine the feasibility, safety, tolerability and side effect profiles for
           combining LITT and pembrolizumab at various time points pre-LITT vs. post-LITT (Phase
           I).

        2. Phase II: To estimate the response to pembrolizumab combined with LITT in patients with
           rGBM;

           • To estimate the response rate after treatment with LITT combined with pembrolizumab in
           patients with rGBM (Phase II).

        3. To collect and record the side effect profiles for combining LITT and pembrolizumab
           (Phase I and Phase II).

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the effect of pembrolizumab on systemic immune microenvironment in patients
           with rGBM.

        2. To determine the effect of pembrolizumab on the intra-tumoral immunosuppressive
           microenvironment within rGBM.

        3. Secondary for Phase II, to estimate progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival
           (OS) after treatment with LITT combined with pembrolizumab in patients with rGBM (Phase
           II).

        4. Measure radiological response using both conventional RANO criterion, a modified RANO
           (RANOi) designed specifically for immunotherapy response assessment, as well as MRI
           fingerprinting (MRF), recently demonstrated by the PI and collaborators to accurately
           and precisely distinguish recurrent GBM from radiation injury.

        5. Correlate clinical and radiological response to known biomarkers of GBM such as
           Isocitrate Dehydrogenase 1 (IDH-1) mutations, Isocitrate Dehydrogenase 2 (IDH-2)
           mutations, Methyl-Guanine Methyl Transferase (MGMT) promoter methylation, Phosphatase
           and tensin homologue (PTEN) loss and KI-67.

      Study Design:

      The Phase I component will involve up to two of a possible 3 cohorts of 3-4 patients each for
      a total of 6-8 evaluable patients. Each patient will undergo a stereotactic biopsy. If GBM or
      Gliosarcoma is confirmed by frozen section, patients will undergo LITT then treatment with
      200 mg pembrolizumab IV. Cohort I will receive pembrolizumab on post operative day 14 and
      every 3 weeks thereafter. In the event that one patient suffers non-hematologic toxicity of
      grade 3 or more, or if hematologic toxicity is grade 4 or higher, the investigators will
      delay the 2nd dose of pembrolizumab by 3 weeks and a 4th patient will be accrued. If there
      are two patients in the initial cohort with non-hematologic toxicities grade 3, or if
      hematological toxicity in two patients is grade 4 or higher, the second cohort will delay
      initiation of pembrolizumab until post operative day 35 after LITT. Conversely, if there are
      no non-hematologic adverse events (AEs) of grade 3 or higher, the investigators will proceed
      to cohort IB using the same dose of pembrolizumab given 7 days prior to surgery, then every 3
      weeks. Similarly, feasibility and safety will be addressed as above in deciding whether or
      not to proceed to the next cohort.

      The Phase II component of the study will consist of additional patients receiving
      pembrolizumab at the earliest tolerated time post LITT:

        -  14 days post-op

        -  -7 days pre-op;

        -  35 days post-opto achieve a total of 23 evaluable patients at the earliest tolerated
           dose.
    
  