
    
      Follow-up will take place at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively. Variables of interest
      will include postoperative patient pain scores (i.e. Visual Analog Scale or VAS), total
      morphine equivalents taken in the first 30 days after discharge, number of unused opioid
      pills, opioid disposal rates, and standard patient reported outcomes measures (PROMs)
      including hip disability and osteoarthritis outcome score (HOOS), Harris Hip score (HHS), VAS
      for pain, international hip outcome tool (iHOT-12), and Hip outcome score (HOS).

      For the purpose of this study, the investigators propose two standardized prescribing
      patterns across all teams. The first would be the control postoperative prescribing pattern
      and the second would be the experimental opioid reduced prescribing pattern. Patients will
      not be informed if their postoperative prescriptions are part of the control or opioid
      reduced prescribing pattern. Of note, patients will be allowed to cross over from the opioid
      reduced experimental group to the standard of care control group if they have breakthrough
      pain following surgery.

      Timeline of Events:

        1. Following informed consent during the office visit when surgery is scheduled, all
           patients will be randomized to one of the postoperative pain management protocols,
           either the control or opioid reduced.

        2. Subjects will proceed with hip arthroscopy, including appropriate treatment and
           documentation of concomitant injuries.

        3. Over the course of the 1st month postoperatively, patients will complete a 30-day diary
           detailing which medications they took on each day and their daily average pain level
           (indicating whether physical therapy was performed). Data pertaining to prescription
           refills (I.e., number of refills, time to refill), number of left over pain medications,
           and disposal rates of opioid medications will also be recorded at these time points as
           well.

        4. Patients will return for standard of care postoperative visits at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months
           postoperatively. Patients will be asked to complete PROM questionnaires at the 3, 6, and
           12 month follow-up time points
    
  