
    
      Myocarditis is an inflammatory disease of the heart muscle, which is mostly caused by
      viruses, bacteria, parasites, toxic substances/drugs or by primary autoimmune mechanisms. In
      the first phase of acute myocarditis direct cell damage, in a second phase myocardial
      inflammation with additional myocardial damage can be observed. Symptoms vary widely and may
      include signs of heart failure (dyspnoea, reduced exercise capacity, edema tendency), chest
      pain, palpitations / arrhythmias / syncope, and (potentially) lethal clinical conditions such
      as cardiogenic shock or sudden cardiac death. Predictors of increased mortality are syncopes,
      malignant arrhythmias EF≤35% or heart failure NYHA III-IV. ICD implantation is recommended <3
      months after manifestation only in exceptional situations (e.g. following resuscitation). The
      European Society of Cardiology (ESC) issued a IIa recommendation in 2015 for the indication
      of ICD vest fitting as "bridging" until the acute phase subsides (possible normalization of
      left ventricular pumping function with reduced probability of malignant cardiac arrhythmias)
      or until ICD implantation in cases of severe LV dysfunction and/or ventricular electrical
      instability is necessary. The observation, monitoring and analysis of malignant cardiac
      arrhythmias are therefore crucial in the treatment of acute myocarditis.

      The aim of this study is to observe the long-term incidence of ventricular arrhythmias in
      patients with diagnosed myocarditis and to analyze the MRI and echocardiographic data
      obtained as potential predictive factors for the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias.

      The study is a prospective multicenter registry study. All potentially stressful measures and
      examinations such as blood sampling and echocardiography - except for follow-up MRI
      examinations - are carried out at our centre as standard clinical progress assessment, even
      independently of participation in the registry. The indication for biomonitor implantation is
      given after initial screening by means of a 24h-LZ-ECG with positive results (detection of
      ventricular arrhythmias). The registry study is performed with approved IECDs (Implantable
      electronic cardiovascular devices: Biomonitor (BioMonitor 2-AF, BioMonitor 3-AF (after
      release)), Biotronik® ICD) as well as WCD (Wearable Cardioverter Defibrillator, Zoll®
      LifeVest) and Biotronik® Cardio Messenger. The implantation is carried out exclusively
      according to the indication/testing guidelines. Thus, there are no risks or disadvantages for
      the participating patient.

      The primary aim of the study is to monitor the long-term incidence of ventricular arrhythmias
      in patients with diagnosed myocarditis and to identify potential predictive factors for their
      occurrence.

      Secondary goal is to analyze the long-term survival and need for heart transplantation and to
      identify MRI/echocardiographic parameters as determinants of arrhythmias.
    
  