
    
      Tourette syndrome (TS) is a widely prevalent neurodevelopmental disorder with limited
      treatment options,(1,2) substantial impact on quality of life in children(3-7) and
      adults,(4,8-10) and two-fold increased risk of premature death.(11,12) Tics are the defining
      feature of TS, and as a result, TS is often narrowly perceived in terms of tics alone. Tics
      themselves tend to wane in late adolescence, with distressing tics persisting in only
      one-third of TS patients.(13) Because tics generally diminish with age, the plight of adults
      with TS is often neglected. Over half of TS adults suffer from anxiety and depression,(10,14)
      and a similar percentage experience symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
      (ADHD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), findings recently corroborated in our own
      clinical population.(10) Many TS adults struggle to form meaningful relationships with peers,
      and one-third feel inadequately supported by their families.(13) The burden of TS in
      adulthood extends beyond mental and social health. In a national registry cohort study,
      individuals with TS had a mortality rate ratio of 1.8 relative to healthy controls, even
      after controlling for comorbid psychiatric diagnoses.(11) The causes of more frequent
      premature death in TS populations are unclear, with many mechanisms implicated, including
      suicide,(15) traumatic accidents,(12) substance abuse,(16) metabolic disorders,(12,17) and
      complications from pharmacotherapy.(18,19)

      Environmental stressors are also postulated to impact the course of TS.(20) An environmental
      stressor is any external condition or event that poses a threat to an individual's
      well-being.(21) Such stressors are known to alter brain development(22-24) and increase risk
      of adulthood psychopathology.(25,26) A single study has explored the role of environmental
      stressors in TS, finding that selected stressors predicted two-year tic and psychiatric
      symptom severity in a pediatric cohort (n=37 patients).(27) No similar investigations have
      been undertaken in TS adults. The Investigators hypothesize that environmental stressors are
      risk factors for more severe adult TS phenotype. The Investigators propose a two-year,
      longitudinal pilot study of TS adults (>18) to determine impact of lifetime environmental
      stress exposure on tic severity, psychiatric comorbidity severity, and health-related quality
      of life (HRQOL).

      Aim 1. Determine influence of lifetime environmental stressors on tic severity in TS adults.
      Hypothesis: Number of lifetime stressors at baseline assessment is associated with greater
      tic severity at two year follow-up. Seventy adults with TS will be recruited from the
      Vanderbilt TS Clinic to complete a baseline assessment, consisting of validated clinical
      rating scales for tic severity (Yale Global Tic Severity Scale), common psychiatric
      comorbidities, and lifetime environmental stressors (Stress and Adversity Inventory for
      Adults, STRAIN). Because acute and chronic stressors exert differential physiologic and
      clinical-level effects,(28-31) the STRAIN assesses these separately. The Investigators will
      use multivariable linear regression to examine the influence of acute and chronic lifetime
      stressor count at baseline on tic severity at two years, controlling for baseline tic
      severity and psychiatric comorbidities, as well as anti-tic medications at follow-up. Results
      will clarify the impact of environmental stressors on tic severity in TS adults.

      Aim 2. Determine influence of lifetime environmental stressors on depression in TS adults.

      Hypothesis: Number of lifetime stressors at baseline assessment is associated with more
      depressive symptoms at two-year follow-up. Depression is the psychiatric symptom that most
      impacts adult functioning and QOL.(10) As part of baseline and follow-up assessments, Aim 1
      participants will complete standardized, semi-structured psychiatric interviews (Mini
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview, MINI) and validated self-report depression scales
      (NeuroQOL-Depression). The statistical approach from Aim 1 will be adopted to examine the
      influence of acute and chronic lifetime stressor count at baseline on depression symptom
      severity at two years, again controlling for select confounds. Findings will delineate the
      effects of acute and chronic environmental stressors on depression in adults with TS.

      Aim 3. Determine influence of positive childhood experiences on health-related quality of
      life (HRQOL) in TS adults. Hypothesis: Greater number of positive childhood experiences is
      associated with better HRQOL in TS adults at two-year follow-up. Positive childhood
      experiences partially mitigate the negative effects of adverse childhood experiences.(32) At
      baseline and follow-up visits, Aim 1 participants will report number and type of positive
      childhood experiences. They will also complete a validated HRQOL measure specific to TS: the
      Gilles de la Tourette-Quality of Life Scale (GTS-QOL). The Investigators will use
      multivariable regression modeling to examine the influence of positive childhood experiences
      on future HRQOL, controlling for environmental stressors and baseline HRQOL. Results will
      elucidate the potentially moderating role of positive childhood experiences on HRQOL in TS
      adults.
    
  