
    
      When applicable (conscious patient and/or family or legally authorized representative is
      present) the study will be introduced to the patient and relevant parties prior to the
      research team approaching the patient. While head trauma frequently results in impaired
      cognition and/or consciousness, and due to the urgency of these circumstances patients are
      often not accompanied by kin, whenever appropriate, the purpose of the research and the
      procedure will be explained in detail with all questions answered to the patient's and/or
      representative's satisfaction. Because patients who sustain head trauma injuries typically
      remain within the hospital for multiple days for monitoring and care, each participant may
      undergo multiple Computed Tomography (CT) scans over the course of his or her
      hospitalization, affording the opportunity of one to numerous measurements from each patient
      during his or her hospital stay.

      Upon presentation to the casualty unit at MRRH and following each CT scan, the study team
      will approach the patient to scan the patient's cranium with the InfraScanner 2000™ (Image
      A). If permission is granted, the study team member sequentially measure the optical
      absorption for each of the 8 quadrants of the scalp (frontal, temporal, parietal, and
      occipital bilaterally) (Image B). The device is engineered such that the light emitter and
      receiver are spaced 4 cm apart, allowing the light's intensity to be measured between
      adjacent light guides (Image C). This entire procedure, including greeting and scanning the
      patient should take <10 minutes. Subsequent CT scan(s) the patient receives determines the
      number of potential data collections.

      The patient and/or representative may refuse a scan during any encounter, and as such, the
      scan will not be done. For each patient scanned with the InfraScanner 2000™ they will be
      de-identified with a subject number, with age, sex, gender, skin color, hair color, hair
      thickness, mechanism of injury, Glasgow Coma Scale score, and mean time elapsed between CT
      scan and near-infrared measurement. These data will be stored in de-identified form on the
      Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) database and/or Microsoft Excel 2016 on a secured
      network drive within the Department of Neurosurgery at Duke.

      The collection period for each research subject concludes 30-days following his or her
      initial measurement with the InfraScanner 2000™, patient discharge, or patient death.
    
  