
    
      Investigators will conduct a prospective intervention study including both nurses and
      patients in the study group. A web-based questionnaire will be used to collect the data from
      the participators.

      Inclusion criteria for the study group consisting of nurses will be registered nurses working
      in one of the two surgical wards included in the study. The nurses shall also have education
      and experience of working with PCA pumps and accepted participation in the study. Exclusion
      criteria for the nurses' group are lack of education and experience in working with PCA pumps
      and lack of basic knowledge in English.

      Inclusion criteria for patients are adult patients over 17 yrs., both men and women who has
      been prescribed a PCA pump for postoperative pain management and accepted participation in
      the study. Exclusion criteria for the patient group are patients under 18 yrs., old,
      inability to carry out the survey, neuropsychiatric or psychiatric disease, non-Swedish
      speaking and drug abuser.

      Both of the wards included in the study uses PCA pump, , Smiths medical modell CADD Solis.
      Only one of the wards will use the wireless monitoring platform, , Smiths medical modell CADD
      Solis.

      Intervention group; ward with PCA pumps using the wireless monitoring platform. Control
      group; ward using regularly PCA pumps. The patients' survey includes questions regarding
      satisfaction, participation and user-friendliness of the PCA pump. Patients will fill in the
      survey after completion of PCA treatment. Investigators intend to investigate if there is any
      difference in time of treatment between the intervention- and control group and if there is
      an ability to individualize patients' pain relief based on improved monitoring as well as the
      possibility of follow-up and quality work.

      The nurses' survey includes questions regarding the experience of monitoring and
      documentation work regarding PCA treatment. Nurses will fill in a questionnaire consisting of
      6 questions after each work shift where they have treated one or more patient(s) with a PCA
      pump. Data analysis will take place in a computer program for statistical analysis. All data
      collected during the course of the study will be unidentified and the result will be
      presented at group level without the risk of tracking data to one individual.

      Statistics The study population size is based on a p-value 0.05 for statistical significance
      and 80 % power analysis, which generates need for at least 39 participants in each group.
      With an estimated 10 % non-response rate, investigators need 45 participants in each group
      consisting in a total of 90 patients. The estimated study time is 40 weeks depending on how
      many PCA pumps that will be prescribed throughout the study. The study estimates to start in
      November 2017.

      Flowchart 1: Study group patient Question about study participation Carried out at the
      preoperative surgery department alternatively at postoperative ward

      Elective surgery with prescripiton of PCA pumps postoperatively, exclusion criteria:

      Patients younger than 18 years old, inability to carry out the survey, neuropsychiatric or
      psychiatric disease, non-swedish speaking, drug abuser

      Written consent obtained either preoperatively or postoperatively

      Group assignment depending on postoperative ward

      Group 1 (Intervention group) Group 2 (Control group) PCA pump and wireless monitoring PCA
      pump according to current monitoring routine

      PCA treatment startup in either the postoperative recovery room or at the ward

      Approximately 2-3 days of PCA treatment

      Patient survey is filled in when PCA treatment is completed

      Flow chart 2: Study group nurses Question about study participation Meeting with information
      prior to study startup

      Nurses at the postoperative recovery room and nurses at the two surgical wards assigned for
      group 1 and group 2, exclusion criteria:

      No education/experience in working with PCA pumps, lack of basic knowledge in English

      Written consent obtained before study start

      Group allocation depending on work place/ward

      Group 1 (Intervention group) Group 2 (Control group) PCA pump + wireless monitoring PCA pump
      according to current monitoring routine

      Exposure time approximately 40 weeks

      Nurses fill in the survey consisting of 6 questions after each work shift where they have
      treated one or more patient(s) with a PCA pump
    
  