
    
      Obese women are more likely to be delivered by cesarean than normal weight women and are at
      increased risk for operative morbidity including wound complications. Negative pressure wound
      therapy (NPWT) has been shown to improve wound healing, decrease the rate of surgical site
      infection, sero-hematoma formation, and reoperation rates. The potential benefit of NPWT in
      high-risk wounds after cesarean delivery is unclear. Investigators propose conducting a
      single-site randomized controlled trial to examine the efficacy of NPWT after cesarean
      delivery in morbidly obese women (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2).

      Specific aims of the study include determining if NPWT used in morbidly obese women after
      cesarean delivery improves postoperative wound complication rate and to assess patient
      satisfaction with NPWT. The primary outcome is a composite wound complication rate defined as
      having one of the following occur within four weeks of delivery: wound infection, seroma,
      hematoma, separation, or dehiscence.

      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either NPWT or standard surgical dressing.
      Women receiving NWPT will have a PREVENA Incision Management Therapy System applied directly
      onto their skin over the closed incision after delivery. Women randomized to the standard
      surgical dressing will have a TELFA non-adhesive dressing with a 3M Tegaderm transparent film
      adhesive dressing. In addition, an abdominal pad (ABD) with foam tape may be applied to
      provide additional pressure if needed.

      The wound will be assessed at the time of dressing removal or hospital discharge and at four
      weeks postoperative. Participants will also take a patient satisfaction survey regarding
      wound healing experience at four-week follow-up. For the study, investigators are planning to
      enroll 482 patients (241 per arm) to demonstrate a decrease in the wound complication rate by
      50%. This study will help clinicians better manage obese women in pregnancy and hopefully
      improve wound outcomes.
    
  