
    
      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation method that allows
      to study human cortical function in vivo. Using TMS for examining human cortical
      functionality is enhanced by combining TMS with simultaneous registration of
      electroencephalograph (EEG). EEG provides an opportunity to directly measure the cerebral
      response to TMS. Measuring the cortical TMS Evoked potential (TEP), is used to assess
      cerebral reactivity across wide areas of neocortex.

      By evaluating the propagation of evoked activity in different behavioral states and in
      different tasks, TMS-EEG has been used to causally probe the dynamic effective connectivity
      of human brain networks.

      In this study the sponsor is intended to establish Norms for the DELPhI test by measuring
      healthy subjects at the ages of 25-45.At this ages, the human brain has finished its normal
      processes of development and not yet manifest degenerative and hemo-dynamic related
      deterioration of brain structure. The sponsor will recruit neurologically and psychiatric
      healthy subjects' cohort to describe the normal distribution of such population. Some of the
      patients agreeing to perform a second test will serve for a reliability test.

      Main objectives:

        1. Definition of DELPhi's healthy population average TEP response in normal, healthy
           population between the ages 25-45 +/- STD.

        2. Defining DELPhI's test-retest reliability by quantifying correlation coefficient between
           two tests in young healthy population.

      Exploratory objectives:

        1. Evaluating the sham stimulation effect.

        2. Assessing con founders effecting results.

      Subjects will perform a medical and neurological evaluation, demographic, State-Trait Anxiety
      Inventory (STAI) and Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale (DERS) questionnaires.
    
  