
    
      Tolerability of drugs for TB is a complex and dynamic course for patients with drug
      resistance and can be affected by many different factors. A deeper understanding of the
      perspectives and experience of men and women participating in novel TB treatment trials will
      add to the understanding of the safety and efficacy of treatment.

      TB-PRACTECAL is a multicentre, open label, phase 2-3 randomised controlled trial evaluating
      exclusively oral 6 months regimens containing bedaquiline, pretomanid, linezolid +/-
      moxifloxacin or clofazimine for the treatment of microbiologically confirmed pulmonary
      M/XDR-TB. It is registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov with identifier number NCT02589782.
      The trial aims to recruit 630 adults from two sites in Uzbekistan (Nukus and Tashkent) and
      one site each from Belarus and South Africa.

      The TB-PRACTECAL trial assumes that even if the investigational arms would have non-inferior
      efficacy and safety compared to the standard of care outcomes, patients would prefer a
      shorter, exclusively oral regimen with a lower pill count. This study therefore aims to
      describe patient experiences (i.e. the quality of the treatment experience as opposed to the
      quantity of treatment or the amount of time spent on it).

      The PRACTECAL-PRO sub-study aims to answer the question: "What are the perceptions,
      expectations and experiences of novel TB treatment for adult patients participating in a
      six-month regimen clinical trial in Uzbekistan, South Africa and Belarus?"

      The objectives for the analysis are:

        -  To compare baseline scores between trial patients (all interventional arm patients plus
           standard of care patients) with healthy controls.

        -  To assess changes in scores over time in patients on the intervention arms and patients
           on the standard of care arm.

        -  To assess the utility of the SF 12 and SGRQ in a TB clinical trial.
    
  