
    
      Study Location :

      This study will recruit the healthy participants from the university

      Target Population:

      Healthy Participants

      General Study Design :

      Quasi Experimental study with a comparator

      Sample Size calculation :

      Difference between two means of HOMA IR from pilot data (7) and standard deviation 2.9, with
      5% Type I error, and 80% Power yielded a total of 16 participants for two arms

      Management of Sample:

        1. Faecal Sample handling

             1. Patient should undergo 8 hours of fasting prior to faecal examination

             2. DNA Extraction

             3. Lysate preparation and centrifuge faecal sample

             4. Mixing lysate with sample

             5. Column wash

             6. DNA elution

             7. DNA storing

             8. DNA sequencing and analysis

             9. taxonomical analysis

        2. Fasting blood glucose

             1. Patient should undergo 8 hours of fasting prior to Fasting blood glucose

             2. Blood is taken from cubital vein

             3. Spectrometry is conducted based on the NADPH formation from the equation below

           D-glucose+ATP -----> Glucose-6-phospate+ADP Glucose-6-phospate+NAD ---- G-6-PDH --->
           D-Gluconate-6 phospate+NADH+H

        3. Insulin level

             1. Centrifuge blood to obtain the serum

             2. The monoclonal anti-insulin antibody is given to the serum

             3. detection is based on the anti-insulin antibody and insulin complex formation

        4. Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance/ HOMA-IR value is calculated from
           glucose level multiply by insulin level and divided by 405.

      Protection for adverse event

        1. All subjects are given the consent regarding the potential harm of synbiotic
           administration

        2. All subjects will follow the protocol of reporting the any adverse event (most likely,
           severe constipation)

        3. All subjects will be treated accordingly and hospitalisation if needed.

      Statistical Analysis

        1. General Analysis : Intention To Treat (ITT)

        2. Propensity Score Matching will be conducted prior to intervention

        3. A repeated measure ANOVA will be performed, whereas Generalized Linear Mixed Model
           treating the intervention as dummy variable will be performed if ANOVA assumptions can
           not be fulfilled.
    
  