
    
      There is convincing evidence from both experimental and human studies that MN is mediated by
      the deposition of IgG antibodies in the subepithelial aspect of the GBM. More debatable, is
      the mechanism(s) of deposition of these antibodies in that location. Given the key role of
      IgG antibodies in MN, it is reasonable to postulate that suppression of antibody production
      by depleting B cells and/or plasma cells may improve or even resolve the glomerular pathology
      as reflected by a reduction in proteinuria. There is evidence that this strategy is effective
      in the treatment of other antibody-mediated diseases and preliminary studies in MN are
      promising. Data from animal studies suggest that immune deposition resulting from B cell
      activation promote injury to the glomerular filtering barrier and proteinuria.103 In humans,
      as discussed above, there is evidence that therapy directed against B cells, e.g.
      cyclophosphamide, is effective in MN. Cyclophosphamide has striking direct effects on B cell
      function, and suppresses the secretion of immunoglobulins.104 Thus, a case could be made for
      using an agent capable of depleting B cells, and therefore halting the production of
      nephrotoxic immunoglobulins. This approach could stop the pathogenic events at their initial
      stages and potentially result in resolution of the pathological process. The rationale for
      using such an approach can be further substantiated by the fact that Th2 pathway for antibody
      response is activated and that inhibition of B cells and of pathogenic antibodies is strictly
      associated with beneficial effects of immunosuppressive drugs in experimental MN.

      This is a open-label Phase I/II pilot study. Patients will receive Rituximab at a total dose
      of 1g on Day 1 and Day 15 according to infusion guidelines. Patient experience complete
      clinical response (as per response criteria outlined below), AND Patient subsequently
      experiences clinical relapse, defined as return of proteinuria to 4 g/24h, and in whom CD20+
      cell count have normalized, will receive a second course of Rituximab. Patients who relapse
      but who remain B cell depleted will not be retreated.
    
  