
    
      Abnormal processing of the beta-amyloid protein is thought to be an early and causative event
      in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Immunotherapy targeting beta amyloid (Aβ)
      has demonstrated a remarkable capacity to arrest and even reverse elements of AD brain
      pathology. Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIg) is a medication obtained from the pooled plasma
      of healthy human blood donors that contains natural anti-amyloid antibodies and exhibits
      potent central nervous system anti-inflammatory properties. IVIg has been FDA-approved and
      used for more than 25 years in patients with a variety of immune deficiency and autoimmune
      diseases and has an established safety record, but is not FDA-approved for the treatment of
      AD.

      A total of 24 patients, males and females 50 years of age and older, with mild to moderate
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be enrolled in this research study. To be eligible, patients
      must meet the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and
      Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria for
      probable AD. After written informed consent is obtained, subjects will go through a screening
      process to determine if he or she meets the inclusion criteria. Screening procedures include
      medical history, blood and urine tests, neurologic exam, chest x-ray and MRI. Women who want
      to take part in this study must either be post-menopausal, surgically sterilized or agree to
      avoid becoming pregnant during the entire period of their participation in this study.

      To be eligible for this research study, patients must be taking a stable dose of an approved
      AD medication for at least 3 months prior to entering this study or be unable to take these
      medications. The design of this protocol is that of an add-on study and we will recommend
      patients continue to take any FDA-approved AD medications they are taking at study entry.

      Subjects' participation in the study will last approximately 19 months, including screening
      and baseline procedures, treatment with study drug and a follow-up visit 1 ½ months after
      finishing treatment, plus a visit for blood tests 6 months after the last infusion in the
      study. This research study requires that the patient have another person, (such as a spouse,
      child, other relative, close friend, aide or other professional caregiver), who will
      accompany the patient to each clinic visit.

      Subjects will be randomized to a treatment group for 6 months of infusions of IVIg or
      placebo. The treatment groups compare different doses and frequencies of treatment. Patients
      will have a 33% chance of receiving placebo.

      Blood will be obtained from subjects every two weeks and examined in our research
      laboratories to obtain more information about IVIg's biological effects. Cerebrospinal fluid
      will be obtained by lumbar puncture twice over the course of the study for the same purpose.
      Patients will be asked to allow a portion of a blood sample to be used for Apolipoprotein E
      (APOE) testing and banked for genetic research testing related to AD and aging, but do not
      have to participate in the testing or allow their blood sample to be stored in order to take
      part in the study.

      Cognitive testing will be carried out at baseline and every three months over a period of 18
      months. Results of cognitive testing will constitute the primary endpoint of this study.
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging substudies will be performed at two time points
      during the study. Safety laboratories and assessments will be carried out at regular
      intervals. Subjects will not be responsible for any research study-related costs but will be
      responsible for the costs of evaluations required to establish diagnosis.
    
  