
    
      Specific Aims of BraveNet:

        1. Demonstrate feasibility for the nine sites of BraveNet to coordinate in specifying data
           elements, developing and implementing smooth data collection procedures, analyzing the
           data, publishing and disseminating the results through scientific conferences and
           journals.

        2. Describe the patients seeking care at Integrative Medicine centers, in terms of:

             1. demographics, presenting symptoms, health conditions, type of care sought, and
                expectations for treatment;

             2. quality of life, mood, stress; and

             3. lifestyle factors.

        3. Explore potential patterns within the sample [e.g., do the survey scores vary by
           demographics, by condition, by type patient (new vs return), by type of help sought,
           etc.].

        4. Utilize above data as pilot data for future studies and funding opportunities.

      Up to five hundred eligible patients seen at each of the nine participating Centers will be
      approached (by mail, phone, at the time of their visit, etc.) and invited to consent to the
      paper and pencil study. The patient survey will clearly state that participation is voluntary
      with a written consent to participate on the front. Individual practices will report the
      response rate in order to monitor the potential effect of volunteer bias. Participant
      completion of questionnaires should take 15 to 30 minutes, and should be completed within 2
      weeks of the patient visit., The corresponding provider form will be completed by the
      provider/research staff within 5 days of the visit.

      Measures:

        1. Baseline Questionnaires - Demographics and reason for visit

        2. Quality of Life. The SF-12 (Short Form 12)

        3. Mood (Depression). The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D)

        4. Stress. The Perceived Stress Scale (PSS)

        5. Visual Analog Scales (VAS). Four self-report VASs will be used to measure aspects of
           pain, fatigue and restfulness of sleep.

        6. Provider Form. Providers/ Research Staff will complete this form to indicate the type of
           provider seen, the CPT codes used to describe/bill for the service, the services
           provided, and the provider's assessment of current medical conditions/co-morbidities.
    
  