
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Widowed persons have been found to have higher mortality rates than married persons in both
      cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. In many of these studies, excess mortality has been
      attributed to deaths from cardiovascular disease. Despite these consistent findings, the lack
      of detailed data collected prior to widowhood has hampered our ability to understand the
      mechanisms to explain this effect. Furthermore, an understanding of the mechanisms underlying
      this effect might help elucidate the apparent gender differences in mortality following
      widowhood.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study took advantage of the data collected as part of the Framingham Study to investigate
      the effect of widowhood on cardiovascular disease. The Framingham dataset has extensive
      clinical data related to cardiovascular disease, as well as to health behaviors. These
      longitudinal data provided the opportunity to prospectively characterize the health of widows
      prior to and following the loss of a spouse in much greater detail than previously possible.
      The analyses used a prospective design in which those men and women who had a spouse die
      during the course of the study (N=626) were compared to men and women who remained married
      (N=2044). These analyses also provided the opportunity to examine reasons for the beneficial
      effect found of remarriage. The study addressed the following questions: 1. Can the increased
      risk of mortality from cardiovascular disease often found following widowhood be explained by
      pre-widowhood health status? 2. Can increased mortality following widowhood be explained by
      changes in health behaviors related to cardiovascular disease risk. 3. What pre-widowhood
      risk factors place the widowed at greater risk for cardiovascular disease morbidity and/or
      mortality following the death of a spouse? 4. Can pre-widowhood risk factors or
      post-widowhood behavior change account for gender differences in mortality following
      widowhood?

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  