
    
      Detailed Description:

      Study objective

      Visual pathway contains both structural and functional network. When it is impacted by
      neurodegenerative diseases, neuritis or direct mechanical pressure, visual impairment occurs
      due to damage to the pathway. Former study on Parkinson's disease (Dagmar H. Heep et al,
      Radiology, 2017 ) found loss of functional connectivity in posterior and paracentral brain
      regions, while a study on optic neuritis (Yael Backner et al, JAMA Neurology,2018) showed an
      increase in functional connectivity and slightly loss in optic fiber integrity. Instead of
      simplex resting-state fMRI，the investigators of this study aim to assess:

        1. whether similar changes in functional networking occur when visual pathway is impacted
           by chiasma compression from tumors in sellar area (by resting-state fMRI).

        2. The correlation between local chiasma compression and visual cortex activation pattern (
           by visual tasking-state fMRI).

        3. Changes and recovery of the white matter fiber structure in the visual pathway.

      ( by diffusion tensor imaging, DTI).

      Method Participants: 60 adult participants (18-60 years old ) will be enrolled in the
      department of Neurosurgery at Xiangya Hospital of Central South University. The experimental
      arm will consist of 30 patients with visual impairment symptoms caused by chiasma compression
      by sellar area tumors (Tumor Group, TG). The control arm will consist of 30 healthy controls
      without any nervous system disease or visual impairment (Healthy Control Group, HC, control
      arm).

      Study design: Transversal and Longitudinal, single center, comparative study is designed to
      evaluate functional and structural visual networking of sellar area tumor patients and
      healthy controls. The study involves assessment with resting-state fMRI, tasking-state fMRI
      and DTI. Patients of experimental arm will be evaluated by multimodal fMRI at 3 different
      checkpoints (baseline is 1 week preoperative ,checkpoint 1 is 72 hours postoperative
      ,checkpoint 2 is 3 months follow up ). Participants of control arm will be evaluated only
      once. Transversal comparison will be conducted between preoperative tumor patients and
      healthy controls, while longitudinal comparison will be within tumor group at baseline and
      two other different checkpoints.

      MRI data acquisition and analysis strategy: In this study, the MRI data is acquired by
      Siemens 3.0T Prisma scanner, including sequences of mprage T1 , diffusion tensor imaging,
      resting-state fMRI and visual stimulation task fMRI. Resting-state fMRI longitudinal data
      analysis includes functional connectivity (FC), amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF)
      and regional homogeneity (REHO) to assess visual functional networking in both group. These
      Data wil be analysed using a multivariate approach and independent component analysis (ICA).
      Visual tasking fMRI will be conducted under classic black and white "chess board" simulation
      on each eye. For the evaluation of structural visual network, afferent visual pathway (optic
      tract and radiation ), fiber tracking as well as tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) will
      be analyzed within both arms at baseline,checkpoint 1 and checkpoint 2 of the experimental
      arm will verify changing and recovering process of the visual pathway after chiasma
      decompression.

      Primary outcomes

        1. The difference in visual pathway anatomy and functional network between preoperative
           sellar area tumor patients and healthy controls. Tumor patients will be evaluated
           clinically by visual acuity (VA), visual field (VF), tumor height and chiasma thickness.

        2. The verification of the correlation between patterns of chiasma compression and visual
           cortex activity. Revealing the difference of visual cortex activity patterns between
           both arms.

      Secondary outcomes Throughout the 3 months follow up of the experimental arm patients,
      observe and verify the recovery process of both functional and structural visual network
      after chiasma decompression and evaluate its correlation with clinical visual function
      outcome.

      Statistics

        1. An analysis of two sample T test between the two groups will be performed to assess the
           difference of FC,REHO,ALFF and visual cortex activity pattern between resting state data
           and data from the visual task of TG and HC.

        2. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) within TG group will be performed to assess the changes
           and recovery of FC, REHO, ALFF and visual cortex activity pattern via resting state data
           and data from the visual task's data.

      Correlations will be explored between multimodal fMRI parameters (both functional and
      structural) and clinical criteria (e.g VA,VF, tumor size, visual outcome, etc).
    
  