
    
      The main objective is to study the positive predictive value of PET-CT in the identification
      of infra-clinical lymph node lesions for cancers of the oral cavity classified N0 or N +
      unilateral

      Patients are admitted to ORL or maxillofacial consultation with initial clinical examination
      according to current recommendations (tumor evaluation, cervical palpation, locoregional
      examination).

      A dated and signed diagram of the lesion and ganglionic areas will be made during this
      consultation.

      A biopsy for histopathological examination of the lesion will be necessary to confirm the
      diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma with P16 analysis. It will be performed during the
      consultation under local anesthesia if the lesion is accessible or under general anesthesia
      during panendoscopy.

      All patients will benefit from an assessment of locoregional extension by CT cervicofacial
      and thoracic injected (in order to look for possible pulmonary metastases or suspicious
      mediastinal lymphadenopathies) as requested in the oncological recommendations and PET-CT. As
      part of the extension assessment, a panendoscopy or bronchial fibroscopy and
      gastro-oesophageal failure will be performed if risk factors ethanolotagagic are present.

      If the lesion is not accessible for a biopsy during the inclusion visit, the patient is
      summoned for a panendoscopy. It is an examination under general anesthesia to make a biopsy
      of the primary tumor and to search for the absence of synchronous localization. In current
      practice, this examination requires overnight hospitalization.

      The patient will be reviewed by the ORL or maxillofacial surgeon in consultation after
      receiving the anatomopathological findings of the lesion and the entire extension assessment
      (CT cervico-thoracic injected and PET-CT).

      On CT PET, an analysis with additional interpretation criteria will be performed (SUVmax, SUV
      peak, MTG) on the primary tumor and on the invaded lymph nodes. A ganglion is considered
      invaded when its SUV is suppressed at 30% of the SUV of the original lesion.

      The patient's file will have been previously presented in a Multidisciplinary Concertation
      Meeting, whose treatment will consist of a surgical excision of the primary lesion and a
      lymph node dissection.

      The patient will be seen again in consultation at 10 days of his intervention as part of the
      follow-up postoperative in order to be able to receive all the anatomopathologic results of
      the operative specimen and ganglion dissection. The patient's record will have been
      represented in CPR in order to decide whether or not to have an adjuvant treatment based on
      the anatomopathological characters (capsular rupture, number of ganglions invaded,
      peri-nervous sheath).
    
  