
    
      VKAs are the most common drugs in the treatment and prophylaxis of thromboembolic events in
      older adults. Their action is mediated by decrease in the bioavailability of the active form
      of vitamin K. However, vitamin K participates in brain health and function by regulating the
      synthesis of sphingolipids, a constituent of the myelin sheath and the neurons membrane, and
      through the biological activation of vitamin K-dependent proteins (VKDPs) involved in neuron
      survival. Epidemiological studies have reported a positive association between higher serum
      vitamin K concentration and better verbal episodic memory performance in older adults, and an
      inverse association between dietary vitamin K intakes and cognitive complaint/cognitive
      disorders/behavioral disorders. VKAs, which deplete the active form of vitamin K, may thus be
      responsible for neurological disorders. CNS abnormalities were observed in newborns exposed
      in utero to VKA. Similarly, in two cross-sectional studies, the use of VKAs was directly
      associated with cognitive disorders in older adults, and with a lower volume of gray matter
      in the hippocampus.

      However, the main limitation of these previous studies was that the different associations
      reported may actually be explained by the thromboembolic pathology justifying the use of VKA
      such as atrial fibrillation with potential adverse consequences on the brain.

      Thus, the use of DOACs could serve as an ideal comparator, as their indications are similar
      to those of VKAs but which mechanism does not interfere with vitamin K.

      The investigators hypothesize that 1) geriatric patients usually taking VKAs may have lower
      cognitive performance than those usually taking DOACs; 2) there is an association between VKA
      intake and cognitive performance in geriatric patients, including after adjustment on the
      indication for anticoagulation; and 3) that geriatric patients usually taking VKAs exhibit
      brain changes compared to those usually taking DOACs, including greater calcification burden.
    
  