
    
      A. Background and Significance Depictions of psychiatric illnesses as stemming largely from
      biological and genetic vulnerabilities have increased substantially in recent years (Deacon,
      2013; Lebowitz & Appelbaum, 2019; Schomerus et al., 2012). These messages are disseminated by
      physicians, pharmaceutical companies, anti-stigma campaigns, researchers, and the popular
      media alike. Although at first blush messages emphasizing genetic susceptibility may seem
      helpful in reducing stigma, growing research points to serious unintended consequences
      (Haslam & Kvaale, 2015). Specifically, when participants believe their depression is due to
      biogenetic abnormalities, they expect to suffer for longer periods of time (Kemp, Lickel, &
      Deacon, 2014), endorse more depressive symptoms (Lebowitz & Ahn, 2017), and feel they have
      less control over their mood (Lebowitz & Ahn, 2018). Moreover, biogenetic messaging has no
      impact on stigma (Haslam & Kvaale, 2015). Despite the accumulating self-reported evidence
      that biogenetic messaging may be harmful, nothing is known about how such messages impact
      neural correlates of self-reflection and cognitive control - two key processes thought to
      subserve adaptive self-regulation that may be disrupted among individuals with major
      depressive disorder (MDD, Pizzagalli, 2011). This study will fill this knowledge gap by
      comparing resting and task-related electroencephalography (EEG) between adults with MDD
      randomly assigned to receive either positive or negative information about their genetic
      susceptibility to depression. Completion of this project will characterize the neural impacts
      of widespread messages about the etiology of depression. This study may inform clinical
      decision making, public policy, and guidelines regarding how mental health is discussed.

      B. Specific Aims:

      Aim1: To examine the impact of biogenetic messaging on default-mode network (DMN) Hypothesis
      1: The DMN refers to a network of functionally connected brain regions that are most active
      at rest and during retrospection (Buckner, Andrews-Hanna, & Schacter, 2008; Raichle, 2015).
      The DMN has been consistently found to be overactive in the context of depressive disorders
      (Pizzagalli, 2011), especially in the context of elevated rumination. Capitalizing on
      approaches to probe DMN functionality using source-localized EEG activity implemented in the
      mentor's lab (Whitton et al., 2018) the investigators expect that the DMN will be increased
      following the positive (vulnerable) genetic feedback manipulation. This would indicate that
      biogenetic messaging increases potentially maladaptive rumination.

      Aim 2: To examine the impact of biogenetic messaging on cognitive control Hypothesis 2:
      Cognitive control refers to a suite of functions that allow humans to monitor, detect, and
      respond to conflicting information and mistakes, and to mobilize internal resources to
      resolve such occurrences from happening in the future (Braver, 2012; Miller & Cohen, 2001).
      One commonly studied facet of cognitive control is error monitoring, which refers to the
      ability to detect and respond to mistakes. The error-related negativity (ERN) is elicited
      0-100ms following an error and the error positivity (Pe) is elicited 200-400ms post-error
      (Gehring, Liu, Orr, & Carp, 2012). Post-error behavioral adjustments include post-error
      slowing and post-error improvement in accuracy. Previous research suggests that depressive
      symptoms correlate with ERN and Pe amplitudes (Compton et al., 2008; Holmes & Pizzagalli,
      2008; Olvet, Klein, & Hajcak, 2010; Schroder, Moran, Infantolino, & Moser, 2013). Induction
      of genetic messaging about intelligence increased the Pe amplitude but also reduced the
      correlation between Pe and post-error performance (Schroder, Moran, Donnellan, & Moser,
      2014). Accordingly, in the current study, the investigators expect the Pe to be increased and
      a reduced relationship between Pe and post-error behavior in the vulnerable genetic
      condition.

      Aim 3: To evaluate self-reported motivation for treatment, expectancies, and preferences
      Hypothesis 3: Previous research has documented a cost in self-reported motivation and future
      expectancies following receiving biogenetic information about depression (Kemp et al., 2014;
      Lebowitz & Ahn, 2017). The investigators expect to replicate these effects in a sample of
      individuals with MDD. The investigators expect that participants receiving vulnerable genetic
      feedback will 1) endorse poorer perceived control over their emotions, 2) expect to have
      depression for a longer period of time, 3) endorse a preference for pharmacotherapy versus
      psychotherapy and 4) view pharmacotherapy as more effective than psychotherapy.

      C. Description of the Research Design Participants The sample will consist of 80 male and
      female unmedicated adults with MDD, aged 18-45. Participants will be recruited primarily
      through Cragslist ads, flyering, and contacting participants who were previously enrolled in
      studies at the Center for Depression, Anxiety and Stress Research. After passing an initial
      phone screen, participants will complete the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview
      (MINI; Sheehan et al., 1988). Exclusion criteria for all participants will include failure to
      meet EEG safety requirements, current drug use, history of alcohol and drug dependence,
      lifetime history of psychosis and bipolar disorder, and imminent suicidal ideation. After the
      interview, participants will be asked to complete the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II,
      Beck, Steer, & Brown, 1996), the Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (QIDS, Rush et al.,
      2003), the Ruminative Response Style Questionnaire (RRS, Treynor, Gonzalez, & Nolen-Hoeksema,
      2003), the Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ, Meyer, Miller, Metzger, & Borkovec, 1990),
      the Positive And Negative Affective Schedule (PANAS, Clark & Watson, 1991) and Visual
      Analogue Mood Scale (VAMS, Aitken, 1969).

      Baseline EEG Assessment After participants are deemed eligible, they will complete the
      baseline EEG assessment. Participants will be fitted with a 96-channel EEG cap. The baseline
      EEG assessment consists of two tasks. First, resting EEG data will be collected (8 min) in
      which participants will sit calmly with their eyes open or closed (randomly alternated in
      one-minute intervals). The resting EEG allows for collection of DMN. Second, participants
      will perform a flanker task (20 min). The flanker task is a well-validated task in which
      participants view five horizontal arrows on the computer screen and respond as quickly and as
      accurately to the central (target) stimulus using a response pad. Participants will complete
      30 practice trials to titrate task difficulty in the main blocks, and 350 test trials. The
      ERN, Pe, behavioral adjustments and VAMS will be recorded from this task.

      Saliva Sample and Genetic "Testing" Following completion of the flanker task, participants
      will be informed they will be taking a saliva sample to determine their genetic
      susceptibility to depression. Using a previously validated procedure (Lebowitz & Ahn, 2017,
      2018), participants will be provided with a "saliva testing kit", which consists of a plastic
      box containing a glucose test strip (which participants are led to believe gauges salivary
      levels of 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) as part of a genetic susceptibility test) and a
      small amount of mouthwash (containing glucose) in a plastic container. Participants will be
      provided with instructions on the computer screen for how to complete the saliva testing
      themselves. Participants will rinse their mouths with mouthwash for seven seconds, spit the
      mouthwash into the box, and insert the test strip under their tongues for 10 seconds, and
      then wait for 30 seconds. The test strip will turn brown as the strip is sensitive to
      glucose. Participants will be given a computer prompt to indicate which color their test
      strip turned (brown or pink) and will be randomly assigned to receive computer feedback
      indicating that a brown test strip means they 1) have a genetic vulnerability to depression
      or 2) do not have such a vulnerability. The feedback consists of one paragraph describing
      5-HIAA and its implications for depression based on past research. The research assistant
      (RA) will be blind to condition assignment.

      Post-Manipulation EEG and Self-reported Assessment Immediately following the genetic test
      manipulation, participants will complete the PANAS to assess state affects and then repeat
      the resting EEG recording and flanker task. They will then complete a battery of self-report
      measures to gauge their hypothetical mental health treatment preferences and expectancies,
      and perceived willingness to engage in treatment in the future. They will also complete the
      VAMS, the Implicit Theories Questionnaire (Schroder, Dawood, Yalch, Donnellan, & Moser,
      2015), the Negative Mood Regulation Scale (Catanzaro & Mearns, 1990), the Perceptions of
      Depression Scale(Deacon & Baird, 2009), and the Prognostic Pessimism Scale (Lebowitz, Ahn, &
      Nolen-Hoeksema, 2013). Participants will also complete a manipulation check to assess
      perceived credibility of the genetic testing.

      Debriefing Procedure At the end of the session, all participants will be thoroughly
      debriefed. Following previously published procedures (Lebowitz & Ahn, 2017), debriefing will
      entail the Co-I - who has a PhD in clinical psychology - explaining that no genetic testing
      actually took place. The Co-I will explain that the mouthwash consisted of glucose and that
      when exposed to glucose, the test strip turns brown. Participants will be shown both feedback
      screens (susceptible and non-susceptible feedback). The concept of randomized assignment will
      be discussed. Participants will be encouraged to ask questions during this period. Finally,
      participants will complete a short quiz consisting of items that ask whether or not genetic
      testing took place. Participants will be required to respond accurately; if they do not
      respond accurately after debriefing, the Co-I will again emphasize that no genetic testing
      took place until full comprehension is achieved.
    
  