
    
      This project is designed to study the outcomes of serious infections, including bacteremia,
      endocarditis and other deep-seated infection (i.e. intra-abdominal, retroperitoneal and/or
      para-spinal abscesses, intra-thoracic abscess/empyema, excluding simple acute bacterial skin
      and soft structure infections (ABSSSI) and central nervous system (CNS) infections) due to
      gram-positive organisms susceptible to vancomycin in people who use drugs (PWUD).

      The short-term goal of this project is to establish improved outcomes in the treatment of
      serious vancomycin susceptible Gram-positive infections in PWUD by a simplified 2-dose
      antibacterial regimen of long-acting lipoglycopeptide dalbavancin, which does not require
      maintenance of intravenous (IV) access. Excluding the need for IV maintenance is desirable to
      mitigate some of the widely held safety concerns in this population, including IV access
      misuse which may lead to IV access contamination and blood stream infections, as well as
      other concerns regarding compliance with more complex regimens in this population.

      The long-term goal is to establish that such treatment will lead to better outcomes for the
      infectious diagnoses as compared to current standard of care in this population. The
      Investigators hypothesize, that this approach will not only improve the compliance with
      antimicrobial therapy but the obvious connection between the admission diagnosis (serious
      infection) and substance abuse will serve as a motivating factor for the patients to engage
      in addressing the true underlying cause of their infection - substance use disorder (SUD).
      SUD treatment is frequently time-consuming and often unavailable in the acute hospitalization
      environment and the patients' transitions (e.g. residential SUD treatment, intensive
      outpatient (IOP), outpatient-based opioid therapy (OBOT)) will be facilitated by the
      flexibility of our approach vs current standard of care regarding antibiotic therapy.

      This study will enroll only patients with SUD as a unifying characteristic preventing the use
      of traditional outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT). All consenting patients
      will be treated with dalbavancin and will be monitored inpatient until their 2nd/last dose of
      the drug. This should shorten their acute hospitalization to 10-14 days maximum. During this
      period, they will also be evaluated by an addiction medicine specialist and a substance use
      counselor for the appropriate post-discharge level of care by American Society of Addiction
      Medicine (ASAM) criteria (Continuum software) and initiated on medication-assisted therapy
      (MAT) as indicated. Appropriate evaluation of all subjects by ASAM Continuum will facilitate
      evidence based recommendations for placement and/or immediate follow up for post-discharge
      SUD treatment and monitoring. It will also allow for qualitative and quantitative reporting
      of the experience and associated outcomes. The aim of this intervention is to further inform
      the implementation of SUD care continuum for patients hospitalized with acute SUD-related
      serious infections.
    
  