
    
      In the county of Östergötland.

      Both STD (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) outpatient clinics in Östergötland belong to the
      Department of Dermatology and Venereology in Region Östergötland. The attendee has two
      options: either makes an appointment to a physician if the attendee has symptoms or wishes a
      gynecological exam because of other reasons, or make an appointment to a nurse for
      self-collecting tests.

      All attendees answer a questionnaire including experience of receptive anal sex and fellatio
      (and condom use) during the last 12 months. In the study questionnaire there is an additional
      question regarding fellatio and whether it happened that a male partner ejaculated in her
      oral cavity.

      At the visit by the physician:

      The exam starts with an Abbot multi-collect swab taken from the anal verge, at the opening of
      the anal canal, where the inverstigators think the most self-taken samples come from. This
      sample will be immediately frozen for later analysis.

      A pediatric proctoscope (a proctoscope designed and manufactured to examine children) is used
      for sampling the rectal specimens using an Abbot multi-collect swab and a standard Sigma swab
      of Sigma virocult, followed by vaginal speculum examination. Firstly samples from the lateral
      fornix for wet smear are collected, secondly a swab for methylene-blue staining from the
      endocervical orifice followed by two Abbot multi-collect swabs for chlamydia/gonorrhoea and
      M.genitalium respectively from the orifice, the portio and the vaginal wall and one standard
      Sigma swab of Sigma virocult from the same areas. Lastly a sample is collected from the
      distal urethra and stained with methylene blue.

      Samples collected with standard Sigma swab of Sigma virocult will be immediately frozen in
      minus 80 grades.

      Microscopic examination using a modern Zeiss microscope (Axio Lab A1) is performed. All the
      tubes for the chlamydia samples and the virocult samples have an extra label for the study.

      All women tested with a pediatric proctoscope will answer a questionnaire about their opinion
      regarding this examination procedure.

      At the visit by the nurse:

      The participant collects the rectal sample for chlamydia/gonorrhea with an Abbot
      multi-collect swab first and is instructed to try not to touch the perianal/perineal areas
      with the swab. Then the vaginal samples for chlamydia/gonorrhoea and Mycoplasma genitalium
      are collected by the patient using the same type of swab.

      Attendees initially not treated but turned out to have chlamydia will be asked to be tested
      once more to take new samples with the pediatric proctoscope before treatment is given.

      Some women attend because of a verified chlamydia infection of their current partner and
      those are offered treatment with doxycycline. In these cases the nurse will collect first an
      Abbot multi-collect swab taken from the anal verge, at the opening of the anal Canal and then
      the rectal samples (one Abbot multi-collect swab and one standard Sigma swab of Sigma
      virocult) by using the pediatric proctoscope prior to the vaginal swabs which will be
      self-collected (one Abbot multi-collect and one standard Sigma swab of Sigma virocult).

      There is another group of women who have been tested positive for chlamydia by self-collected
      vaginal swab which is sent to the patient by mail. Those are requested to attend the
      STD-clinic for partner tracing and are offered antibiotic treatment with doxycycline as
      standard treatment. Those accepting to participate in the study will be tested again and a
      nurse will collect first an Abbot multi-collect swab taken from the anal verge, at the
      opening of the anal canal that will be immediately frozen for later analysis and then the
      rectal swabs by using a pediatric proctoscope (one Abbot multi-collect and one standard Sigma
      swab of Sigma virocult) and the participant will collect a new vaginal sample for
      chlamydia/gonorrhea and one for M.genitalium (two Abbot multi-collect swabs) The first sample
      from the anal verge and all samples collected with standard Sigma swab of Sigma virocult will
      immediately be frozen to minus 80 grades for later analysis.

      All samples have an extra label for the study. All women tested with a pediatric proctoscope
      will answer a questionnaire about their opinion regarding this examination procedure.

      In the county of Jönköping:

      The STD clinic of the County of Jönköping has another policy to trace and treat chlamydia
      trachomatis infections and the group of patients that is suitable for the study is women
      attending the STD clinic because of a verified chlamydia infection of their current partner.
      This group of patients is examined and tested by a nurse or doctor before doxycycline
      treatment is offered.

      Those accepting to participate in the study answer the questions about the experience of
      receptive anal sex and fellatio (and condom use) during the last 12 months and even an
      additional question regarding fellatio and whether it happened that a male partner ejaculated
      in her oral cavity.

      The exam starts with an Abbot multi-collect swab taken from the anal verge, at the opening of
      the anal canal. This sample will be immediately frozen for later analysis.Then the
      participant is tested with a pediatric proctoscope and two rectal samples are collected (one
      Abbot multi-collect and one standard Sigma swab of Sigma virocult) and even vaginal samples
      are collected at the same time (one Abbot multi-collect and one standard Sigma swab of Sigma
      virocult) The Abbot multi-collect swabs will be sent to Linköping for analysis. The first
      sample collected with Abbot multi-collect swab from the anal verge and all samples collected
      with standard Sigma swab of Sigma virocult will immediately be frozen to minus 80 grades for
      later analysis.

      All samples have an extra label for the study. All women tested with a pediatric proctoscope
      will answer a questionnaire about their opinion regarding this procedure.

      Positive chlamydia samples will be further analyzed with a high resolution method (Multi
      Locus Sequence Typing, or MLST and if necessary Multi-Locus Variable number tandem repeat
      Analysis or MLVA) to make the discrimination of various chlamydia types possible.

      Discordance between chlamydial types in vagina and anus will favor the hypothesis of a
      currently unknown chlamydia reservoir in the anal region or a possible orogastrointestinal
      way of infection due to unprotected oral sex. Concordance will favor the autoinoculation of
      chlamydia from vagina to anus or vice versa. Moreover vPCR testing of the frozen samples will
      allow discrimination of real chlamydial infections (presence of viable bacteria) from
      contamination (presence of chlamydial DNA but not of viable bacteria). The history of oral
      sex and the difference in the groups that during sexual intercourse have had and have not had
      semen in the oral cavity may or may not strengthen the hypothesis of orogastrointestinal
      transport of chlamydia. After the sample collection with the pediatric proctoscope a
      questionnaire will be given to the attendees to investigate if the participants feel that
      this is an acceptable way to obtain rectal samples.
    
  