
    
      Traditional scanning and post-processing of 2D Cardiac Magnetic Resonance images (CMRI) is
      highly technical and time consuming, with many exams requiring one to two hours to complete.
      In addition, performance of 2D scans often requires expert technologists working closely with
      the clinician imaging expert. These factors limit the general clinical utility of current
      generation cardiac MRI.

      In order to address these factors, many researchers began to explore the use of 4D image
      acquisition and post processing to shorten exam time. These researchers have documented
      success at these efforts but, to the best of the current investigators' knowledge, such
      advanced imaging acquisition and post-processing systems are not readily commercially
      available in the US.

      Recently GE teamed with Vios-Works for MRI to provide a cloud-based visualization platform
      for 4D MRI that provides quantitative and structured reporting in the post processing
      environment that makes use of advance MR imaging acquisition techniques. The images can be
      accessed by the interpreter and reviewed and manipulated in order to assess cardiac function
      and flow retrospectively, which, prior to this innovation, only has been available for
      computed tomography (CT) generated images.

      This investigative team hypothesizes that the use of 4D imaging will result in reduced time
      for acquisition (approximately 6 minutes as opposed to 1 hour), and improvement of diagnostic
      capability.

      Images will be acquired using the current standard 2D acquisition protocol for routine
      clinical cardiac MRI. A repeat acquisition will be completed using the new protocol for 4D
      imaging acquisition. This will require that patient exams be extended in length by six
      minutes for those enrolled in the study. The investigators will evaluate the image quality of
      the two techniques and grade them according to a scale of 1 to 3 with 1 being excellent
      cardiac borders easily identified; 2 - acceptable: cardiac borders acceptably identified; and
      3, non-diagnostic. The investigators will specifically focus on the evaluation of cardiac
      function of both right and left ventricular function as well as flow analysis of both the
      aortic and pulmonic valves.

      For each method, technician time and MD time will be collected. The exam will go through post
      processing for standard 2D, following by the new 4D post processing technique. Time for post
      processing will be collected. All subjects who agree will receive both a 2D and a 4D MRI. The
      investigators will evaluate inter and intra reader reliability by having all readers read the
      first 15 exams, and then read them a second time after two weeks in a different order Readers
      showing variation in performance will be retrained on interpretation of 4D MRI before reading
      scans for the study.

      Once readers have been trained, the study will require that all 2D and 4D exams be read by
      two readers. The exams will be assigned randomly to readers using the Biostatistician Office
      random assignment services.
    
  