
    
      The patients will randomised into 2 groups. There are 2 groups of patients: TEA combined with
      GA or bilateral erector spinae block combined with G. In TEA group, patients will receive
      TEA, an epidural catheter will be placed at the T7-8 interspace after positioning of the
      patient in the sitting position then standard technique of application will be applied, then
      a test dose consists of 3 ml of 1.5% preservative free lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine
      will be injected followed by 5-6 ml of bupivacaine 0.25%. Anaesthesia will be standardised. A
      left-sided, double-lumen thoracostomy tube will be inserted and confirmed by
      bronchofiberoscopy. In the TEA group, an additional 4-5mL epidural doses of bupivacaine 0.25%
      will be administered at 1 h intervals. In the second group, patients will receive bilateral
      ESP block which will be performed as follows. The patient will be placed in a lateral
      position and a high-frequency linear ultrasound transducer (GE LOGIQe, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin)
      will be placed in a longitudinal orientation 3 cm lateral to the T7 spinous process. Three
      muscles will be identified superficial to the hyperechoic transverse process shadow as
      follows: trapezius, rhomboid major, and erector spinae. An 8-cm 22-gauge block needle
      (EchoStim; Benlan Inc, Oakville, Canada) will be inserted in a cephalad-to-caudad direction
      until the tip lay in the interfascial plane between rhomboid major and erector spinae
      muscles, as evidenced by visualization of local anesthetic spreading in a linear pattern
      between erector spinae and the bony acoustic shadows of the transverse processes. A total of
      20 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine will be injected then it will be repeated on the other side and
      preformed in the same way without changing the position of the patient to achieve sensory
      block T5-T10 .

      Hemodynamics as heart rate, arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure and oxygen
      saturation will be monitored intraoperatively. The heart rate and arterial blood pressure
      will be maintained within 20% of the preoperative values.

      At the end of the procedure, in both groups, anesthesia will be discontinued and
      neuromuscular blockade will be antagonized with neostigmine, intravenous (0.05 mg/kg) and
      atropine intravenous (0.03 mg/kg) at appropriate doses.

      The patients will be transported postoperatively to the intensive care unit. if VAS > 5 ,
      Patient-controlled analgesia using elastomeric pump will be established with IV doses of
      morphine in the erector group (basal rate about 0.5mg/h to 1 mg/h and bolus dose of 2 mg ,
      300 mL maximum dose) and epidural analgesia in the TEA group (top up doses of about 4 ml of
      bupivacaine 0.125% + morphine 20 μg/mL, bolus doses 2 mL to 3 mL, 300 ml maximum dose). The
      patients will be monitored in the postanaesthesia care unit (PACU)
    
  