
    
      Good oral health during early childhood sets the foundation for a lifetime of optimal dental
      health. Unfortunately, many Canadian children develop Early Childhood Caries (ECC), defined
      as caries in the primary dentition in those < 72 months of age. ECC is a significant concern
      as not only can it increase the risk for caries throughout childhood and adolescence, but
      severe forms can impact health and well-being. Many with ECC suffer from an aggressive
      subtype, called severe ECC (S-ECC), which frequently requires rehabilitative dental surgery
      under general anesthesia (GA).

      There is an urgent need to implement public health strategies to reduce the proportion of
      children developing ECC, especially S-ECC, and to manage effectively children who already
      have the disease. The challenge is that there are few effective interventions. Traditional
      primary prevention modalities have had little impact on reducing the incidence and severity
      of ECC in North America. Until recently there have been no effective non-surgical products
      for secondary prevention available. Though primary prevention is always preferred, secondary
      prevention can reduce the morbidity from caries and preserve the function of affected teeth
      until exfoliation.

      Recent reports highlight the anti-caries effects of silver diamine fluoride (SDF). One
      systematic review and meta-analysis reported that 38% SDF is safe and effective in arresting
      dentin caries in primary teeth resulting in the arrest of 81% of active caries lesions. The
      recent American Dental Association (ADA) report on non-restorative management of caries
      prioritizes the use of SDF over other products to manage cavitated caries lesions. Despite
      this evidence, true consensus on the frequency of SDF applications in children with ECC is
      lacking. Further, the current American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) Clinical
      Practice Guidelines on SDF emphasize that research is needed on the use of SDF to arrest
      caries lesions in both primary and permanent teeth, specifically urging researchers to
      undertake randomized clinical trials (RCTs). SDF has the potential to arrest ECC in young
      children and delay treatment until children can be seen in outpatient settings, thereby
      reducing the need for rehabilitative dental surgery under GA.

      While Advantage Arrest TM (38% SDF) received approval for clinical use in Canada in 2017,
      there has been little guidance on the frequency and duration of applications. Some proposed
      SDF protocols may not easily translate into dental public health clinical settings or work
      well in remote Indigenous communities, where access to care is often limited. Recommendations
      for frequent reapplication are not practical or realistic in these programs or remote regions
      where follow-up visits may be several months away and not within a matter of weeks. Since
      there was no clear protocol for dental professionals to follow for arresting caries in young
      children when SDF was approved for use in Canada in 2017, The investigators undertook a
      mixed-methods pilot feasibility study of SDF. Data from 40 children 40.2 ± 14.9 months of age
      are encouraging. Children with 239 active caries lesions in primary teeth underwent treatment
      with 38% SDF (followed by 5% sodium fluoride varnish/5%NaFV) at baseline and 4 months later.
      Treated lesions were assessed 4 and 8 months after baseline to determine arrest. The early
      childhood oral health impact scale (ECOHIS) questionnaire was completed at second and third
      visits to assess oral health related quality of life (OHRQoL). ECOHIS is a validated tool for
      use with parents/caregivers of children < 72 months of age. Arrest rates after one and two
      applications of SDF were 74.1% and 96.2%, respectively. OHRQoL was not found to be adversely
      affected by the success of SDF treatment. From these pilot data the investigators concluded
      that SDF is a promising agent to manage ECC, but at least two applications are recommended.

      The purpose of this current study is to investigate the effectiveness of using SDF to arrest
      ECC in very young children randomized to different application frequency regimens. The
      investigators will also study potential oral microbiome changes in children receiving SDF
      treatment. The investigators hypothesize that two applications of SDF at different
      frequencies will yield similar arrest rates, and that SDF will negatively influence the
      population of cariogenic bacteria in the oral microbiome.

      The investigators propose a RCT to study the use of SDF to arrest cavitated caries lesions in
      primary teeth at different application regimens. This study is novel, as this would be the
      first RCT of SDF conducted in Canada. Regimen 1 will be two applications of SDF four months
      apart, which is the protocol frequency adopted by the Winnipeg Regional Health Authority's
      (WRHA) Clinical Guideline on SDF. Regimen 2 will be two applications of SDF six months apart
      (ADA recommendation). Regimen 3 will be two applications of SDF one month apart, which is
      proposed in the AAPD's clinical practice guideline. The ADA recently indicated that SDF
      should be prioritized over 5%NaFV for non-restorative management of cavitated lesions. Thus,
      a control group receiving fluoride varnish will not be included as this would now be
      considered unethical and substandard care. However, the investigators will attempt to follow
      as a comparison group those children whose parents/caregivers do not consent to SDF to manage
      their child's caries and only choose 5%NaFV.

      Arrest of caries lesions will be determined by assessing clinical hardness, colour change,
      and size of lesions at baseline, at second visit, and at the final study visit. Children will
      be recruited over eight months. The investigators will perform block randomization by site in
      order to achieve equal proportions in each regimen by clinic site of recruitment. Following
      informed consent the child's parent/caregiver will complete a short questionnaire (via
      interview) on general and dental health, oral hygiene, dietary intake of sugars, and family
      demographics along with the ECOHIS to assess OHRQL. SDF will be applied on the day of
      recruitment to cavitated lesions involving dentin followed by 5%NaFV. Depending on which
      frequency regimen children are randomized to, participants will return for a second visit.
      During this second visit, caries lesions treated with SDF at baseline will be assessed to see
      if caries is arrested as determined through measures of hardness, colour change, and size. At
      this same visit a second application of SDF will be applied to these initially treated caries
      lesions followed by 5%NaFV. Children and parents will return for the third and final study
      visit according to the schedule of their randomized grouping. Parents/caregivers will
      complete a follow-up questionnaire similar to the baseline tool. Caries lesions previously
      treated by SDF will be assessed for clinical hardness, colour change and size to determine if
      they have arrested.

      As ECC is age specific, participants will be < 72 months of age with active caries and their
      parents/caregivers. The majority will be recruited from community-based dental clinics in
      Winnipeg or who are currently on a wait list for dental surgery under GA in Winnipeg. The
      investigators found that these were ideal sites for the recently completed feasibility trial
      of SDF. Participation will be restricted to children living in the Winnipeg region or within
      a one hour drive of Winnipeg to minimize the risk of loss-to-follow-up. Eligibility criteria
      are designed to select young children who have active caries, and thus are at an increased
      risk of morbidity from existing caries and onset of new caries.

      Sample size for this pilot study has been determined in discussion with a collaborator. The
      intent of the study is not to compare arrest rates between groups to see which yields higher
      and more significant arrest rates. Rather, the investigators are interested in determining
      whether the three different regimens will yield arrest rates within a range of what is
      determined to be clinically acceptable. Based on the recent pilot feasibility study of SDF
      with 40 children (with 239 lesions), the investigators reported an arrest rate of
      approximately 96% following two applications of SDF. Results from a recent systematic review
      state that 80% of lesions can arrest because of SDF. The investigators believe that a range
      of arrest rates from 80% to 96% yield similar beneficial outcomes in the clinical setting.
      Based on the pilot study, 40 children had 239 lesions (average 6 lesions/child). With the
      pilot sample of 239 lesions, it is possible to estimate an arrest rate with a 95% confidence
      interval to be accurate within ± 6.5%. With 400 lesions anticipated in the proposed
      recruitment sample, the 95% confidence interval for the arrest rate would be ± 5.0%. The
      investigators propose three SDF regimen groups and anticipate that each group will have 22
      children anticipating an average of six lesions. This would mean 396 lesions would be
      followed in this study. The investigators anticipate that with 400 lesions the percent of
      arrest will be within ± 5% if 22 children are in each group. To deal with potential drop-outs
      and loss-to-follow-up of up to 20% the investigators will over recruit by 22.7% into each
      group and recruit 27 per group. The investigators anticipate the successful recruitment of 10
      children each month.

      Clinical outcomes assessed will include the proportion of teeth arrested (i.e., "arrest rate"
      = total number teeth arrested / total number of teeth treated), the proportion of children
      with any arrested caries, associated morbidity (dental pain and, dental abscess assessed
      using the PUFA index), and proportion of children requiring dental surgery under GA. The PUFA
      index is a score of the consequences of severely decayed teeth with visible pulpal
      involvement, ulceration caused by dislocated tooth fragments, fistula and abscess. The
      investigators will also record dmft and dmfs scores for each child at baseline and at
      subsequent study visits. The dmft and dmfs scores are cumulative counts of the total number
      of primary teeth or surfaces decayed, missing due to, or filled because of caries.

      Caries activity will be determined according to hardness and colour of the caries lesion.
      Hardness is the best indicator of dentinal tissue caries activity. The hardness of caries
      lesions will be assessed by applying light force to the lesion with a ball ended probe and by
      classifying the lesion into one of three hardness categories: 1) very soft; 2) medium; or 3)
      very hard. The investigators will record these ratings of hardness of lesions on the Clinical
      Record Forms at the baseline visit, second visit, and third (final) clinical visit. The
      Clinical Record Forms will be those used in the pilot feasibility study of SDF. The colour of
      caries lesions will also be assessed. Dentin colour of each caries lesion will be classified
      as: 1) yellow; 2) brown; or 3) black. The colour black is associated with arrested caries.
      The size of caries lesions will also be measured (in mm) at the baseline, second, and third
      clinical visits.

      To investigate SDF's influence on the human oral microbiome, ten children from each regimen
      will have plaque samples collected. Samples will be obtained prior to SDF application at
      baseline, at the first follow-up visit, and at the final visit. Following nucleic acid
      isolation from plaque samples and amplicon sequencing, data analysis will be performed in lab
      using established methods.

      Problems and adverse events will be recorded and reported to the University of Manitoba's
      ethics office.
    
  