
    
      Given the propensity for venous leg ulcers to become refractory, long standing wounds,
      incorporating active biologic grafts into the standard compression therapy, may prove to
      accelerate wound healing. The two treatments to be compared in this study are both commonly
      used for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. Compression therapy has long been the standard
      for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. Standard Compression therapy consists of wound
      debridement, application of non adherent dressings and a three or four layer compression
      dressing. (PROFORE Multi-Layer Compression Bandage System) TheraSkin is a split thickness
      skin graft harvested within 24 hours postmortem, from an organ donor who has cleared the
      standard safety screenings. It is classified by the FDA as a donated tissue. Once harvested,
      the graft is sanitized according to FDA specifications, and cryopreserved, until it is
      delivered to the clinic for application to the foot ulcer. It is also a widely used treatment
      for diabetic foot ulcers. TREATMENT RATIONALE FOR THIS STUDY Chronic wounds of the lower
      extremities affect a substantial proportion of the population. Venous leg ulcers (VLUs)
      account for up to 90% of lower extremity wounds. The standard of care for treatment of VLU's
      in wound centers in the United States is Standard Compression therapy as described above,
      which may be combined with biologic graft materials applied to the wound bed. This study may
      assist physicians who treat VLU's by comparing efficacy and costs of two common treatments
      for VLU's in a prospective randomized clinical trial. The investigation will be a
      head-to-head study comparing widely used human skin allograft (Theraskin) along with Standard
      Compression Therapy vs Standard Compression Therapy alone. There is no randomized,
      prospective data comparing these two options in the treatment of VLU. Compression is superior
      to no compression and increases VLU healing rates. It is currently the mainstay of treatment
      for venous ulcers of the lower extremities. It is important to consider the underlying
      pathophysiology of these wounds. A history of deep vein thrombosis is regarded as a
      predisposing factor to venous insufficiency, and hence venous ulceration. Venous
      insufficiency is associated with increased hydrostatic pressure in the veins of the leg
      (Moffatt 207). External compression attempts to reverse this and aids venous return
    
  