
    
      1. Acquisition of tumor samples : Tissue and 10ml of blood will be collected for genomic
           examination of those histologically diagnosed with early gastric cancer or precancerous
           gastric adenoma lesion, and additional tissue and blood will be collected at 2 months, 1
           year after treatment, and recurrence.

        2. Suitability of tmor samples

           : Tumor areas (> 60%) are dissected under microscopy from 4-μm-thick unstained sections
           by comparison with an H&E stained slide, and genomic DNA was extracted using a Qiagen
           DNA FFPE Tissue Kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturer's
           instructions. After extraction, we measured concentrations and 260/280 and 260/230 nm
           ratios using a spectrophotometer (ND1000, Nanodrop Technologies, ThermoFisher
           Scientific, MA, USA). Each sample was then quantified with an Qubit fluorometer (Life
           Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Samples of genomic DNA with more than 10 ng measured
           by the Qubit fluorometer were subjected to AmpliSeq library preparation. To identify
           "druggable" CNVs, we used a 21-gene nCounter CNV assay.

        3. Method of tumor molecular profiling

             -  Ion Torrent PGM Amplieq Cancer Panel 2.0 : We use the Ion AmpliSep Cancer Panel
                V2(Ion Torrent) to detect frequent somatic mutations that were selected based on
                literature review. It examines 285 mutations in 50 commonly mutated oncogenes and
                tumor supressor genes. First, 10ng of DNA from each 89 FFPE tumor samples underwent
                single-tube, multiplex PCR amplication using the Ion AmpliSepCancer Primer Pool and
                the AmpliSepKit reagents (Life Technologies).Treatment of the resulting amplicons
                with FuPa Preagent partially digest the primers and phosphorylate the amplicons.
                The phosphorylate the amplicons are ligated to Ion dapters and purfied. For
                barcoded library preparation, we substitite barcoded adapters from the Ion XpressTM
                Library Kit. The ligated DNA undergose nick translation and amplication to complete
                the linkage between adapters and amplicons and to generate sufficient material for
                dowmstream template treparation. Two rounds of Agencourt® AMPure® XP Reagent
                binding at 0.6 and 1.2 bead- to- sample volum ratios removed input DNA and
                unincorporated primers form the amplicons. The final library molecules are
                125-300bp in size. We then transfer the libries to the Ion OneTouchTM system for
                automated template preparation. Sequencing is performed on the Ion PGMTM sequencer
                according to the manufacturer's instructions. We use IonTorrent Software for
                automated data analysis.

             -  nCounter copy Number Variation CodeSets : We custom designed a 21-gene CNV assay as
                outlined in a previous study. The 21 genes included AURAKA, CCND1, CCNE1, CDK4,
                CDK6, CDNK1A, CDNK2A, EGFR, ERBB2, ERBB3, FGFR1, FGFR2, IGFR1R, KLF5, KRAS, MDM2,
                MET, MITF, MYC, PIK3CA, and TNIK. For detection of CNVs, nCounter Copy Number
                Variation CodeSets were used with 200 ng purified genomic DNA. DNA was fragmented
                via AluI digestion and denatured at 95°C. Fragmented DNA was hybridized with the
                codeset of 21 genes in the nCounter Cancer CN Assay Kit (Nanostring Technologies)
                for 18 h at 65°C and processed according to the manufacturer's instructions. The
                nCounter Digital Analyzer counted and tabulated the signals of reporter probes.
                Quantified data were analyzed using NanoString's nSolver Analysis Software.

             -  Immunohistochemistry

                : RET, ATM, PD-L1, FGFR2, MLH, EGFR, ALK, ROS, TRKA. MET, HER2, PTEN loss
                (EGFR,CCNEI in selected cases)

             -  Cancer Scan

                : targeted deep sequencing at Samsung Genome Institute

                : Illumina HiSeq2000/2500-based, MiSeq NGS targeted sequencing

             -  ASFA™ Spotter

        4. Statistics : Analysis of genetic research is primarily technical. Data are presented
           using summary statistics tables and graphs. The total disease-free survival period is
           calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method through medical records of subjects who have
           undergone endoscopic resection.
    
  