
    
      Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), especially those with a long duration of diabetes,
      insulin treatment and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are vulnerable patients exhibiting a high
      risk for cardiac arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death (SCD) [1, 2]. Various factors such as
      the presence of coronary heart disease, diabetic cardiomyopathy as well autonomic neuropathy
      are underlying pathologies associated with the development of potentially fatal arrhythmias
      in these patients while hypoglycemic events are considered to directly trigger these
      arrhythmias. In 1991, Tattersall and colleagues were the first to describe the phenomenon of
      sudden nocturnal death in young patients with type 1 diabetes and reported that many of these
      patients had recent nocturnal hypoglycemia episodes [3]. Therefore it has been postulated
      that severe hypoglycemia may lead to cardiac arrhythmias, later summarized as the "dead in
      bed" syndrome [4]. In addition, recent data from large cardiovascular outcome trials in
      patients with type 2 diabetes suggest that severe hypoglycemia is associated with an
      increased risk of cardiovascular events and cardiovascular related death [5]. Moreover, CKD
      markedly increases the risk for hypoglycemia and even a moderate impairment of kidney
      function (eGFR < 60 ml/min) is associated with a significant increase in SCD [6].

      Various pathophysiological mechanisms may contribute to the increased cardiovascular
      mortality after hypoglycemia including hypoglycemia-induced release of catecholamines,
      pro-arrhythmogenic ECG alterations, inflammatory changes, direct effects in the vascular wall
      such as impaired endothelial function as well as abnormalities in coagulation and platelet
      function [7, 8].

      Morphological and functional alterations of the heart occurring in CKD further contribute to
      these mechanisms. Several small studies performing simultaneous glucose monitoring and ECG
      recordings addressed the question whether spontaneous hypoglycemic events in patients with
      diabetes directly lead to cardiac arrhythmias [9-11], but hitherto no clear association has
      been found. These studies were limited by a short duration of glucose and ECG monitoring and
      by the fact that only 3 lead Holter-ECGs were used, thus not allowing the assessment of more
      sophisticated ECG abnormalities such as QT dispersion, T-wave alternans, or late potentials.
      Therefore no clear data exist to predict arrhythmias and SCD and its relation to hypoglycemia
      in patients with diabetes. Ideally, a SCD risk score could identify and characterize
      high-risk patients but to date little is known about hypoglycemia-associated ECG markers for
      the identification of patients at risk for arrhythmias and SCD.

      In the general population, various ECG risk markers for SCD have been identified such as
      heart rate, cardiac rhythm abnormalities, AV block, QT length, QT dispersion, heart-rate
      variability (HRV), T-wave alternans, late potentials, as well as left- (LBBB) or right-bundle
      branch block (RBBB) (reviewed in [12]). In patients with diabetes hypoglycemia, diabetic
      cardiomyopathy, as well as the presence of autonomic neuropathy may lead to such ECG
      abnormalities. Under experimental conditions some of these ECG surrogate parameters have been
      studied in patients with diabetes in association with hypoglycemia. As such, clamp studies
      revealed that hypoglycemia prolongs the QT interval and increases QT dispersion (difference
      between the longest and shortest QT interval in a 12-lead Holter ECG) [10, 13], which in
      conjunction with an increased release of catecholamines during hypoglycemia may promote
      ventricular arrhythmias. In addition, controlled hypoglycemia in patients with type 1
      diabetes alters cardiac repolarization by changing the T-wave amplitude [11]. Sparse data
      exist on the effect of spontaneous hypoglycemic episodes and changes in ECG parameters with
      only a small study in patients with type 1 diabetes demonstrating that nocturnal hypoglycemia
      is associated with a decrease in the low-frequency component of heart rate variability [14].
      To date, more sophisticated markers such as QT dispersion (difference between the longest and
      shortest QT interval in a 12-lead Holter ECG), late potentials, or T-wave alternans (periodic
      beat-to-beat variation in the morphology, amplitude or timing of the T waves in ECGs) were
      not examined in a "real-life setting", most likely because these markers require a 12 lead
      ECG registration of longer duration.

      However, for the establishment of a risk algorithm for the prediction of
      hypoglycemia-associated arrhythmias it is mandatory to perform long duration simultaneous
      glucose monitoring and 12 lead ECG registration to capture these ECG risk markers for SCD.
    
  