
    
      An open, randomized, of parallel groups, and controlled clinical trial. Patients will be
      allocated on first come to one of the two treatment groups using a block random sequence
      generated by computer that will remain hidden from the researchers and patients until
      allocation.

      Experimental group: PRGF together with the corresponding dressing according to annex IV.

      Control group: Corresponding dressing according to annex IV.

      Both groups will be submitted to a cleaning, debridement, occlusive dressing and use of
      antibiotic if necessary in each visit.

      After signing consent form, and previously of randomization, patients will be submitted to a
      blood extraction where it will be determinate: Albumine (in g/dl), Hemoglobin (in g/dl),
      Hematocrit (in %), Creatinine (in mg/dl). If patients have data collected through previous
      analysis performed until 30 days before, it will not be necessary a new extraction.

      Patients will be also submitted to an initial valuation of:

        -  medical antecedents: history of chronic venous insufficiency, previous medical
           treatments.

        -  general state: dependence grade through Barthel index, mobility, ankle arm index.

        -  ulcer characteristics:exudate, sing of location of ulcer, antiquity of ulcer,
           tunneling,infection, pain through a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).

        -  Anthropometric characteristics; Weight, height and Body Mass Index (BMI).

      Patients will go to the physician's consult every fours days (on Monday or Tuesday and
      Thursday or Friday). When one ulcer is closed, patient will go to physician's consult to
      confirm that it remains closed at seven and fifteen days.

      In both intervention and control groups, the bad evolution of ulcer with deterioration at
      least during four consecutive weeks, will obligate to ask a preferred inter-consultation with
      Vascular Surgery Service.

      In each visit the following variables will be measured:

        -  Wound surface (in cm2) measured through PUSH scale (Pressure Ulcer Scale for Healing)
           belonging to GNEAUPP group (National Group to study and advice about pressure ulcers and
           chronic wounds). This variable will be measured in each visit.

        -  Safety variable: Pruritus (Yes/No), Pain (through VAS scale), Sings of infection
           (Yes/No).

      If patient experience one adverse effect which according to judgment of nurse precludes its
      continuation into the study, the nurse will communicate it to physician who will discharge
      from study if it is necessary.

      All this will be collected in Case Report Form (CRF).
    
  