
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is the world's deadliest infectious disease. Each year, 10.4 million new
      individuals are diagnosed with TB, and 1.7 million are killed. Despite the availability of
      highly effective medications for treating TB in the developing world, lack of adherence to
      the treatment regimen remains the driving influence leading to multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB,
      morbidity and mortality. Conventional treatment is a lengthy process which depends heavily on
      patient adherence in seeking and then carrying out the prescribed treatment. After some time,
      the antibiotics typically eliminate symptoms of the disease, but the antibiotics themselves
      can make individuals feel quite ill. Additionally, individuals lack information, support, and
      suffer from a powerful community stigma. Stigma avoidance has been shown to drive work
      absenteeism, community outcasting and distant travel for health services. Because of these
      burdens, individual will become ill again - it also increases the risk that others will be
      infected, and that an antibiotic-resistant strain will evolve. There is therefore great need
      for the development of alternative protocols, which reduce the costs of treatment and burden
      of adherence, and more effectively motivate patients to adhere to the program.

      TB is spread through the air when people who are sick with TB excrete the causative bacillus,
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis mainly through coughing. Left untreated, a single patient can
      infect between 12 and 15 persons per year, a stark contrast to an Ebola patient who will only
      infect between 1.5 and 2.5 persons. When a patient adheres to the treatment regime, she makes
      it less likely that others will become sick, contributing to the health of her family and
      community. Adherence is thus a contribution to a public good--a personally costly action that
      benefits others. A substantial and growing literature in the social sciences demonstrates the
      potential of behavioral interventions for generating large increases in contributions to
      public goods, yet this potential has largely been left untapped in the treatment of TB.
      Keheala taps into this underutilized potential by developing a powerful platform for better
      engaging patients' sense of responsibility to their community in order to increase adherence.

      Keheala is a feature-phone and Internet-based digital platform that uses text message-like
      interactions to deliver behavioral interventions that have been demonstrated as remarkably
      effective in the social sciences literature on altruism, as well as in our proof of concept
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) administered in Kenya. Building on these early findings,
      the investigators now seek to: 1) Implement a large-scale, four-sided randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) that investigates large-scale, programmatic implementation across diverse and
      heavily burdened regions of Kenya, 2) compare cost-effectiveness with three practical
      alternative protocols, 3) assess the long-term social impact of the intervention and 4) link
      self-reported adherence with verifiable markers of medication consumption.

      Justification:

      Evidence of mobile interventions improving TB treatment outcomes falls short of expectations.
      There is need for more powerful and cost-effective interventions, for higher quality evidence
      of the impact of these interventions on treatment outcomes, and for studies specifically on
      TB. Keheala has been demonstrated in a large-scale RCT to substantially reduce the
      unsuccessful treatment outcomes of TB patients at 17 clinical sites around Nairobi County.
      Policy makers and funders now seek to 'stress-test' the Keheala intervention at scale across
      diverse and challenging environments, through its programmatic implementation and by
      comparing its cost-effectiveness to alternative protocols. The alternative protocols, an
      SMS-reminder intervention and a fully-automated, behaviorally informed mobile health
      intervention, are thought to be effective, less expensive and more easily scaled. Keheala is
      frequently compared to these interventions in conversation, but any evidence that suggests a
      benefit over the other is unsubstantiated today. Accordingly, the investigators propose a
      large-scale RCT, the gold standard for evidence-based research, to rigorously investigate
      questions of scalability and cost-effectiveness.

      General Objectives:

      The goal of the research is to compare health outcomes between the four treatment arms, with
      cost and cost-effectiveness being a secondary objective.

      Additional Qualitative Objectives:

      Of additional interest is whether adherence in the Keheala group is higher than in the
      control group. For this, the investigators will test urine samples in both groups. Within the
      Keheala group, whether those who self-verified have higher adherence rates will also be
      investigated.

      A separate analysis of health outcomes amongst MDR patients will be performed to understand
      the potential benefits for this sub-group of patients. Of note, the study was not powered to
      achieve statistical significance amongst this sub-group, noting their low prevalence amongst
      the TB population. Still, this is a sub-population that is of particular international
      interest. Accordingly, this group of patients will be investigated in the data for any
      potential insights.

      Measure and compare the health behaviors, health knowledge, attitudes, prosociality,
      employment and financial impact of the four interventions. The above topics will be
      investigated by surveying patients via mobile phones at the start and three months following
      completion of their treatment.

      Study population:

      Sampling procedure & calculation of sample size:

      Health Outcomes:

      The investigators will employ a four-sided stratified RCT with 15,500 patients in total: a)
      2,000 patients in the standard-of-care control group; b) 1,500 patients in the SMS
      intervention group; c) 6,000 patients in the SBCC intervention group (SBCC); 4) 6,000
      patients in the Keheala intervention group. This methodology was selected for the following
      reasons:

        1. RCTs are the gold-standard for providing evidence-based evaluation of medical
           interventions and recommended when feasible.

        2. Keheala is a new program and cannot be sufficiently studied using existing data.

        3. The researchers have an established record of designing largescale RCTs in real-world
           settings such as ours.

      This sample size was chosen to achieve 80% power in detecting improvements of 2.5% or more in
      the unsuccessful health outcomes. To do this calculation, Monte Carlo simulations of patient
      outcomes were performed based on results of the 2016 proof-of-concept RCT, knowledge of the
      effectiveness of SMS interventions and the potential of behavior-change communication for
      eliciting desirable behaviors.

      The investigators also powered the study to achieve 80% power with a 1% reduction in deaths
      from a base death rate in the control of 2.6%. This reduction in deaths is consistent with
      the reduction in our 2016 pilot. Our power calculation is probably a bit conservative, since
      base death rates are higher outside Nairobi.

      Urine Sampling:

      For urine sampling, 800 tests will be performed in a ratio of 3:1 (600 in the Keheala group,
      200 in the Control group). This will enable detection of a 6% difference in average adherence
      at 80% power.

      Counties were grouped by region to ensure geographic representation in order to inform a
      national rollout. Within regions - Central, Coast, Eastern, North Eastern, Nairobi, Nyanza,
      Rift Valley and Western - a single county was selected for inclusion. Counties were selected
      for a combination of low treatment success rates, high caseloads, urban/rural representation,
      ethnic diversity and hard to reach areas. This process was performed in conjunction with
      Kenya's National Tuberculosis and Lung Disease Program (NTLDP) epidemiologist. The data used
      to select counties for participation is appended with brief explanations offered for each
      selection. The following counties, displayed by region, have been selected for inclusion:

      No. County Name Region

        1. Kakamega Western

        2. Kiambu Central

        3. Kisumu Nyanza

        4. Machakos Eastern

        5. Mombasa Coast

        6. Nairobi Nairobi

        7. Turkana Rift Valley

        8. Wajir North Eastern

      The investigators will stratify the data according to: county, gender, HIV-coinfection
      status, and language preference. Within each stratum, block randomization will be employed.
      In lay terms, this means that within a stratum, the intervention will be assigned according
      to a pre-specified, but random order. Note that since individuals are assigned to strata--and
      thus to study intervention--as they arrive, our procedure is an example of proportional
      stratification.

      The following random ordering was generated for block randomization:

      '4443331332314342133443243434414'. The numbers in the vector represent the interventions in
      the study: 1 represents the control, 2 the SMS reminder intervention, 3 the SBCC
      intervention, and 4 the Keheala intervention. The frequency of the numbers in this vector is
      proportional to the frequency in the study (4:3:12:12). The investigators will simply follow
      that ordering in all the strata. That is, the investigators will follow it for
      'English-speaking HIV-coinfected males in county X', and follow it for 'English-speaking
      HIV-coinfected females in County Y', etc.

      Patients in all groups will receive a calling minutes top-up two-times: first, upon
      completion of a phone-administered (text) survey on the first day of enrollment, and again,
      three months after an outcome has been entered for the patient. Providing such compensation
      is common in Kenya.

      Intervention:

      All groups will continue to receive the standard-of-care protocol which includes diagnosis,
      the provision of medications - typically administered for a 1-2 week period at which point
      patients are expected to return to the clinical site - periodic on-the-ground follow-up by
      community health volunteers (CHVs)(at the discretion of local clinicians and CHVs) and
      nutritional support, as is sometimes provided. All groups will be periodically and
      consistently surveyed, once three days post-enrollment and, again, three months after
      completion of treatment.

      All phone-based interventions will be offered in either English or Swahili. This decision was
      made in conjunction with the NTLDP, which estimates 95% of patients can speak at least
      Swahili. For those who don't speak Swahili or English, clinicians will be trained to
      encourage patients to get help from an able family member.

      Clinicians will first consent patients, assisted by a 'Consenting and Enrollment Script' into
      the study and have them sign consent forms. Clinicians will provide patients a signed copy of
      the Informed Consent Form for their possession, while a second signed copy is kept and
      collected by SCTLCs. Keheala will collect signed consent forms from SCTLCs at Quarterly
      Cluster Meetings. Patients will be registered into our study by clinicians on their own cell
      phones. Clinicians will confirm over USSD that a patient consented before they are able to
      enroll the patient. A clinician enters in a patient's name, phone number, treatment time,
      language preference, gender and HIV status. After this point, patient's will be randomized by
      the system into one of the four study groups.

      At the end of the enrollment process, clinicians will be prompted to provide any needed
      materials to the patient according to the group they are randomized into. Patients in the
      SBCC and Keheala groups will be provided a 'Patient Flyer' that details how to access the
      platform. Patients in the Control and SMS Only groups will not receive any physical
      materials.

      Signed consent forms will be collected from clinical sites by sub-county coordinators and
      collected by study staff at quarterly regional meetings. Clinicians can request a resupply of
      materials across the Keheala platform. Urgent resupply requests will be served by courier
      while less urgent requests will be fulfilled at quarterly regional meetings with study staff
      disbursing materials to Sub-County TB/Leprosy Coordinators (SCTLCs) for distribution to
      clinical sites.

      Urine Testing Protocol:

      In order to validate self-reported adherence, the investigators will verify verification with
      GFC Diagnostic's IsoScreen urine test, which can be administered outside of a laboratory
      setting to identify Isoniazid in urine. The test has demonstrated high validity and
      reliability with a sensitivity and specificity of 95% and 98%, respectively.

      800 IsoScreen tests will be ordered six to eight weeks in advance of desired sampling period
      allowing sufficient time for production, shipment and passage through customs. Our contacts
      at USAID in Kenya and at the NTLDP will help us to navigate the local procurement process.

      Only patients who have been verified as TB patients in TIBU (see 'Data Management' section)
      and who are still on treatment at the time of sampling (to be determined according to
      enrollment rates) will be included in the randomization process for urine sampling.
      Drug-resistant patients on conventional treatment (20 months) will be excluded from urine
      sampling as they do not receive Isoniazid in Kenya.

      Clinics with at least 100 patients enrolled will be eligible for the urine sampling
      procedure.

      Of these eligible clinics five to ten will be randomly selected to participate. Within these
      five to ten selected clinics enough patients for sampling will be randomly selected so that
      an estimated 800 tests can be performed (accounting for the likelihood of finding a patient).
      The investigators will first attempt to find these individuals at the clinical site over the
      course of a week. Those who do not appear at the clinical site will be pursued via home
      visits the following week.

      While there will be some sample selection, there are HIV studies in Uganda that show small
      differences between adherence as tested at clinic visits versus at unannounced home visits.

      Study staff will visit selected clinics for a week at a time and identify the randomly
      selected patients for urine sampling during the patient's weekly clinical visit. Those
      patients who do not appear at the clinical site will be visited at their homes, unannounced,
      the following week. Addresses will be retrieved from TIBU. If a patient is not found during
      the first-attempted home visit, they will not be revisited out of fear of changed-behaviors
      in anticipation of a follow-up visit (communicated by family members or friends). Study staff
      will be identifiable by their 'staff' shirts and will communicate their position as study
      team members. Patients will be reminded of their consent to participate in the study. Patient
      names, phone numbers, the date of the test (i.e. JUL 15 2010) and time of test (in military
      time) will be recorded. A patient's identity will be verified by photo ID or patient card.
      Patient and sample collector will initial the record to indicate accuracy and identities of
      those present. Patient phone numbers will be checked by USSD to ensure linkage within the
      database for future analysis. The following sampling procedure is then carried out:

        1. A patient is provided a urine sampling container and requested to provide a sample.

        2. Once returned, the study team member will fill a testing syringe with urine from the
           container and place onto plastic test tube. Holding the tube in both hands on a firm
           surface, both thumbs should be placed on the sides of the cap. The cap should be snapped
           on quickly.

        3. The syringe is then compressed to expel its contents into the reaction tube. The sample
           can be mixed by flicking the tube vigorously for 30 seconds. Color change, if any,
           should happen rapidly.

        4. Color determination should be made within five minutes of mixing the sample. Reading the
           sample after five minutes will give inaccurate readings.

        5. Urine samples, container, testing vile will be disposed of locally after color
           indication is recorded. If there is no suitable means for local disposal, discarded
           materials will be collected in a sealed bag and disposed of at a later time in a
           suitable location.

           Data collection and reduction:

           County and sub-county TB coordinators visit each clinical site every one to three months
           and compile data from the paper TB registers into the NTLDP's electronic reporting
           system, TIBU. TIBU simultaneously generates a sub-county registration number by which
           each individual case can be identified and tracked. This number is recorded in the
           facility's TB Register. Clinicians are trained and incentivized to return to their
           phone's USSD portal to link study-registered patients with their sub-county registration
           number. The researchers will receive weekly TIBU exports that our computer system will
           automatically cross-reference to verify registered individuals are, in fact, TB patients
           according to TIBU. Only once this validation is completed are clinicians compensated for
           the patient he or she enrolled.

           Once a patient is registered in the system, they remain 'active' in the study until a
           corresponding clinical outcome is detected in the TIBU exports. At that point, the
           patient is automatically 'deactivated' from whichever intervention they are receiving
           and our primary data point is recorded.

           An effort (depending on what is logistically and financially feasible at the time) will
           be made to follow up with a sample of LTFU patients to understand the nature of their
           disappearance from treatment.

           As a backup, any individual started on TB medication is entered into a paper log at each
           health facility. Points of contact at each clinical site will be established by
           sub-county coordinators who will enroll local clinicians. Accordingly, data sharing will
           primarily happen electronically and remotely, as a backup, information can be shared by
           and in a worst-case scenario, Keheala will arrange to pick-up prepared documents with
           updates from the clinical sites. Platform usage data and analytics will be obtained from
           a dashboard created by our tech supplier.

           Qualitative data will be obtained from surveys digitally administered across the mobile
           platform and patients will be offered airtime for successfully completing surveys (x2).
           Free response questions will be categorized and summarized after collection.

           Urine sampling paper logs will be digitized when returning from the field and merged
           with our electronic database by patient phone number.

           Cost Data Collection:

           Cost analysis will focus primarily on costs of each intervention, based on materials
           (e.g.

           hardware, software), and personnel time-both training as part of rollout, and ongoing
           support to patients and programs. As the project budget covers all these, much of the
           necessary cost information will be available from detailed accounts from the project
           itself, and will be prorated/attributed to the number of patients covered. No changes in
           costs to patients are expected i.e. they will not be traveling more or less for visits,
           taking more or less time off work or family duties, etc. Similarly, it is not
           anticipated that other health system costs (e.g. health care personnel time, supplies,
           etc.) will be directly affected by any of the interventions. The investigators will also
           consider downstream cost effects with respect to any differences in the need for
           retreatment (i.e. as a consequence of unsuccessful outcomes).

           Statistical Analysis:

           In our main analysis, the investigators will compare outcome rates at the end of
           treatment for subjects in the intervention and control groups. This comparison can be
           done using a t-test or using an ordinary least squares regression (the latter was done
           in our power calculations), which can include controls for time trends, patient
           demographics, and clinic characteristics. Differences in treatment effects by individual
           characteristics, including MDR status, will also be considered. Finally, the
           relationship between verification rate (average days verified on the platform) and the
           primary and secondary outcomes will be analyzed.

           For the two groups with daily verification data (SBCC and Keheala) a more sophisticated
           (and slightly more statistically powerful) analysis of hazard rates will be employed.
           The hazard rate is estimated daily as the probability that a patient who is currently
           adhering continues to adhere. It is estimated using a logistical regression of whether
           the patient adhered on a given week on whether the patient adhered in all previous weeks
           and whether the patient is in an intervention group. The regression can also include
           controls for time period, patient demographics, and clinic characteristics. Note that
           the power calculations are based on the simpler regressions of final outcomes by
           intervention groups.

           Cost-analysis will examine the cost per patient of each intervention, while
           cost-effectiveness analysis will examine the differences in cost relative to differences
           in successful outcomes (i.e. incremental cost per additional cure/completion). If
           mortality differences are demonstrated, the investigators will also estimate costs per
           DALY averted.

           Urine Testing:

           If the sample develops a blue color, it is positive for isoniazid metabolites, and is
           therefore from a patient who is compliant with the treatment. A blue/purple color
           indicates that the drug was taken within the last 24 hours. A green color also indicates
           isoniazid metabolites, but the drug was probably taken about 48 hours ago. If the sample
           remains yellow, then the patient is not adhering to their daily treatment. Time stamps
           from sample collection will be compared with the patient's previous treatment time. If
           the time period since last treatment is consistent with the time-lapse indicated by the
           color of the sample, the individual will be indicated as adherent to treatment on that
           day. For individuals in the Keheala group, the accuracy of self-verification will be
           measured. i.e. do people who say they verified in the last 24 hours actually consume
           medication, or vice-versa.

           Using regressions to control for individual characteristics, comparisons of proportion
           of medication consumed will be made for Keheala vs. control groups. Within Keheala,
           people who say they verified in the last 24 hours and whether they actually consume
           medication more often will also be investigated.

           Study Duration:

           The entirety of the study will take place over a 30-month period. This time frame
           includes two and a half months of technological development, planning and approvals,
           one-month hiring and training local employees, testing the technology, training CTLCs
           and SCTLCs, followed by 24 months implementing the actual intervention. The RCT will be
           followed by a final one to three months of data collection and analysis.

           Report Preparation:

           At the completion of the project, the report will be prepared within a six-month time
           frame.

           The report will be prepared by Dr. Erez Yoeli from Yale University, with support from
           the listed researchers as needed. The report will present an analysis of the hypotheses
           listed as well as a discussion of the qualitative objectives.

           Study Closure Plan and Procedure:

           Patients will receive their intervention until a treatment outcome has been assigned.

           Following the assignment of a treatment outcome, patients will lose access to their
           intervention. A final digital survey will be administered to patients in accordance with
           the timing protocols stated above. Data will continue to be shared following the
           termination of operations until all patients have finished treatment and outcomes are
           determined. Patients who do not finish treatment within the planned 24-month period will
           be afforded access to their respective intervention as long as it is financially and
           logistically feasible. On July 31st, 2020, four months after the expected end of study
           operation, anyone who has not yet completed treatment will be marked 'INCOMPLETE' and
           their results considered separately. Analysis and report preparation will follow final
           results.

           -------------------------- SAP Addendum - October 2019

           The investigators would like to provide additional clarifications to the statistical
           analysis plan.

           Clarifying definitions of outcomes:

           The primary study outcomes are composed from treatment outcomes that are recorded by
           clinicians in the clinics' TB 'registers' according to World Health Organization
           guidelines. These outcomes include: cured (a bacteriologically confirmed individual
           whose sputum smear or culture was negative at month five or later), treatment completed
           (a TB patient who completed treatment without evidence of failure but with no record to
           show that sputum smear or culture results at month five or later, either because tests
           were not done or because results are unavailable), misdiagnosed (an individual who was
           originally diagnosed but subsequently reported as not having TB), transferred out (an
           individual who transferred to another clinic), died (an individual died during TB
           treatment), failed (an individual whose sputum smear or culture was positive at month
           five or later), loss to follow-up (an individual who did not start treatment or
           interrupted treatment for two or more consecutive months; abbreviated as LTFU).

           The investigators define the binary variable 'unsuccessful treatment outcome', which
           indicates whether an individual's outcome was any of: died, failed, or LTFU. The primary
           study outcomes are unsuccessful treatment outcomes, died, and LTFU.

           Clarifying the statistical tests:

           Individuals who were misdiagnosed or who transferred out will be omitted from the
           analysis. The number of individuals omitted will be reported.

           For the primary outcomes (unsuccessful treatment outcome, died, and LTFU), the
           investigators will perform a t-test comparing each intervention group to the control
           group. This analysis will be performed for all patients, restricting to
           bacteriologically confirmed patients, and restricting to MDR-TB patients. Note that the
           study is powered for comparisons that include all patients, and the investigators have
           selected the sample size with these comparisons in mind. I.e. the study is not powered
           for comparisons that restrict to MDR patients.

           The investigators will also fit logistic regressions to estimate the marginal effect of
           the interventions (I.e. a logistical regression of the outcome on three binary
           indicators, which equal one if the individual was included in the intervention in
           question, and zero otherwise). In some regression specifications, the investigators will
           include binary indicators for each clinic as a fixed effect and controls for individual
           characteristics collected from the TB registers and a short survey performed at the
           onset of treatment. Again, this analysis will be repeated restricting to
           bacteriologically-confirmed patients, and MDR-TB patients. For an example of how such an
           analysis was performed in the past, see:
           https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMc1806550

           Finally, to explore how the treatment effects different individuals, the investigators
           will fit "leave-out" and logistic regressions of unsuccessful treatment on individual
           demographics for the control, and use the results to predict likelihood of unsuccessful
           treatment for all individuals. The investigators refer to the resulting prediction as an
           individual's likelihood of unsuccessful treatment. Individuals will be sorted into
           quintiles according to this variable, and actual unsuccessful treatment by intervention
           group and quintile will be displayed. The same analysis will be performed for LTFU, and
           restricting to bacteriologically confirmed individuals.

           Addressing an Enrollment Randomization Error:

           Part-way through enrollment the investigators discovered and corrected an error in the
           randomization procedure.

           The investigators planned to randomize subjects into treatment groups according to a
           block randomization. Practically speaking, this randomization was implemented using a
           string made up of a randomly ordered sequence of the digits 1-4, where 1 represents
           control, 2 represents the SMS only treatment, 3 represents the SBCC treatment, and 4
           represents the Keheala treatment. The appropriate number of each digit was included to
           ensure each treatment group would reach the pre-registered size once the total sample
           reached 15,500, then generated a random permutation of the string. It was:
           4-4-4-3-3-3-1-3-3-2-3-1-4-3-4-2-1-3-3-4-4-3-2-4-3-4-3-4-4-1-4

           In February, 2019, the investigators discovered that the last three digits of the string
           had accidentally been removed, and that the sample had, up until that point, been
           randomized according to the following string instead:
           4-4-4-3-3-3-1-3-3-2-3-1-4-3-4-2-1-3-3-4-4-3-2-4-3-4-3-4

           On February 20th, 2019 the string was updated to correct this error, and from that
           point, the original string was used. Subjects will continue to be enrolled with the
           original string until all groups reach the pre-registered size, even if some groups
           exceed this size as a result of the error.

           Changes to Urine Sampling Protocol:

           The procedure for conducting surprise urine samples yielded much lower than expected
           enrollment, due to the complexities of attending facilities and conducting surprise home
           visits. Consequently, the investigators updated the procedure twice to include
           additional facilities from which to select patients. The update was done consistently
           with the original procedure for selecting facilities.

           When the investigators originally chose facilities (October 2018), this was the
           procedure used:

           On October 30th, Patient Registration data was exported. The following counties had at
           least two facilities with > 100 patients each OR at least one facility with >200
           patients: Kakamega, Machakos, Nairobi, Turkana

           These counties were organized by region and two regions were randomly selected (green)
           according to the lowest randomly generated numbers

           The first time facilities were added (April 2019), this was the procedure used:

           User and facility data was exported in early April 2019

           Facilities with less than 10 active users were removed (n=13).

           Referral facilities (n=11) were removed as there is unlikely to be a high number of
           active patients receiving care there.

           Remaining facilities (n=38) were assigned a random number.

           Within a county, facilities were ordered for a visit from low number to high number.

           The originally randomly selected counties, Kakemega, Nairobi and Machakos will be
           visited first.

           If additional patients are needed for sampling, Kiambu and Mombasa facilities will be
           visited in accordance with the randomized order assigned.

           The second time facilities were added (August 2019), this was the procedure used:

           User and facility data was exported August 29th, 2019.

           Facilities with less than 10 active Keheala/Control users were removed (n=27).

           Referral facilities (n=11) were removed as there is unlikely to be a high number of
           active patients receiving care there.

           Remaining facilities (n=32) were assigned a random number.

           Within a county, facilities were ordered for a visit from low number to high number.

           The originally randomly selected counties, Kakemega, Nairobi and Machakos will be
           visited first.

           If additional patients are needed for sampling, Kiambu and Mombasa facilities will be
           visited in accordance with the randomized order assigned.
    
  