
    
      INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE:

      Significant pain is a common condition in dying patients. Continuous subcutaneous infusion
      (CSCI) of opioids is the cornerstone in treatment of pain in this last phase of life.
      Although morphine is the most frequent used opioid in this respect, its main metabolites
      start to accumulate when renal function decreases, as is frequently the case in dying
      patients. The accumulation of one of these metabolites, morphine-3-glucuronide (M3G), is
      associated with neurotoxic adverse effects like delirium, allodynia and hyperalgesia. These
      adverse effects can highly effect the patient's comfort in the last days of life. The central
      effects of circulating metabolites of oxycodone, on the other hand, are negligible. On
      theoretical considerations CSCI of oxycodone for the treatment of pain in dying patients with
      a diminished renal function should therefore result in a reduced occurrence of the neurotoxic
      adverse effects delirium and allodynia/hyperalgesia in comparison to morphine. However,
      studies of sufficient quality investigating the clinical effect of this hypothesis are
      lacking at the moment.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The objective of this study is to investigate whether and to what extent the occurrence of
      the neurotoxic adverse effects delirium and allodynia/hyperalgesia differs between morphine
      and oxycodone, administered by continuous subcutaneous infusion (CSCI), for the treatment of
      pain in dying patients with a diminished renal function.

      Primary Objective: To compare the prevalence of delirium between oxycodone and morphine,
      administered by CSCI, for the treatment of pain in dying patients with a diminished renal
      function.

      Secondary Objective: To compare the prevalence of allodynia/hyperalgesia between oxycodone
      and morphine, administered by CSCI, for the treatment of pain in dying patients with a
      diminished renal function.

      Hypothesis: CSCI of oxycodone for treatment of pain in dying patients with a diminished renal
      function results in a reduced occurrence of the neurotoxic adverse effects delirium and
      allodynia/hyperalgesia in comparison to morphine.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      An intervention study, designed as a randomized, controlled, observer blinded, multicenter,
      superiority trial (RCT) with two parallel groups of either CSCI with morphine or oxycodone,
      with an 1:1-allocation-ratio. The total time of follow up is from start of CSCI with the
      assigned opioid until death.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      The study will be conducted in hospices and both somatic and psychogeriatric (PG) wards of
      nursing homes in the southern part of the Netherlands. 15 nursing homes and 1 hospice are
      participating. The total number of beds in these locations is around 875 (350 somatic beds,
      519 PG beds and 6 hospice beds), dived over 54 wards (24 somatic wards, 29 PG wards, 1
      hospice). In order to be eligible to participate in this study, an adult subject must be in
      the dying phase, i.e. death in the near future is expected by the treating physician, and
      start of CSCI with an opioid for the treatment of pain must be indicated by the treating
      physician.

      STUDY PROCEDURE:

      After written informed consent has been obtained, randomization between CSCI with morphine or
      oxycodone is performed. Outcome measures will be gathered 3 times a week until death of the
      participant. A venipuncture for the purpose of the determining the actual renal function at
      baseline is performed at the first visit. Two weeks after a participant's death, and only
      when a separate written informed consent has been obtained, a significant other or legal
      representative will be contacted for an interview in which the perceived quality of dying is
      assessed by using the Dutch translation of the Quality of Dying and Death (QoDD)
      Questionnaire.

      Randomization: In order to prevent an uneven distribution of relevant prognostic factors,
      allocation will be stratified by means of minimisation for type of ward (somatic or
      psychogeriatric, representing absence or presence of a clinical relevant stage of dementia
      and thereby indirectly also status of mental and communicative capabilities) and for presence
      or absence of opioid use at baseline.

      Sample size calculation: Sample size calculation is based on a two-tailed test. Based on the
      available literature, the percentage of delirium in terminal patients is estimated at 86%. A
      difference of 15% is considered to be clinically relevant. The probability of a type 1 error
      is fixed at 5%. Groups are analyzed according to the intention to treat principle. In order
      to achieve a power of 80% for detecting a clinically relevant difference, 117 patients per
      group are needed.

      - Statistical analysis: All analyses will be performed according to the intention-to-treat
      principle. Imputation techniques will be used for supplementation of incomplete data, thereby
      guaranteeing analysis of all participants in the group they were assigned to by
      randomization. The method we will use will depend on the proportion of missing values and on
      the assumptions that can be made about the missingness mechanism after collection of the
      data: In case the percentage of incomplete cases is less than, or equal to, 5%, we will use
      single stochastic imputation to impute the dataset, as the difference in precision due to not
      taking between-imputation variance into account is likely to be negligible. If the proportion
      of incomplete records exceeds 5%, multiple imputation will be used. In that case, the number
      of imputations will be set to 10. For both imputation strategies, the imputed values will be
      drawn using predictive mean matching with a fully conditionally specified model. If, after
      collection of the data, we expect that data are missing not at random, we will impute using a
      missing not at random mechanism (again, using single or multiple imputation), and perform a
      sensitivity analysis to see whether our conclusions are robust.

      ETHICS:

      The study will be conducted according to the principles of the 7th Declaration of Helsinki
      (Fortaleza 2013) and in accordance with the Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act.
      Written informed consent has to be obtained before participation for all participants.
      Monitoring will be performed by an independent institution which follows the international
      ICH-GCP guidelines.

      Data will be entered in electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs), employing data entry
      validation. This electronic data management system is hosted by an external institution and
      complies with all applicable regulations regarding data security. Only authorized members of
      the research staff involved in the study will have access to the system. A full audit trail
      will be kept. Data storage is secured by regular back-ups by the hosting institution. Data
      will be stored for 15 years.

      No identifiable reference to subjects will be made in analysis, reports or publications. To
      protect the confidentiality of subjects, all data will only be linked to a subject by a
      numeric identification code, of which the key will be safeguarded by the investigator. Blood
      samples for determining the eGFR will be destroyed by the laboratory after 1 week and will
      not be used for any other purpose than described in the study protocol.

      An interim analysis will be performed for the primary and secondary study parameters after
      the end of follow up, i.e. death, of the first 30 participants in each group. A difference
      between the intervention and control group of more than 50% for the primary study parameter
      is considered to be an indication that one of the groups is significantly harmed more than
      the other. When this difference can't be contributed to other factors, like an uneven
      distribution of baseline characteristics, especially other medication use, it is considered
      unethical to withhold one of the groups from the superiority of one of the opioids.
      Therefore, this potential situation is regarded as a stopping rule.

      Objection by incapacitated subjects: Since the major part of dying patients experiences a
      decline in cognitive functions and are not able to respond adequately anymore, it is
      essential that this incapacitated population is not being excluded in our study. When a
      participant is or has become incapacitated, his or her legal representative decides whether
      the subject will be participating in the study or not, unless the subject previously has
      stated explicitly otherwise. Signs of consistent objection or resistance to any of the study
      procedures after inclusion have to be considered as an expression of the participant's wish
      to not participate in the study any longer. Consequently he or she will be withdrawn from the
      study immediately. In case a incapacitated participant shows signs of objection or resistance
      to the continuous subcutaneous route of administration (for example by removal of the
      infusion tube or needle) the treating physician will decide whether continuation of CSCI of
      an opioid is a medical necessity to avoid severe suffering from pain. When there is no
      medical necessity or when adequate pain control can be achieved otherwise, it is not allowed
      for the subject to participate in the study any longer and he/she will be withdrawn from the
      study.
    
  