
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) still remains one of the world's leading causes of death,
      despite markedly improvement of devices and technologies on past several decades. The
      treatment strategy for CAD included medical treatment, percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI), and coronary-artery bypass grafting (CABG). CABG is a procedure in which autologous
      arteries or veins are used as grafts to bypass coronary arteries that are partially or
      completely obstructed by atherosclerotic plaque. During the past decade, there has been
      nearly a 30% decline in CABG procedures, despite abundant evidence to support the
      effectiveness and safety of the operation.This decline has been accompanied by a
      corresponding increase in PCI. To date, there have been numerous studies to compare the
      clinical outcomes between PCI and CABG for patients with CAD. Among them, SYNTAX (Synergy
      between PCI with Taxus and Cardiac Surgery) trial demonstrated CABG is associated with lower
      incidence of major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascualr events in patients with high SYNTAX
      score, compared with PCI. In this regard, the current guidelines recommend that CABG is
      preferred method for care of stable ischemic heart disease patients with three-vessel or left
      main coronary artery disease. However, most randomized controlled studies do not reflect the
      contemporary practice, because they have been performed in the era of bare metal stents or
      first-generation drug-eluting stent (DES). In addition, there have been limited data
      regarding the prognostic factors for long-term clinical outcomes in patients undergoing PCI
      with second generation DES or CABG. Therefore, the investigators sought to compare the
      clinical outcomes between PCI with second-generation DES or CABG, and to identify prognostic
      factors for long-term clinical outcomes in patients who underwent PCI with second generation
      DES or CABG.
    
  