
    
      Study Rationale The use of bi-frontal, near infrared spectrophotometry (NIRS) based cerebral
      oximetry monitoring has been demonstrated to result in improved clinical outcomes in both
      general surgery patients and cardiac surgical patients using prospective, randomized
      controlled trial methodology. Elderly thoracic surgical patients undergoing procedures that
      involve single lung ventilation may also stand to benefit from the application of
      intraoperative and early postoperative NIRS cerebral oximetry monitoring. Cerebral oximetry
      has not been established as a standard of care monitoring modality in this patient
      population, thus permitting the application of randomized, controlled testing methodology to
      assess the potential impact of this monitoring modality upon these patients.

      Hypothesis and Objectives:

      The primary hypothesis in this pilot study of elderly thoracic surgical patients undergoing
      procedures involving single lung ventilation (SLV) is that there will be a measurable and
      significant clinical benefit (as assessed by a broad range of postoperative clinical outcome
      measures) to the subjects randomized to the intervention cohort (open bi-frontal NIRS based
      cerebral oximetry monitoring with a standardized intervention protocol) vs. the control
      cohort (blinded bi-frontal NIRS based cerebral oximetry monitoring).

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to identify the most relevant clinical outcome
      variables which significantly diverge as a result of being randomized to the intervention
      cohort vs. the control cohort so that a larger, multicenter, prospective, randomized
      controlled clinical trial can be designed to further test the primary hypothesis as stated in
      the preceding section. The subsequent larger, multicenter trial will be conducted to
      definitively demonstrate the ability of INVOS® 5100 guided NIRS-based bi-frontal monitoring
      to improve clinical outcomes in this surgical patient group and potentially establish a new
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration cleared indication for this monitoring modality. The
      clinical outcome variables being assessed as the primary objective are many and a detailed
      list of these variables can be found in the OUTCOME MEASURES - Primary Outcome Measure
      Section of this submission.

      Secondary objectives of this pilot study include the following:

        1. Assess the frequency of cerebral desaturations in both the intervention and control
           cohorts by examining both the total number of patients experiencing any cerebral
           desaturation as well as the total number of events among patients experiencing any
           cerebral desaturation (of at least 5% below baseline and progressively larger
           desaturations). These analyses will be conducted on the entire study population as well
           as upon each cohort. The Area Under the Curve (AUC) analysis technique [incremental
           desaturation categories will be assessed based upon 5 to 50% decreases, measured in 5%
           increments, from established room air pre-incision baseline as well as oxygen
           supplemented pre-incision baseline as well as desaturations below absolute measured rSO2
           values] will be employed to conduct these analyses.

        2. Assess the frequency of adverse clinical events and serious adverse events overall and
           in each cohort.

        3. Perform a comprehensive assessment of the frequency and efficacy of predefined rSO2
           desaturation mitigation interventions and their collective ability to affect the
           observed cerebral oximetry values.

        4. Assess the interventional cohort's preoperative demographics and collected covariates
           for association with the ease or difficulty of mitigating observed cerebral desaturation
           events.

      Exploratory analyses will include performing all possible comparisons of the two groups based
      upon all collected perioperative variables to examine the potentially significant
      relationships between the collected clinical variables representing surrogates of organ
      perfusion/function and cerebral oximetry desaturations (AUCrSO2). The following exploratory
      endpoints will be assessed:

        1. Logistic regression analysis to determine the most relevant AUCrSO2 desaturation
           value(s) associated with any detrimental clinical outcome(s) monitored in this study

        2. Logistic regression analysis to determine the most relevant AUC blood pressure values
           associated with any detrimental clinical outcome(s) monitored in this study

        3. Comparison of baseline rSO2 values (room air and oxygen supplemented) to all collected
           clinical variables to assess for possibly significant associations

        4. Explore the potential impact of rSO2 monitoring on changing the surgical conduct of the
           procedure Methodology: Single center, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical pilot
           study Number of Subjects: 100 subjects with balanced randomization (1:1) to control
           (blinded NIRS data) or intervention (open NIRS data) cohorts Main Criteria for
           Inclusion: Elderly patients (> 65 years of age) scheduled for a thoracic surgical
           procedure at UHCMC that will involve SLV.

      Duration of Treatment: Cerebral oximetry monitoring will begin with an assessment of both
      room air and oxygen supplemented bi-frontal baseline NIRS values and continue through the
      surgery to either PACU discharge or the initial 12 hours of post surgical ICU treatment. Mini
      Mental Status exam testing and Delirium testing with the Confusion Assessment Method will
      occur preoperatively and postoperatively through post-operative day (POD) #3 (or discharge if
      that occurs sooner than POD #3). Enrolled subjects will be followed during the index
      hospitalization and will undergo a 30 day follow up telephone interview to assess their
      progress following hospital discharge.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      A large number of intraoperative and postoperative clinical variables that include cerebral
      oximetry, pulse oximetry, blood pressure, a composite outcome measure and clinical variables
      representing organ function will be assessed with the primary endpoint being the
      determination of which clinical variables are improved, if any, as a result of being
      randomized to open NIRS data monitoring with a predefined desaturation intervention algorithm
      guideline. The Mini Mental Status exam and Confusion Assessment Method test will be used to
      determine if any measured clinical variables have an effect upon neuropsychological outcomes.
      The frequency and effectiveness of the various cerebral desaturation mitigating interventions
      will be assessed in the intervention cohort.

      Additional Safety Observations:

      The frequency and severity of adverse clinical events and serious adverse clinical events
      will be assessed to determine if the use of open NIRS data bi-frontal cerebral monitoring is
      associated with any significant change in the observation of such events.

      Statistical Methods:

      Preoperative demographics and clinical variables will be compared in the two groups to assess
      for significant differences using the independent t-test. Differences in the observed
      clinical data between groups will be determined with the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Stepwise,
      forward, multivariable logistic regression analysis will be performed to assess for
      relationships between cerebral desaturations and any of the measured clinical variables with
      a p value < 0.05 being considered significant
    
  