
    
      4. STUDY PROCEDURES 4.1 Subject Enrollment The patient is considered to be enrolled when they
      sign study consent. This may be months or years prior to the date of transplantation and
      therefore all study patients will be asked to affirm consent at the time of transplantation.
      There are 2 non-randomized study groups: Those patients who receive a non-HCV donor and those
      who receive a donor with HCV infection. Subjects will re-sign the consent on the line
      reserved for this purpose at the time of the transplant.

      If the patient presented with a hepatitis C donor heart decides not to take that heart, they
      would remain in the study and when a suitable heart is found (infected or not), they would be
      followed post-transplant in the study.

      4.2 Study Procedures Following transplantation with an HCV infectious donor, HCV viral load
      (RNA assay) will be measured at days 3,7 and 14 days post-transplant. The HCV viral load
      assay is a routine FDA cleared laboratory test which is one of the standard labs available at
      Sentara Norfolk General Hospital. It involves a blood sample of 5 cc which is then processed
      in the lab. Based on prior work, it is likely that all transplant recipients with infectious
      donors will seroconvert within this time frame. If these patients remain negative for HCV
      RNA, it will be rechecked every month for a total of 6 months. This routine testing is
      covered by insurance as this is the clinical standard for donors with elevated risk (Public
      Health Service increased risk).

      Once a patient seroconverts to HCV positive, insurance authorization for treatment will be
      sought for treatment with glecaprevir/pibrentasivir. Based on input from Dr. Michael Ryan of
      Gastroenterology, insurance carriers are approving therapy given the noted efficacy, low
      comparative cost and the recent FDA approval of this drug in renal and liver transplant
      recipients. The study treatment is oral glecaprevir/pibrentasivir, 3 tablets daily with food,
      for a total of 12 weeks. The medication will be paid by the patient's insurance prescription
      coverage.

      Serial measurements of HCV NAT (every month) will be conducted including through 24 weeks
      post-transplant. In addition, coronary angiography plus coronary intravascular ultrasound
      will be conducted at 6-12 weeks post-transplant and at one-year post transplant which will
      allow careful evaluation for cardiac allograft vasculopathy. Of note, it has been the policy
      of the Sentara Heart Transplant program for more than 5 years to perform baseline (early
      post-transplant) and annual coronary angiography and coronary intravascular ultrasound, and
      regardless of study participation, all patients will undergo this standard of care
      surveillance.

      Post-transplant standard of care visits include frequent routine clinic labs (comprehensive
      metabolic panel, hepatic function panel, CMV viral load by PCR, creatinine kinase, complete
      blood count, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), tacrolimus or cyclosporine level if
      appropriate, sirolimus level if appropriate.

      4.3 Post-Treatment Assessments Patients will have clinical standard of care visits to the
      transplant clinic, typically monthly in the first 6 months following transplantation. HCV NAT
      testing will be obtained at each visit for patients who received an infected donor, along
      with standard of care testing including cardiac biopsies, echocardiograms, chest-x-rays and
      other needed assessments. NAT testing is standard of care for recipients of increased
      infectious risk donors.

      A visit will be mandatory at 12 weeks following the last dose of glecaprevir/pibrentasivir to
      draw HCV NAT testing.

      Failure of HCV treatment If HCV RNA ≥ LLOQ at end of treatment (12 weeks of therapy) or viral
      relapse occurs in the Post-treatment follow-up, consultation with infectious disease and
      hepatology will be obtained. Testing for HCV drug resistance will be performed and patient
      will be treated as clinically indicated by the AHF team in consultation with specialists.
      Patients will be followed in regard to outcomes and achievement of SVR-12 until this occurs,
      or the patient dies or otherwise withdraws from the study.

      4.4 End of Study Subjects are considered to have completed the study at 1 year
      post-transplant or the 1 year cardiac catheterization / IVUS is conducted, whichever is
      later.
    
  