
    
      Traditionally, spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has been used for patients with chronic
      neuropathic pain following back surgery (a condition known as Failed Back Surgery Syndrome
      (FBSS)). Although the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) also
      recommends SCS for chronic neuropathic pain without previous back surgery, clinical outcome
      data is much needed in this patient group. Conventionally, patients receiving SCS are
      provided with tonic stimulation settings (where they feel tingling and paraesthesia); however
      newer methods include high-density stimulation (HD) that provides higher energy allowing the
      voltage to be reduced to subthreshold parameters, hence minimizing the tingling and
      paraesthesia. HD stimulation is widely offered to patients with SCS as part of routine
      clinical practice, although no known studies have yet investigated HD settings in patients
      with neuropathic pain without previous spinal surgery. Therefore, the purpose of this study
      is to determine the effectiveness of HD settings in patients without previous spinal surgery
      undergoing SCS. 20 patients without previous spinal surgery who are deemed suitable for SCS
      as part of NICE guidelines 159 pathway will be recruited for the study.

      All patients have a trial of SCS where they will be offered HD settings. If successful (>50%
      improvement in pain scores) they will be offered permanent implant. Those patients whose pain
      does not improve with HD settings will be further offered conventional tonic stimulation for
      one more week. Those patients who do not respond to both tonic and HD settings will be
      excluded and will not have permanent implant. This will also allow us to investigate the
      patient's preference between the HD neurostimulator settings and conventional tonic settings.
      We will also investigate the response to these stimulator settings on health related quality
      of life. Patients will complete quality of life questionnaires at Baseline, 1-month, 3-months
      and 12-months post-implant.
    
  