
    
      Lack of access to safe water in low-resource settings likely contributes to stunted growth
      early in life, which affects more than a quarter of children under 5 years worldwide.
      Point-of-use water treatment technologies have the potential to provide effective and
      low-cost solutions to improving quality of drinking water in these settings. One such
      technology, a silver-impregnated ceramic disk, continually disinfects water in household
      water storage containers by diffusing silver into the water for daily treatment of 10 to 15
      liters for at least six months. Silver-impregnated ceramic water filters are another
      commercially available technology that additionally remove pathogens mechanically. While both
      technologies have proven to be highly effective in treating water, it is unknown whether the
      use of these technologies will translate to improvements in child health outcomes. This
      community-based intervention trial will estimate the effect of the silver-impregnated ceramic
      disk and a silver-impregnated ceramic water filter on linear growth of children in Limpopo,
      South Africa.

      Households in the Dzimauli community will be randomized to receive the ceramic disk, a water
      filter, the safe-storage water container alone, or no intervention. Children will be followed
      every three months for 2 years to assess height, weight, and pathogen burden in stool
      samples. Cognitive assessments will be completed at 2, 5, and 7 years of follow-up. The
      investigators hypothesize that children in households given the ceramic disk or the water
      filter will show improved linear growth compared to those in households without these
      interventions. The investigators expect that the ceramic disk will perform similarly to the
      water filter and result in similar improvements in linear growth when compared to children
      from control households.

      Estimates of effectiveness demonstrated in this trial will provide the necessary evidence
      base to support the scale-up of manufacturing and distribution of the ceramic disks and
      filters, which could provide a robust point-of-use water treatment solution for rural areas.
      By helping to identify effective tools to reduce the risk of stunting in children, the trial
      will contribute to targets to improve child health in low-resource settings.
    
  