
    
      We have proposed an observational design. Eligible individuals will be identified during a
      crisis assessment, either in the emergency department or during an emergency phone or
      telehealth assessment. Once the individual has been assessed and assigned to the clinician
      for treatment, study staff will assess if the patient is appropriate for the study using the
      study eligibility criteria. Individuals who receive treatment in one of the following
      treatment arms will be eligible for this observation study: inpatient, in-person OCIC or
      telehealth crisis intervention service. Eligible individuals will be contacted by study staff
      to introduce and offer the study. If patient and guardian agree, they will complete surveys
      at baseline and every 2 weeks for 6 months to evaluate outcomes. randomized trial, in which
      all eligible individuals will be randomized into two arms: OCIC versus inpatient treatment
      groups. Randomization will be performed using the block randomization method at each site. We
      anticipate that this procedure will reduce the treatment effect heterogeneity attributable to
      sex or recruiting site. Briefly, we will stratify subjects into two subgroups: boys and
      girls. Our estimated recruitment numbers for the four sites are: CCHMC 400, Columbus 200,
      Dallas 200, Long Island 200, respectively. Accumulating evidence has shown that the risk of
      suicidality (i.e., suicidal behaviors plus suicidal ideation) depends on sex - the ratio of
      boys versus girls is approximately 3:7. Therefore, we estimate that the four sites can be
      divided into eight strata: 120 boys from CCHMC (stratum 1), 280 girls from CCHMC (stratum 2),
      60 boys from Columbus (stratum 3), 140 girls from Columbus (stratum 4), 60 boys from Dallas
      (stratum 5), 140 girls from Dallas (stratum 6), 60 boys from Long Island (stratum 7), and 140
      girls from Long Island (stratum 8). The randomization ID (i.e., "A" stands for "Inpatient
      treatment" and "B" stands for "OCIC") will be generated using the webtool GraphPad.
    
  