
    
      Investigators plan to enroll 120 adult patients who are undergoing an allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant and follow them serially for one year. Investigators will
      harvest and store at -80oC plasma and PBMCs, and collect bone marrow core biopsy specimens on
      all individuals at baseline, days 28, 100, 190, 365 post-transplant, and at time of relapse
      of primary disease relapse or TMA development. These time points, bone marrow procedures, and
      blood draws are part of the ordinary and customary followup of any allogeneic HSCT patient at
      our institution. With these patient samples investigators will:

        1. Determine the incidence of all TMAs fitting the criteria of a Coombs negative hemolytic
           anemia, thrombocytopenia (25% decrease from baseline) and elevated (2x baseline) LDH,
           with schistocytes and organ system involvement (typically increased creatinine or new
           microscopic hematuria or proteinuria)

        2. Determine the incidence of an aHUS-like TMA, i.e., a TMA characterized by ADAMTS13
           activity in plasma >5% with clinical and laboratory findings which persists after
           stopping their calcineurin or mTOR inhibitor for one half life (3-7 days, depending on
           the drug), and ruling out or treating an underlying systemic infection or GvHD.

        3. Determine complement component activation, proinflammatory cytokine profile, and
           baseline complement mutations. This will include ELISA-based measures of plasma C5a,
           C5b-9, MASP-1-3, tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-α, and interferon-γ, and pre-transplant
           complement mutational analysis .

        4. Assay participants plasma for the ability to induce injury in primary human
           microvascular endothelial cells (MVEC), and the ability of an anti-C5 monoclonal
           antibody (mAb) (Alexion, eculizumab (Soliris)) and anti-MASP2 (Omeros, OMS721) mAb, to
           block these changes in the investigators' established model.

        5. Define the degree of C5b-9 deposition in sinusoidal CD34+ endothelial cells by
           immunohistochemistry, (IHC) examining marrow core biopsies collected at each patient
           visit and at time of TMA development.

        6. Correlate changes in plasma biomarkers, marrow sinusoidal C5b-9 deposition, and the in
           vitro plasma-MVEC injury model with treatment interventions and treatment outcomes,
           chosen by the transplant attending of record in this observational cohort.
    
  