
    
      ART effectively suppresses HIV-1 viremia but in most patients, virus rebounds within 2-3
      weeks of stopping ART. ART is unable to cure HIV due to the persistence of virus as
      long-lived latently infected cells, residual virus replication and anatomical reservoirs.
      Understanding the contribution of residual virus replication to virus persistence on ART is
      important because first, no interventions aimed at eliminating latency will be effective in
      the presence of residual virus replication; second, residual virus replication may contribute
      to persisting immune activation which has been associated with all-cause mortality.

      Numerous studies have demonstrated that intensifying a suppressive ART regimen with an
      additional antiretroviral drug does not alter the frequency of latently infected cells or
      low-level viremia. However, in studies that have intensified ART with the integrase inhibitor
      raltegravir, an increase in circularised HIV episomes containing 2 copies of the viral long
      terminal repeat (2-LTR) circles within 2 weeks of intensification, was observed in ~30% of
      study participants. 2-LTR circles have a short half- life, which may explain why an increase
      in 2-LTR circles was only observed in studies that measured 2-LTR circles within 2 weeks of
      raltegravir intensification. In these two randomized controlled trials, the level of 2-LTR
      circles increased transiently in patients randomized to intensification with raltegravir as
      compared with placebo and this effect was more pronounced in subjects receiving a protease
      inhibitor (PI)-containing ART regimen. Other studies have failed to demonstrate an increase
      in 2-LTR circles following raltegravir intensification but this is likely because sampling
      was delayed beyond 2 weeks.

      One possible explanation for the additional effect observed with raltegravir intensification
      is the extensive penetration of this compound into gastrointestinal (GI) tissue where it
      reaches concentrations 39- to 650-fold higher than those in plasma.

      To date, raltegravir is the only integrase inhibitor that has been investigated in ART
      intensification trials. Dolutegravir (DTG) is a recently licensed once-daily integrase
      inhibitor that is non-inferior to raltegravir and with a similar safety profile, however DTG
      levels in GI tissue is only 17% of that in plasma. DTG has not been investigated in
      intensification studies, so whether adding dolutegravir to a suppressive ART regimen is able
      to inhibit residual replication is currently unknown.

      Thus, there are several unresolved issues related to residual viral replication in the
      presence of ART and the potential benefit of integrase inhibitors in this context: How
      frequent is this phenomenon and does it occur more frequently in patients receiving a
      PI-containing regimen? Given that raltegravir does seem to impact residual replication in
      approximate 30% of HIV infected patients on ART when assessed early after intensification,
      what is the effect of DTG in this setting? Finally, what are the dynamics of 2-LTR levels in
      blood in the early phases after intensification with an integrase inhibitor? To address those
      questions, the investigators have designed a randomized, controlled study to compare the
      impact of intensification with DTG or placebo in HIV-infected patients on suppressive ART. In
      this study, the investigators will closely define the effects of dolutegravir intensification
      on 2-LTR levels in circulating CD4+ T cells.

      Study participants will be in the study for up to 133 days. The duration of participation is
      calculated from the initial screening visit to the last study visit (visit 9), with 9 visits
      in total.
    
  