
    
      Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common hereditary heart disease. Approximate
      1--2% population of HCM patients die every year because of cardiocerebrovascular
      complications in which heart failure, stroke and sudden cardiac deaths rank the top three.
      Among them, heart failure has the highest incidence (about 50%) but the least ways to treat.
      Even though the Heart Association of United States and Europe updated the guidelines for the
      diagnosis and management of HCM, it is still lack of qualified clinical trials about medicine
      for HCM in the real world.

      Late gadolinium enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance (LGE-CMR) is a gold standard to
      measure the left ventricular(LV) fibrosis extent. Recent studies found that: (1)a proportion
      of HCM patients have LV fibrosis during the early stage of disease; (2)the LV fibrosis in the
      HCM patients is progressive; (3)about 91.5% population of HCM patients had late gadolinium
      enhancement; and(4) late gadolinium enchancement in the HCM patients is related to the risk
      of sudden death.

      Fibrosis is an important pathology of heart failure for the patients with coronary artery
      disease and dilated cardiomyopathy. The activation of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
      plays a key role during the progression of heart failure. Small dosage of spironolactone has
      been proven its effect on inceasing the survival of the heart-failure patients with the eject
      fraction lower than 35%. Meanwhile, a few studies found aldosterone levels of LV myocytes
      increased both in HCM patients and HCM transgenic mice. Furthermore, spironolactone, a
      mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist, could reserve interstitial fibrosis, attenuate myocyte
      disarray by 50%, and improve diastolic function in HCM transgenic mice.

      Thus, the investigators hypothesize that fibrosis is one important reason of heart failure
      for HCM patients and small dosage and early prescription of spironolactone to HCM patients
      can relieve and/or reverse the fibrosis progress and improve patients' symptoms.

      This study is a multicenter, randomized, controlled and open-label study being conducted in 4
      centers in Shanghai, China. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of
      spironolactone on relieving the LV fibrosis in HCM patients.

      This study plans to recruit 260 participants with definite HCM diagnosis. Then these
      participants will be randomized to two groups-- "control group "(not taking spironolactone)
      and "spironolactone group" (taking 20mg spironolactone orally and daily). LGE-CMR,
      echocardiography, 24-hour Holter, electrocardiography (ECG), and blood test (including
      hemoglobin, creatitine, potassium, liver enzymes, proBNP, TnT, angiotensin and aldosterone)
      will be performed before random allocation and after 2 years.

      LGE-CMR will be used to measure the extent of fibrosis in LV. Myocardial areas showing signal
      intensity >5 SD than mean signal intensity of normal myocardium were defined as segments with
      LGE. LGE extent in each segment was expressed as the surface area showing LGE divided by the
      total area of the given myocardial segment, and then summation of the planimetered LGE areas
      in all short-axis slices yielded total LGE extent, which was subsequently expressed as a
      proportion of total LV myocardium (LGE+%).

      The extent of LGE+% before and after 2-year experiment and the increase of LGE+% after 2-year
      experiment will be compared between control and spironolactone groups. Meanwhile, symptoms,
      New York Heart Association classification of cardiac function, arrhythmia, proBNP and TnT
      etc. will be compared between two groups.
    
  