
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents are worldwide used as a standard component of a modern balanced
      anesthesia regime. They are administered to facilitate tracheal intubation, reduce laryngeal
      trauma and optimize surgical conditions. The dose usually recommended to facilitate tracheal
      intubation approximates at least two times the drug´s effective dose ED-95 (the dose required
      for a 95% effect) depending on the choice of the neuromuscular blocking agent. This overdose
      is administered to induce a very deep paralysis with a fast onset of action providing
      clinically acceptable intubating conditions. Moreover, our clinical experience has shown that
      the dose-relationship of a neuromuscular blocking agents estimated during steady-state
      anesthesia does not necessarily correlate with the dose-response curve of the same drug
      during anesthetic induction. Therefore, a discrepancy between the applied dose and the
      clinical outcome measure, the intubating conditions, becomes apparent. This might be related
      to effects of the co-administered anesthetics at the neuromuscular junction. While inhaled
      anesthetics augment the paralyzing effects of non-depolarizering muscle relaxants in a
      dose-dependent fashion and depend on the duration of anesthesia, little is known about the
      interactions of the intravenous anesthetic propofol with the non-depolarizing blocking agent
      rocuronium. We hypothesize that the intravenous administration of propofol also influences
      the potency of rocuronium dependant on the duration of its application.

      This study, therefore, is designed to determine the dose-response relationship of rocuronium
      after single-shot or steady-state propofol anesthesia in a clinical setting. The primary
      endpoints are the ED-50s and ED-95s of rocuronium during anesthetic induction with a
      single-shot propofol and after 30minutes of steady-state propofol anesthesia. The secondary
      endpoints are the slopes and the intercepts of the respective dose-response-curves, the onset
      and duration of muscle paralysis and the recovery from neuromuscular blockade.

      Materials & Methods

      We will investigate patients scheduled for elective low-risk surgical procedures under
      general anesthesia. Patients will be allocated to two experimental groups. After
      neuromuscular monitoring is established under remifentanil infusion, patients of the group
      "Induction" will receive a single-shot propofol followed by injection of rocuronium and
      endotracheal intubation. Patients of the group "Maintenance" will be anaesthetized with an
      induction dose of propofol followed by 30 minutes of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA:
      propofol/ remifentanil) before rocuronium is administered. Airway will be managed using a
      laryngeal mask or tracheal intubation.

      During surgery, anesthesia will be maintained with TIVA. Onset and duration of neuromuscular
      blockade and spontaneous recovery will be monitored with electromyography.

      Postoperatively, patients will be monitored for 60 minutes in our post-anesthesia care unit.
    
  