
    
      This will be a parallel, randomized controlled study on the effects of end-ischemic
      hypothermic oxygenated machine perfusion in liver transplantations from donors after brain
      death. Patients will be randomized to either hypothermic perfusion or simple cold storage
      (1:3 ratio). The primary end-point will be model for early graft dysfunction (MEAF) score, a
      recently validated continuous measure of allograft function in the early period after liver
      transplantation, calculated using serum alanine transaminase (ALT) activity, international
      normalized ratio for prothrombin time (INR), and serum bilirubin concentration within 3 first
      postoperative days. In the original study, the mean MEAF score was 5.01 with a standard
      deviation of 1.99. The primary hypothesis of this study is reduction of the mean MEAF score
      from 5 to 3.5 using hypothermic oxygenated machine perfusion. With the thresholds for type I
      error of 0.05 and power of 0.90, respectively, 1:3 allocation ratio, and a standard deviation
      of 1.99, the number of patients required to detect such difference is 26 in the hypothermic
      perfusion group and 78 in the simple cold storage group (104 in total). The inclusion
      criteria will comprise age >18 years, deceased-donor liver transplantation, and provision of
      informed consent. Exclusion criteria will comprise donation after cardiac death and either
      reduced or split graft. Secondary outcome measures will include 2-year recipient and graft
      survival, 2-year incidence of biliary complications, and complications in the 90-day
      postoperative period classified by type and their severity according to the Clavien-Dindo
      grading system.

      Following provision of informed consent, recipients will be randomly assigned in a 1:3 ratio
      to either hypothermic perfusion group or simple static cold storage group. In the hypothermic
      perfusion group, allografts will be subject to end-ischemic hypothermic oxygenated perfusion
      at 12 degrees Celsius through both hepatic artery and portal vein after a period of simple
      cold storage at 4 degrees Celsius and immediately prior to implantation. The perfusion will
      last at least 2 hours and the period will be prolonged in case of ongoing hepatectomy, in
      order to perform graft implantation immediately after perfusion. Two wedge allograft biopsies
      will be performed at the beginning and after 2 hours of perfusion for the assessment of
      micro- and macrovesicular steatosis and ATP content. Samples of the perfusate will be taken
      at the beginning and every 30 minutes for the assessment of sodium, potassium, and lactate
      concentration, CO2 partial pressure, and FMN. Perfusate temperature, portal and arterial
      flow, and portal and arterial resistance will be closely monitored during the procedure. In
      the simple cold storage group, the allografts will be stored in perfusate at 4 degrees
      Celsius from the procurement until implantation. At the end of simple cold storage, a wedge
      biopsy will be taken for the assessment of micro- and macrovesicular steatosis and ATP
      content. In both groups during the back-table procedure, the allograft will be flushed with 1
      litre of perfusate through the portal vein. At the end of flushing, a sample of perfusate
      will be taken from the right hepatic vein for assessment of FMN and lactate concentration.

      In both groups, clinical, anthropometric, and laboratory pre-transplant data will be
      collected. This includes: indication for transplantation, Child-Turcotte-Pugh classification,
      presence of hepatitis B and C virus infection, model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score
      (without exception points), patient weight, height, body mass index, and waist circumference,
      serum bilirubin, creatinine, glucose and albumin concentration, INR, and serum activity of
      transaminases. Relevant donor and procurement data will be collected, including donor age,
      height, body mass index, cause of death, ethnicity, serum sodium and bilirubin concentration,
      serum activity of transaminases, INR, and extraction time. Donor risk index will be
      calculated in every case. Duration of cold ischemia and several intraoperative parameters
      will be collected, including: duration of warm ischemia, intraoperative transfusions, serum
      sodium and potassium changes, occurrence of post-reperfusion syndrome, and duration of
      operation. A wedge biopsy will be performed in all patients 90 minutes after portal
      reperfusion for histological assessment of ischemia-reperfusion injury (Suzuki score),
      apoptosis, endothelial activation (vWF and P-selectin), activation of innate immunity (TLR4)
      , oxidative injury (MDA), and ATP content. Blood samples will be collected immediately prior
      to reperfusion, 90 minutes after reperfusion, and at first postoperative day for the
      assessment of proinflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-2, IL-10), nuclear damage (HMGB1, 8-OHdG)
      and hepatocyte and cholangiocyte injury (transaminases and GGT activity). Following
      transplantation, all patients will be strictly followed according to the centre protocol with
      the assessment of serum activity of transaminases and GGTP, bilirubin and creatinine
      concentration, and INR twice daily within the first 3 postoperative days and daily or once
      every 2-3 days (according to the clinical assessment) thereafter. All complications occurring
      during the 90-postoperative period will be recorded, including primary non-function, early
      allograft dysfunction, biliary leaks, rejection episodes, and vascular complications. After
      hospital discharge, patients will be followed-up according to the center protocol with
      regular appointments in the outpatient clinic, every 2 weeks within first 2 months
      post-transplantation, every month up to 6 months, every 2-3 months up to 1 year, and every
      3-6 months thereafter. Occurrence of all complications, particularly biliary complications,
      will be recorded. Both groups will be compared with respect to primary and secondary outcome
      measures, other pre-defined clinical outcomes, allograft injury and ATP content before
      implantation, and signs of ischemia-reperfusion injury, oxidative damage, apoptosis, ATP
      content, activation of innate immunity, and endothelial activation in allograft biopsies
      after reperfusion. Comparisons will also include pro-inflammatory cytokine release,
      circulating markers of nuclear injury, and other laboratory markers of allograft function and
      injury. Analyses of perfusate samples and allograft biopsies obtained before and after
      reperfusion is planned in order to determine both the impact of hypothermic perfusion on
      hepatic ATP content and mitochondrial injury (FMN). Further, results of perfusate analyses
      (particularly FMN) will be evaluated for potential association with clinical outcome
      measures, results of post-reperfusion allograft biopsies assessment, and serum markers of
      allograft function, injury, and inflammatory response in order to determine its role in
      pre-transplant assessment of allograft viability.
    
  