
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a serious chronic condition affecting over 14 million Americans, but the prevalence
      rates are higher in certain populations (e.g. 10 percent in inner-cities and 30 percent among
      the homeless vs. 5 percent in a general population of whites). African Americans and
      Hispanics from the Northeast are twice as likely to die from asthma as whites. African
      Americans are four times as likely to be hospitalized for asthma and are five times more
      likely than whites to seek care for asthma at an emergency department. Reasons for these
      higher rates are not certain, and most likely result from an interaction of risk factors such
      as environmental exposures, genetic predisposition, access to appropriate medical care,
      socioeconomic status, and cultural health practices. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute supports a variety of activities to address the pressing public health problems
      posed by asthma. However, progress in reducing disparities has been disappointingly slow.
      Separate, independent research projects have generated important clues for understanding the
      nature and scope of the problem. A more coordinated, interdisciplinary and comprehensive
      approach to research is needed to take advantage of these clues, move the science further and
      faster, and increase our capacity to improve health outcomes among minority and economically
      disadvantaged populations. Cooperative centers of research that foster partnerships among
      minority medical centers, research intensive institutions, and the communities in which
      asthma patients live will promote such advancement.

      The Request for Applications for the Centers for Reducing Asthma Disparities was released in
      October, 2001. The objective of the program is to promote partnerships (called Centers)
      between a minority serving institution (MSI) that may not have a strong research program and
      a research intensive institution (RII) that has a track record of NIH-supported research and
      patient care. The purpose of the partnership is to conduct collaborative research on asthma
      disparities (i.e. greater prevalence of asthma, higher rates of morbidity due to asthma, and
      lesser access or use of quality medical care among minorities and poor).

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The Center for Reducing Asthma Disparities involves partnership between researchers at
      Harvard University (Channing Laboratory, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and the Harvard School
      of Public Health) and a network of Boston-area Community Health Centers (CHCs) affiliated
      with the non-profit community-based organization CCHERS (Center for Community Health
      Education, Research and Service). Broad specific aims are: 1. Conduct a community needs
      assessment to assess differences in perceptions about asthma etiology, disparities, and
      effective treatment between community representatives, Community Health Center patients, and
      Community Health Center providers. 2. Determine the role of socio/environmental exposures
      (psychosocial stress, indoor allergens, cigarette smoking and diesel-related air pollutants)
      on asthma onset through study of a prenatally enrolled birth cohort. 3. Determine the role of
      genetics in modifying the risk of the social/physical environment by concurrent assessment of
      the following genetic factors thought to influence immune development and airway inflammation
      in early life: stress (corticosteroid regulatory genes, adrenergic system regulatory genes),
      diesel exhaust and smoking (biotransformation genes), indoor allergens (cytokine pathway
      genes). 4. Use a quasi-experimental design to evaluate the effectiveness of the research,
      training, and outreach components of the project in leading to significant changes in the
      ability of particular stakeholders to design and implement sound asthma intervention
      strategies. 5. Develop training programs at Harvard that provide masters and predoctoral
      students as well as postdoctoral fellows with experience and expertise in Community-Based
      Participatory Research (CBPR) focused on reducing asthma disparities. 6. Develop training and
      information dissemination materials for health center staff and community members (especially
      caregivers of children with asthma). The Center for Community Health Education, Research and
      Service will take the lead in implementing Specific Aims 1, 4 and 6, while the Harvard group
      will take the lead on Aims 2, 3 and 5. In addition to building needed infrastructure to
      support partnership-based research and interventions aimed at reducing health disparities,
      this proposal has the potential to make significant contributions to the scientific
      literature with respect to health disparities and asthma.
    
  