
    
      A delay in the diagnosis and initiation of proper therapy for infectious effusions leads to
      increases in the complication rate. These delays are more common in patients with coexisting
      heart failure or malignancy.In fact, pleural effusion manifestations are alerting signs of
      pain, dyspnea, and the signs of respiratory failure due to compression of the lungs.

      Other signs include tachypnea, decreased percussion, and decreased respiratory sounds. The
      most common cause of pleural effusion in children is parapneumonic effusion or purulent
      empyema.

      Although the prevalence of pleural effusion is high in children, its mortality rate is low .
      According to the studies performed in the United States, parapneumonic effusion is known as
      the most common underlying cause of pleural effusion in 50% to 70% of the cases . Congenital
      heart diseases include 5-15% of the causes and malignancies are the rare reasons of effusion.

      In general, effusions may be transudate or exudate and examination of the pleural fluid is
      necessary to differentiate them. Exudate is confirmed by the presence of at least one of the
      following criteria; pleural effusion concentration higher than half of the serum protein
      level, pleural effusion protein level more than 3 g/dL, pleural effusion lactate
      dehydrogenase higher than 200 U, pH lower than 7.2, and glucose lower than 40.

      C-reactive protein is an acute phase protein that is synthesized by the liver in response to
      various stimuli.The induction of C-reactive protein synthesis in the liver is triggered by
      the production of Interleukin-6 and Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha by local pleural cells.

      The pleural fluid C-reactive protein levels are likely to reflect the serum levels because
      the presence of C-reactive protein in the pleural fluid may be due to increased diffusion
      from the blood as a result of inflamed capillary leakage.

      Pleural C-reactive protein has been proposed as a specific biomarker for the differential
      diagnosis of pleural effusions and reportedly exhibits higher sensitivity and specificity
      than serum C-reacive protein. C-reactive protein can be considered a good candidate due to
      its 1000-fold elevation in response to infection and the positive correlation between the
      serum and pleural C-reactive protein levels. Pleural fluid C-reactive protein level was
      significantly higher in exudates than that in transudative effusion.
    
  