
    
      Bispebjerg Hospital is considering implementing the FIM instrument in the Neurological
      Department. Before decisions making a more thorough examination is needed to see if the extra
      resources used to apply the FIM measurement is offset by improvement in the clinic. At
      Neurorehabilitering Copenhagen FIM measurement has recently been implemented in a trial
      period of 2 years hence an exploration of the application of FIM is needed.

      The study seeks to explore experiences with application of the FIM instrument combined with
      structured interdisciplinary tasks related to the patient's everyday routines.

      Aims:

        1. To explore behavior, reaction and experiences in multidisciplinary staff members when
           applying the FIM instrument combined with interdisciplinary collaboration related to
           common patient tasks.

           Including:

             -  the exploration of practical settings.

             -  the staffs experiences both pros and cons with the application of the FIM
                instrument.

             -  the staffs experiences of the interdisciplinary and inter sectoral collaboration.

        2. To nuance the findings in the qualitative part of the study with quantitative data from
           the FIM including data on change in FIM score on the short term (2-3 weeks) and long
           term (approx. 4 months).

        3. To evaluate on practicalities when applying the FIM instrument including the feasibility
           of scoring within 72 hours within admittance to and before discharge from the
           departments and the change in score between the 2 sectors.

        4. To compare FIM to baseline characteristics such as National Institutes of Health Stroke
           Scale (NIHSS), Functional oral intake Scale (FOIS), and Pre-Stroke Modified Rankin
           Score.

      Hypotheses:

        1. It is expected that the application of the FIM instrument combined with
           interdisciplinary tasks will contribute to a development of a common language between
           the interdisciplinary staff members and to stimulate a more holistic goalsetting when
           engaging with the patient. Hereby it is expected to contribute to the interdisciplinary
           collaboration. A more multidisciplinary approach is expected to be experienced by the
           application of FIM hereby probably giving less attention to their professional
           background and more focus on the patient. It is expected that the staff will experience
           that FIM contributes to a more united use of language between the sectors and hereby
           linking the whole process of the patient.

        2. It is expected that the patients will have a moderate to severe disability measured by
           FIM and a change in score is expected in both sectors.

        3. Approx. half of the scores are expected to be within the 72 hours of planned timing.

        4. A moderate correlation is expected between the FIM score and baseline measurements as
           National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), Functional oral intake Scale (FOIS)
           and weak to moderate with Pre-Stroke Modified Rankin Score.

      This Mixed Methods Multicenter Study consists of 5 elements divided into a quantitative and a
      qualitative part. The quantitative part is an observational cohort study with 15-20 stroke
      patients consecutively recruited. The qualitative part includes 8 participant observations, 4
      focus group interviews, approx. 10 individual interviews and data on goalsetting from
      hospital charts from the 15-20 patients.

      The setting is at the Neurological Ward at Bispebjerg Hospital in the Capital Region of
      Denmark and at Neurorehabilitering Copenhagen, a center which specializes in neurological
      rehabilitation in the Municipality of Copenhagen.

      In the qualitative study, staff in a project group experimenting with the use of the FIM
      instrument combined with interdisciplinary tasks will participate in focus group interviews
      and some of them will participate in individual interviews using strategic sampling with
      maximal variation on profession, years of experience and sector. Participant observation of
      the FIM scorings will be performed as videorecordings beeing analysed. All qualitative data
      will be analysed with both investigator and data triangulation.
    
  