
    
      The study will investigate the suitability of two odour capturing techniques for early
      detection of skin cancer. The techniques to capture VOCs are: a) solid phase microextraction
      (SPME) and b) collection of VOCs via an adsorptive patch, worn on the skin. The objective is
      to evaluate the suitability of two techniques for collecting VOCs.

      Odour samples from cancerous and healthy skin will be captured using the two non-invasive
      techniques. The techniques will initially be tested in a laboratory environment. They will
      then be applied in parallel to patients and healthy people. VOC compounds of odour samples
      will be analysed for their profiles in respect of cancerous and healthy skins. The VOCs
      profiles will be recorded in a VOC bank for future analysis.

      Following the initial tests, patients (n=20) with skin cancer will be recruited from Poole
      and Dorset County Hospitals. Arrangement will be made to obtain odour samples by positioning
      patches on the cancerous skin sites (for approximately 30 minutes) of patients and recover
      them. To obtain samples from healthy people (n=10), staff and students within the university
      are invited to participate in this research by providing odour samples from their skins using
      the same type of patches.

      In parallel, VOCs from skin cancer patients will also be collected from patients with the
      SPME fibres described earlier. The SPME device is roughly equivalent in size and shape to a
      ballpoint pen, from the tip of which an adsorbent fibre can be extended. The SPME device is
      held statically with a flexible clamp (a weighted clamp which rests on a bench / desk near
      the patient), and is positioned so that the tip of the fibre rests close to, but not
      touching, the affected skin area. The fibre needs to be held in place to sample the air above
      the affected skin for a pre-determined period of time, likely to be 15 - 30 minutes.
      Specifics such as the sampling time and related factors will be evaluated during the initial
      laboratory testing. Following the defined time period of sampling, the fibre is retracted
      into the body of the SPME device (to protect it), and the device is returned to the
      laboratory for analysis. The high temperatures involved in GCMS analysis cause VOCs captured
      by the SPME device to be released (desorbed) and they are subsequently swept through the GCMS
      system for analysis.

      The VOC samples from both the techniques will be transported to Bournemouth university for
      analysis.

      The outcome will be the identification of the most suitable VOC collection technique (SPME vs
      patch) by comparing the VOC profiles of cancerous and healthy skin.
    
  