
    
      Study procedures include: 1) Telephone screen, 2) Diagnostic evaluation to determine
      diagnosis of MDD, 3) Baseline evaluation consisting of medical history, cognitive assessment,
      and MRIs, 4) Participation in 12 weeks of psychotherapy treatment with assessments of
      depression severity, and 5) Follow up evaluation at 12 weeks consisting of depression,
      cognitive function, and post treatment MRIs.

      Telephone Screen: Older adults who respond to our recruitment efforts for LLD will be
      screened by telephone using the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and those who obtain a
      score of 5 or greater will be scheduled for an eligibility appointment within a week of
      screening. Anyone who endorses the suicide question (item 9) of the PHQ-9 will be scheduled
      for a same day appointment, and will be seen by the study investigators. Similarly, other
      exclusion criteria will be assessed using a structured questionnaire. If participants are
      interested in other treatment referrals these will be provided.

      Diagnostic Evaluation: In this assessment, the investigators consent participants and
      administer measures that address eligibility [i.e., Structured Clinical Interview for
      Diagnosis of DSM-IV Disorders (SCID)], the 24 item HDRS, Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE),
      Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR). To qualify, LLD participants must obtain a diagnosis of
      MDD (SCID), have an HDRS score of 20 or higher, a MMSE score of 25 or better, and a CDR of
      0.5 or less.. Those who do not qualify for the study and/or who are interested in alternate
      LLD treatments will be offered referrals for services at the outpatient clinics at UCSF or
      community resources.

      Baseline Assessment: After completion of the diagnostic evaluation and being deemed study
      eligible, LLD participants will be scheduled for a baseline assessment. At the baseline
      assessment meeting, the HDRS is administered again to confirm depression severity. The
      baseline assessment consists of 1) demographics and patient characteristics, 2)
      neuropsychological testing, and 3) depression and functional outcome measures, and 4)
      multimodal MRI evaluation.

      Participant Characteristics: Demographic data, such as age, gender, race, living conditions,
      marital status, occupation, and education will be obtained as well as previous psychiatric
      treatment received. Medical comorbidity will be assessed using the Charlson Comorbidity Index
      (CCI). Medication use will be assessed using the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative
      (ADNI) medication history form. Suicidal ideation will be assessed utilizing the Scale for
      Suicidal Ideation (SSI). The investigators will utilize a clinician rated measures of
      lifetime history of depressive episodes and depression treatments, the Duke Social Support
      Index, and the Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) for exploratory analyses.

      Cognitive Functioning: Primary cognitive outcome variables will include: the Digit Symbol
      Substitution Test, the Boston Naming test, and the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test as a
      measure of memory.

      Psychotherapeutic Treatment: Problem Solving Therapy (PST) is a brief evidence based
      psychotherapy that is commonly utilized for treatment of LLD. The problem solving therapy
      includes 12 weekly in person 50 minute sessions.

      Follow up assessments: At 12 weeks, LLD participants will participate in a follow up
      evaluation that is identical the baseline assessment of depression, cognitive function, and
      MRI. The investigators will use total HDRS score to determine response to treatment.
    
  