
    
      The hypothesis of this study is that using the Hybrid Leg with seamless, automatic
      transitions will result in participants choosing to become more active and improve their
      community participation compared to when using their own passive prosthetic leg.

      The Hybrid Leg is an an innovative and lightweight powered leg that has 2 operating modes:
      active and passive. When in active mode, the Hybrid Leg is capable of supplying 120 NM of
      knee torque and actively repositioning the ankle during non-weight bearing phases of gait.
      When in passive mode, the motor and transmission are decoupled from the knee, which then
      behaves like an Ottobock 3R95 passive prosthetic knee, and the non-backdriveable mechanism of
      the ankle allows it to behave as an energy return foot. Allowing the device to behave
      passively if the battery becomes depleted or the actuators become damaged is an important
      enabling safety factor that will allow us to complete our study.

      Phase 1: We will enroll 20 subjects a clinical trial of the leg and control system who will
      be fit with the Hybrid Leg and receive in-lab therapy to learn how to ambulate with the
      device.

      Phase 2: Subjects will be randomized into a clinical trial of the leg and control system with
      an AB-BA design; condition A - subjects own device; condition B - Hybrid Leg. Subjects will
      complete an extensive ambulation and community mobility training to learn optimal use of
      their own passive device or the Hybrid Leg. After training the subjects will complete a full
      biomechanical analysis for each device as they complete ambulation circuits that include
      standing, level-ground walking, walking on slopes and on stairs, sit-stand transitions and
      transitions between these activities.

      Phase 3: After completing phase 2 subjects will complete 4-week trials using their assigned
      prosthesis (Condition A or B) at home and within their community. During the trials subjects
      will be monitored using mobile phone based sensors and socket mounted activity monitor to
      determine how often the user performs the ambulation activities.
    
  