
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) has typical symptoms and signs of
      heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (LVEF≥50%). Often associated with obesity,
      hyperlipidemia and other metabolic syndromes. At present, the incidence of HFpEF accounts for
      about 50% of heart failure, and it is increasing year by year. However, the specific
      pathogenesis of HFpEF is unknown, and there is a lack of effective diagnosis and treatment
      methods. A number of studies have shown that obesity is a unique pathophysiological phenotype
      of individuals with HFpEF, and the activation of inflammatory mediators is extremely
      prominent in the pathophysiological process of HFpEF. Therefore, we speculate that both
      obesity and inflammation are related to increased arterial stiffness.

      Obesity is a heterogeneous disease. Certain ectopic fats, such as epicardial adipose tissue
      (EAT), may be related to obesity-related cardiovascular risks. EAT is a kind of visceral fat.
      Under pathological conditions, it releases factors harmful to the coronary artery and
      myocardium, and promotes the transition of EAT to a pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic
      phenotype. Brachial ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) is an indicator for evaluating arterial
      stiffness. It is a relatively simple, non-invasive method for detecting vascular compliance
      and an independent prediction of cardiovascular events in people without cardiovascular
      disease. Factors can be used to assess the risk of cardiovascular events. However, no
      relevant research has confirmed that pericardial fat can increase the arterial stiffness of
      HFpEF.

      This study intends to observe the influence of pericardial fat on the arterial stiffness of
      HFpEF and explore the relationship between pericardial fat thickness and arterial stiffness
      of HFpEF, in order to assist the clinic in evaluating the vascular state of HFpEF patients
      faster and better, and to judge the prognosis. At the same time, EAT has the characteristics
      of fast metabolism, strong organ fat specificity, and simple measurement. It can also be used
      as a target for drug targeted therapy, opening up a new way for drug therapy of
      cardiometabolic diseases.
    
  