
    
      It will be carried out a randomized, triple-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

      Seventy-two volunteers will be randomly allocated to four experimental groups:

        1. PBMT before and after the aerobic training sessions and PBMT during the detraining
           period;

        2. PBMT before and after the aerobic training sessions and placebo during the detraining
           period;

        3. Placebo before and after the aerobic training sessions and PBMT during the detraining
           period;

        4. Placebo before and after the aerobic training sessions and placebo during the detraining
           period .

      The individuals randomly allocated to the different groups will be subjected to 12
      consecutive weeks of aerobic training performed on a treadmill 3 times a week on
      non-consecutive days. Each training session will last 30 minutes, with an intensity ranging
      from 85 to 90% maximum heart rate. PBMT or placebo will be applied before and after each
      training session. After the 12-week training period, the volunteers will receive the
      application of PBMT or placebo depending on the group to which they are allocated for 4 weeks
      (3 times a week) without training.

      The data will be collected by a blind assessor. It will be analyzed time of the exercise
      (time until exhaustion), maximum oxygen consumption in absolute and relative values in
      relation to body mass (VO2max). Moreover, it will be evaluated the body composition. The
      evaluations will be performed before starting the protocol (baseline) and after 4, 8, and 12
      weeks of training. They will also be performed after 4 weeks without training (detraining
      period).

      The findings will be tested for their normality using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Parametric data
      will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and nonparametric data as median and
      respective upper and lower limits. Parametric data will be analyzed by two-way repeated
      measures analysis of variance (ANOVA; time versus experimental group) with post-hoc
      Bonferroni correction. Non-parametric data will be analyzed using the Friedman test and,
      secondarily, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Data will be analyzed in terms of both their
      absolute values and their relationship to the percentage change based on the values
      established in the baseline tests. The significance level will be set at p<0.05.
    
  