
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) generates multiple symptoms and
      problems that can vary in complexity. Although it seems evident that patients and caregivers
      experience clinically significant levels of psychological distress, few intervention studies
      have been explored to address this concern in this population.

      Problem-solving is an essential skill for patients and caregivers. Increased problem-solving
      skill has been shown to decrease psychological distress and may improve symptom distress and
      health related QOL. The COPE (Creativity, Optimism, Planning, Expert Information)
      problem-solving education intervention has demonstrated benefit and has been reported as a
      positive therapy by cancer patients and their families. Only one study has reported the
      application of this intervention in the acute care setting and no study has been done with
      patients undergoing allogeneic HSCT.

      This study will evaluate the feasibility of conducting an individualized dyadic
      problem-solving education (PSE) intervention in patients and family caregivers experiencing
      allogeneic HSCT. In addition, this study will explore the effect of a PSE intervention on
      problem-solving skills in patients and family caregivers experiencing allogeneic HSCT.
      Moreover, this study will explore the relationship of baseline psychological distress and
      family functioning to change in problem-solving skills following a PSE intervention.

      This is a single group, mixed-methods, repeated measure design. Subjects will be accrued to
      this protocol if they agree to participation in an allogeneic HSCT at the Clinical Center,
      NIH, are greater than or equal to 18 years old, able to read English and able to comprehend
      the investigational nature of the study. Patient volunteers must have an adult family member
      to serve as their primary caregiver throughout the study period. A sample of 20 subjects (10
      patient/family caregiver dyads) will be recruited to capture the essence of the experience
      and adequately evaluate the feasibility of the intervention in this sample.

      Each dyad will be scheduled for four individualized PSE intervention sessions (study
      intervention) in addition to the usual care group education. Study questionnaires will be
      administered twice prior to allogeneic HSCT, at 2 time points during the intervention period,
      and at the end of the study. As a feasibility study, there will be no long term follow-up
      after the intervention period. Questionnaires include: Brief Symptom Inventory-18,
      Problem-Solving Inventory-Revised, Symptom Distress Scale, and the Family
      Adaptability-Cohesion Evaluation Scale-IV. In addition, the dyad will participate in a
      semi-structured interview at the end of each intervention session and the interventionist
      will complete a log that tracks subject attendance, session length, and discrepancy between
      planned and actual session date and time. Quantitative and qualitative analysis techniques
      will be used in this study.
    
  