
    
      The primary objective of this study is to examine the feasibility of expanded applications of
      the basic Endologix technology for the treatment of arterial aneurysmal disease. A second
      objective of this study is to gather data in order to make logical, scientific
      recommendations for device design, construction and application which will expand the
      application of the endoluminal graft technology and improve its safety and efficacy while
      expanding the several potential future positive aspects of a less invasive method of treating
      arterial occlusive disease.

      Endologix, Inc. has applied for and received an IDE for the investigation of a bifurcated
      device to exclude aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. The Arizona Heart Institute experience
      indicates that this small study design will prove successful. Using the basic technology of
      the current approved IDE, it is Arizona Heart Institute's intention to expand the scope of
      application and design in order to address a greater population basis suffering from
      aneurysmal disease. In this regard, the basic Endologix device designs will be applied to
      appropriate patients beyond the scope of the current bifurcated IDE. Patients meeting the
      criteria for the Endologix IDE will be enrolled independently in that study and followed
      precisely in order to comply with the study design. Patients with aneurysmal disease not
      currently filling the criteria for a bifurcated abdominal aortic prosthetic but who could
      potentially benefit from the technology to exclude aneurysmal disease will be considered from
      this study.

      The patient's participation in the Study will include enrollment, Investigational Device
      procedure and follow-up period. Patient data will be collected for 1, 6, and 12 months and
      beyond as indicated. Subject follow-up at 1 month will include; ABIs, a complete Physical
      Examination, Duplex Ultrasound, and X-ray. Subject follow-up at 6 and 12 months will also
      include ABIs, a complete Physical Examination, CT Scan-Contrast Enhanced (unless
      contraindicated), CT Scan-No Contrast, and X-ray.
    
  