
    
      Introduction The current pandemic caused by the SARS-COV2 coronavirus (COVID-19) is
      life-threatening and is challenging the world's best health systems. Accelerated spread of
      this pandemia led physicians to try a variety of treatments without a well established
      sequence due to ignorance about this new disease. The case fatality rate has been calculated
      at 2.2% but there are differences depending on the country affected.

      Perspective When comparing the evolution of cases between Spain and Mexico, an apparently
      less pronounced trend is observed in Mexico, but this may be due to underdiagnosis. In
      calculations by the Mexican Ministry of Health, around 6% of the patients (approximately
      10,500) who contract COVID-19 could be found serious and in need of hospitalization in
      intensive care.

      NTZx NTZx and its circulating active metabolite, tizoxanide, inhibit the replication of a
      wide range of viruses, both RNA and DNA. It has action against 16 strains of Influenza A
      virus subtypes H1N1, H3N2, H3N2v, H3N8, H5N9, H7N1 and a strain of influenza B. It also works
      against respiratory syncytial virus, norovirus, dengue, yellow fever, Japanese encephalitis
      virus, rotavirus , hepatitis B and C, even against the human immunodeficiency virus (Severe
      Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).

      Problem Mexico is in Phase 2 according to the World Health Organization (WHO) and more local
      infections due to coronaviruses are expected. To date, various COVID-19 treatment schemes are
      being tested, but the usefulness of none can be assured.

      When reviewing the drug schemes that are being carried out in the world, it calls the
      attention that developing countries are not included, beyond the fact that the tested
      alternatives are economically inaccessible.

      This clinical survey aims to test the possible utility of NTZx against COVID-19, alone or in
      combination with hydroxychloroquine.
    
  