
    
      Study Aims:

        1. To establish prevalence of microvascular disease in women and men with Cardiac Syndrome
           X

        2. To study the predictive value and utility of noninvasive tests like Peripheral Artery
           Tonometry (PAT) and Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (CMR) in diagnosing Cardiac Syndrome X.

        3. To establish prognosis in women and men with Cardiac Syndrome X.

        4. To elucidate the risk factors, clinical features, diagnostic methods, treatment, and
           prognosis of patients with microvascular angina (MVA).

      With this research study, we want to specifically study a group of patients who have chest
      pain or other signs or symptoms suggestive of heart disease but don't have visible blockages
      in the large heart arteries. Patients with chest pain who undergo heart catheterization but
      have no blockages of large heart arteries will be consented and enrolled. Patients will be
      asked to fill out questionnaires about their medical history, including family, reproductive
      and, social histories. They will also be asked to undergo testing during heart
      catheterization that would test for abnormalities in their small heart arteries using
      medications, acetylcholine and adenosine. This testing is a standard of care procedure given
      at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients would receive this test whether they
      participate in the research or not. The test is performed by infusing acetylcholine and
      adenosine through the same catheter that is used for routine heart catheterization. This test
      may add an additional 15 minutes to the heart catheterization procedure.

      In addition, patients will be asked to undergo a non-invasive test called Peripheral Arterial
      Tonometry or PAT for research purposes and in some cases, if clinically indicated a Cardiac
      Magnetic Resonance (CMR) imaging test as a standard of care. Patients will be followed up
      using phone questionnaires at 6 months and than annually thereafter. It is proposed that
      problems with the function of the large and small arteries may be responsible for giving some
      patients their symptoms of chest pain and put them at risk for heart attacks. PAT may help us
      more easily and non-invasively measure this function by testing the arteries in the arm.
      Selected patients will also undergo CMR imaging that may be useful to detect abnormalities in
      the inner layer of the heart muscle resulting from the abnormal function of the large and
      small heart arteries. These non-invasive tests will be corroborated with results from
      invasive testing during heart catheterization, which is considered the gold standard for
      testing for function of the large and the small heart arteries.

      The three tests (heart catheterization with adenosine coronary flow reserve testing,
      acetylcholine provocative vasomotor testing during heart catheterization, cardiac MRI) are
      performed for standard care.

      Blood and urine collection have been added to this protocol as a secondary outcome for future
      tests and for testing whether impaired Endothelial Progenitor Cell (EPC) number is related to
      the presence and severity of microvascular disease.

      Results from our study will help confirm the need to test patients with chest pain and open
      large arteries during heart catheterizations for abnormalities in the function of the large
      and small heart arteries, and to validate the usefulness of using non-invasive techniques
      like PAT and CMR for detecting this problem. The study will also help confirm the increased
      risk of heart attack associated with the abnormal function in the large and small arteries in
      these patients.

      Subjects will be asked if they are interested in receiving information on Pro00015124
      (repository/collection). If they are interested, they will be consented under Pro00015124. No
      specimens collected as part of this study will be forwarded to Pro00015124.
    
  