
    
      Summary of study design

      This is a single-center study recruiting from the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at
      Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge. There are 2 study parts:

        1. Quantitative assessment of the accuracy of the new system in comparison with standard
           clinical monitoring systems

        2. Qualitative Assessment of parent and staff views of caring for babies with the new
           system in comparison with conventional clinical monitoring systems

      Quantitative study arm Study population Up to 24 participants will be recruited from the
      Addenbrooke's Hospital NICU. The participants will be recruited from three groups, defined by
      the BAPM Categories of Care The population size has been selected to include sufficient
      babies to collect a reasonable amount of data to ascertain, with confidence, our defined
      outcomes. Furthermore, the data should come from across the range of variables seen in babies
      requiring intensive care while limiting exposure of the infants at most risk. The study will
      be performed in a stepwise fashion, starting with those infants requiring lower dependency
      care.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Babies being cared for on the NICU at Addenbrookes Hospital

        -  Written, informed parental consent Exclusion criteria

        -  Known to have an intolerance to silicone or silicone gel adhesives.

        -  Has a pacemaker or other implanted electronic device.

      Planned procedures Participants will have the newly developed wireless sensors for ECG, pulse
      oximetry, and temperature attached adjacent to the current clinical, wired sensors. Once the
      application sites have been identified and prepared, the sensors will be placed on the baby
      by an appropriately trained individual. The wireless receiver will connect to a separate
      patient monitor to log the comparative data. This study monitor will be covered and silenced
      such that data will not be visible to the clinical team, and it will not be possible to
      confuse the study monitor from the 'clinical' monitor. The sensors will be in place for a
      period of up to 24 hours. After this period, the study sensors will be removed, and the site
      inspected by a member of the research team and scored using the standard tissue viability
      scoring system already in use on the unit. The sensors will be disposed of in keeping with
      the unit and Trust policy.

      After the study intervention, a questionnaire will be given to the nurse caring for the baby
      to determine their views on the wireless system.

      Data collection Data will be collected from both the study monitor and the 'clinical'
      monitor. The data are formed of two types: parameter data and waveform data. Parameter data
      has a two-second interval. The waveform data has a period of approximately 4ms.

      Qualitative study arm

      Study population Up to 10 participants will be recruited from the Addenbrooke's Hospital.
      This is in line with other studies with similar cohorts and balances the need to obtain a
      range of views and experiences, with the imposition on parents' time in such an environment.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  BAPM level transitional care babies who do not clinically require vital sign monitoring.

        -  The baby has had vital sign monitoring at some point during their stay on the unit.

        -  Written, informed parental consent Exclusion criteria

        -  Known to have an intolerance to silicone or silicone gel adhesives.

        -  Has a pacemaker or other implanted electronic medical device.

      Planned procedure Babies who are not indicated for vital sign monitoring will have the
      wireless monitoring system attached. Once the application sites have been identified and
      prepared, the sensors will be placed on the baby by an appropriately trained individual. The
      wireless receiver will connect to the study monitor to log the vital sign data, and all
      alarms will be silenced. The monitor will be covered and silenced such that it will not
      impact on clinical care.

      The baby will be transferred from the cot/incubator to the parent for kangaroo care as per
      standard NICU procedure. The parent and baby will remain in contact for as long as the parent
      is comfortable, and the baby remains stable and in keeping with unit policy and procedures.
      The baby will then be transferred back to the cot, and monitoring will be removed.

      Semi-structured interviews lasting approximately 30 minutes will then be conducted with, (i)
      the nurse, and (ii) the parent(s). These interviews will focus on previous experiences with
      vital sign monitoring systems, and their experience of using the new wireless system.
    
  