
    
      Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) and related disorders remain the leading cause of death in the
      nation. Hypovitaminosis D has been linked not only to several cardiovascular (CV) risk
      factors including hypertension, diabetes, obesity but also to increased rates of CVD.
      Thus,hypovitaminosis D presents a common pathway for a select subgroup with a clustering of
      CV risk factors in a profile that is predominant among ethnic minorities. Indeed,
      hypovitaminosis D is highly prevalent with an estimated 55% of the US adult population having
      levels at or below 30 ng/ml, and over 80% of African Americans having suboptimal values.
      Thus, we propose a twelve week randomized double-blind, placebo controlled pilot trial to
      assess the effect on vascular function and CV risk factors of 100,000 IU Vitamin D3 given
      every 4 weeks to overweight, hypertensive African-Americans with hypovitaminosis D. To our
      knowledge, the proposed project is the first to assess the effect of 'high-dose' Vitamin D3
      administration on vascular function.We believe this study is also the first to examine the
      impact at a molecular level of Vitamin D3 repletion on the key mediators of cardio-metabolic
      pathways in humans. If our study results support our working hypothesis, we will be
      positioned to propose a larger scale study to detect a therapeutic effect on more definitive,
      clinical cardiovascular endpoints across a more diverse population.

      Objectives:

      1. Assess the role of Vitamin D3 treatment on vascular function in high risk subjects.

      Primary Outcome: The primary outcome variable is pulse wave velocity (PWV, unit - m/s) for
      vascular stiffness assessed by radial artery tonometry (via SphygmoCor). The hypothesis for
      the primary analysis is that a greater increase in the PWV will occur in the Vitamin D3
      treatment group than in the placebo group.

      Secondary Outcome: Vascular/endothelial function as determined by measuring non-invasive
      vascular finger plethysmography (via EndoPat). Additional surrogates to be assessed as
      secondary markers of vascular/endothelial function include sitting and 24 hour ambulatory
      blood pressure measurements and spot urine protein/creatinine ratio.
    
  