
    
      Autoimmune rheumatic diseases are autoimmune disorders presented with joint and muscles
      manifestations. However, other organs may be involved at a varying degree in different
      conditions. They are also called connective tissue diseases (CTDs) or collagen diseases. They
      include systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Sjiogren's syndrome
      (SjS), systemic sclerosis, polymyositis and dermatomyositis and mixed connective tissue
      disease (Peakman and Vergani, 2009).

      Autoimmune rheumatic diseases are characterized by presence of antinuclear antibodies (ANA).
      These antibodies are involved in the disease pathogenesis, and their presence in patients'
      sera constitutes one of the criteria used (together with the clinical manifestations) for
      disease diagnosis (Stevens, 2010). ANA include autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens
      and autoantibodies to histones and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

      Anti-DNA antibodies include those against single and double stranded DNA (ssDNA and dsDNA,
      respectively). Anti-dsDNA antibodies are recognized as diagnostic markers of SLE and as
      indicators of SLE disease activity, especially in lupus nephritis (Zigon et al.,
      2011).However, high anti-dsDNA levels are found only in 50-70% of SLE patients. So, negative
      anti-dsDNA test does not exclude SLE Also, anti-dsDNA antibodies can be detected in other
      autoimmune diseases such as RA and SjS, as well as in healthy blood donors (Zigon et al.,
      2011).The significance of anti-dsDNA in SLE diagnosis and in monitoring SLE disease activity
      has led to an increase in this test laboratory requests as well as in the number of
      commercially available kits (Chiaro et al., 2011).

      The kits that are used in detection and quantitation of anti-dsDNA antibodies include:

        1. Radioimmunoassay methods developed according to Farr technique (FARR-RIA) (Wold et al.,
           1968). However, due to the use of radioactive element in the Farr assay, it is not
           widely used in the routine diagnostic laboratory work (Mahler and Fritzler, 2007).

        2. Crithidia luciliae immunofluorescence test (CLIFT) developed by Aarden et al (1975)
           detects anti-dsDNA by indirect immunofluorescence using the hemoflagellate Crithidia
           luciliae which contains kinetoplast that contains a high concentration of native (dsDNA)
           DNA (Zigon et al., 2011). However, reading and interpretation of the immunoflourescence
           is subjective and depends on the experience and training of the laboratory personnel
           which could affects the test results (Chiaro et al., 2011).

        3. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) is simple to perform, does not require highly
           trained operators and can be automated. Therefore, it is becoming the most widely used
           method (Kumar et al., 2009).With the increasing number of anti-dsDNA ELISA assays, the
           potential for variability in the diagnostic accuracies is enormous as different
           antigens, assay principles and cutoff determinations are employed (Chiaro et al., 2011).
           Anti- dsDNA ELISAs may give false-positive results due to binding of immune complexes to
           the pre-coat intermediates (Zigon et al., 2011).

      In the Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Assiut University Hospital, we shifted from manual
      ELISA kits to automated ELISA platform (Alegria system, Orgentec Diagnostika, Germany) and
      recently CLIFT was introduced in the laboratory.
    
  