
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effects on bone mineral density (BMD) in the L2-L4 (posterio-anterior)
           region of the spine and hip by assessing bone density in postmenopausal women with
           breast cancer receiving treatment on protocol IBCSG-1-98.

        -  Compare the incidence of radiological gross changes and fractures identified from spine
           x-rays (T4-L4) in these patients (in groups 1 and 2).

        -  Use longitudinal BMD measurements to estimate a linear rate of bone loss based on mixed
           effect models.

        -  Identify serum markers for bone loss to determine how they correlate with osteoporosis,
           microfractures, clinical fractures, and breast cancer-related bone events.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study and a substudy of protocol IBCSG-1-98. Patients are
      assigned to 1 of 3 groups according to the length of treatment they have undergone on
      protocol IBCSG-1-98.

        -  Group 1 (prior to or at the end of the second year of treatment on protocol IBCSG-1-98):
           Patients undergo bone mineral density (BMD) testing of the L2-L4 spine and hip at
           baseline and years 1, 2, 3, and 4 from baseline. They also undergo x-rays of the T4-L4
           spine at baseline and years 1, 3, and 4 from baseline.

        -  Group 2 (after 2 years but before the end of the third year of treatment on protocol
           IBCSG-1-98): Patients undergo BMD testing of the L2-L4 spine and hip at baseline and
           years 1, 2, and 3 from baseline. They also undergo x-rays of the T4-L4 spine at baseline
           and years 2 and 3 from baseline.

        -  Group 3 (after 3 years but before the end of the fifth year of treatment on protocol
           IBCSG-1-98): Patients undergo BMD testing of the L2-L4 spine and hip at baseline and
           years 1 and 2 from baseline (for patients in 4th year of treatment) or year 1 from
           baseline (for patients in 5th year of treatment).

      Patients undergo blood collection at baseline and periodically during study for biomarker
      correlative study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 660 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  