
    
      The 2011 United Nations General Assembly Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS set a target to
      eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV by 2015. The continuum of care for women living
      with HIV and their babies includes retention in care and early infant diagnosis of HIV.
      Timely initiation of infant antiretroviral therapy (ART) requires HIV-positive women to be
      retained in care through the postpartum period and to bring their children for HIV testing.
      However, a high proportion of pregnant HIV-positive women in sub-Saharan Africa are lost to
      follow-up after delivery. The World Health Organization recommends infant HIV testing at six
      weeks using DNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR). However, the overall proportion of children
      who undergo early infant diagnosis by PCR remains low. In Kenya, the overall proportion of
      eligible children undergoing PCR testing in 2011 was 39%.

      Low rates of infant HIV testing are an indirect indication of a large number of infants who
      may not benefit from early determination of HIV status, antiretroviral prophylaxis for
      HIV-negative breastfeeding infants, and infant feeding counseling and support. For HIV
      positive infants, failure to undergo testing is a critical barrier to receiving life-saving
      ART. There is an urgent need to investigate efficacious, cost-effective, and sustainable
      interventions to improve maternal retention in HIV care and increase the proportion of
      exposed infants tested for HIV.

      With the exponential increase in the number of mobile phones in sub-Saharan Africa, the use
      of mobile technology to support HIV programs has shown promise. The United Nations Children's
      Fund is encouraging HIV programs to take advantage of high levels of mobile phone access
      among enrolled mothers by reminding them to return for critical appointments. Active
      follow-up of pregnant HIV positive women in resource-limited settings using mobile phones is
      feasible, and may be effective in improving postnatal retention and uptake of early infant
      diagnosis across different sub-Saharan African settings.
    
  