
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Phase II:

        -  Determine the feasibility of gemcitabine followed by chemoradiotherapy with gemcitabine
           vs gemcitabine alone after prior curative resection in patients with pancreatic head
           adenocarcinoma.

        -  Compare the tolerability of these regimens, in terms of acute and late toxicity, in
           these patients.

      Phase III:

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens .

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the sites of recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      ECOG/WHO performance status (0-1 vs 2), participating center, and N stage (N0 vs N1 vs NX).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Within 8 weeks after prior surgical resection, patients receive gemcitabine IV
           over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 2 courses.

      Patients then receive additional gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 57, 64, 71, 78, 85,
      and 92. Beginning on day 57, patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week,
      for 6 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment
           repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

      Quality of life (QOL) is assessed in both arms, according to the following schedules:

        -  Arm I: QOL is assessed at baseline; at 3 weeks after the beginning of chemoradiotherapy;
           after the completion of chemoradiotherapy; every 3 months for 2 years; and then every 6
           months for 1 year.

        -  Arm II: QOL is assessed at baseline; at 12 weeks; at 16 weeks; every 3 months for 2
           years; and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 538 patients (269 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  