
    
      Results of clinical trials have shown beta-blockers improve symptoms and left ventricular
      function, reduce hospitalizations and death in heart failure, and prolong survival [MERIT-HF,
      CIBIS-II, Packer, 1996]. Clinical guidelines mandate use of beta-blockers in treatment of
      subjects with heart failure.

      Carvedilol (Coreg IR) is a multiple action adrenergic receptor blocker with alpha 1, beta 1
      and beta 2 receptor blockade properties. The beta-adrenergic properties are non-selective for
      beta 1 and beta 2 adrenergic receptors. Coreg IR, administered twice daily, is marketed in
      the United States for long term treatment of mild-moderate hypertension, mild to severe heart
      failure and subjects surviving an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular
      dysfunction with or without symptomatic heart failure.

      Coreg IR significantly reduces all cause mortality and the need for cardiovascular
      hospitalization [Packer, 1996a; Packer, 1996b; Colucci, 1996; Cohn, 1997; Olsen, 1995; Sharpe
      1997]. The effect of Coreg is dose dependent [Bristow, 1996]. In subjects treated long term
      after an acute myocardial infarction (MI) complicated by left ventricular systolic
      dysfunction, Coreg IR reduced the frequency of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality, and
      recurrent non-fatal MIs. These beneficial effects are additional to those of evidence-based
      treatments for acute MI, including ACE inhibitors [Dargie, 2001].

      Left Ventricular End Systolic Volume Index (LVESVI) is an important measure of ventricular
      function and remodeling in the evaluation of heart failure. In controlled clinical trials,
      Coreg IR, administered twice daily, has reduced LVESVI in subjects with ischemic heart
      failure. An echocardiography substudy of the Australia-New Zealand Trial [Doughty, 1997],
      evaluated left ventricular remodeling in 123 subjects with ischemic heart failure with an
      LVEF < 45 randomized to carvedilol or placebo. The LVESVI was reduced by 6.2 + 1.6 ml/m2
      after 6 months and 8.7 + 2.6 ml/m2 after 12 months of carvedilol therapy compared to the
      placebo treated subjects. Metra et al [Metra, 2000] observed the favorable effects of
      carvedilol compared with metoprolol on LVEF, LV stroke volume, and pulmonary artery pressure
      despite similar effects on cardiovascular outcome. Both groups also showed significant
      decreases in LV systolic volume. Doughty et al [Doughty, 2004] observed the favorable effects
      of carvedilol on LV remodeling, with improved LV end-systolic volume and ejection fraction,
      after 6 months of treatment.

      Carvedilol phosphate CR (Coreg CR) is an approved, modified release, once-daily formulation
      of carvedilol that is hoped to provide an advance in patient care through improved compliance
      with prescribed dose.

      The clinical experience with various formulations of Coreg CR is limited to eight single dose
      studies in healthy subjects and one repeated dose study in subjects with hypertension. In
      total 230, adult subjects have received at least one dose of Coreg IR or one of several CR
      formulations across nine studies. The subjects ranged in age from 18 to 63 years; 62% were
      male and 69% were white. The various formulations of Coreg CR capsules were safe and well
      tolerated in single dose pharmacokinetic studies in doses ranging from 6.25 to 60 mg in
      healthy subjects. The most common adverse events were headache, dizziness and orthostatic
      hypotension and are all known adverse events following administration of Coreg IR [GSK Study
      386, 388, 399, 400, 402, 907].

      This study will be the first controlled clinical study investigating the efficacy of
      treatment with Coreg CR formulation [Coreg CR filled with 7.5 mg of carvedilol phosphate
      immediate release (IRp) microparticles, 22.5 mg of carvedilol phosphate Micropump IIa MR
      microparticles, and 30 mg of carvedilol phosphate Micropump IIc MR microparticles] compared
      to Coreg IR evaluating LVESVI in subjects with stable chronic heart failure.
    
  