
    
      Rationale: Early postsurgical pain is a consequence of tissue trauma during surgery, which
      can lead to hyperalgesia or allodynia. Adequate management of postsurgical pain leads to
      earlier mobilization, shortened hospital stay, reduced costs, and increased patient
      satisfaction. Treatment usually involves the use of opioids, which have many side effects.
      Besides the problem of acute surgical pain, surgery may lead to the development of persistent
      postsurgical pain.

      Based on preclinical research, it is hypothesized that Δ9-THC may improve outcomes of early
      postsurgical pain due to pain modulatory effects and may lower the incidence of persistent
      postsurgical pain through modulation of central pain processing, e.g. reduction of central
      sensitization. From clinical studies, evidence for the value of Δ9-THC in this context is, to
      date, scarce. Indeed, research in a patient group with a major nociceptive load - i.e. major
      abdominal surgery - and an extended perioperative treatment schedule has not been performed
      so far. Both a major nociceptive load and an extended perioperative treatment schedule are
      necessary for adequate assessment of the analgesic efficacy of Δ9-THC in this context. Thus,
      the question regarding the perioperative analgesic efficacy of Δ9-THC in major abdominal
      surgery remains unresolved.

      Objectives: The primary aim of this study is to investigate the analgesic effect of
      perioperatively administered Namisol® to reduce postsurgical pain on the day of major
      abdominal surgery and in the first five days after major abdominal surgery. A secondary aim
      is to investigate the effect of perioperatively administered Namisol® on the incidence of
      persistent postsurgical pain in the first 12 postoperative weeks.

      Study design: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study design
      with an perioperative add-on treatment of Namisol or placebo and a follow-up period of 24
      weeks.

      Study population: Forty patients will be recruited from the outpatient clinic of the
      department of surgery of the Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center. Patients will have
      persistent or intermittent abdominal pain, due to underlying intra-abdominal pathology
      including diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, chronic pancreatitis, ulcerative colitis,
      endometriosis, or abdominal adhesions. Other intra-abdominal pathology may be included if
      causing pain and if judged appropriate by the investigator. Patients will be planned to
      undergo elective, open abdominal surgery with planned use of an epidural catheter for
      perioperative analgesia. The surgical procedure will have an estimated duration of at least
      two hours, excluding the time to induce anesthesia.

      Intervention: Namisol®, a tablet with standardized Δ9-THC content, or identical matching
      placebos will be administered orally to evaluate the analgesic properties of Namisol®
      administered as add-on perioperative treatment. The study medication is given from the day
      before surgery (day -1: 5 mg in the afternoon and in the evening) up to the fifth day after
      surgery (day 0 to +5: 5 mg four times daily).

      Primary and secondary study parameters: The primary study outcome is postsurgical pain
      intensity during the first five postoperative days, reflected by the primary endpoint: the
      area under the curve of the VAS scores in the first five days (AUC5days) after surgery. The
      secondary outcome is the incidence of persistent postsurgical pain 12 weeks after surgery.

      Other study parameters: In addition to the primary and secondary outcomes, several other
      outcome parameters will be collected. These include measures of postsurgical pain intensity
      at 24 weeks after surgery, measures of analgesic efficacy (postoperative consumption of other
      analgesics), central nervous system processing and sensitization in the first 5 days and
      after 6 and 12 weeks after surgery (QST, Von Frey testing, and brush stroke testing),
      postoperative sedation level (Ramsay Scale), and immune system response during 72 hours after
      surgery and after 6 weeks (ILs, MMPs) are investigated. In addition, questionnaires are
      filled out to examine parameters related to side effects and postoperative recovery (VAS
      Bond&Lader, VAS Bowdle, HADS, SF-36, PCS, PASS, QoR-40, AppLe, and TSQM). Two variants in
      genetic CYP2C9 polymorphisms will be genotyped and three variants in genetic CYP2C19
      polymorphisms will be genotyped.

      Nature and extent of the burdens, risks, and benefits: Participation means three or four
      visits to the outpatient clinic in addition to usual care, including the screening visit.
      Various measurements, including blood samples (seven additional samples over the entire study
      period), will be conducted during each visit. The participating patients may experience
      better pain relief in the postoperative period and may benefit from a reduced incidence of
      persistent postsurgical pain, but are subject to more intense diagnostics and observation.
    
  