
    
      No definitive cure for Dupuytren disease (DD) currently exists and recurrence of finger
      contractures after treatment is common. Surgical fasciectomy is considered the standard
      treatment method for patients with recurrence. However, the procedure is associated with a
      high incidence of complications. Injection of Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum into
      Dypuytren cords causing the contracture is a non-surgical treatment for DD and has been shown
      to be a safe and effective method. Most studies regarding collagenase injection have involved
      first-time treatment. Efficacy of collagenase injection in patients with recurrent DD, beyond
      the immediate effect, has not yet been determined. This randomized trial will compare the
      outcome of surgical fasciectomy and collagenase injection in treating patients with finger
      joints contracture due to recurrent DD. The study is a single-center randomized controlled
      trial. Patients referred to an orthopedic department are screened for eligibility. The
      inclusion criteria are recurrence of DD in one or more fingers after previous treatment with
      fasciectomy, collagenase injection or needle fasciotomy, a passive extension deficit ≥30
      degrees in the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) and/or proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joint in a
      previously treated finger, and a palpable cord believed to cause the recurrent contracture. A
      total of 56 patients will be randomized (computer-generated randomization list, stratified
      according to type of previous treatment and affected finger), to either surgical fasciectomy
      or collagenase injection. A blinded hand therapist will measure range of motion (including
      active and passive extension deficit) at baseline and 3 months, 12 months, 24 months and 60
      months after treatment. The primary outcomes are the total active extension deficit (MCP plus
      PIP) at 3 months and the proportion of patients with contracture worsening ≥20 degrees in the
      treated finger joint at 2 years compared to 3 months. The secondary outcomes include total
      passive extension deficit, the 11-item disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (QuickDASH)
      score, EuroQol 5-dimensions (EQ-5D) index, cold intolerance symptom severity score, palmar
      pain score, pain visual analog scale (VAS) score, satisfaction VAS score, adverse events and
      costs.
    
  