
    
      In December 2019, China reported cases of acute respiratory disease caused by a new
      beta-coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), called COVID-19 by the WHO. In January 2020 this entity issues
      an alert about the emergence of this new disease throughout the world, and in March it
      declares it a pandemic. Severe cases represent around 14-20% of those reported, and admission
      to the ICU is highly variable according to the different publications and severity of
      disease, ranging between 29% and 89%. The mortality reported in these publications ranges
      between 1.4 and 42%; with the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) being
      one of the most severe complications, associated with worst outcomes. However, the time of
      appearance of symptoms of severe acute respiratory failure has shown significant variability
      between these studies, with a median appearance of 2, 5 and 14 days from the onset of
      symptoms of the disease.

      As of March 21, 2020, cases in Latin America were increasing, finding countries such as
      Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Argentina among the countries with the highest number of
      confirmed cases, being classified as countries with local transmission. Since there is no
      information about on the behavior of this new disease in our country, the Argentine Society
      of Intensive Care (SATI) launched an epidemiological study to know the characteristics, risk
      factors and evolution of the most severely compromised patients with COVID-19, those admitted
      to the ICU requiring mechanical ventilation (MV).

      Therefore, the main objective of the present study is to determine the ICU and in-hospital
      mortality associated with COVID-19 infection and its independent predictors, in patients
      admitted to adult ICUs in Argentina on MV.

      Secondary objectives include: determining epidemiological and clinical data and mechanical
      ventilation management in patients with COVID-19 , support and therapeutic measures
      implemented by their assistant physicians, and the evolution and complications developed by
      these patients during their ICU stay. The different causes of death will also be recorded.

      Likewise, characteristics of each ICU will be recorded, and a survey will be carried out on
      the management of the COVID-19 pandemic, which will require information on the additional
      availability of critical resources for the care of patients admitted to the ICU. The opinion
      about the management of the pandemic by the different governmental strata will be required,
      in order to detect possible points of improvement in the external management of the pandemic.
    
  