
    
      It was a cross-sectional study at Bir Hospital and the duration of the study was from
      December 2014 to December 2017. Here, all the patients who underwent LAR and APR following
      neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy were included. And, all the patients with recurrence after
      surgery, lost to follow up, benign disease, who did not undergo neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy, and who underwent trans-anal excision were excluded from the study. In our
      study, the independent variable will be the type of surgery done for colorectal malignant
      disease. And the dependent variables will be the postoperative complications in the form of
      immediate and delayed complications. Immediate could be infectious or non-infectious
      complications and delayed (long term) complications could be bowel, bladder, and sexual
      dysfunction respectively.

      Data collection was done using structured Performa that included all the demographic
      parameters, examination findings which included the data regarding neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy and type of surgery (LAR and APR) were included. The laboratory parameters
      were also included. All the operative and post-operative details were included regarding
      bowel, bladder, and sexual dysfunction. And validated tools were used to calculate and
      analyze data.

      LARS Score Questionnaire: The aim of this questionnaire was to assess the bowel function
      using a validated questionnaire.6 The LARS consists of five questions and can be used to
      generate an overall score that translates into no LARS (score 0-20), minor LARS (21-29), and
      major LARS (30-42) respectively.

      IPSS Questionnaire: Assessment of bladder dysfunction was assessed by the validated
      questionnaire of International Prostatic Symptoms Score (IPSS) for bladder dysfunction.8 For
      the evaluation of preoperative and postoperative bladder function, a urologic history and
      residual urine volume measurements by ultrasound were done.

      Sexual Function Evaluation: In the early period after surgery sexual function was measured
      using the validated questionnaire - the International Index of Female Sexual Function (IFSF)
      for females and the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) for males. These tools
      helped to assess the impact of a specific treatment modality by evaluating different sexual
      function domains. Our study group was small, so we did not classify the groups into mild,
      moderate, and severe dysfunction groups. We did the overall long term assessment of the
      patients who came for the follow-up. These specific questionnaires were asked and the
      assessment was done for the overall dysfunctions.

      Ethics: The study was approved by the institutional ethical committee- "IRB of NAMS, Bir
      Hospital" and written consent was obtained from all of the patients.

      Statistics: All the data were entered in SPSS version 16 and then statistical analysis was
      done. Type of surgery, the status of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, and the postoperative
      outcomes were studied respectively. Correlation and logistic regression statistic tools were
      used. A comprehensive literature search published in English was done until 2019 using
      Hinari, PubMed, and Cochrane Library.
    
  