
    
      Elevated rates for depression in diabetic patients are of clinical significance for
      diabetology. Depressive disorders are doubled compared to patients without diabetes. A
      meta-analysis showed that a proportion of 20% of diabetic patients showed subthreshold
      depression, defined as elevated depressive symptoms without meeting criteria for clinical
      depression. Depression in diabetes is associated with a reduced quality of life, more
      diabetes related distress, and higher health related costs. But besides this, depression in
      diabetes seems to be an independent negative prognostic factor for morbidity and mortality.
      Furthermore subthreshold depression is a major barrier of an effective self-management of the
      disease.

      Until now antidepressive therapies are only evaluated in clinically depressed diabetic
      patients. For the majority of depressed diabetic patients suffering from subthreshold
      depression no evaluated specific intervention concept exists. Since subthreshold depression
      often is associated with diabetes related distress a diabetes specific intervention was
      developed to support patients to increase their problem solving skills, modify their
      depressive cognitions and improve their coping with diabetes related distress. It consists of
      five sessions and is delivered as a group intervention.

      This study is an efficacy trial. In this randomized trial the efficacy of this newly
      developed intervention is compared to a control condition consisting of five standard
      diabetes education lessons. The primary outcome variable is the reduction of depressive
      symptoms twelve months after the intervention. Secondary outcome variables are the quality of
      life, metabolic parameters, self-care behavior and other psychosocial aspects. Furthermore
      the possible covariation between change of depressive symptoms and inflammatory and immune
      markers will be analyzed.
    
  