
    
      Portal hypertension is a severe consequence of chronic liver diseases and is responsible for
      multiple main clinical complications of liver cirrhosis. Gastroesophageal variceal bleeding
      is one of the notorious causes of cirrhosis-related morbidity and mortality, as a direct
      consequence of portal hypertension. Bleeding is usually major and carries 42% medical
      mortality at 6 weeks. 60% of early deaths and 40% of late deaths were attributable to
      bleeding. Approximately one-third of patients experienced rebleeding within 6 weeks and
      one-third of survivors experienced subsequent bleeds.

      Assessment for portal hypertension is therefore of paramount importance. The gold standard of
      measurement of hepatic venous pressure gradient (HPVG) requires catheterization of the portal
      vein and is rarely performed in daily clinical practice due to its high invasiveness.
      Evaluation of the tissue stiffness as a surrogate marker of degree of liver cirrhosis has
      gained popularity in the recent decade. Transient elastography (TE) is one of the well proven
      tools to obtain liver stiffness measurements, which demonstrates good direct correlation to
      liver histology fibrosis staging. It also has satisfactory diagnostic performance for the
      prediction of clinically significant portal hypertension (HVPG > 10 mmHg) in the setting of
      compensated chronic liver disease or cirrhosis, with an area under receiver operating
      characteristics (AUROC) of 0.93. The Baveno VI criteria is one of the excellent examples to
      utilize TE liver stiffness measurements, all together with consideration of the platelet
      count, to screen out low risk patients for upper endoscopy variceal screening.

      With reference to the basic anatomy, apart from liver stiffness, spleen stiffness (SS)
      becomes another potential quantitative parameter to the severity of underlying portal
      hypertension. A non-inferiority, open-label, randomized controlled trial across two hospitals
      in Hong Kong showed that high SS measurement by TE was independently associated with clinical
      significant varices. It was shown that a SSM cutoff value <41.3 kPa was sensitive and able to
      accurately rule out the presence of varices. Another study from Korea, with the use of
      acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging, also demonstrated that SS was significantly
      higher in patients with varices than in those without varices (3.58 ± 0.47 vs 3.02 ± 0.49; P
      < 0.001). Increasing SS was observed in patients with higher grades of varices (No varix,
      3.02 ± 0.49; F1, 3.39 ± 0.51; F2, 3.60 ± 0.42; F3, 3.85 ± 0.37; P < 0.001), as well as in
      patients who experienced variceal hemorrhage than in those who did not (3.80 ± 0.36 vs 3.20 ±
      0.51; P = 0.002).

      The most common way of TE is using the Fibroscan® machine (EchoSens, Paris, France). It is
      done by placement of a machine probe at right intercostal space over the liver parenchyma,
      which delivers a vibration and determines the liver stiffness by measuring the velocity of
      the vibration wave. It is able to measure a volume of approximately 10mm (wide) x 40mm
      (length) at a 25-65mm depth below the skin surface. However, it is highly limited by the
      thickness of subcutaneous soft tissue or abdominal wall tissue, especially in obese subjects.
      The spleen stiffness measurements carry certain technical difficulty as well due to its
      deep-seated anatomical position, particularly when it is not enlarged.

      EUS elastography (EUS-E) makes use of another concept of direct tissue stiffness measurement,
      namely the real-time tissue elastography (RTE). It gauges the oscillation of tissue from
      adjacent vascular pulsation and compression, with the degree of deformation and displacement
      as an indicator of tissue stiffness. The tissue elasticity distribution is then represented
      in color superimposed on the conventional B mode image displayed. It can also be quantified
      in terms of Strain Ratio (SR) and Strain Histogram (SH) by machine calculation. Initially
      developed to differentiate benign soft tissue from malignant tumour, RTE has been used to
      characterize liver fibrosis in chronic liver disease of different aetiologies, as the liver
      is just adjacent to the stomach, which is a common scanningfield in EUS.

      With such, EUS-E may offer a better option for liver and spleen stiffness measurements with
      the following advantages:

        1. EUS is expected to have a higher success rate for LS and SS measurements, with closer
           distance through the gastric wall to the parenchyma. This can overcome the limitations
           of TE in patients with extreme body habitus, thick abdominal wall muscles and also
           normal spleen size.

        2. Forward viewing radial echoendoscope and forward oblique viewing linear echoendoscope
           allow concomitant upper GI tract luminal examination, incorporating both
           oesophagogastroduodenoscopy (OGD) and elastography measurements into one procedure at
           the same time.

        3. EUS can apply Doppler signals to allow detection of "deep" submucosal varices,
           paraesophageal and para-gastric varices that may not be routinely observed during
           conventional endoscopy at luminal view.

      Literature search reveals utilization of other means of TE measurements, such as ARFI and 2-D
      shear wave elastography in SS measurements to predict clinical outcomes, such as variceal
      bleeding. However, there are still no relevant studies on EUS-E in terms of liver and
      stiffness measurements with correlation to development of cirrhotic complications, despite
      its more popular use and availability. Thus, investigators aim to prospectively study the
      utility of EUS-E in patients with chronic liver diseases, both in terms of diagnostic and
      prognostic indications for future cirrhotic-related complications.
    
  