
    
      Large abdominal wall hernias are surgically challenging to repair and often associated with
      significant postoperative complications. Risk factors associated with surgical site
      complications, such as infection and wound dehiscence, include obesity, diabetes, and
      smoking. In these high risk patients, the placement of synthetic mesh increases the risk of
      mesh infection, enterocutaneous fistula formation, and mesh explantation. One of the larger
      studies of risk factors associated with mesh explantation demonstrated concomitant
      intra-abdominal procedures have a greater than 6-fold increased hazard of subsequent mesh
      explantation. As an alternative to synthetic meshes, bioprosthetic meshes derived from the
      decellularization and processing of allogeneic or xenogeneic tissue sources have been
      introduced that can often allow the surgeon to treat the surgical site occurrences and
      salvage the repair without required mesh explantation. Low rates of mesh infection and
      explantation have been reported for bioprosthetic meshes and are recommended in these
      complicated patients by the Ventral Hernia Working Group, based on the best available
      clinical evidence. Despite widespread use of bioprosthetic mesh, there continues to be
      concern for complications associated with their use (i.e. high seroma and recurrence rates,
      etc.). This has led to the modification of these matrices by several industry leaders
      (Acelity, Cook, Integra, etc.) to include a fenestrated platform to allow for fluid to flow
      through the matrix upon implantation while supporting regeneration in complex abdominal wall
      reconstruction. To our knowledge, there are no clinical studies prospectively evaluating the
      long term clinical outcomes for abdominal wall reconstruction procedures involving
      fenestrated macropourous biologic matrices.This macroporous technology allows for tissue
      revascularization and integration of the biologic graft and thus an expected improvement in
      overall outcome. Bioprosthetic fenestrated materials such as Surgimend MP® were developed to
      assist with earlier incorporation and vascularization of the biologic graft while providing
      reinforcement of hernia repair. However, there is an absence of high quality prospective data
      regarding the use of these materials in complicated abdominal wall reconstruction, and no
      comparative data exists.

      This study is a prospective, case series study evaluating the efficacy and performance of
      SurgiMend MP® during complex ventral hernia repairs. This case series involves a biologically
      derived hernia mesh under its cleared FDA indication for hernia repair. Efficacy will be
      determined by quantifying surgical complications, hernia recurrence, and cost effectiveness
      endpoints.

      Subjects will be identified by the investigators and/or personnel assigned by the
      investigators, as patients with large complex ventral hernia expected to be repaired with
      bioprosthetic mesh.

      Subjects will have a baseline visit where they will have a physical exam and complete quality
      of life questionnaires and a pain scale. Photographs will be taken at this visit as well.
      Demographic and medical and surgical history will be collected. The investigators will then
      assess the subject intra-operatively to confirm the need and appropriate placement of
      SurgiMend mesh. The subjects that have mesh placed will be followed at hospital discharge, 3
      months, 6 months, and 12 months to assess for changes in health, adverse events,
      questionnaire completion, and evaluation of surgical site for complications and recurrence.
      The visits may take place by phone if the subject cannot return to clinic.
    
  