
    
      This will be a prospective study with informed consent from patient subjects.

      Informed consent will be obtained prior to subject enrollment. The study protocol requires
      the following steps to be performed, each of which is described in more detail later in this
      document:

        1. Potential patient subject is identified by research staff, by virtue of abdominal-pelvic
           CT being ordered for clinical evaluation of nontraumatic abdominal pain and tenderness,
           as determined by a board-certified attending emergency physician.

        2. Research staff applies inclusion and exclusion criteria to confirm patient eligibility.

        3. Potential subjects who fail one or more inclusion or meet one or more exclusion criteria
           are recorded in electronic research log with reason for exclusion but are not asked to
           participate in study. Recorded information includes age (if greater than 89, will simply
           be recorded as "greater than 89"), gender, race/ethnicity, date, and reason for
           exclusion. No identifiers are recorded for these patients. The purpose of this
           information is to allow comparison of the enrolled group with all patients with
           abdominal pain undergoing CT. This will be part of a CONSORT flow diagram, allowing
           readers to understand potential selection bias and to understand the probable clinical
           population in the context of all emergency department's (ED) patients undergoing
           abdominal CT.

        4. Eligible potential subjects (meeting all inclusion and no exclusion criteria) are asked
           to participate in study with informed consent. The study will be introduced to potential
           subjects by the emergency physician caring for this patient. The study will be
           introduced only after CT for evaluation of abdominal pain and tenderness is ordered by
           the physicians caring for the patient, as this is a study inclusion criterion. Potential
           subjects who do not give informed consent to participate are recorded in electronic
           research log but not enrolled in study. No identifiers are recorded for these patients.
           Recorded information includes age (if greater than 89, will simply be recorded as
           "greater than 89"), gender, race/ethnicity, date, and reason for exclusion. No
           identifiers are recorded for these patients.

        5. Patients who give informed consent are enrolled in study as subjects.

        6. Attending board-certified emergency physician places skin surface markers delineating
           region of abdominal tenderness, using an examination technique described below. Patient
           is marked with stickers while in supine position with arms above head, as required for
           CT. Attending board-certified emergency physician also places additional markers to
           blind radiological interpretation with respect to actual area of tenderness. Attending
           board-certified emergency physician is also asked to report the working diagnosis,
           treatment and disposition plan prior to CT scan being performed. An electronic
           standardized reporting form will be used. Reporting forms are designed in a format of
           electronic surveys and will be stored on password-protected server, designed
           specifically for research purposes. The information to be collected will be the same as
           the information in the attached appendices.

        7. Patient undergoes CT scan of complete abdomen and pelvis following usual institutional
           protocol, concordant with American College of Radiology standard.1

        8. Images corresponding to the region of tenderness (z-axis restricted) are loaded onto a
           server. A board-certified attending radiologist blinded to the remaining CT images
           interprets the z-axis limited CT images and generates an electronic report, using a
           standardized research reporting system. The report is electronically time-stamped and
           cannot be altered.

        9. The attending board-certified emergency physician is immediately provided with the
           electronic CT report from the z-axis limited CT. That physician immediately completes a
           standardized electronic research reporting form, indicating the current clinical
           diagnosis, treatment plan, and disposition. The form is electronically time-stamped and
           cannot be altered.

       10. The board-certified attending radiologist who interpreted the z-axis restricted CT is
           then immediately contacted and interprets the complete CT, including all available
           images. A report is generated using similar standardized electronic research reporting
           system used for the z-axis restricted CT. The report is electronically time-stamped and
           cannot be altered.

       11. The attending board-certified emergency physician is immediately provided with the CT
           report from the complete CT. That physician immediately completes an electronic
           standardized research reporting form, indicating the current clinical diagnosis,
           treatment plan, and disposition. The form is electronically time-stamped and cannot be
           altered.

       12. Patient care then proceeds according to the usual clinical standard in the institution.

       13. Subject records are reviewed to determine final diagnosis and treatment.
    
  