
    
      Recruitment letter:

      Each week, the research assistant (RA) will identify participants who have a medical
      appointment scheduled 3 weeks from the current date from the statistician's list of eligible
      participants. The RA will review Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) to confirm
      enrollment at the Durham VA Medical Center (DVAMC) or Raleigh Community Based Outpatient
      Clinic (CBOC), identify participants' primary care provider and conduct a preliminary medical
      record review of the exclusion criteria listed above.

      An introductory recruitment letter signed by the patient's provider will be sent to these
      participants.

      Telephone Screening:

      The RA will call the participants between 1 and 2 weeks later to assess interest and
      eligibility using the telephone screening script. During this telephone call, the RA will ask
      permission to conduct the telephone screening to further evaluate the participants'
      eligibility to participate in the study. These screening questions are being asked because
      exclusion criteria may not be accurately reflected in the VA medical record. If participants
      agree to meet with study team to further discuss the project they will be scheduled for an
      interview. If requested, participant will be sent an appointment reminder letter signed by
      the study principal investigator and/or project coordinator.

      All participants will be sent reminder letters up to 3 weeks prior to their scheduled 3 and 6
      month follow-up appointments.

      Consent Process:

      At this interview, the patient will be given greater detail about the study, and if
      agreeable, will provide written informed consent. Participants who consent to participate in
      the study and agree to be digitally audio recorded will also have complete form 10-3203
      "Consent for use of picture and /or voice" at baseline.

      Interview Procedures:

      RAs will obtain the participants' outcome values (i.e., BP) from the clinical record at
      baseline, at 3 month follow-up. This information will be double-entered into an application
      on the Health Services Research & Development (HSRD) VA Server. At baseline and 3-month
      follow-up contacts, participants will also undergo an interview to determine secondary
      outcome variables including self-reported medication adherence and perceptions of the
      intervention. The baseline interview will be conducted in person if possible, however, at the
      3 month follow-up appointment the interview will be conducted by telephone. The RA's will
      work with patients to be seen in a 6 week window around the original follow-up appointment.
      Pill refill will be calculated for all individuals at 6 months.

      Participant Contacts In-person meeting - Baseline After the consent process, at the baseline
      interview, a research assistant(RA) will conduct the outcome assessment procedures, which
      includes asking the participant questions about their age,race, medical history, self
      reported adherence to cardiovascular medications and their understanding about the risk of
      cardiovascular disease. The RA will also ask questions about their lifestyle, and quality of
      life. Participants who qualify for enrollment and provide informed consent will meet with the
      research pharmacist for education use of the Meducation Calendar.

      3 month follow-up interview. A research assistant will contact participant via phone to
      determine secondary outcome variables including self reported medication adherence to
      cardiovascular medications. The entire interview should take no more than 30 minutes.

      Optional Qualitative: 3 month phone interview: For selected intervention participants only
      the RA will conduct a questionnaire about the participant's perception to determine which
      aspects of the Meducation Calendar intervention were most helpful for participants and which
      aspects need revision. Participants who agreed to the qualitative interview during the
      consent process will be asked during the 3 month interview to confirm their continued desire
      to participate in the audio recorded phone interview if selected. This visit should take no
      more than 30 minutes. Those selected to participate will be scheduled to complete the
      qualitative interview over the phone within 15 days from the time they complete the
      intervention and interview. The qualitative interview will be audio recorded digitally on a
      VA owned and configured computer and later transcribed using VA owned computer software.
      Names will not be associated with the audio recordings. After all recordings have been
      analyzed and coded, recordings will be destroyed in accordance with VA Information Security
      procedures. This phone call for the optional qualitative interview should take no more than
      30 minutes.
    
  