
    
      Current clinical FDG imaging with the NIH's PET/CT machine (and in fact with most commercial
      PET/CT machines) requires a CT scan be acquired prior to the PET scan. This CT scan is used
      for attenuation correction of the PET data and to permit fusion of anatomical and metabolic
      image data.

      One difficulty with use of the CT scan for attenuation correction ('CTAC') is that the CT
      scan is rapid compared to the breathing cycle. Each CT slice captures the lungs at one
      (usually arbitrary) phase of the respiratory cycle. The PET data on the other hand take many
      minutes to acquire, and so average the motion effects of the entire respiratory cycle
      together. This 'freezing' of the respiratory cycle by the CT, and blurring of the respiratory
      cycle during PET produces a mis-match between the PET and CT data. This mis-match can produce
      improper attenuation correction during PET reconstruction, especially at soft tissue/lung
      interfaces. The existence of this phenomenon has been reported in the literature [1-7],
      especially at the dome of the liver, but it has not been thoroughly quantified. Little or no
      data is available to indicate the quantitative errors the effect produces in cardiac
      imaging[8]. This despite the fact that the myocardium is only about 10mm thick, and it has
      been reported that the heart moves on average 9mm (and as much as 14mm) during a single
      average respiratory cycle[9].

      The purpose of this protocol is to determine the degree to which respiratory motion may
      influence quantitative PET imaging, especially at the lung/liver interface and free wall of
      myocardium. By characterizing the magnitude of the effect, we hope to gain knowledge about
      when correction for the effect is and is not necessary. It is hoped that the information
      gained will also allow us to suggest potential methods to perform such corrections.

      To gain the above information we will modify the CT acquisition protocol for subjects already
      scheduled to undergo a whole body FDG PET/CT scan. In summary, rather than acquiring the
      usual single full radiation exposure CT (taking approx 20-30 seconds), we will acquire 3 CT
      scans (each taking approximately 20-30 seconds), each at 1/3 the usual radiation exposure.
      Each CT will be acquired at a different phase of the respiratory cycle (as opposed to current
      acquisition, which is only at end-expiration). The subsequent PET data will be acquired as
      usual, but will be processed and analyzed separately with each of the CT scans and also with
      a summed CT scan.

      Note that subjects agreeing to participate in this protocol will receive no additional
      radiation exposure. Participation in the protocol will extend the current overall scan time
      (typically greater than 45 minutes) a very small amount (about 40-60 additional seconds for
      imaging, and about 60 additional seconds for patient set up, etc).
    
  