
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with stage IV melanoma have few available treatment options and an overall poor
           prognosis.

        -  Pre-clinical evidence suggests that lapatinib has activity against metastatic melanoma
           harboring ERBB4 mutations.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      -Determine the response rate to lapatinib administered as 500 mg orally twice daily on a
      continuous schedule in patients with metastatic melanoma harboring ERBB4 mutations.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the progression free survival of patients with stage IV melanoma treated
           with lapatinib monotherapy.

        -  To evaluate the safety of lapatinib in patients with metastatic melanoma

        -  To determine the impact of additional genetic alterations on the response to lapatinib
           in melanoma harboring ERBB4 mutations

        -  To develop a clinically applicable biomarker predictive of response to lapatinib in
           patients with melanoma harboring ERBB4 mutations

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of lapatinib administered as 500 mg orally twice daily
           on a continuous schedule in patients with metastatic melanoma harboring ERBB4 mutations

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years of age with stage IV melanoma, who have
           measurable disease and whose tumors express up to two ERBB4 gene mutations.

        -  Patient must be Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of less
           than or equal to 1 and a life expectancy of more than 3 months.

        -  Patients must have adequate organ function.

        -  Patients must not have had surgery, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, radiation therapy,
           or biological therapy for at least 4 weeks prior to starting study medication.

        -  Patients must not have an acute, critical illness.

        -  All patients who are sexually active and able to conceive will be required to use
           contraception during treatment with lapatinib.

      Design:

        -  Patients will be screened for the presence of ERBB4 gene mutations in their tumor and
           only patients who harbor less than or equal to 2 ERBB4 mutations will be enrolled in the
           treatment phase of the study.

        -  Lapatinib will be administered as an oral dose of 500 mg twice daily (in the morning and
           evening) taken one hour before or after meals. Lapatinib will be given continuously; one
           cycle equals 28 days. Course 1 equals cycle 1; all subsequent courses are 8 weeks long
           (2 cycles). A patient may receive up to 27 cycles (14 courses).

        -  Up to 25 patients (allowing for a staged accrual of initially 16 patients who will
           receive lapatinib and are evaluable after the 1st cycle) will be enrolled over 2-3 years
           and the trial will be completed over 3-5 years, allowing for completion of follow-up.

        -  The primary objective of the trial will be to determine whether lapatinib monotherapy in
           this setting is able to be associated with a response rate (Partial Response (PR) +
           Complete Response (CR)) that can rule out 10% (p0=0.10) in favor of an improved response
           rate of 30% (p1=0.30).
    
  