
    
      Background Transrectal ultrasound-guided (TRUS) prostate biopsy is associated with
      significant discomfort, despite the use of periprostatic infiltration of local anaesthetic
      (PILA).

      General aim To determine the efficacy and safety of inhaled methoxyflurane plus PILA versus
      PILA alone in men undergoing TRUS biopsy of the prostate.

      Objectives (endpoints)

      To determine the effects of inhaled methoxyflurane on:

      Primary

        1. Pain-rated by participants 15 minutes after biopsy.

           Secondary

        2. Other aspects of the biopsy experience rated by participants 15 minutes and 7-35 days
           after the biopsy

        3. Willingness to undergo a biopsy in the future

        4. Urologist's ratings of the participant's biopsy experience (study specific questionnaire
           completed after the biopsy)

        5. Biopsy completion (80% or more of the planned number of biopsies being taken)

        6. Frequency of specified adverse events (CTC AE v4.03 and Clavien-Dindo Classification).

        7. Frequency of hospitalisation

      Design Multi-centre, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, centrally randomised (1:1),
      stratified, phase 3 trial.

      Target population Men scheduled to undergo their first TRUS biopsy of the prostate for a
      raised PSA or abnormal digital rectal examination (DRE).

      Study treatments

      Participants randomised to inhaled:

      Methoxyflurane (Penthrox®, experimental group). OR Placebo (0.9% saline, control group

      All participants are subsequently treated with PILA (2% lignocaine), injected into and around
      the prostate about 5 minutes before the biopsy.

      Assessments Participants will be assessed at time of scheduling of the TRUS prostate biopsy
      (up to 84 days prior to randomisation), on the day of biopsy, and at the post biopsy clinic
      (7-35 days after the biopsy). Assessments comprise of medical history and standard blood
      tests at baseline, patient questionnaire on the day of biopsy and post(7-35 days) biopsy and
      safety assessments on the day of biopsy and post (7--35 days) biopsy.

      Statistical considerations 420 participants provides over 85% power at the two-sided 5% level
      of significance to detect a 0.80 point difference in mean pain scores (on scale from 0-10)
      assuming a standard deviation of 2.5 whilst allowing for missing data. A 0.80 point shift in
      mean pain scores should correspond to a reduction of more than 1/3 in the proportion of men
      reporting troublesome levels of pain.
    
  