
    
      Hypotheses: Patients would have a similar amount of pain with incision and drainage using
      local infiltration of anesthetic as with application of a vapocoolant spray and the pain of
      the administration of anesthesia would be similar or reduced with the use of the vapocoolant
      spray.

      Specific aims: 1.Non-inferiority in pain of anesthesia administration and incision and
      drainage of small abscesses by finding no significant difference of patient pain as measured
      on the VRNS scale.

      2. Show that patients were willing to undergo anesthesia again with a vapocoolant spray as
      assesed by the Likert scale Long term goals- To implement the use of vapocoolant sprays as an
      alternative form of anesthesia for incision and drainage of abscesses

      The primary outcome measure for this study would be the finding of no significant difference
      in the pain as measured by the VRNS between the two arms for administration of anesthesia.
      Secondary measures would be finding no significant difference in VRNS for incisional and
      drainage, and change in VRNS from presentation to anesthesia, and to incision and drainage,
      willingness of the patient to choose the allocated sprayin the future, and unexpected events.

      Initial medical assessment will be made by an attending/senior resident in accordance with
      established clinical procedures, including the history, physical examination, and vital
      signs. If by clinical assessment the patients meet eligibility criteria, then they will be
      approached by a research associate for screening, informed consent process, enrollment in the
      study, and data collection. Following the screening questionnaire, the research associate
      will hold thorough discussion about the study. The patients will be given as much time as
      they require to understand and make an informed decision. A formal written consent will be
      obtained if patients agree to participate. After the patient understands and signs the
      informed consent form, they will be randomized to either the placebo group or treatment group
      by using a randomization scheme. The treating physician will measure erythema and induration
      using a measuring tape, estimate the amount of fluctuance as small, moderate, or large, and
      note the location of the abscess. Once randomized, subjects will be given a VRNS scale to
      rate their pain upon initial presentation The treating physician will clean the abscess with
      chlorhexidine solution then either spray the skin overlying the abscess with
      1,1,1,3,3-Pentafluoropropane and 1,1,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane spray (Gebauer's Pain Ease® Medium
      Stream Spray) at a distance of 12 cm from the site for a duration of 2 seconds or infiltrate
      the abscess with 2% lidocaine with epinepherine (amount determinted by treating physician).
      Any reactions to the vapocoolant administration will be noted. The abscess will then be
      incised with a No. 11 surgical scalpel, and a cotton tipped applicator will be used to break
      up loculations within the abscess cavity. The method of I&D, and decision to probe to
      break-up loculations will be standardized, but the degree of probing, and decision to pack
      will be left to the discretion of the treating physician. Subjects will be asked by the
      research assistant to describe the discomfort of the abscess using the Visual Numerical
      Rating Scale (VRNS) during vapocoolant administration, during incision of the abscess, and
      after the procedure is complete.
    
  