
    
      Purpose of the study Dietary choices are influenced by individual barriers and perceptions of
      health, and, therefore, information on both factors are needed to gain better insight into
      overall dietary health. The aim of this study is to examine if patients' knowledge of their
      coronary anatomy leads to dietary changes or changes in perception of health after a
      pre-specified follow-up time period in a ethnically, racially, and socioeconomically diverse
      patient population presenting for cardiac catheterization.

      Study Design The proposed study is a prospective study of patients referred for coronary
      angiography. Subjects enrolled in this study will complete a questionnaire, including
      information about diet, lifestyle, perceptions of health and perceived barriers to healthy
      lifestyles. Demographics, information regarding medical comorbidities (including two
      questions on depression), baseline laboratory data (already collected for clinical purposes),
      and angiographic data (presence/absence of CAD and severity) will be collected. Patients will
      be contacted by telephone at one and six months following their procedure to complete the two
      one-page questionnaires again. On follow-up, patients will also be asked if they have made
      changes to their diet, using their completed dietary survey as a guide. Both, at baseline and
      on follow-up, the questionnaires will be administered verbally to be consistent. The purpose
      of this follow-up is to determine if a patient's knowledge of their coronary disease status
      affects short- and long-term changes in diet and perception of health. The primary outcome
      measure will be change in questionnaire response between baseline and follow-up.

      Methods and Procedures Subjects for study participation will include all patients age 18 and
      older, referred to New York University Medical Center and Bellevue Hospital for diagnostic
      coronary angiography, that are able to complete the baseline questionnaire.

      Consent and recruitment will be conducted in accordance of the policies of the New York
      University IRB and federal guidelines. For the cardiac catheterization group, the attending
      interventional cardiologists will be contacted to determine if a potential subject is willing
      to be approached for the study. Informed consent will be sought and documented from all
      subjects upon referral. The Principal Investigator or her appointed designee will explain the
      rationale, procedures and potential risks of theprocedures in the study to each participant.
      Each subject will be told that participation in the study described in this proposal is
      strictly voluntary, that refusal to participate will not alter the patient's relationship
      with their physician, and that the study constitutes research, that the information obtained
      will not be specifically helpful to the individual patient's care. After the subject has read
      the consent form, comprehension of the key elements of the study procedures and risks will be
      tested with verbal questions of the consent form content. If the subject is willing to
      participate, the subject will sign the IRB-approved informed consent form. Subjects will be
      given a copy of the consent form at the time it is obtained.

      Study Technique Patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria in both groups will
      complete two one-page questionnaires (uploaded in research navigator), one about diet and one
      about perceptions of health and perceived barriers to healthy lifestyles. Both of these
      questionnaires will be administered verbally at baseline and one- and six-month telephone
      follow-up. Baseline demographic information and medical information will be obtained from the
      patient and chart in both groups (outlined below). Information regarding medications,
      laboratory data, and procedural data will be obtained from the medical chart (outlined
      below). At the conclusion of the coronary angiography procedure, information regarding the
      severity of CAD will be recorded.

      Data Collection

      The following baseline variables will be prospectively collected:

      Baseline Variables:

        -  Demographics including gender/race/ethnicity, body mass index, abdominal circumference,
           education and income level (race-ethnicity self-reported, other variables measured)

        -  Medical history: Previous MI, previous coronary revascularization, hypertension,
           diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, peripheral vascular disease, previous stroke or
           transient ischemic attack, carotid artery or peripheral artery disease (moderate or
           severe or history of prior repair), and tobacco and alcohol use (collected from medical
           records and confirmed by patient)

        -  Medications: Beta blocker, diuretic, ACE-I/ARB, aspirin, thienopyridine, anticoagulants,
           statin, fibrates, niacin, fish oil, ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrant, glucose-lowering
           medications (collected from medical records and confirmed by patient)

        -  Laboratory data: serum creatinine, lipid panel, hemoglobin A1c, ejection fraction
           (normal, mild to moderately reduced, or severely reduced left ventricular systolic
           function) (Collected from medical records) Procedural data: (Collected from
           catheterization report and review of films)

        -  Indication for coronary angiography (determined by research team according to data
           provided in medical records)

        -  Vessels affected

        -  Degree of stenosis within the coronary arteries

        -  Post-procedural recommendations: Medical management, PCI, or coronary artery bypass
           surgery

        -  If PCI performed (collected from catheterization report):

             -  Vessel treated (left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex, right
                coronary artery, saphenous vein graft, arterial graft) and single vessel or
                multivessel intervention

             -  Type of lesion treated (de novo or restenotic, chronic total occlusion, long
                lesion, bifurcation lesion, calcification, thrombus), lesion site (ostial,
                proximal, mid-vessel, distal), and number of lesions treated

             -  Procedural success (defined as residual stenosis <20% at the end of procedure) All
                electronic data will be de-identified and reside on password-protected computer.
                All hard copy of data will be secured in a locked cabinet in a locked office on NYU
                Medical Center property.

      Data Analysis and Data Monitoring Results from diet and perception questionnaires will be
      compared between baseline and one-month and six-month follow-up using paired sample tests.
      This comparison will be further analyzed by degree of CAD as defined by angiographic
      findings. The risks associated with this study are deemed minimal. There will be no
      intervention or change in the care of the subjects, only data collection. Therefore, a Data
      Safety Monitoring Committee will not be required. The investigators will review data on a
      quarterly basis (or more often as necessary) to ensure the safe and proper treatment of
      subjects.

      Subject Identification, Recruitment, and Consent Subjects will be screened and recruited when
      they are referred to the NYU or Bellevue cardiac catheterization laboratory for clinically
      indicated coronary angiography. Informed consent will be obtained by the study investigator
      or designated appointee prior to coronary angiography.
    
  