
    
      FM is characterized by muscle pain, fatigue, and "tender points," specific places on the body
      that hurt when pressure is applied. Individuals with FM may also experience trouble sleeping,
      morning stiffness, headaches, and mood disorders. The exact cause of FM is unknown, and
      currently, there is no cure. While exercise improves the symptoms of FM, pain and fatigue
      often prevent individuals from beginning an exercise regimen in the first place. Because of
      the known benefits of exercise on FM, it is important to find new ways for individuals with
      FM to increase their physical activity. Lifestyle physical activity, which involves any type
      of moderate-intensity activity such as walking, housecleaning, shopping, and gardening, may
      be more doable than structured exercise for individuals with FM. Also, lifestyle physical
      activity accumulated in short bouts over time can be as effective as single exercise sessions
      in producing health benefits. The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of daily
      30-minute lifestyle physical activity performed throughout the day on pain and fatigue in
      sedentary adults with FM.

      This study will last 12 weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups.
      Group 1 participants will take part in 30 minutes total of self-selected lifestyle physical
      activity throughout the day, 5 to 7 days per week. Twice a month, they will attend group
      sessions designed to help participants develop and maintain a more physically active
      lifestyle. Goal setting, self-monitoring, and pain management will be discussed at these
      sessions. Group 2 participants will attend monthly FM educational sessions, which will focus
      on understanding the symptoms of FM, learning to manage pain and fatigue, and developing
      self-help strategies.

      Throughout the study, both Group 1 and 2 participants will wear a wristwatch-sized device
      that will track their physical activity and record pain and fatigue levels. Evaluations will
      occur at baseline, Week 12, and 6 and 12 months after Week 12 for all participants. At each
      of these time points, participants will complete questionnaires, and undergo pain
      evaluations, fitness testing, and a tender point examination.
    
  