
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate the biological function of dreams, which differs from
      that of REM (rapid eye-movement) sleep. People spend almost a third of every day asleep.
      About a fifth of this time they dream.

      Why do dreams occupy such a significant part of human life? What is the biological function
      of dreams? The physiological function of dreaming for humans has been investigated in
      extensive studies. However, these are predominantly in the area of memory research and
      address the question of whether dreaming is conducive to memory consolidation. However, other
      biological functions of dreaming, such as their influence on the restorative effects of
      sleep, remain virtually unexplored to date. Therefore, the planned DFG (Deutsche
      Forschungsgemeinschaft) study will investigate the effect of dream activity on the objective
      and subjective quality of sleep.

      Solms was able to show that damage to the parieto-occipital brain region leads to a complete
      loss of dream recall in a large number of clinical cases (in 44 of 361 cases). This discovery
      holds the possibility of relating the biological function of dreaming to neuroanatomical
      structures. Obviously, the loss of dream memory must be related to the specific damage of the
      brain, or its biological functions.

      Further studies also show that acute thrombotic infarction of the occipital lobe in the
      current area of the posterior cerebral artery can lead to complete loss of dream activity
      with simultaneous maintenance of REM sleep. The authors Bischof & Bassetti noticed, seemingly
      by chance and without grasping the theoretical implications of the discovery, that their
      patient was suffering from insomnia with difficulty falling asleep and staying asleep.

      Based on these observations, Solms conducted a pilot study comparing the sleep patterns of
      five dreaming and five nondreaming patients with thrombotic infarcts in the same arterial
      territory-as observed by Bischof & Bassetti . Solms and his research group observed that
      within the non-dreaming group there was a striking decrease in absolute sleep duration, as
      well as a more frequent number of nocturnal awakenings, more arousals, as well as
      microarousals (previously unpublished data).

      The study of populations that have forfeited the ability to dream with preserved REM sleep
      makes it possible to test not only the classical theory on the function of dreams, but also
      such theories that deal with the role of dreams in memory consolidation during sleep. In
      recent years, there has been increased interest in the hypothesis that sleep contributes to
      and significantly influences memory processing.

      In this context, dreaming is postulated to play a specific role in memory processing during
      sleep.

      There are several hypotheses regarding the role of dreaming in memory consolidation. For
      example, Stickgold et al. found that during REM sleep, limbic forebrain structures are
      activated along with the amygdala, while there is concomitant inhibition of hippocampal
      signalling, which presumably prevents re-activation of episodic memory content. Accordingly,
      dreams would mainly occur via weak neocortical associations available during REM sleep. The
      authors hypothesize that this feature reflects the brain's attempts to recognize and evaluate
      new cortical associations in the context of emotions mediated by limbic structures. They
      concluded that one function of REM sleep was to enhance or attenuate specifically activated
      associations with regression to pictorial imaginings to compensate for the relative loss of
      motor activity during sleep.

      Similarly, it has been postulated that the occurrence of memories in dreams promotes learning
      by, first, reactivating memory elements in their original perceptual state and, second, that
      linking a wide variety of memory elements strengthens and consolidates them and, third, that
      dreaming newly learned material facilitates later recall.

      Relevance and research questions of the study:

      Through a specific choice of sample of neurological patients with posterior cortical lesions
      who are at risk of losing the ability to dream due to the lesion, the proposed project is
      particularly aimed at understanding the biological function of dreaming as distinct from REM
      sleep. Based on the neuropsychoanalytic theory of Solms, as well as neuropsychological
      findings that REM sleep and dreaming are doubly dissociable phenomena, the central hypothesis
      that dreams serve to maintain sleep (Sigmund Freud's hypothesis) will be investigated. By
      this, Freud meant that dreams serve to respond to sometimes highly affect-laden impulses to
      action with hallucinatory wish fulfillment, so that they do not lead to premature awakening.
      Secondly, it will be investigated whether dreams influence affective memory consolidation.
      This will be investigated using two groups of neurological patients with thrombotic
      infarction in the posterior stream area, i.e., the posterior cerebral artery (PCA infarction)
      during preserved REM sleep (i) who have lost the ability to recall dreams, and (ii) in whom
      the ability to recall dreams has been preserved. This has far-reaching implications not only
      for sleep medicine and neuroscience, but also for clinical neurology. Sleep pathologies have
      not yet been considered clinically-scientifically as a consequence of PCA infarction and,
      accordingly, have not yet been studied, but could provide significant clues for the clinical
      management of such patients. Similarly, findings on memory consolidation after PCA infarction
      during preserved REM sleep are significant because an important aspect of memory processing
      during sleep is examined with the distinction between preserved and nonsustained dreaming,
      which also has not been considered in scientific studies to date but is of clinical
      relevance.

      Hypotheses Our hypotheses are that patients who have lost the ability to dream during
      preserved REM sleep will have (i) poorer sleep quality and (ii) poorer emotional declarative
      memory and non-declarative motor memory consolidation.

      Non-dreamers vs. dreamers.

      Null hypothesis (H0):

      There is no difference in terms of loss of ability to dream during preserved REM sleep,
      related to poorer sleep quality, as well as poorer emotional declarative and non-declarative
      motor memory consolidation between the experimental group and the comparison group

      Alternative hypothesis (H1):

      There is a difference in loss of ability to dream with preserved REM sleep related to worse
      sleep quality and worse emotional declarative and non-declarative motor memory consolidation
      between experimental group and comparison group

      Design

      Prospective two-arm controlled observational study (quasi-experimental between-group design).
    
  