
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of everolimus in combination with R-CHOP
           (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate and
           prednisone) chemotherapy.

        -  To assess the feasibility of everolimus in combination with standard R-CHOP chemotherapy
           in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  To describe the toxicities associated with everolimus in combination with R-CHOP
           chemotherapy.

        -  To further describe the toxicities associated with everolimus in combination with R-CHOP
           chemotherapy.

        -  To assess the rate of event-free survival (EFS) at 12 months for diffuse large B-cell
           lymphoma patients treated with everolimus in combination with R-CHOP chemotherapy.

        -  To evaluate overall response rate, complete response rate, duration of response, EFS,
           overall survival, and progression-free survival for patients treated with everolimus in
           combination with R-CHOP chemotherapy.

      Tertiary

        -  To profile gene expression using immunohistochemistry and categorize patients as
           germinal-center B-cell-like (GBC) vs activated B-cell-like (ABC) vs unclassified
           lymphoma subtype. (exploratory)

        -  To determine whether previously identified predictive markers in large cell lymphoma
           remain valid with the addition of everolimus to R-CHOP chemotherapy. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of everolimus followed by a feasability
      expanded-cohort study.

      Patients receive everolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-10 or 1-14; rituximab IV,
      cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-60 minutes, and vincristine sulfate
      IV on day 1; and prednisone PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Tumor biopsies are collected for laboratory studies and patients may undergo blood and needle
      biopsy sample collection for correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  