
    
      Clinical Study:

      This is a prospective, multicentric, non-comparative, proof of concept study evaluating the
      efficacy of cefoxitin in women with acute ESBL-producing E. coli pyelonephritis without
      severity symptoms. This antibiotic is already commercially available and its tolerability
      profile is well known, but it has never been previously evaluated to treat this particular
      type of infection.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the clinical and microbiological response to
      treatment with cefoxitin in women with acute pyelonephritis without severity symptoms due to
      ESBL-producing E. coli.

      The secondary objectives are:

      In women with pyelonephritis caused by ESBL-producing E.coli:

        -  Gain a better understanding of the current epidemiology of ESBL-producing E. coli
           associated with febrile UTI

        -  Assess the impact of cefoxitin use on the emergence of resistance in the colonising
           bacteria of the gastrointestinal tract in women with pyelonephritis treated with
           cefoxitin and identify the associated mechanisms

        -  Characterise the PK/PD parameters for cefoxitin in order to optimise the dosage strategy
           for that antibiotic

        -  Assess the tolerance profile of cefoxitin

      Determination of sample size, feasibility of enrolment No determination of the minimal sample
      size could be calculated in this proof of concept study but a total enrolment of 40 patients
      in the 8 participating centers seems adequate to evaluate the efficacy of cefoxitin for
      treating uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis and to study its impact on the emergence of
      resistance. Half of enrolled women will have repeated measurement of serum concentration of
      cefoxitin: 6 blood samples collected within 6 hours following the injection of one of the
      doses received between the 3rd and the last day of treatment. A security assessment by an
      independent committee will be conducted on the first five patients enrolled.

      The precise incidence of ESBL-producing E.coli acute pyelonephritis without severity symptoms
      in the 8 participating centers is unknown. At BICHAT hospital, the incidence of
      ESBL-producing E.coli in 2008 was 0.66/100 admissions (57 778 admissions/year). It was
      0.46/1000 hospitalisation days at BEAUJON in 2009 with 36.5% from urine samples. The same
      year, Saint-Louis hospital recorded 18 bacteremias secondary to infection with ESBL-producing
      E.coli with 6% originating from a UTI. Those last numbers underestimate the actual incidence
      of ESBL-producing E coli pyelonephritis at that hospital, only taking into account the UTI
      associated with bacteremias. We estimate that there are approximately 10 cases of
      ESBL-producing E.coli pyelonephritis in these centers each year.

      Outline and conduct of the study/investigations performed by the CIC As soon as the
      antibiogram is available, confirming diagnosis of an ESBL-producing E. coli and after
      verification of the inclusion criteria, information and obtention of the the written consent,
      cefoxitin (2 grams intravenous perfusion of 30 minutes every 6 hours) will be given for 10
      days. A control visit and urine culture will be performed at day 2, day 7 and at the end of
      treatment, day 10. A rectal swab will be performed at enrolment before the first dose of
      antibiotic, at the end of treatment (day 10) and at day 40. The inclusion period will be 2
      years and each patient's participation will last 40 days.

      The PK study will be performed on 20 patients enrolled at one of the 4 CIC at hospital
      Saint-Louis, BICHAT, HENRI-MONDOR and HEGP. Measurement of serum concentration of cefoxitin
      will be done on the 3rd day of treatment, or between the 9th and 12th dose of antibiotic.
      Samples will be taken as follows: t0 (immediately before beginning infusing cefoxitin); t30
      min (at the end of infusion); t45 min ; t1h ; t3h ; t6h (before the next dose) for a total of
      6 samples.

      Evaluation criteria for the primary objective Clinical and microbiological response defined
      at the end of cefoxitin treatment by the presence of the 3 following criteria: (i) afebrile
      (temperature > 36° and < 38°C), (ii) resolution of urinary symptoms present at the time of
      diagnosis: dysuria, urgency, frequency, cloudy urine, pain on urination, pelvic or lumbar
      pain (iii) sterile urine culture.

      Evaluation criteria for the secondary objective (i) Clinical and microbiological response at
      48h after beginning treatment with cefoxitin; (ii) Early relapse at day 40; (iii) PK/PD
      parameters; (iv) side effects of cefoxitin.

      Statistics, PK/PD modelling, cefoxitin dosing regimen optimisation Qualitative variables will
      be reported in percentage of the studied subjects and quantitative variables by a median.
      Comparisons will use non-parametric tests. The tests will be bilateral and use a significance
      threshold of 5%. The rate of clinical and microbiological response at the end of treatment
      with cefoxitin will be reported as a percentage with an estimate of the confidence interval
      (CI) of 95% (using a binomial distribution). PK analysis will be conducted using a population
      approach and average PK parameters for cefoxitin will be estimated as well as interpatient
      variability. The PK population analysis will examine different demographic and clinical
      covariables in order to weigh their influence on PK/PD parameters; the studied covariables
      will be: age, weight, BMI, blood pressure and creatinine clearance. In order to study the
      relationship between pharmacokinetics and clinical response at H48 and at the end of
      treatment as well as at J40±5, the patients' PK parameters will be compared using the
      Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney non-parametric tests.

      ESBL-producing E.coli strains responsible for pyelonephritis in women: typing and
      identification of subtype

      ESBL-producing strains will be screened with the synergy method, using a disk containing a
      3rd generation cephalosporin, like cefotaxime, and another disk containing a β-lactamase
      inhibitor, clavulanic acid, according to the recommendations of the competent authorities of
      antibiogram. The isolated strains will then be analysed further on three main aspects: (i)
      the phylogenetic group will be determined by multiplex PCR (ii) the strains' sequence-typing
      will be done using Multiple Sequence Typing (iii) the presence of 46 genes associated with
      extra-intestinal virulence factors will be identified through multiplex PCR.

      The determination of ESBL type will also be done by PCR.

      Detection of cefoxitin resistant strains colonising the gastrointestinal tract of women with
      pyelonephritis before treatment with cefoxitin ; emergence of resistance under treatment and
      determination of associated mechanisms of resistance to cefoxitin

      Screening for enterobacteriaceae with reduced-sensitivity to cefoxitin will be done by
      plating a rectal swab (or a stool sample) on DRIGALSKI media containing 10 mg/l of cefoxitin.
      Acquired resistance mechanisms in species normally sensitive to cefoxitin (E. coli,
      Klebsiella spp.) will be characterised: hyperproduction of Amp C in E. coli, hyperexpression
      of efflux pumps and changes in purines in E. coli et K. pneumoniae. If comparing strains is
      necessary, it will be done using ERIC2 PCR as previously described in literature.

      Ethical aspects

      The research protocol will be presented to the ethics committee, once consent from the
      promoter is obtained (with proof of the required insurance and payment of fees). The opinion
      of the committee will be included in a form delivered by the promoter to the competent
      authorities before beginning the study. All enrolled patients will be required to sign an
      informed consent before any investigation or treatment is performed. The consent forms will
      be kept for 30 years by the CIC. Patients will be informed of the results after completion of
      the study.

      Expected public health impact of study

      The expected benefits of using cefoxitin in women with uncomplicated acute ESBL-producing
      E.coli pyelonephritis are (i) an clinical and microbiological effectiveness similar to that
      of carbapenems;(ii) a decrease in the selection pressure on bacteria colonising the
      gastrointestinal tract, thus contributing to prevent the emergence of carbapenemase-producing
      Enterobacteriaceae (iii) a decrease in drug-associated cost.
    
  