
    
      Since recovery of virus-specific T cells is clearly associated with protection from infection
      with each of these viruses, adoptive immunotherapy to decrease the time to immune
      reconstitution is an attractive approach. Virus-specific T cells generated by repeated
      stimulation with antigen presenting cells (APCs) expressing viral antigens have been
      evaluated in clinical trials to prevent and treat viral infections in immunocompromised
      hosts. This approach eliminates alloreactive T cells.

      To broaden the specificity of single CTL lines to include the three most common viral
      pathogens of stem cell recipients, investigators reactivated CMV and adenovirus-specific T
      cells by using mononuclear cells transduced with a recombinant adenoviral vector encoding the
      CMV antigen pp65 (Ad5f35CMVpp65). Subsequent stimulations with EBV-LCL transduced with the
      same vector both reactivated EBV-specific T cells and maintained the expansion of the
      activated adenovirus and CMV-specific T cells. This method reliably produced CTLs with
      cytotoxic function specific for all three viruses, which investigators infused into 14 stem
      cell recipients in a Phase I prophylaxis study. They observed recovery of immunity to CMV and
      EBV in all patients but an increase in adenovirus-specific T cells was only seen in patients
      who had evidence of adenovirus infection pre-infusion. A follow-up study in which the
      frequency of adenovirus-specific T cells was increased in the infused CTLs produced similar
      results, thus highlighting the importance of endogenous antigen to promote the expansion of
      infused T cells in vivo. Nevertheless, all patients in both clinical trials with pre-infusion
      CMV, adenovirus or EBV infection or reactivation were able to clear the infection, including
      one patient with severe adenoviral pneumonia requiring ventilatory support. CTLs recognizing
      multiple antigens can therefore produce clinically relevant effects against all three
      viruses.
    
  