
    
      EARCO takes advantage of existing AATD registries that have been developed at the national
      level. Several countries have established registries in which AATD patients are included and
      followed-up with clinical and biological data collected. However, these registries differ in
      terms of inclusion criteria, data collected and frequency and extent of follow-up. Within
      EARCO, we will harmonize the data collection process and assess the quality of the data
      within a short time frame after the data are generated and entered into the database.

      We expect to collect detailed information from around 1,000 patients from at least 10
      countries during the first year, expanding to 3,000 from more than 25 countries over the 5
      years of the CRC and continue a long term follow-up. .

      The study objectives are:

        -  To generate long-term, high-quality clinical data covering a pan-European population of
           AATD individuals in all age groups and all stages of disease severity.

        -  To understand the natural history and prognosis of AATD better with the goal to create
           and validate prognostic tools to support medical decision making.

        -  To investigate the effect of augmentation therapy on the progression of emphysema and to
           examine its impact on clinical and functional outcomes, such as FEV1, quality of life
           and mortality in a "real-life" population

        -  To learn more about the course of the disease in patients suffering from severe AATD
           with genotypes different from Pi*ZZ

      Study design:

      The EARCO registry is a non-interventional, multi-centre, pan-European, prospective,
      repetitive, observational cohort study enrolling patients with AATD (as confirmed by serum
      level and genotyping). Patients will be managed according to their local procedures and
      policies with no interference from the study team. Patients will give informed consent to
      participate, and participating investigators will collect data prospectively. The following
      domains are covered: demographics, proteinase inhibitor genotype and other laboratory
      analyses, comorbidities, lung function, transient elastography of the liver, exacerbations,
      quality of life (QoL), chest CT (if applicable), and treatment.

      The study protocol was reviewed by the Research Ethics Committee of the Vall d'Hebron
      University Hospital of Barcelona, Spain, and the study is sponsored by Vall d'Hebron Research
      Institute, Barcelona, Spain. The study website will be located at www.AATD.eu. The registry
      was developed according to recommendations on the design, implementation, governance and
      long-term sustainability of disease registries in the European Union (EU). It is funded as a
      clinical research collaboration (CRC) under the umbrella of the European Respiratory Society
      (ERS). Clinical Research Collaborations (CRCs) are pan-European, multi-centre networks of
      principal investigators aiming to advance science and clinical research within a specific
      disease area (www.ersnet.org/ers-funding/clinical-research-collaboration.html). The European
      Alpha-1 Clinical Research Collaboration (EARCO) was established as an ERS CRC with the
      objective of developing a European AATD Registry and bringing researchers together
      internationally to promote clinical research, clinical care and education.
    
  