
    
      Background: Current guidelines recommend that lacerations be irrigated prior to their
      closure. However, there is very little data in the literature suggesting that simple
      laceration irrigation diminishes the subsequent rate of infection. Do patients benefit from
      this practice that involves additional time and costs?

      Hypothesis Testing & Procedure: The purpose of this double-blind randomized controlled
      non-inferiority study is to test the hypothesis that the non-irrigation of lacerations does
      not increase the rate of post-repair infection. Every adult patients presenting to the
      Chicoutimi's Hospital Emergency Department with a simple laceration will be identify by the
      triage nurse. Eligibility will subsequently be assessed by the emergency room physician
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible and consenting patients will be
      randomized to either the irrigation or non-irrigation arm. Post-repair rate of infection and
      aesthetic appearance satisfaction will be reported.

      Sample Size Determination: With the fairly liberal inclusion criteria, a 6% wound infection
      rate in the irrigation group is expected, which corresponds to the upper limit of the 2 to 6%
      range reported in the literature. Non-inferiority of non-irrigation would be accepted if the
      rate of infection in this group does not exceed by 4% the usual infection rate of 6% with
      irrigation, as previously stated. As such, for the study to be powered at 80% with a 95%
      one-sided confidence interval, a population of 874 patients would be needed to conclude that
      the non-irrigation is non-inferior when its infection rate does not exceed by more than 4%
      the infection rate of the irrigation group. In addition, to account for an attrition rate of
      approximately 10%, enrolment of 1000 patients is aimed.

      Statistical Analysis: Statistical analysis will be done by a certified statistician.
      According to the distribution of our data, the Chi2 or the Fisher test will be used. A
      preliminary analysis of our data will be done in the Spring 2017 to assess safety of our
      intervention.

      Plan for Missing Data: Patients that are lost at follow up will be considered as having had
      no infection if no record of subsequent visits for wound infection is found after
      consultation of the regional Electronic Medical Record.
    
  