
    
      African Americans (AA) not only have a higher prevalence of hypertension but the severity of
      the cardiovascular complications related to this condition are greater in this population
      relative to other populations. While the underlying causes of this elevated risk are
      multifactorial, vascular dysfunction (i.e. impaired vasodilation and/or augmented
      vasoconstriction) is believed to be a key contributing factor. The investigators have
      recently observed (UTA IRB 2016-0268) that the small blood vessels in the skin (the cutaneous
      microvasculature) in AA, but otherwise healthy individuals, have an impaired blood flow
      response in the cutaneous circulation to local heating when compared to age, body mass index
      (BMI), and gender, matched Caucasians (CA). This blunted response is abolished in AA when the
      sites are pre-treated with either Allopurinol or Apocynin which block the production of
      xanthine oxidase and NADPH oxidase, respectively. In addition, Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is
      critically involved in vascular function. BH4 is a cofactor involved in the conversion of
      L-Arginine into the potent vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) by the enzyme endothelial nitric
      oxide synthase (eNOS). Reduced bioavailable BH4 leads to elevated oxidative stress and thus
      impaired vascular function.

      In addition to local heating another commonly utilized research approach to assess
      microcirculatory vascular function is via local infusion of the potent vasodilator
      methacholine (Mch). Mch is an acetylcholine analog that causes endothelial dependent
      vasodilation primarily through stimulation of NO production. Much like the local heating data
      mentioned above, our laboratory (data collected while at UT Austin) has demonstrated a
      blunted response to Mch in AA relative to CA. However, the role of xanthine oxidase, NADPH
      oxidase, and BH4 in this blunted response remains unknown.
    
  