
    
      This is a pilot, interventional clinical trial in which all 9 service members with comorbid
      PTSD and mTBI receive 6 sessions of art therapy. Participants must have subthreshold PTSD or
      higher, determined by the CAPS-5, and a history of mTBI, documented by the Ohio State
      University TBI identification method. Target enrollment is 9 active duty service members,
      aged 18-64 with combat experience and no prior art therapy exposure, at the NICoE at Walter
      Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, MD.

      Background: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) are
      persistent and frequently comorbid complications of combat that remain a challenge to
      healthcare providers. In these complex cases, traditional treatments often fail to provide
      complete relief from symptoms associated with posttraumatic stress (PTS), anxiety, and
      depression, leading the military healthcare system to look towards complementary and
      integrative treatments. Art therapy is one promising intervention that helps service members
      (SMs) develop a "visual voice," using imagery, symbolism, and metaphor to externalize
      emotions and experiences that they may not be able to express in words. The standardized,
      integrative mental health and human services approach of the art therapy program at the NICoE
      utilizes a mask-making directive to explore thoughts, feelings, and experiences of combat and
      self-understanding. This process is especially relevant to SMs with PTS symptoms who often
      remember their trauma as an incoherent, fragmented memory that is often predominantly sensory
      in nature. NICoE researchers have provided preliminary evidence suggesting associations
      between recurring art themes represented within the masks and individual BH symptoms; yet,
      the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this therapeutic technique remain obscure. To date,
      there have been few studies using neuroimaging techniques to investigate brain network
      changes during art creation. Studies have utilized electroencephalography (EEG) and
      functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) during art creation but not within the context
      of art therapy. One study harnessed fMRI technology to compare themes in art therapy mask
      products with fMRI results. Mobile, quantitative EEG allows for real time data capture that
      could minimize interference of neuroimaging during the therapeutic process and provide
      insight into the neurological mechanisms underlying art therapy.

      Study design and procedures: Participants will be provided with a blank paper mache mask
      template and invited to alter the mask however they wish using a variety of art materials.
      The therapist will use the art-making process and culminating product to aid in
      self-reflection, reframe negative thoughts and feelings, and work through traumatic content.
      Prior to the session start participants will get set up with the mobile qEEG. The qEEG will
      be segmented into a pre-art therapy session resting state, prompt-specific tasks during the
      art therapy session, and a post-art therapy session resting state.
    
  