
    
      Population: Patients >= 18 years hospitalized at Boston Medical Center (BMC) with a first
      documented episode of CDI.

      Intervention: 30 FMT capsules administered orally under direct observation within 7 days of
      completion of 10-14 day treatment of oral vancomycin for CDI.

      Objectives:

        1. To characterize the microbial diversity in stool samples from subjects with a primary
           episode of CDI before and after oral vancomycin and determine the impact of FMT after
           completion of oral vancomycin course.

        2. To characterize the feasibility and tolerability of FMT after completion of a course of
           oral vancomycin therapy for primary CDI, and to describe 30-day hospital readmission and
           gastrointestinal symptomatology and/or CDI recurrence during 60-day follow-up.

      Design/Methodology:

      15 subjects will be enrolled who are hospitalized at BMC for a primary episode of CDI. A
      discard aliquot from baseline stool samples obtained clinically for diagnosis will be frozen.
      Subjects will receive the standard of care treatment (oral vancomycin for 10-14 days) and
      within 7 days following completion will receive oral FMT during a 2 hour visit in the
      Infectious Disease (ID) Clinical Trials Unit. An additional 5 subjects will be enrolled as
      controls. Stool samples will be collected at time of CDI diagnosis and again 3 weeks after
      FMT for intervention group and 4 weeks after completion of oral vancomycin treatment for
      control subjects. The post-treatment samples will be obtained by the patient using special
      stool sample collection kits known as RNAlater kits (ribonucleic acid stabilization). These
      contain a liquid nontoxic tissue storage reagent known as RNAlater and helps preserve the
      stool sample. The subjects will mail this stool sample to the BMC Clinical Trials Unit (CTU)
      where it will aliquoted, centrifuged and frozen.

      Samples will be processed at a collaborating lab at Tufts to characterize the fecal
      microbiome pre- and post oral FMT.

      Study personnel will contact participants via telephone 60 days after FMT dosing to
      administer a follow-up survey (including questions on residual symptoms. CDI recurrence,
      re-hospitalization, adverse events and FMT acceptability).

      Total Study Duration: Anticipated time: 12 months

      Subject Participation Duration: The researchers anticipate a period of 1-2 hours while an
      inpatient for the screening and consent process, 2 hours for the CTU visit for FMT and 20-30
      minutes responding to a follow up telephone survey. Total time in the study from enrollment
      to completion of follow-up will be approximately 3 months and will include 10-14 days of CDI
      treatment with oral vancomycin (per standard of care treatment), the FMT administration and a
      60 day follow up.
    
  