
    
      The conceptual model of adaptation of the general 3RP to obese osteoarthritis patients with
      depression that specifically target improved function through combining mind body skills with
      physical activity, and recommendations of multimodal programs to improve outcomes in chronic
      pain clinical trials. Adaptations of the multimodal general 3RP will be done consistent with
      theoretical models of the fear-avoidance model of pain, cognitive model of pain and
      depression, acceptance and commitment therapy, mindfulness, and positive psychology. The goal
      is to help patients engage in activities that are meaningful and mapped to each individual's
      level of functioning and life circumstance through the use of quota-based pacing through
      adaptation of skills to directly address improved mood, healthy lifestyle (sleep, diet),
      correction of knee osteoarthritis misconceptions, and use of relaxation response elicitation
      and positive psychology skills to promote awareness and calm during activities, even when
      these are painful.

      The guiding hypothesis is that the synergistic interaction between mindfulness, adaptive
      thinking, positive psychology, physical activity and healthy living skills of the 3RP-OA
      reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine expression while also promoting optimal mechanical loading
      of the cartilage thus slowing the progression of symptomatic knee OA. In this project the 3RP
      will be iteratively adapted for the needs of knee osteoarthritis patients with depression and
      obesity with a focus on gradual increases in physical activity measured with accelerometers
      and establish feasibility markers for the program and procedures. A pilot randomized
      controlled trial of the 3RP-OA versus a time- and attention-matched health enhancement
      control will be performed to assess the feasibility of recruitment procedures, feasibility
      and acceptability of the 3RP-OA and control, and data collection procedures by group.

      A pilot randomized controlled trial (N=60 participants) of the 3RP-OA with a time and
      attention matched health enhancement control will be performed. The end goal of the pilot RCT
      is not to assess the efficacy of the 3RP-OA but rather to assess the feasibility of
      recruitment procedures (screening, eligibility, enrollment rates), feasibility and
      acceptability of the 3RP-OA and control intervention (adherence, retention, fidelity,
      satisfaction, group telehealth delivery, and data collection procedures by group (adherence,
      satisfaction, blood and urine biomarker data).

      A single blind pilot feasibility randomized controlled trial with a time, dose and attention
      matched health enhancement control will be conducted (N=60; approximately 4 3RP-OA groups and
      4 control, 7-8 per group). Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 design using a
      randomization scheme developed by the statistician. Research procedures will be identical for
      patients in 3RP-OA and control. The study will yield information on how participants might
      engage differently with the intervention and control, definitive information on feasibility
      and acceptability and signal of improvement in the intervention before investment of
      resources in the full randomized controlled trial.

      The 3RP-OA refined based on exit interviews and surveys. The control group will have the same
      format as the 3RP-OA, and the control group follows the format of the Health Enhancement
      Program. A pain specific adaptation of this program for chronic pain exists. This program
      will be adapted for the specific needs of patients with knee osteoarthritis. To control for
      in between session practice, participants will receive an mp3 recording and informational
      handout to complete after each session.
    
  