
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine and bevacizumab achieves
      superior survival compared to gemcitabine and placebo in patients with previously untreated
      advanced pancreatic cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the objective response rates, duration of response, progression free survival,
      and toxicity of these two regimens in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.

      II. To measure baseline levels of VEGF and correlate with treatment outcome. III. To measure
      baseline and on treatment levels of additional growth factors that may be co- or counter-
      regulated with VEGF and correlate with response to treatment.

      IV. To measure baseline and on treatment levels of coagulation and endothelial cell
      activation markers that may predict for thrombotic or bleeding risks related to treatment.

      V. To generate protein expression profiles using a MALDI-TOF based platform from serum
      samples. To analyze and compare protein expression profiles to elucidate ion peaks that
      differentiate patients who respond to therapy from patients who do not respond. To identify
      proteins responsible for the differentially expressed ion peaks. To develop quantitative
      assays for each of these proteins.

      VI. To assess any differences in overall survival within the treatment arm (gemcitabine +
      bevacizumab), between the two VEGF genotypic groups: Group 1 denoted by individuals with CT
      or TT genotypes and Group 2 consisting of individuals with CC genotypes.

      VII. To conduct an exploratory analysis of gene-toxicity, gene-response, and gene-survival
      relationships for the various polymorphisms described in the genes implicated in gemcitabine
      pharmacology (CDA, DCK, DCTD, SLC29A1, SLC28A1, SLC29A2). An exploratory quantitative
      interaction between the genotypes (group 1 or 2) and the treatment arms (gemcitabine +
      bevacizumab or gemcitabine + placebo) in predicting overall survival will also be evaluated.

      VIII. To identify specific SNPs and genetic variation that are associated with differences
      among patients in the risk of toxicity.

      IX. To compare the effects of gemcitabine + bevacizumab versus gemcitabine + placebo on
      resource utilization, cost, and utilities, and if applicable, to make estimates of marginal
      cost-utility.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2), disease extent (metastatic vs
      locally advanced), and prior radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and bevacizumab
      IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV as in arm I and placebo IV over 30-90 minutes on days
      1 and 15.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 590 patients (295 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 26.8 months.
    
  