
    
      Phase 1 would entirely base on training of all newborn care providers. The training phase of
      the study includes two stages:

      Stage 1: It will involve training of new born care providers in detecting esophageal versus
      tracheal intubations using the ultrasound simulator, and then ensure they are able to
      accurately detect this difference using our evaluation tools.

      Experts in POCUS will train neonatal health care providers at Aku.

      Stage 2 : It would comprise of validation and assessment of POCUS competency. For this
      purpose neonatal health care providers that underwent training will perform Ultrasound of
      intubated babies who are hemodynamically stable in NICU, captured images and save them.

      These images will be interpreted in real time by the trainee and validate by trained PI. 10%
      images will be sent to Sick Kids POCUS trainer for revalidation. Health care provider will
      validate at least 10 images correctly to be certified as successfully trained and move to
      Phase 2.

      Phase 2. New-born at The Aga Khan Hospital who requires intubation will be assessed for ETT
      placement via ultrasound and simultaneously with the standard methods. The time required to
      assess a correct endotracheal intubation will be compared between POCUS and standard care
      methods that are colorimetric end- tidal carbon-dioxide (CO2) detector.

      Study population and sample size:

      Phase 1: The training session will be provided to health care providers who attend deliveries
      and exclusively involved in newborn care, which include Neonatal attending, postgraduate
      trainees, neonatal fellows and nursing staffs.

      The POCUS will be done by Fellows, attending and Senior Staff only.

      Phase 2: A Sample size of 292 newborn will be recruited considering these assumptions that in
      the Aga khan university, Hospital Karachi currently has approximately 5,000 deliveries per
      year and 600 infants per year require admission in the NICU (12% of total NICU admissions).
    
  