
    
      Design of the study This trial will involve several hospital centres within the organised
      breast screening in the Italian region of Piedmont.

      An invitation letter to participate in a randomised screening trial comparing DBT versus DM
      will be mailed to all women, 46-68 years old, living in the Piedmont Region, and eligible for
      invitation to the regional mammography screening program. Women who attend the centres for
      screening and consent to the study will be randomly allocated either to DBT or DM arm.

      Women in the DM arm will be screened with bilateral, two-views digital mammography
      examination. Women in the DBT arm will be screened with the bilateral two-views combo mode
      (DM and DBT images acquired in a single compression). In both screening arms, examinations
      will be independently read by two expert screening radiologists. In the DBT arm, each reading
      will be randomly allocated (on a per-case basis) to one of these three modes: DM plus DBT
      (DBT is read only after initial DM interpretation), DBT plus DM (DM is read only after DBT
      interpretation) and "concurrent mode" (both DBT and DM are read simultaneously).

      In both screening arms, participants will be recalled for further examination if indicated by
      at least one radiologist (without consensus or arbitration). At the subsequent round all
      participants will be invited to DM only. Interval cancers and advanced cancers
      screen-detected at the next round will be recorded. Pathological and biological parameters of
      screen-detected cancers (e.g, stage, grading, hormone receptors, HER2) in both screening arms
      will be measured to investigate overdiagnosis.

      With a sample size of 23,000 and 69,000 women in the DBT and DM arm respectively, the
      investigators will be able to observe a significant decrease in interval cancers and advanced
      cancers rate of at least 50% (power 80%, two tails). The collected data will be also used to
      perform analyses on radiological work-flow and workload, and cost-outcome and
      cost-effectiveness.
    
  