
    
      This is a single center, Phase I/II, open label single-arm exploratory study. The trial will
      primarily examine the safety and tolerability of clazakizumab given after the diagnosis of
      cABMR in 10 subjects (15-75yrs) who exhibit DSAs to their donor. Patients entered will also
      have been diagnosed with cABMR + TG post-transplant based on Banff 2015 criteria. Patients
      are required to have a eGFR > 30 mL/min/1.73m2 as calculated by the MDRD equation (Schwartz
      equation will be used to estimate CrCl for patients under 18 years of age) at entry. All
      patients will be recruited from the renal transplant program at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
      Once cABMR is diagnosed, donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies will be assessed (DSA) which are
      associated with cABMR and/or graft loss. DSA will be detected using solid phase assay systems
      currently utilized at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center HLA Laboratory (Dr. Xiaohai Zhang
      Director, Phone: 310-423-4979)41. These anti-HLA antibodies may result naturally or from
      previous pregnancy, transfusions, or prior transplants. Patients treated with clazakizumab
      for cABMR will have labs for DSAs, and other monitoring labs as well as immunologic studies
      as outlined. In addition to the standard post-transplant immunosuppressive protocol, patients
      with cABMR will receive clazakizumab 25mg SC given every 4 weeks (30 days) for a total of 6
      doses. If no safety/tolerability/efficacy issues are observed after the initial dose,
      patients will continue the protocol as outlined. A protocol biopsy will be performed after
      the 6th and after the 12th doses of clazakizumab to assess the allograft for evidence of
      cABMR/ABMR, including C4d staining and TG using Banff 2015 criteria14. Banff scoring will be
      compared between the index and protocol biopsy after cessation of therapy. Patients who have
      evidence of persistent allograft dysfunction may have non-protocol biopsies for cause. After
      completion of the clazakizumab therapy, patients will be followed up to assess allograft
      function and ABMR episodes as well as DSAs. The protocol is summarized in figure 14 below.
      Monitoring of Treg, Th17, Tfh and plasmablast as well as IL-6, and CRP levels will be
      performed in the Transplant Immunology Lab at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center at select time
      points (Dr. Mieko Toyoda Director, Phone: 310-423-8282). confirmation) they will continue
      monthly clazakizumab for an additional 6 months and will have a second biopsy at 12 month
      protocol. Immunologic and viral monitoring labs will be performed as indicated.

      The subjects will be followed to determine if the use of clazakizumab for treatment of cABMR
      in this high-risk transplant population is safe and without infectious risks. In addition,
      the investigators will determine the effects of clazakizumab treatment on renal biopsy
      assessments performed at 6 months. Assessments of renal function, donor specific antibody,
      and Banff 2015 biopsy scores will be evaluated at that time. If improvement or stabilization
      observed, clazakizumab will be resumed monthly x 6 doses (starting day 180 to day 330) and
      last study visit will be day 365 with biopsy. Study investigators will assess the
      transplanted patients to determine the number who sustain a viable and functioning kidney
      allograft as well. In the event a patient does not show improvement after receiving 6 doses
      of clazakizumab, no further treatment will be given and the patient will return at Day 365
      for a final study visit. All subjects will be evaluated on an intent-to-treat basis. The
      subject accrual rate will be limited to no more than 1-2 subjects per month in the initial
      three months to assure safety to all subjects. Repeat laboratories will be performed at the
      completion of clazakizumab therapy to determine effect on levels and correlation with any
      potential events.

      Long term dosing option at conclusion of 12 months (after Study Day 365 visit) will be
      available for those patients who complete the 12 month protocol. Patients may continue to
      receive clazakizumab 25 mg subQ every 8 weeks long term, per PI discretion.
    
  