
    
      Background and rational: Cervical cancer ranks twelfth in terms of cancer mortality in
      Canadian women, but remains the second most frequent cancer in Canadian women aged 20-44.
      Fortunately, its natural history makes it an ideal candidate for successful prevention.
      Cervical cancer and its precursors are caused by a persistent infection of the cervical
      epithelium by one of the 15 oncogenic (or high risk) types of human papillomaviruses (HPVs).
      The preinvasive changes of cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) can be identified
      through cervical cytology (also known as the Pap test). When cellular abnormalities are
      identified, women are referred for diagnostic testing. High-grade precursor lesions (CIN2/3)
      carry a high risk of progression to invasive cancer and for this reason their treatment is
      recommended. Treatment success rates of CIN2/3 are 85%. However, those who fail treatment
      need to be identified promptly because their risk of invasive disease is increased more then
      10 fold. The current strategy used in Canada to identify treatment failures consists of a
      follow-up every 6 months in colposcopy clinics for 2 years. Recent research underlines the
      fact that routine colposcopy is unreliable and may miss significant lesions. The
      identification of oncogenic HPV DNA in the cervical secretions is known as HPV testing. A few
      studies have investigated the use of HPV testing in the identification of treatment failures.
      Although they point to a very good sensitivity (90-95%) there were methodological
      limitations: studies were small; the HPV test used was often not suitable for clinical
      laboratory use; endpoints were not assessed by histological confirmation. Most importantly,
      none compared HPV testing to colposcopy, the strategy used in Canada. Research question: Is
      HPV testing more sensitive than routine colposcopy to identify CIN2/3 treatment failures?
      Methodology: Design: We propose a parallel randomized controlled trial, where participants
      will be randomized 1:1 to routine colposcopy vs. HPV testing after treatment of CIN2/3
      lesions. Study Population: Women treated for high-grade precursor lesions. Exclusion criteria
      are: pregnancy, less than 18 years of age, known immunosuppression or immunodeficiency,
      unable to provide informed consent. Study interventions: (1) HPV testing with Hybrid Capture
      2. (2) Routine colposcopy. In order to evaluate the performance of the current follow-up
      strategy, there will be no standardized protocol for the colposcopy intervention, but
      documentation of procedures will be done. Patients will receive the study interventions 6
      months after treatment. All participants will undergo expert diagnostic assessment at 12 and
      24. Sample size calculation and recruitment rate. The sample size was calculated to have 80%
      power to detect an increase in sensitivity of 15%, with an alpha set at 0.05 (double sided
      test). Assuming a conservative baseline sensitivity of 70% for colposcopy, 134 cases of
      recurrent/persistent disease will be necessary in each study group. Assuming a 15% failure
      rate of treatment and a 20% drop out rate, a total of 2250 participants will need to be
      accrued. Recruitment will take place in high volume colposcopy clinics across Canada over 2
      years. Analysis: The primary analysis will consist of the comparison of the diagnostic
      indices of the 2 follow-up strategies: sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values (with their 95% asymptotic confidence intervals). Cumulative
      persistent/recurrent cases identified during the 2 year follow-up will make up the case
      group. Since all participants will undergo expert diagnostic assessment. No subgroup analysis
      will be performed. 4. Expected contribution: The result from this trial will provide high
      quality data on which to base management recommendation. If HPV testing is found to be more
      sensitive than routine colposcopy, follow-up of treated lesion may occur mainly in primary
      care physician's office with HPV testing, reducing costs, and making it possible to focus
      colposcopy activities on a group of women truly at risk of significant disease.
    
  