
    
      There are two established therapies for acute ischemic stroke, namely intravenous alteplase
      and endovascular thrombectomy (EVT). The guiding principles behind these therapies are fast,
      effective and safe reperfusion of ischemic brain. Patients with acute ischemic stroke
      presenting within 4.5 hours from symptom onset are administered intravenous alteplase. If
      there is evidence of large vessel occlusion (LVO), these patients are transferred to the
      nearest comprehensive stroke center (CSC) for EVT.Physicians, hospitals and health systems
      are focused on implementing efficient triaging systems and workflow processes to improve
      speed and efficacy of administration of these life-saving therapies. Although efforts over
      the years with intravenous alteplase administration has resulted in improvement in efficiency
      metrics like door to needle time (DTN) and door-in-door-out (DIDO) time, these metrics are
      still not optimal, and the therapy is underutilized. Physicians continue to have concerns
      about low early reperfusion rates, increased risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage and
      challenges with drug administration (bolus + 60-minute infusion) with intravenous alteplase.

      Recent phase II trials have shown that intravenous tenecteplase is potentially safer and may
      achieve higher early reperfusion rates than alteplase in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
      Bolus administration makes tenecteplase easier to administer than alteplase (which requires
      infusion pumps). Transfer of patients from primary stroke centers (PSC) to comprehensive
      stroke centers (CSCs) is potentially easier without infusion pumps. Moreover, depending on
      the province, tenecteplase either costs the same, or even less, than alteplase. It is
      therefore possible that the use of intravenous tenecteplase in patients with acute ischemic
      stroke otherwise eligible for intravenous alteplase may result in faster administration of
      thrombolysis and more efficient transport to CSCs, thus saving time, reducing adverse events
      (intracranial hemorrhage) and potentially improving patient outcomes, while saving the health
      system costs. For these various reasons, robust evidence that tenecteplase is non-inferior to
      alteplase as an intravenous thrombolytic agent in patients with acute ischemic stroke will
      change current clinical practice as it did in patients with myocardial infarction. The
      proposed trial is therefore a pragmatic, registry embedded, prospective, randomized (1:1)
      controlled, open-label parallel group clinical trial with blinded endpoint assessment of 1600
      patients to generate real world evidence whether intravenous tenecteplase (0.25 mg/kg body
      weight, max dose 25 mg) is non-inferior to intravenous alteplase (0.9 mg/kg body weight) in
      patients with acute ischemic stroke otherwise eligible for intravenous thrombolysis as per
      current standard of care.
    
  