
    
      Vasopressin is an endogenous hormone that decreases serum osmolarity and increases blood
      pressure. As a part of the stress response to hypotension, vasopressin is released from the
      posterior pituitary and leads to vasoconstriction through agonism of the vascular vasopressin
      V1 receptor. In patients with septic shock, endogenous vasopressin levels are initially
      elevated but quickly fall to levels at or below those of normal physiology (1.4-3.6pg/mL)
      because of the depletion of endogenous store. Sharshar et al. evaluated two sets of patients
      with septic shock, one of which was evaluated earlier in the septic shock course (3.6 ± 2.3
      hours, n=18) and one evaluated at a later time from shock onset (mean 38.7 ± 28.4 hours,
      n=44). The group of patients evaluated earlier in their septic shock course were more likely
      than patients evaluated later to have elevated (>3.6 pg/mL) plasma vasopressin levels (88.9%
      vs. 38.6%, respectively). Similarly, a case series evaluated single vasopressin levels in
      three patients with septic shock, one of whom was in the first day of shock onset and two of
      whom were in the fifth and sixth day of shock onset. The patient in the earlier stages of
      septic shock had a plasma vasopressin level that was increased (16pg/mL), while the two
      patients in the later stages of septic shock had decreased plasma vasopressin levels (1.6 and
      1.8pg/mL). The exact timing of when patients transition from having elevated endogenous
      vasopressin levels to having normal levels of vasopressin is currently unclear. In a clinical
      trial enrolling patients within the first 12 hours of shock onset, median endogenous
      vasopressin levels were 3.5 pg/mL (interquartile range 1.8, 5.3 pg/mL; n=54). Some have even
      hypothesized that vasopressin levels rise before clinical hypotension is apparent and the
      decline in vasopressin levels is associated with the onset of apparent hypotension. Further
      complicating this issue, endogenous vasopressin levels have been shown to be lower in
      patients with septic shock compared to other shock etiologies such cardiogenic shock (3.1 ±
      1pg/mL in patients with septic shock vs. 22.7 ± 2.2pg/mL in patients with cardiogenic shock,
      p<0.001). The etiology of this discrepancy in endogenous vasopressin response by shock type
      is unclear, but a "relative deficiency" of vasopressin is theorized to exist in patients with
      septic shock.

      In light of these findings, exogenous arginine vasopressin (AVP) has been added to exogenous
      catecholamines to increase mean arterial pressure (MAP) and to decrease catecholamine
      requirements in patients with vasodilatory shock. The use of AVP for these purposes in
      patients with septic shock is in keeping with the Surviving Sepsis Campaign Guidelines. In
      the Vasopressin and Septic Shock Trial (VASST), low-dose AVP was infused at a rate of
      0.01-0.03 units/min in combination with norepinephrine to achieve a goal MAP of 65-75mmHg.
      Plasma vasopressin levels in patients receiving AVP were elevated at 6 (68.3pg/mL) and 24
      hours (90.5pg/mL) in comparison to patients not receiving AVP (3.0pg/mL at baseline with no
      significant change at 6 or 24 hours). Association of plasma vasopressin levels with
      hemodynamic response to AVP, though, was not evaluated in VASST.

      Concomitant corticosteroid use has been observed to decrease the total dose of administered
      AVP, to increase the proportion of patients alive and free of vasopressors at day 7, to
      increase plasma vasopressin concentrations by 33% at 6 hours and 67% at 24 hours, and to lead
      to lower 28- and 90-day mortality (35.9% vs. 44.7%, p=0.03 and 42.5% vs. 55.5%, p=0.01,
      respectively) than in those that received AVP alone. These findings generated the hypothesis
      that concomitant administration of AVP and corticosteroids results in increased plasma
      vasopressin levels versus AVP administration alone, leading to positive clinical outcomes in
      septic shock. Furthering the hypothesis that plasma vasopressin levels may influence outcomes
      in septic shock, genetic differences in leucyl/cystinyl aminopeptidase, the primary
      vasopressin metabolic enzyme, have been associated with more rapid vasopressin clearance,
      lower plasma vasopressin levels, and increased mortality in patients with septic shock.
      However, a study evaluating vasopressin plasma concentrations in patients with multiple shock
      types not administered exogenous AVP observed higher vasopressin concentrations in those with
      hemodynamic dysfunction than in those without (mean 14.1 ± 26 vs. 8.7 ± 10.8pg/mL,
      respectively) regardless of shock type. This suggests that plasma vasopressin concentration
      may not directly correlate with MAP.

      The impact of body mass (which may influence vasopressin levels when fixed-dose AVP is
      administered) on hemodynamic response to AVP has been inconsistent. Studies have observed a
      negative correlation between BMI and change in MAP at 6 hours and a correlation between
      increasing weight-adjusted AVP dose and reduction in catecholamine requirements, suggesting
      that hemodynamic response to AVP is associated with body mass. In contrast, a third study
      observed no association between BMI and AVP dose required to meet goal MAP when AVP was
      administered as the sole vasopressor. Finally, a fourth found an inverse correlation between
      BMI and APACHE II-adjusted 28-day mortality, regardless of the fact that overweight and obese
      patients received less weight-adjusted vasopressin than underweight or normal weight
      patients. This suggests that while BMI may impact plasma vasopressin concentration, the
      change in vasopressin concentration may not have an impact on clinical outcomes.

      Recently, a retrospective study was completed at the Cleveland Clinic to evaluate predictors
      of hemodynamic response to fixed-dose AVP in patients with septic shock. Patients were
      considered to be responders to AVP if a decrease in catecholamine dose was achieved with
      MAP≥65mmHg at 6 hours. The overall response rate to fixed-dose vasopressin was 45.4%. Within
      this study, only admission to surgical or neurosciences intensive care units (ICU) vs.
      medical ICU and lower lactate level were associated with increasing chance of response to AVP
      (OR 1.71, 95% CI 1.175-2.463, p=0.0049 and OR 0.925, 95% CI 0.887-0.965, p=0.0003,
      respectively) on logistic regression. Factors previously found to impact vasopressin levels
      (such as concomitant use of corticosteroids) were not associated with hemodynamic response.
      However, plasma vasopressin levels were not evaluated in this retrospective study.

      The relationship between plasma vasopressin concentration and hemodynamic response in
      patients receiving AVP is unclear. While concomitant corticosteroids have been observed to
      increase plasma vasopressin concentrations, corticosteroids themselves have been shown to
      shorten time in septic shock, possibly confounding any relationship between plasma
      vasopressin concentration and hemodynamic response in patients receiving both agents. As
      previously mentioned, data correlating body mass with hemodynamic response have been
      inconsistent, but vasopressin levels in patients receiving fixed dose AVP seem to be lower in
      patients with higher body mass. The recent study at the Cleveland Clinic found no association
      between factors associated with increased plasma vasopressin level and hemodynamic response.
      Together, these data call into question the idea of a dose-response relationship between
      plasma vasopressin concentration and hemodynamic response. This study seeks to prospectively
      evaluate whether plasma vasopressin levels are associated with improved rates of hemodynamic
      response to fixed-dose AVP therapy in patients with septic shock.
    
  