
    
      For this pilot feasibility study, combat veterans whose PTSD has been associated with severe
      symptomatic suffering and functional impairment, despite treatment with all currently
      available pharmacological and psychotherapeutic treatments, will be recruited from clinics at
      a large, academically affiliated VA facility. An extensive screening over an extended
      baseline by the study psychiatrist and neurosurgeon will be conducted using standard
      interviews and clinical rating scales. Eligible subjects are required to have a cohabiting
      significant other willing to participate in safety and function monitoring throughout the
      study.

      After successful completion of baseline eligibility requirements, comprehensive
      neuropsychological testing will be performed, as will structural MRI and FDG PET/CT of the
      amygdala, insula and medial Prefrontal cortex. PET/CT will be performed and analyzed by a
      nuclear medicine specialist collaborator familiar with this type of imaging research. Six
      consenting subjects meeting all eligibility criteria will then receive bilateral basolateral
      nucleus of the amygdala (BlnA) implantation of Medtronic Activa Primary Cell (PC) implantable
      deep brain stimulator systems (purchased through the VA Merit Review Grant) by functional
      neurosurgeons specialized in the procedure. This will be done during a 3-4 day inpatient stay
      on the VA Greater Los Angeles Neurosurgical Service. After a month of weekly safety
      monitoring with stimulators off, subjects will be will be hospitalized for 1 day on the
      Neurology Service's electroencephalography (EEG) telemetry unit, under the care and
      supervision of an epilepsy specialist neurologist who is a co-investigator in the study, for
      stimulator initiation. Stimulator settings will be adjusted by the study clinical
      neurophysiologist while patients are monitored by the study neurologist and psychiatrist.
      Only stimulator settings that do not cause epileptiform discharges, or potentially
      significant adverse psychiatric or medical (e.g., blood pressure, heart rate) changes will be
      used over the subsequent long-term follow-up.

      After the EEG telemetry safety check, subjects will be randomized (3/3) to either have their
      stimulators turned on then (Week 0), or 3 months later (week 12). This staggered onset
      double-blind design has been used in other DBS trials in psychiatry. After week 0, for the
      next 2 years, subjects will be followed at regular intervals (weekly for 5 months, then
      monthly for 7 months, then quarterly for 12 months) by a psychiatrist, neurosurgeon,
      neurologist and neurophysiologist who will conduct an extensive battery of psychiatric and
      neurological testing (including periodic EEG recordings), as well as significant other
      interviews, while stimulator settings are adjusted based on standardized rating scale
      outcomes and adverse effects so as to optimize treatment outcome. The principal study
      hypothesis is that the symptomatic and functional benefits of chronic stimulation will
      outweigh the risks and adverse-effects, and that symptomatic improvement will be greater,
      without unacceptable adverse effects, in subjects with week 0, compared to week 12 stimulator
      initiation. Neuropsychological testing will be repeated after 6 months of stimulation to
      assess changes in cognitive function. Functional neuroimaging with PET/CT will be repeated
      after a year of stimulation to assess changes in the activity of brain regions known to
      function abnormally in PTSD.
    
  