
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a difficult disease to diagnose due
      to nonspecific symptoms and clinical findings. The disease occurs in the elderly, who often
      have other illnesses and signs of aging that make diagnosis of heart failure more difficult.
      Recently, it has been suggested that HFpEF, which has primarily been thought to be a
      diastolic disease, is in fact multifactorial, with elements of abnormal systolic function and
      increased vascular stiffness playing a role in disease pathology. No treatment has been shown
      to reduce the high mortality of the disease. However, few studies have evaluated this
      population of patients during periods of increased physiologic stress, despite the consistent
      clinical presentation of impaired exercise tolerance with few symptoms at rest. This study
      explores the multifactorial physiology of HFpEF, with a detailed investigation of the
      specificity of abnormalities in contractile reserve and vascular stiffness for this disease,
      and exploration of the modifiability of these abnormalities. The techniques used are
      non-invasive, involving echocardiographic evaluation of cardiac function, and measurement of
      arterial stiffness using tonometry. The first aim of the study is to explore the specificity
      of a potential diagnostic test for HFpEF by investigating the change in ejection fraction
      before and after β-adrenergic stimulation with low-dose dobutamine in HFpEF compared to other
      groups important to distinguish clinically, specifically patients with shortness of breath
      due to pulmonary disease, and those with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy
      without clinical heart failure. In the second aim, the study will investigate the ability of
      the calcium channel blocker, amlodipine, to restore normal contractile responses of the
      myocardium. In the third aim, the role of arterial stiffness in drug responses in HFpEF will
      be explored. It is anticipated that improved understanding of the complex physiology of this
      multifactorial disease gained through this study will lead to more rational design of large
      clinical trials studying promising agents for HFpEF that impact not only diastolic function,
      but contractile reserve and arterial properties as well.
    
  