
    
      This randomized,double-blind, placebo-controlled study will enroll 36 men and women with a
      diagnosis of NAFLD orNASH. The study will be conducted over a period of approximately 28 wks
      and will include:a Screening Phase (Days -14to -1); a 24-week long Treatment Phase, during
      which patients will be randomly assigned to receive ARI-3037MO or placebo; an End-of-study
      Visit (ESV) scheduled 2 wks after the end of the Treatment Phase The Screening Phase will
      include 2 visits. Visit 1:There will be an initial assessment of a patient's eligibility for
      participation in the study. A complete medical history will be obtained and prospective study
      patients will undergo physical examinations and laboratory evaluations. For patients who have
      had a liver biopsy in the 6months prior to Visit 1, the histology findings, i.e., NAS,
      steatosis score and fibrosis score will be recorded. Visit 2:Approximately 1 week after Visit
      1, and after the results of clinical laboratory screening test results have been reviewed by
      the Principal Investigator (PI), patients will be contacted to advise them of their
      eligibility to continue in the study. Eligible patients will undergo liver magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) to assess intrahepatic fat content. Treatment Phase Patients with MRI results
      showing intrahepatic fat content of ≥10% will be entered into the Treatment Phase of the
      study. The Treatment Phase will include 4 outpatient visits over a period of 24 weeks. Visit
      3:Patients will be randomly assigned to receive ARI-3037MO or placebo on Day 1 of a 24-week
      long outpatient treatment period. Baseline assessments, including FibroTest®, FibroScan® and
      clinical laboratory tests, will be performed, and patients will take study drug twice daily.
      Visits 4, 5 and 6: During the Treatment Phase, patients will visit the study clinic at 4, 12
      and 24 weeks (± 4 days) after Day 1 for evaluations and examinations and to collect study
      drug. Twenty-four weeks after the start of dosing, at the end of the Treatment Phase,
      patients will undergo a follow-up MRI and FibroScan† to assess change from baseline in
      intrahepatic fat content and liver fibrosis, respectively.

      †If FibroScan equipment is available at the study site End-of-Study Visit Visit 7:An ESV will
      occur 2 weeks (± 4 days) after the end of the Treatment Phase.
    
  