
    
      It is a simple-blinded randomized crossover clinical trial where volunteer subjects, older
      than 18 years, have a latent or active proximal MTP1 (intermediate part of the anterior
      margin of the upper part of the muscle near the vertical fibers of the muscle attached to
      clavicle) in the upper trapezius.

      It will assess if there are changes in the muscle tone of the trapezius muscle after applying
      digital capacitive diathermy (DCD) or ultrasound (US) in the latent or active MTP1 of the
      trapezius muscle in healthy adults.

      Each patient will receive a single session of each treatment in the affected trapezius. The
      order in which treatments are received - US followed by digital capacitive diathermy, or vice
      versa - is determined at random.

      To remove any carryover of effects, there will be a week of washing period between the two
      interventions.

      Intervention:

      - DCD: The patient is positioned in prone position on stretcher. Firstly, it will apply
      almonds oil on the MTP1 of the upper trapezius affected. Then, it will put the
      "musculotendinous injury FAST" program which lasts 6 minutes; and, it will move the
      ultrasound applicator in contact with the skin with a velocity approximately between 2.5 and
      4 centimeters per second.

      - US: The patient is positioned in prone position on the stretcher. Firstly, it will select
      parameters (frequency: 1MHz, intensity: 1.0 W/cm2, mode: continuous). Then it will apply a
      slow technique of circular movements with a speed of approximately between 2.5 and 4
      centimeters per second over the area of the MTP1 of the upper trapezius affected during 6
      minutes.

      Assessment:

      To assess the effectiveness of these techniques, several tests will be performed on the
      subjects:

        -  Myotonometric measurements using a myotonometer to obtain frequency, decrement
           (elasticity) and stiffness of the evaluated points and MTPs.

        -  Algometry results will bring information of the PPT of evaluated MTPs.

        -  The 0-10 Numeric Pain Rating Scale results will bring information of the subjective
           dolor perception of the subjects.

        -  Inclinometer results will bring information of the ROM of cervical spine lateral
           inclination.

        -  The Neck Disability Index results will provide information on how much neck pain
           interferes in the daily activities of patients.
    
  