
    
      The severity of the disease will be evaluated preoperatively according to the SNOT-22 score,
      the visual analogue scale of nasal symptoms, the Lund-Mackay score on the CT-scan and the
      Modified Lund-Kennedy endoscopic score (sinusoscopy will be recorded). Relevant demographics
      and medical history of participants will also be collected preoperatively.

      The extension of the CES and intraoperative findings will be noted. Patients who have an
      infection during the procedure (pus with positive culture) will be excluded from the study.
      During the surgery, 4 groups will be formed as described in the figure below. Patients will
      be divided according to the presence or absence of polyps at the endoscopy and randomized in
      one of the 2 groups by the pharmacy of the CHU of Quebec. This will provide either a
      prescription of Clavulin 875 mg per os twice daily for 10 days, or a placebo of similar
      visual appearance in the same dosage. A bioabsorbable dressing (NasoPore, Stryker) will be
      positioned at the mid-meatus level at the end of the procedure. Nasal irrigations of saline
      solution will be prescribed post-operatively (qid for 1 month) as well as intra-nasal
      corticosteroids bid after 1 week (usual treatment). The addition of systemic corticosteroids
      will be left to the judgment of the surgeon, noted and analyzed as a confounding factor.

      Follow-up will be done at 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post-surgery. Patients will
      have to complete the SNOT-22 quality of life score and the visual similar scale of nasal
      symptoms at each visit. Sinusoscopy will be recorded at scheduled visits postoperatively. A
      single blind evaluator (to limit inter-rater differences) will analyze the video recordings
      to establish the modified Lund-Kennedy endoscopic score for each patient. Middle-meat
      secretion culture will be performed if pus is present during sinusoscopy and an antibiotic
      prescribed if needed. The patient will have to fill in a diary of other medications
      (analgesics, narcotics, anti-inflammatories) as well as a diary of side effects that will be
      collected at the visit of a post-operative month.
    
  