
    
      This is a multi-site study with Yale University as the coordinating site. Our research plan
      is as follows:

      Aim 1: To conduct a refined phenotypical and functional analysis of regulatory T cells in
      study and control patient groups.

      Rationale: We would like to extend our preliminary data observations in a larger patient
      group and use this extended data set to conduct a refined phenotypical and functional
      analysis of regulatory T cells in order to explore if the regulatory T cell phenotype and
      function in d-AIH differs: (A) from that in controls defined as (i) non-transplanted patients
      with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH), (ii) LT recipients with acute rejection, (iii) LT recipients
      with chronic rejection, (iv) non-transplanted patients with chronic hepatitis C; (B)
      according to the disease etiology leading to transplantation; (C) according to
      immunosuppressive regimen prior to diagnosis of d-AIH being made and (D) over time during the
      disease course. This could potentially give us some insight into the causes for immune
      tolerance breakdown in d-AIH.

      Aim 2: To investigate how over expression of IL-17A and HDAC9 genes relates to the regulatory
      T cell defect observed in liver transplant recipients with d-AIH.

      Rationale: Histone/protein deacetylases regulate chromatin remodeling, gene expression and
      the functions of many transcription factors. Acetylation of histones leads to an open
      chromatin structure permissive for the initiation of gene transcription and expression.
      Histone deacetylase inhibition by Trichostatin-A (TSA) has been demonstrated to prevent the
      production of IL-17A and sustain Foxp3 expression in human T-regs. Importantly, if
      differentiation of T-regs into a Th17-like phenotype can be inhibited by TSA in d-AIH, this
      might be of interest for the development of new therapeutic modalities.

      We would like to first of all confirm our preliminary data observations in a larger patient
      population and address any concerns about RNA integrity in formalin fixed paraffin embedded
      tissue by using fresh liver biopsy tissue to assess the expression of genes involved in
      T-cell anergy and immune tolerance in LT recipients.
    
  