
    
      Inclusion and randomization procedures

      Staff at the emergency department, including physicians and nurses will be informed about the
      project. At admission, the project pharmacist will describe the project to each potential
      participant and/or their next of kin, then provide written information about the project and
      answer potential questions. If patients temporary are unable to consent when asked to
      participate (e.g. delirium) their next of kin will be asked to supply a preliminary consent
      in the patients place. If the patient later refuses to participate he/she will be excluded
      from the trial, and any registered data for this patient will be deleted. Patients will
      periodically be included at day shift and evening shift and by different clinical pharmacists
      to reduce potential bias. We will randomize the patients into two study groups. The
      randomization process will be conducted by Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology at
      Oslo University Hospital. This department will deliver randomization lists, and the project
      pharmacist will follow randomization procedure.

      Data registration

      Patient data will be registered on paper forms, which will be de-identified after the patient
      data is transferred de-identified to the password protected project database on the hospital
      research server. Only a code list will connect the patient to his or her data. Paper forms
      will at all times be kept accessible only to authorized project personnel, and eventually the
      forms will be maculated. De-identified patient information will not be brought out of the
      hospital. The code list connecting the patients to their data will at the latest be deleted 3
      years after start of data collection. When results are published it will not be possible to
      identify individual patients.

      Customized Standard Operating Procedures addressing inclusion and randomization operations,
      registry operations and how to perform the intervention is developed.

      Sample size calculation

      Available information about readmission frequency at Diakonhjemmet Hospital is based on 30
      days follow-up, and therefore cannot be used to calculate proportion of patients readmitted
      after 12 months. However, numbers from Oslo University Hospital estimate a readmission
      proportion of 50% after 12 months in a comparable patient population. Therefore this estimate
      is used as the expected readmission rate in the control group of this project. In a previous
      Swedish study conducted by Ulrika Gillespie who is member of the reference group of this
      project, a 16% reduction in hospital revisits within 12 months was found amongst older
      patients (>80 years) following a comparable intervention as described in this project. On
      this basis, it will be necessary to include at least 146 patients in each group to show a
      significant effect on the primary endpoint (significance level of 5%, study power of 80%).
      However, the elderly patients included in the Swedish study had more comorbidity and
      therefore more use of health care resources. In this project we will include all patients 18
      years and older and thereby the difference between the control group and intervention group
      probably will be smaller. A more realistic difference between the groups is 10%; thereby 385
      patients would have to be included in each group to show a significant effect on the primary
      endpoint. To compensate for dropout the aim is to include 400 patients in each project group,
      thus a total of 800 patients. Based on statistics from Diakonhjemmet Hospital, inclusion of
      this amount of patients from the Emergency Department would require an inclusion period of 12
      months.

      Statistics and analysis

      Statistical analyses will be conducted in IBM (International Business Machines)SPSS
      Statistics (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences). Data will be assessed for normality
      and analyzed according to appropriate statistical tests. The baseline demographic and
      clinical characteristics will be summarized using proportions, means and standard deviations,
      or median and interquartile range, as appropriate. Baseline comparisons: Characteristics of
      project participants in the two project groups will be compared using the chi-square test for
      categorical variables and the Student's t-test or non-parametric equivalent (e.g. the
      Mann-Whitney U test) for continuous variables. Multivariable analysis (logistic regression)
      will be used to compare endpoints between project groups while adjusting for prognostic
      variables and potential confounders. All statistical tests will be interpreted with a
      significance level of 5% (two-tailed). For building the model for prioritizing patients at
      increased risk of drug-related admissions and drug-related problems at admission to the
      emergency department binary regression analysis will be used. Data will be analyzed according
      to intention-to-treat (ITT) principles. In addition to ITT analysis, per protocol analysis
      will also be performed.

      Approval

      The project is approved by the Regional committee for medical and health research ethics
      (REC) and the research committee at Diakonhjemmet Hospital.
    
  