
    
      This is a single-blind trial including all patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery performed
      by the same surgical team (5 surgeons) and for whom at least one "study trocar" (ST) id use.
      STs is define as blunt-tip trocars that are inserted blind, had a diameter of 11 mm or 12 mm,
      and are not enlarged during surgery. The investigators have not studied the Hasson trocar, as
      the defect it creates is surgeon-dependent and not uniform.

      The investigators exclude patients presenting factors that affect the scarring process, such
      as malnutrition (serum proteins <5 g/dl), advanced cancer, perioperative hemodynamic
      instability, or prolonged treatment with corticosteroids. Orifices that are enlarged for
      specimen extraction are also excluded, although other orifices in the same patient are
      included.

      The investigators exclude the following patients: those who are converted to open surgery,
      those who underwent a second intervention with an open technique during the early
      postoperative period, or those who are lost to follow-up. Patients who hace not an ST after
      surgery (mostly patients with only one ST that have to be enlarged for specimen extraction)
      are excluded from the trial.

      The investigators randomize patients using a random table from Excel® for Windows XP®.

      The trocars that the investigators use are Endopath Xcel (Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Puerto Rico,
      USA), which are 11 mm and 12 mm in diameter.

      The study has 2 arms: one in which all the ST orifices are closed by suturing the external
      fascia of the abdominal wall with a number 1 monofilament absorbable suture (Polydioxanone)
      (Group A), and another in which all the orifices of the ST are left open, closing only the
      skin (Group B).

      This trial has been approved by the corresponding ethics committee. All the patients signe
      their informed consent to participate in the trial before randomization.

      Follow-up involve 2 postoperative contacts for each patient, the first during the first year
      after the operation, and the second 2 years after the intervention. These contacts are made
      by phone, and the patient is asked about any lumps or discomfort in the scar area. A positive
      answer is followed by an appointment for a detailed examination and, if necessary an
      abdominal ultrasound scan.

      Demographics, diagnosis, and surgical technique is analyzed for each patient, as is hospital
      stay, morbidity, and the number of trocars and STs used with their size and location.

      For the topographic analysis, the investigators divide the abdomen in 7 areas according to
      the different fascial layers of the abdominal wall (Figure 1).

      The statistical analysis is performed using SPSS 11.5 for Windows.
    
  