
    
      The evaluation of ambulatory patients with chest pain is a challenging and serious problem,
      accounting for a significant proportion of all outpatient visits. High risk patients may go
      undetected, resulting in missed diagnoses of acute myocardial ischemia, while low risk
      patients may be subject to unnecessary evaluations. To substantially improve the evaluation
      and treatment of outpatients with acute chest pain syndromes, new strategies need to be
      developed in the primary care setting to risk stratify symptomatic patients and direct
      appropriate care. Our prior work demonstrates that an elevated Framingham Risk Score (at
      least 10%) reliably identifies patients with chest pain in the primary care setting who are
      at high risk for acute myocardial infarction.

      This study will implement and evaluate electronic risk alerts to risk stratify outpatients
      with chest pain and present this information to primary care clinicians within the context of
      an electronic health record. The intervention will take place within Harvard Vanguard Medical
      Associates, a multispecialty integrated group practice with 140 primary care physicians
      caring for approximately 300,000 patients at 14 centers in eastern Massachusetts. With a
      randomized, controlled study design, the study has three specific aims:

        -  To identify predictors of risk-appropriate evaluation and treatment of patients
           presenting to primary care offices with acute chest pain, including race and sex.

        -  To determine whether rates of appropriate evaluation and treatment of patients with
           acute chest pain can be improved through the use of point-of-care electronic risk alerts
           that provide individual patient cardiac risk profiles and tailored evaluation and
           treatment recommendations to primary care clinicians.

        -  To perform a cost analysis for the provision of electronic decision support for patients
           with acute chest pain.

      This study has important implications for determining how the treatment of outpatients with
      chest pain syndromes can be optimized through the innovative use of electronic decision
      support, while documenting the cost implications of such a strategy. This work will also
      provide a model for how ambulatory practices across the country can use electronic health
      records to present real-time patient risk information to clinicians with the goal of
      improving patient safety and quality, which has important implications for both acute and
      chronic care.
    
  