
    
      In 2000, NO/AIDS was funded by the CDC to conduct community mobilization. Two components of
      that program were Kelly's POL and outreach in Internet chat rooms. Kelly's POL targeted
      traditional venues frequented by MSM, such as gay bars. Online outreach in chat rooms was
      modeled after standard street outreach, where outreach workers provide HIV/AIDS, sexually
      transmitted disease and risk reduction information and referrals. Since the agency started
      online outreach, the Internet has continued to grow and it has become a mainstream venue for
      MSM to seek sexual partners online while maintaining their anonymity (Benotsch et al., 2002;
      Bull et al., 2001). With this trend, the agency realized that the online MSM community needed
      to be targeted by multiple behavior change interventions comparable to those implemented in
      other at risk venues. The agency included implementation of Kelly's POL online in chat rooms
      frequented by MSM as one of the interventions to be funded through the CDC's PA 04064 (the
      parent grant). As of August 2004, the agency has been funded under the parent grant to
      conduct Kelly's POL online in chat rooms that serve New Orleans, Louisiana, and the
      Southeastern U.S. region. This parent grant project shall be referred to as South POL.
      Supplemental PA 04064 funding for ADAPT will be used to further adapt South POL to target
      seropositive MSM of color. The supplement grant project shall be referred to as South POL+.

      The South POL+ intervention has three main goals: first, to adapt the intervention for use
      with adult seropositive MSM of color based on formative evaluation findings; second, to
      evaluate and monitor the process of adapting the intervention utilizing the CDC-developed
      Adaptation Guidance; and third, to conduct implementation monitoring and evaluation and
      evaluation of the implementation of the adapted intervention.
    
  