
    
      According to Very Low Birth Weight (VLBW) High Risk Registration database in KKWCH, a
      hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a common problem in very
      premature infants born at a gestational age of 29 weeks and under, with more than 50% of them
      needing indomethacin treatment for closure of the PDA.

      Prostaglandins play a major role in keeping the ductus patent . Indomethacin, because of its
      anti-prostaglandin effect via inhibition of the prostaglandin forming cyclo-oxygenase
      enzymes, has been used to medically close the PDA since the 1970s. Concerns with this drug
      relate to its effect on cerebral, renal and gastrointestinal blood flow. Necrotising
      enterocolitis (NEC), gastrointestinal perforation, gastrointestinal bleeding, transient or
      permanent renal impairment and reduced cerebral blood flow have been associated with
      indomethacin.

      Ibuprofen treatment for PDA have been reported in the 1990s. It is as effective as
      indomethacin in closing the PDA. It is potentially better than indomethacin because regional
      blood flows were not affected. The few trials that have been done comparing intravenous
      ibuprofen and indomethacin involved mainly heavier very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. In a
      New England Journal of Medicine editorial on this subject, Clyman pointed out the need for
      trials involving the very immature infants to look at efficacy and safety.

      The main obstacle for ibuprofen use in premature infants is the absence of a commercially
      available intravenous preparation. In our proposed trial a new i.v. ibuprofen preparation
      manufactured by Cumberland Pharmaceuticals (Nashville, Tennessee) will be used.

      A Cochrane systematic review on ibuprofen for the treatment of PDA in premature infants
      concluded that it performed with the same effectiveness when compared to indomethacin. There
      was a significant decrease in the incidence of oliguria in the ibuprofen arm, with a higher
      risk of chronic lung disease at 28 days of life (borderline statistical significance), but
      not at 36 weeks.There is no biologically plausible explanation for the latter effect and this
      could be attributed to chance in view of this, plus the weak statistical proof. The other
      problem with this review was that it included trials where enteral ibuprofen was used, and
      this route is clearly impractical in the very premature infants which we plan to study
      because of the unpredictable absorption from the immature gut and their general intolerance
      to feeding at such an early age. The concern regarding pulmonary hypertension with the
      prophylactic use of ibuprofen also should not apply to our planned study where the time of
      administration of the drugs will be around 24 hours of age.

      The potential benefits stemming from ibuprofen's biological advantage over indomethacin will
      be reduction in the rates of oliguria, gastrointestinal bleeding, NEC and gastrointestinal
      perforation. NEC and gastrointestinal perforation are conditions with serious morbidities and
      usually result in prolonged hospital stay and poorer neurodevelopmental outcome for the
      affected infants. A better drug could lead to cost savings.

      Neurosensory impairment is an important outcome to monitor because indomethacin reduces
      cerebral blood flow. This point was also emphasized in the Cochrane systematic review
      mentioned above. However this will be the subject of another proposal in view of the
      significant additional budget needed.

      The objective of the trial is to compare, the the safety and efficacy of intravenous
      ibuprofen treatment for the closure of the patent ductus arteriosus diagnosed via 2D
      echocardiography in very premature babies born under 29 weeks of gestation, with traditional
      therapy indomethacin.

      The primary outcome measure will be the incidence of oliguria and gastric bleeding within one
      week after the 1st dose of treatment
    
  