
    
      1. Research hypothesis

      The research team has explored the role of GZM A

        1. Conceptual hypothesis:

             -  Granzyme A is a pathogenic sepsis mediator.

             -  Granzyme A gene polymorphisms determine the serum concentration of GZM A in
                patients with systemic infections.

             -  Granzyme A gene polymorphisms determine the risk of sepsis among patients with
                systemic infections.

        2. Operational hypothesis:

             -  Among patients with bacteremic (E. coli) urinary tract infections (UTIs), GZM A
                levels are significantly higher in those patients who develop sepsis as compared
                with those who do not develop sepsis.

             -  There are significant differences in the GZM A gene polymorphism profile of
                patients with bacteremic (E. coli) UTIs who develop sepsis as compared with those
                who do not develop sepsis.

                2. Aims and objectives

             -  Aims

                  1. To assess the pathogenic role of GZM A in sepsis in patients with bacteremic
                     (E. coli) UTIs.

                  2. To explore the capability of GZM A polymorphisms to anticipate the risk of
                     developing sepsis in patients with bacteremic (E. coli) UTIs.

                  3. To evaluate the potential usefulness of GZM A as a diagnostic biomarker of
                     sepsis in patients with bacteremic (E. coli) UTIs.

                  4. To characterize E. coli "virulome" among circulating uropathogenic strains.

             -  Objectives

                  1. To evaluate the correlation between serum levels of GZM A and systemic
                     inflammatory response in patients with bacteremic (E. coli) UTIs.

                  2. To characterize GZM A gene polymorphisms among patients with bacteremic (E.
                     coli) UTIs

                  3. To assess GZM A serum kinetics among patients with bacteremic (E. coli) UTIs

                  4. To phenotypically and molecularly characterize E. coli strains causing
                     bacteremic UTIs, including their virulence factors ("virulome").

                3. Expected outcomes.

             -  Characterization of the pathogenic role of GZM A in sepsis in patients with
                systemic infections

             -  Characterization of GZM A as a sepsis biomarker in a human model of
                infection-sepsis.

             -  Phenotypical and molecular characterization of uropathogenic E. coli causing
                bloodstream infections.

                4. Methods

           4.1. Design and project scope

           - Prospective, exploratory nested case-control study to be conducted at one academic
           hospital (Hospital Cliﾌ］ico Universitario Lozano Blesa) affiliated with the Instituto de
           Investigacioﾌ］ Sanitaria Aragoﾌ］ (IIS Aragoﾌ］).

           4.2. Study period: June 2019 - December 2020.

           4.3. Patients and sample size

           Inclusion criteria (To meet all):

             -  Age >= 18 years old.

             -  E. coli bloodstream infection

             -  Urinary source. Urinary source should be considered if (any) of the following:

                  1. Urinary source is clinically suspected and both E. coli isolates (in blood and
                     in urine culture) share the same phenotype (antibiogram).

                  2. Urinary source/origin is clinically suspected, and the urine culture is
                     negative, but the patient had received at least one dose of any systemic
                     antibiotic with antimicrobial activity against the E. coli strain causing the
                     BSI before blood cultures were obtained.

                  3. Both isolates (in blood and in urine culture) share the same phenotype
                     (antibiogram) and there is no alternative source.

           Exclusion criteria:

             1. Use of systemic antibiotics for >48h in the two months preeeding the episode.

             2. Immunocompromised hosts - Patients receiving systemic steroid use (>10 mg
                prednisone/day during 10 or more days in the previous 2 months).

                  -  Patients receiving biological therapy (previous 2 months).

                  -  Active solid or hematological cancer.

                  -  HIV +.

                  -  Neutropenia < 500 PMN/microl.

             3. Basal urinary tract abnormalities or locally modified vesical microbiome (any):

                - Ureteroileostomy, ureterosigmoidostomy, ureterostomy (Bricker) or nephrostomy.

                  -  Indwelling urinary catheter (in the last two months)

                  -  Urological surgery (in the last two months).

                  -  Intravesical chemotherapy (in the last two months).

                  -  Intravesical BCG instillation (in the last two months).

                Potential candidates will be detected daily by the microbiologists on the research
                team. Inclusion criteria will be verified in the multidisciplinary meeting that
                antimicrobial stewardship teams (AST) conduct on a daily basis at the participating
                hospital.

                Estimated size of the study population. Matching:

                - 50 patients with a sepsis/ non sepsis 1:1 ratio will be included.

                - Septic and non-septic patients will be matched on gender, age (+/- 10 years),
                comorbidity (Charlson score +/-1), time symptom onset to blood culture (+/- 24h)

                4.4. Definitions

                Cases (sepsis / septic shock):

                - Sepsis or shock septic are defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused
                by a dysregulated host response to infection according to the 2001
                SCCM/ESICM/ACCP/ATS/SIS International Sepsis Definition Conference.

                Controls:

                - Absence of sepsis or septic shock according to the 2001 SCCM/ESICM/ACCP/ATS/SIS
                International Sepsis Definition Conference.

                4.5. Variables

                4.5.1. Patient-related variables:

                - Demographical: gender, age.

                  -  Comorbidity: Modified Charlson Index

                  -  Baseline serum creatinine.

                4.5.2. Infection-related variables.

                - Time from the onset of symptoms to the start of antimicrobial treatment.

                - Time from the onset of symptoms to the start of appropriate antimicrobial
                treatment.

                - Time form the onset of symptoms to the surgical therapy (if needed).

                  -  Clinical severity at time 0 (blood culture), and day 2- 3 and day 30: sepsis
                     score.

                4.5.3. Inflammation, sepsis mediators and biomarkers. - The following biomarkers
                will be determined during patient enrollment: - White blood cell count and
                differential. - Platelet count. - Fibrinogen. - Prothrombin activity.

                - C reactive protein.

                  -  Procalcitonin.

                  -  GZM A.

                GZM A serum levels will be obtained in all patients during the enrollment visit,
                the 2-3 day and the 30 day visits (GZM A kinetics). GZM A levels will be determined
                by an ELISA commercial assay (Human Granzyme A ELISA development kit{HRP];
                Mabtech).

                GzmA gene polymorphisms, as well as other potentially associated mutations, will be
                screened by Whole Exome Sequencing (WES). To this aim, we will use DNA isolated
                from peripheral blood cells and the AmpliSeq technology kit on the Ion Torrent
                platform following the manufacturer's instructions. This platform is available at
                the Genomics Central Research Unit (CRU) at CIBA from University of Zaragoza/IIS
                Aragon. All kits for isolating and analyzing DNA samples are commercially available
                and optimized by Thermo Scientific. Bioninformatic analysis will be performed by an
                agreement established between Genomics CRU and Micromics SL led by Pedro Gonzalez
                at CRG in Barcelona.

                4.5.4. Microbiological variables

                  -  Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of the E. coli isolates retrieved from
                     urine and blood cultures will be determined through automated microdilution
                     panels as routinely performed by the Microbiology Laboratory of participating
                     hospitals.

                  -  Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of the E. coli strains isolated in blood and
                     urine cultures. The presence of E. coli known virulence factors will be
                     analyzed and a virulence score for each strain will be calculated (Mora-Rillo
                     et al., 2015).
    
  