
    
      In light of the concern for potential anesthetic neurotoxicity in infants and toddlers, it is
      prudent to start investigating alternative methods to decrease the amount of volatile
      anesthetic being utilized in this patient population. The US Food and Drug Administration has
      been asked to evaluate the data showing the neurotoxic effects of multiple anesthetic agents
      in animal models and humans. These studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
      receptor blockers such as ketamine,and gamma-Aminobutyric acid receptor (GABA) modulators
      like benzodiazepines, nitrous, propofol, barbiturates and isoflurane have been shown to cause
      brain cell apoptosis in animal models.

      Regional anesthesia provides both intraoperative and postoperative analgesia may play a major
      role in effectively reducing the amount of general anesthetic used. Caudal anesthesia has
      been proven be both safe, effective and is applied widely in the pediatric population.

      Dexmedetomidine is a selective alpha2-adrenergic agonist that acts in the brainstem by
      inhibiting norepinephrine release. Dexmedetomidine is commonly used off-label, including use
      for duration greater than 24 hours and any use in pediatrics. Dexmedetomidine has relatively
      few adverse events when compared to other sedative agents, with hypotension and bradycardia
      being most common.

      Remifentanil has a rapid onset, rapid offset, small volume of distribution, rapid clearance,
      and a short elimination half-life, It may be a useful anesthetic for pediatric outpatient
      surgery.

      While the current standard of care involves a volatile general anesthetic with a caudal
      block, anesthesiologists have alternative methods that can be utilized to allow an elective
      surgery to be performed. In summary, this study intends to show the efficacy and safety of a
      remifentanil-dexmedetomidine infusion and caudal block for patients ages 1 year-3 years old
      receiving elective circumcision, hydrocele repair, orchidopexy, mild hypospadias or inguinal
      hernia repair. This alternative anesthetic is already being studied in children under 12
      months.
    
  