
    
      Among the bronchoscopic techniques in diagnosis of sarcoidosis, transbronchial needle
      aspiration (TBNA) of lymph nodes has emerged as a particularly useful supplement to the
      previously known endobronchial and transbronchial biopsies. The efficacy and safety of
      conventional TBNA is well established. With improvements in technology, the last decade has
      seen the use of convex probe endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS) to guide TBNA under direct
      vision. This technique is a minimally invasive alternative to mediastinoscopy, further it
      offers additional advantage of choosing the appropriate node for sampling on the basis of
      their echogenicity. Studies subsequently have demonstrated the superiority of EBUS TBNA over
      conventional TBNA.

      Once the role of TBNA in diagnostic bronchoscopy was established, technical aspects of the
      procedure became the topic of research. Needle size used in TBNA is one such important
      factor. Apparently, larger the needle, better the tissue yield and hence improved diagnostic
      capability. Conventional TBNA is usually performed with a 19G needle, though varying sizes
      have been used in different studies (18, 21, 22, 26G). On the other hand, EBUS-TBNA is
      performed with a 22G needle. More recently 21G needles are being used for the same purpose.
      There have been conflicting reports in literature, when these two needle sizes have been
      compared with regards to the adequacy of the sample, accuracy of diagnosis and the rate of
      complications. Moreover, the above studies undertaken so far were done from centers where
      malignancy was the predominant diagnosis. Whether the needle size used during EBUS TBNA has
      any impact on diagnosing benign diseases like sarcoidosis is still not clear, hence this
      study was planned. The investigators hypothesize that performing EBUS-TBNA using 21G needles
      may enable identification of intact compact granulomas in sarcoidosis, and hence a better
      diagnostic yield than using a 22G needle.
    
  