
    
      Approximately 10-23% of people suffer from chronic pain in our country. Chronic pain is
      associated with emotional distress (anxiety and depression), physical and social impairment
      and reduction of quality of life in patients who suffer from this condition.

      Recent studies have elucidated that some conditions are clearly correlated with chronic pain,
      and could explain emotional distress and impairment in these patients. Such conditions are:
      attention bias to pain, cognitive inflexibility, fear avoidance, catastrophizing, passive
      coping with pain and no acceptance.

      Recent meta-analysis suggest that Mindfulness-based interventions reduce anxiety and pain
      interference in daily life in patients with chronic pain. They do so through mechanisms that
      improve capacity of acceptance (whatever the experience is) and reduce catastrophizing.
      Self-Compassion is a useful attitude in order to regulate emotions, to be able to accept the
      experience that one is going through and to improve self-care in general population.
      Cognitive-behavioral programs (CBT) have already demonstrated that they are effective in
      order to reduce catastrophizing and passive coping with pain. However, effects of Mindful
      Self-Compassion interventions (based on mindfulness skills but not only) on chronic pain
      condition are still unknown.

      Neff and Germer have developed a specific program to enhance self-compassion named Mindful
      Self-Compassion (MSC) that could be helpful to people with clinical problems. In spite of
      promising results of this interventions based on acceptation and self-compassion, its
      effectiveness on chronic pain conditions remains still unclear.

      Investigator's principal hypothesis is: MSC program will be, at least, as effective as CBT
      program in order to improve quality of life, self-compassion, self-care and acceptance
      capacity; and as effective as CBT to reduce catastrophizing, anxiety and depression in a
      chronic pain patients sample.

      Moreover, investigators also hypothesize that MSC program will be, at least, as effective as
      CBT program in order to maintain the achieved benefits in a 6 months follow-up.

      Investigators will conduct a Randomized Controlled Trial with two treatment arms in a chronic
      pain sample of patients of Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid.

      Both interventions will have 8 sessions, weekly frequency, duration of 2 hours and a half per
      session, and both programs will be conducted by clinical experts.

      Investigators will asses levels of anxiety, depression, catastrophizing, pain interference,
      pain intensity, self-compassion and quality of life at the beginning of the intervention, at
      the end of the intervention, and a 6 months follow-up. Investigators also will administer a
      socio-demographic questionnaire at the beginning of the intervention to collect data about
      age, gender and pain characteristics.

      After all recollection of data is done, investigators will conduct statistic analysis in
      order to accept or refuse their hypothesis.
    
  