
    
      Scientific rationale

      It's estimated that 0.7% of the Brazilian population is infected with hepatitis C virus
      (HCV). In March 2018, the Ministry of Health defined all patients with HCV to be able to
      receive direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) from the public health system without any charges.
      Though this "universal-access policy", frequently there are still many obstacles for patients
      to actually get at the treatment: patients living in cities distant from big centres and
      underserved by specialized physicians in the country, lack of medical doctors experienced in
      HCV treatment in the public system, delay between prescription and starting of medications
      because of administrative issues, and socioeconomic vulnerability among people.

      Telemedicine tools are powerful ways of reaching people living distant from big centres, and
      there are some successful international experiences with hepatitis C treatment in this field,
      like Project ECHO® (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes). In Brazil, there is a
      national program, geographically located in Porto Alegre, that uses telemedicine to improve
      healthcare quality in primary care by offering continuous education and teleconsultations (by
      text or toll-free hotline) to community physicians and other healthcare professionals working
      in public primary care institutions all over the country.

      Primary objective

      To address the applicability of telemedicine tools to increase access and monitor HCV
      treatment with direct-acting antivirals in public health in Brazil.

      Research methods

      HCV-infected patients in the waiting list for specialized consultation with
      gastroenterologist or infectious disease physician will be recruited to a meeting that will
      consist of a HCV lecture followed by individual, focused consultation with medical history,
      analysis of previous lab results (including fibrosis evaluation by the AST-to-platelets ratio
      index - APRI) and collection of blood samples. All patients will receive a prescription of
      pan-genotypic DAA sofosbuvir and velpatasvir regimen for 12 weeks according to the Brazilian
      Ministry of Health's Treatment Protocol, along with orientations about use and potential side
      effects and ways to contact the telemedicine centre - mobile phone instant messages and
      WhatsApp® messages, phone calls and video calls. Issues regarding the administrative process
      will be held by the study team and medications will be delivered to each patient's city or
      region at the time they're available.

      Before starting treatment, patients will be oriented about treatment administration, its
      potential side effects and ways of contacting the research team by text messages, phone calls
      and, when appropriate, teleconsultation by video teleconference with the patient and one of
      the healthcare professionals of the study. During the treatment course, adverse effects will
      be monitored and, when present, graded by the Division of AIDS (DAIDS) Table from the
      National Institutes of Health.

      The family physicians working in each patient area will be oriented about this study and HCV
      treatment. Moreover, they will be invited to join the regular Project ECHO® meetings held by
      the Brazilian centre located at Porto Alegre. Healthcare professionals also have the
      toll-free hotline to get in touch with the telemedicine program and investigators. HCV-RNA
      will be collected 12 weeks after the end of therapy at a local institution next to patient
      home or city.
    
  