
    
      Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) and Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH) are
      conditions without symptoms where inflammation in the liver can progress to end-stage liver
      disease (cirrhosis). Current standard of care for these conditions include control of
      metabolic syndrome which includes but is not limited to a patient's high blood pressure
      (hypertension), high cholesterol (hyperlipidemia), high blood sugar (hyperglycemia) and
      excess fat around the waist (central obesity and waist circumference) with lifestyle
      modifications including diet, exercise and medications. While the mechanism for inflammation
      on the liver in NAFLD and NASH is not completely understood, the American Association for the
      Study of Liver Diseases currently suspects it may be connected with the metabolism in the
      bowel and subsequent hepatic (liver) circulation. The bacteria of the intestines (microbiome
      or gut flora) may play a role in the inflammatory cascade through the bloodstream that
      affects the liver.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) of the
      United Nations define Probiotics as a "live microorganism" which, when taken in adequate
      amounts confer a health benefit in the gastrointestinal tract. This study will be done to
      determine if probiotic use may be a viable treatment option for NAFLD and NASH and to
      establish a link that the intestinal microbiome or gut flora plays a role in liver
      inflammation which will be measured by elastography.

      Patients with NAFLD and NASH seen in office consultation of the investigator will be
      approached to participate in the randomized like a flip of a coin, double-blind (patients and
      researchers will be blinded), placebo controlled study. Participant will be counseled on diet
      and exercise. The participants will receive information on a standardized Mediterranean diet
      based nutrition program as well as direction for recommended 30 minutes of aerobic exercise 3
      times weekly. A baseline transient elastography, blood test such as liver enzymes Aspartate
      Aminotransferase (AST) and Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) will be drawn, including hemoglobin
      A1C (diabetic marker), cholesterol in the form of Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL/bad
      cholesterol) and assessment of Body Mass Index (BMI).

      Participants will be randomized by pharmacy into 2 groups, a control group and a treatment
      group. The treatment group will be provided with a 6 month supply of Align probiotic once
      daily supplementation; the control group will be given a placebo for 6 months along with both
      groups given instructions on how to take the supplement. Subjects will receive a 1 month
      phone call follow up to ensure adherence to study instructions and daily oral intake of
      supplement, and again at 3 months. Study participation will end at 6 months after the repeat
      of liver enzymes, hemoglobin A1C, lipid panel, assessment of BMI and transient elastography
      as completed at scheduled clinical appointment.
    
  