
    
      Background: Multimodal treatment for advanced head and neck cancer (HNC) is associated with
      acute toxicities including mucositis, xerostomia, and dysphagia and a high prevalence of
      weight loss, requiring nutritional intervention. Currently, there is ongoing debate about the
      best way to provide nutrition support while undergoing chemoradiation (CRT) therapy after
      surgery for advanced head and neck cancer (HNC). Randomized controlled trials comparing the
      nutritional benefits of feeding tubes over dietary counseling and/or supplementation have not
      conclusively demonstrated a reduction in weight loss, unplanned hospitalizations, treatment
      toxicities, or tumour control. Additionally, the relative benefits of feeding tubes are
      controversial. Studies evaluating the efficacy of feeding tubes report that patients with
      feeding tubes have increased risk of aspiration, feeding tube dependence, a small but finite
      risk of tumour seeding, but more importantly long term functional swallowing impairment.
      However, emerging data are reporting that swallowing exercise programs that are designed to
      strengthen musculature throughout the course of treatment may lead to improved return of
      functional swallowing. Thus, preservation of functional swallowing may potentially improve
      return to oral nutrition.

      Purpose: Our purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of nutritional and swallowing
      intervention with/out a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube to that of ad lib
      nutrition and swallowing counseling with/out a PEG tube in advanced HNC patients. Weight,
      caloric intake, instrumental swallowing function, xerostomia, mucositis, pain, unplanned
      treatment interruptions, unplanned hospital admissions, complications, duration of feeding
      tube, tumour control, performance status, and quality of life (QOL) will be assessed before,
      during, 3 and 6 months after CRT therapy to determine if there is any differences between the
      intervention groups.

      Study Design: A randomized controlled longitudinal design during the entire course of
      treatment including surgery and CRT therapy will be conducted to investigate the efficacy of
      nutritional and swallowing interventions in HNC patients at baseline, after each course of
      consecutive course treatment and 3 and 6 month follow-up. Patients demonstrating a safe
      functional swallow following surgery will be randomly assigned to one of four groups: Group 1
      - patients will receive PEG tube/in-depth nutrition and swallowing intervention; Group 2 -
      patients will receive PEG tube/ad lib nutrition and swallowing counseling; Group 3 - patients
      will receive in-depth nutrition and swallowing intervention; or Group 4 - patients will
      receive ad lib nutrition/Kaofeed tube nutrition and swallowing counseling.

      Study Sample: Patients with diagnosis of HNC to the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx
      undergoing surgery and CRT therapy at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH) and Cross
      Cancer Institute (CCI) will be eligible for participation in the study.

      Inclusion criteria are: ≥ 18 years of age; diagnosed with HNC to sites of the oral cavity,
      oropharynx, and larynx; all histologic types of cancer; advanced tumour stages; all forms of
      radiation therapy (RT) including standard or investigational for HNC; all forms of
      chemotherapy (CT) including standard or investigational for HNC; alert and mentally
      competent; English-speaking. Exclusion criteria are: unable to have safe swallow following
      surgical intervention; allergy or intolerance to any enteral nutritional supplements in
      current use; renal insufficiency. There are approximately 3-4 HNC patients scheduled for
      surgery, and CRT therapy per week at UAH/CCI. With a significance level of 0.01 between
      groups and a power of 0.85 (an effect size of 0.9) a minimum sample size of 41 patients is
      required for this study. As a pilot study with 20 degrees of freedom, an adequate and
      reasonable sample size would require 24 patients to be recruited to participate.

      Data Collection: Patients will be informed of the study and consent obtained. Demographic and
      clinical data will be collected at the time of recruitment. Patient's height and weight will
      be recorded. Patients will be asked to complete the Patient Generated Subjective Global
      Assessment, Head and Neck Symptom Checklist, Edmonton Symptom Assessment Score and University
      of Washington Quality of Life Revised Questionnaire. Patients will be given instructions on
      how to complete the 24h dietary recall, will have assessments for mucositis and xerostomia
      and an appointment for modified barium swallow. After surgery, patient's who have a verified
      safe swallow by a speech-language pathologist (SLP) and MBS will be randomized into 1 of 4
      groups. Patient randomized to Group 1 or 2 will have percutaneous gastrostomy (PEG) tubes
      inserted as per gastroenterology PEG tube insertion protocol. Patients randomized to Group 1
      or 3 will have additional nutrition and swallowing intervention. Patients randomized to Group
      3 or 4 who have symptoms that prevent them from swallowing or have a >5% weight loss during
      treatment will be offered a Kaofeed tube for nutrition supplementation. Nutritional
      intervention as outlined in studies by Ravasco et al. (2005) and Goncalves Dias et al (2005)
      will include individualized nutrition orientation to therapeutic diet that will aid the
      patient in achieving a caloric and protein intake which promotes approximately 40
      kcal/kg/day. The nurse practitioner together with the patient will meet on a daily basis to
      review their therapeutic diet and resolve issues of symptom management that prevent dietary
      intake. Swallowing intervention will include evaluation of functional swallowing by a SLP.
      The SLP together with the patient will meet on a daily basis to review functional swallowing
      and will teach/aid the patient to adjust their swallowing to meet their changing safe
      swallowing needs. All parameters and study measurement are outlined in Table 1.

      Data Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to generate a profile of the nutrition
      status, caloric intake, nutrition impact symptoms, swallowing function, quality of life,
      unplanned treatment interruptions, unplanned hospital admissions, and complications of HNC
      patients at baseline, after each course of consecutive course treatment and 3 month
      follow-up. Changes, as well as differences in nutrition status, caloric intake, nutrition
      impact symptoms, quality of life and swallowing function before and after each course of
      treatment, and 3 month follow-up will be examined using t-tests and analysis of variance
      (ANOVA).

      Significance of the Study: The high prevalence and negative consequences of weight loss,
      primarily stemming from dysphagia in advanced HNC patients using the current multimodal
      treatment regime supports the need to determine the most effective nutritional management of
      this patient group. Additionally, this pilot study may establish the foundation for future
      protocols and guidelines for nutritional care of HNC patients.
    
  