
    
      In 2011 the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimated antibiotic-resistant infections
      resulted in $20 billion in excess healthcare costs and more than 100,000 unnecessary deaths
      in the U.S. alone. Ventilator-associated infections (VAI) are the most commonly diagnosed
      hospital-acquired infections in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and account for more
      than half of all antibiotic use. We believe the diagnosis is often in error and that much of
      the antibiotic use is unnecessary. Initiating broad-spectrum antibiotics is routine when VAI
      or other infection is suspected in the child on mechanical ventilation, but our data show
      when all other cultures are negative at 48-72 hours antibiotics are frequently still
      continued based on identification of bacteria in respiratory secretion cultures. The
      investigators have previously shown, however, that identification of bacteria in respiratory
      secretion cultures is common in asymptomatic children and continuing antibiotics on the basis
      of a "positive" respiratory secretion culture is not associated with a shorter hospital stay
      or improved survival.

      Antibiotics are not benign. Antibiotics are expensive, have disproportionate adverse effects
      in younger children, often require placement of catheters that are themselves potential
      sources of infection, and their overuse has been associated with increasing resistance
      worldwide. Antibiotic exposure in young children has been associated with increased risk for
      obesity, types 1 and 2 diabetes, inflammatory bowel diseases, celiac disease, allergies, and
      asthma. Mouse studies have found that early antibiotic exposure disrupts the development of
      the early-life gut bacterial composition (microbiome), leading to metabolic perturbations
      that affect fat deposition and may alter normal immunologic development.

      There is no diagnostic test for VAI and distinguishing tracheal bacterial colonization from
      actual infection is not straightforward. The normal lung is essentially sterile but placement
      of an endotracheal tube (ETT) compromises the lung's ability to clear aspirated secretions
      and allows a direct route for bacterial contamination from the mouth and throat. The
      resultant tracheal bacterial composition (the "microbiome") is largely unstudied but
      preliminary research suggests it consists of small numbers of a wide diversity of bacteria
      originating from the mouth. Loss of this bacterial diversity in conjunction with
      proliferation of pathological bacteria is thought to herald the conversion from colonization
      to infection.

      The investigators believe that a positive respiratory culture alone in the absence of other
      indicators of infection is insufficient justification for continuing antibiotics and,
      consequently, much of the antibiotic use in VAI is both unnecessary and potentially harmful.
      To critically evaluate this belief and potentially decrease the use of unnecessary
      antibiotics we propose the following:

      Aim 1: To develop a guideline to assess the likelihood of VAI and discontinue antibiotics
      when the risk is judged to be low Hypothesis 1.1: Using an iterative process PICU doctors can
      reach consensus on criteria to assess the likelihood of VAI and discontinue antibiotics when
      the risk of VAI is judged to be low

      Aim 2: To assess the efficacy and safety of discontinuing antibiotics in children judged to
      have a low risk of VAI Hypothesis 2.1: Discontinuing antibiotics at 48-72 hours in children
      judged to have a low risk of VAI will result in fewer total days on antibiotics with no
      difference in survival, numbers of subsequent infection episodes, duration of need for
      mechanical ventilation and length of stay in the PICU compared to care prior to the
      implementation of the guideline.

      Aim 3: To describe the longitudinal changes in the tracheal bacterial composition (the
      "microbiome") in children on mechanical ventilation Hypothesis 3.1: Loss of diversity in the
      tracheal microbiome will predate clinical signs and symptoms of VAI.

      Hypothesis 3.2: Emergence of a dominant bacterial pathogen in the tracheal microbiome will be
      associated with clinical signs and symptoms of VAI.

      Decreasing unnecessary antibiotic use has important implications for public health. Pediatric
      intensive care medicine is running out of effective antibiotics while also exposing our
      children to antibiotic risks, many of which are only now beginning to be understood.
      Avoidance of unnecessary antibiotic exposure in young children is critical and would be
      facilitated by a rational guideline for assessment of the risk and appropriate treatment for
      suspected VAI. As VAI is the most common reason for antibiotic use in the PICU, it is an
      obvious target for more careful antibiotic stewardship. Better understanding of the normal
      tracheal microbiome after placement of an endotracheal tube would also inform future
      decisions regarding appropriate antibiotic use when VAI is suspected. The most effective
      means of decreasing antibiotic resistance is avoidance of unnecessary use.
    
  