
    
      Postoperative agitation, also referred to as emergence delirium is characterized by mental
      confusion, irritability, disorientation, inconsolable crying, and increased recovery time in
      the post anesthesia recovery room, increasing parents' concern and anxiety with respect to
      the clinical condition of their children . It can also lead to possible injury, damage to
      surgical dressings, lost intravenous catheters, disconnected cables and monitoring
      instruments, and source of dissatisfaction for parents, nurses, and others taking care of
      these children, and hence the children require extra nursing care and supplemental sedative
      and/or analgesic medications, which may delay patient discharge from hospital and are seven
      times more likely to have new-onset separation anxiety, apathy, and eating and sleep
      problems.

      It is during the first 30 minutes after emergence that the greatest incidence of agitation is
      observed, and duration is generally limited and recovery occurs spontaneously. However,
      prolonged episodes of agitation lasting for up to 2 days have been described.

      There is no definitive explanation for emergence agitation (EA). Many different causes have
      been suggested, such as rapid return of consciousness in an unfamiliar environment, the
      presence of pain (wounds, sore throat, and bladder distension), stressful induction, airway
      obstruction, a noisy environment, the duration of anesthesia, the child's personality,
      anesthetic premedication and the anesthetic technique used.

      While its pathogenesis remains unclear, previous studies reported that ENT (ear, nose, and
      throat) surgical procedures have a higher incidence of EA in both adults and children .
      Children undergoing strabismus surgery under sevoﬂurane anesthesia often experience EA and
      postoperative vomiting (POV) .

      Multiple medications including ketamine, propofol, clonidine, midazolam and fentanyl have
      been used effectively to prevent EA. However, these medications may increase sedation after
      anesthesia, cause slow awakening, and in some cases are associated with undesirable side
      effects, such as nausea and vomiting.

      Nalbuphine is a synthetic opioid κ-receptor agonist μ-receptor antagonist with onset of
      action occurring within 2-3 min following IV injection, duration of analgesia of 3-6 hours
      and plasma half-life of 5 hours. Its analgesic potency approximately equals to morphine with
      less effects on cardiovascular and respiratory system, i.e., nalbuphine causes less intensive
      and less frequent decrease in blood pressure and respiratory depression.
    
  