
    
      Epidemiological evidence indicates that smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of many
      pregnancy related complications and is associated with many adverse postnatal problems.
      Around 15% of women still smoke throughout their pregnancy; younger women and those from more
      deprived backgrounds are much more likely to smoke. Behavioural support, available through
      NHS Stop Smoking Services, is effective but only accessed by a minority of smokers with most
      trying to quit alone. For this large group, self-help interventions may be an effective
      alternative.

      MiQuit is a 12 week tailored, self-help, text-message intervention developed for pregnant
      smokers. A pilot study found this was feasible and acceptable for recipients, thus if MiQuit
      could have such an impact in routine NHS care, its low cost would make it highly
      cost-effective.

      Before MiQuit could be used in routine care, a definitive randomised controlled trial (RCT)
      would be needed but currently there is insufficient information to justify conducting this.

      This pilot trial will investigate whether it is possible to evaluate MiQuit in a multi-centre
      RCT located within the NHS, using research network resources. This study will recruit 400
      pregnant smokers who will be randomly allocated to either MiQuit or control, and will provide
      estimates for the parameters required for determining the necessary resources for a
      definitive trial. These include: the range of recruitment rates in different centres; quit
      rates amongst participants; feasibility of assessing smoking status of trial participants in
      later pregnancy and ascertainment rates obtained; and the likely effect of MiQuit when women
      are offered this in NHS settings.

      Secondary objectives include; To estimate and model the likely effectiveness and cost
      effectiveness of MiQuit compared with usual care including a generic smoking cessation
      information leaflet; To document participants' use of MiQuit interactive features and of NHS
      cessation support; To assess the effect of MiQuit on social cognitive determinants of
      quitting smoking and; To explore participant views and experiences of using MiQuit.

      The participants will be recruited before 25 weeks gestation when they attend NHS hospital
      clinics for routine antenatal ultrasound scans. Recruitment will take place in around 12
      United Kingdom (UK) centres over a 12 month period. Follow-up will be via telephone at 1
      month after randomization and again at week 36 gestation. The follow-up is over a 9 month
      period. If a participant reports they have stopped smoking, this "quit" will be validated
      with a exhaled Carbon Monoxide (CO) measurement and/or salivary cotinine measurement.

      A small number of semi-structured telephone interviews will be carried out with a selection
      of participants from the MiQuit arm to explore their views and experience of the
      intervention.
    
  