
    
      Tobacco is a male infertility risk factor. Many studies comparing smokers to non-smokers have
      shown effects on spermatogenesis and the quality of the male gamete. In vitro fertilization
      success rates are decreased in smokers and in natural procreation the time required to
      conceive (excellent fertility indicator) seems to be lengthened in the smoker. Tobacco is a
      well-known mutagen. It will induce damage to the male gametes DNA. Tobacco increases the
      oxydation of DNA. Exposure to tobacco increases the percentage of spermatozoa with broken DNA
      or defective chromatin and induces gametes aneuploidy as has been reported in several
      studies. The set of effects of tobacco on the male gametes questions the consequences for the
      conceptus (from embryo to adult). The prospective study that the investigators propose to
      carry out would make it possible to know the time required for the repair of the sperm
      abnormalities and in particular the DNA of the gametes generated by the smoking. Indeed, a
      cycle of spermatogenesis extending over 74 days, it would be important to know if it is
      necessary to wait a complete cycle or even more before proposing a management. It would
      therefore be possible to find the most favorable period for reducing tobacco-related risks
      and for effective management.

      A blood test will be performed at T0 (before weaning) and during follow-up at 3, 6 and 12
      months for the determination of the Inhibin hormones and testosterone. Sperm analysis at the
      different follow-up times will be carried out at CECOS using a standardized methodology
      (WHO). Two tests of analysis will be used in this study on each sample: the TUNEL test and
      the SCSA. A measurement of DNA oxidation will also be performed, as well as a study of
      spermatic aneuploidy (in situ hybridization technique of fluorescent centromeric chromosomal
      probes).
    
  