
    
      1. Research Question and Objectives:

           Research question: Will daily consumption of 2g of N. sativa extract oil improve
           (decrease) fasting blood glucose levels of adults?

           Research Objectives:

           Primary: To conduct a feasibility study investigating the effect of daily consumption of
           2g of N. sativa extract oil on the fasting blood glucose levels of adults.

           Secondary: To investigate the effect of daily consumption of 2g of N. sativa oil extract
           on blood pressure.

           Secondary: To investigate the feasibility of regular black seed oil intake by means of
           gastrointestinal symptoms questionnaire

        2. Trial Design:

           Design: This is a placebo-controlled double-blinded randomized controlled trial with two
           parallel groups.

           Allocation: The randomization will substantially reduce the risk of selection bias and
           confounding factors. Simple randomization will be used in this study. This randomization
           will insure a balanced 1:1 allocation ratio at the end of sample recruitment. A computer
           program will be used to generate a set of random numbers, an allocation sequence. Each
           number assigns the participant either to the intervention or the control group. However,
           this information will only be revealed after a sealed opaque file is opened at the time
           of recruitment.

           Framework: Exploratory study to gather preliminary information on the intervention and
           the feasibility of its use in blood glucose control.

        3. Study Setting:

           This study will be conducted in the internal clinics of Sulaiman Al Rajhi Colleges in
           Qassim region, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

        4. Participants Timeline:

           The primary outcome (Fasting blood glucose, FBG) will be assessed three times during the
           study period. FBG measurement moments for each participant are at 0, 2, and 4 weeks from
           the time of randomization. The rationale behind spacing measuring moments two weekly is
           to allow a sufficient response time for FBG levels to be interpretable. Secondary
           outcomes will be assessed weekly totaling five assessments at 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks
           from the time of randomization. The participant will have to visit the College internal
           clinics at his or her respective measurement points. The participant will be reminded
           the night before to remain fasting for at least 6 hours before the visit. At each visit,
           the participant will initially answer a set of questions to assess the degree of
           compliance and adherence. He or she then will be asked to report any possible side
           effects and will be allowed a time to fill in the questionnaires and express any
           concerns he or she might have. Next, blood pressure will be measured. Finally, a venous
           blood sample will be taken to measure the fasting blood glucose.

        5. Recruitment:

           The participants in this study are going to be recruited form Sulaiman Al Rajhi
           Colleges, Al-Qassim, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Multiple channels will be used to recruit
           subjects including but not limited to: invitation posters/flyers, E-mails and social
           media. Prospective participants will be subjected to our inclusion/exclusion criteria to
           determine their eligibility and finalize their recruitment and randomization. Each
           participant will have to provide a written informed consent in order be enrolled.

        6. Data Collection:

      Primary outcome: Trained personnel will be responsible for obtaining venous blood samples
      from all subjects in a controlled and private environment. Each sample will be labeled with
      the participant's unique identification code and sent immediately to a cooperating external
      lab equipped with advanced and accurate devices.

      Secondary outcomes: Each participant will have his or her blood pressure measured privately
      in the internal clinic by trained personnel using a standardized sphygmomanometer. The side
      effects of the intervention will be assessed by means of a questionnaire specifically
      developed for the purpose. The use of a standardized questionnaire is not necessary since the
      data is not intended to diagnose or categorize any particular health condition.
    
  