
    
      BACKGROUND Ischemic heart disease is the leading cause of death globally that accounts for
      about 7.4 million mortalities worldwide annually as published by the World Health
      Organization. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) are the options for revascularization in patients suffering from coronary artery
      disease (CAD). The choice of the most appropriate modality is affected by the clinical
      presentation, comorbidities, anatomical complexity of the CAD, and baseline characteristics
      of the patient. Although advances in PCI with drug-eluting stents have provide good outcomes,
      CABG remains an important revascularization strategy in the treatment of CAD.

      The initial experience of using saphenous vein as coronary bypass conduits was first
      published from the Cleveland clinic in 1967. Minimally invasive endoscopic vein harvest (EVH)
      was first reported in 1996 as an alternative to open vein harvest (OVH). An endoscope is
      introduced adjacent to the vein, allowing its dissection under direct vision via a small
      incision. Over the last decade, EVH has become the preferred technique for conduit harvest in
      many cardiothoracic centers owing to the overall reduction in complications compared with OVH
      and the obvious cosmetic advantage. However, concerns persist regarding the risk of
      microscopic damage incurred during EVH, and the consequences of this for long-term graft
      patency.

      OBJECTIVES The aim of this study is to investigate the histological and immunohistochemical
      findings of the saphenous vein graft, to rule out endothelial damage as a direct result of
      manipulation or instrumentation by endoscopic and open conventional harvesting methods.
      Furthermore, to investigate if there are any differences in the surgical site infection,
      cardiac event and functional status between the two harvest strategies at 1-year of
      follow-up.

      METHODS This is a prospective, single-center randomized controlled trial conducted in the
      department of cardiac surgery at the Sheba Medical Center. It will include a sample size of
      50 patients (randomization ratio 1:1), who are planned to undergo an elective isolated CABG
      surgery, and a vein graft is necessary for the revascularization.
    
  