
    
      Defects in mitochondrial β-oxidation and branched chain amino acid (BCAA) oxidation are
      associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and other conditions such as Huntington's disease and
      maple syrup urine disease. Because of these defective mitochondrial pathways, production of
      TCA cycle intermediates can be limited and obesity worsen the condition of the disease.
      Interestingly, supplying precursors for the TCA cycle such as propionyl CoA can promote
      anaplerosis through a pathway that is independent of the defective pathway. Therefore, we
      hypothesize that providing oral isoleucine, a branched-chain amino acid, which is commonly
      used for other conditions, will promote anaplerosis by supplying the precursor, propionyl CoA
      for the TCA cycle intermediate succinyl CoA to muscle of T2D patients. This innovative
      approach is intended to improve TCA function and insulin resistance in obese T2D and could
      serve as a model for other nutritional interventions.

      Diabetes is a growing problem worldwide and has lead to 1.5 million deaths in 2012 and it's
      prevalence has increased to 9% in 2014, most like related to the steep increase in obesity
      rates. Research has shown that a combination of increased acetyl-carnitine and reduced
      propionyl- and isovaleryl-carnitine and elevated blood BCAA in T2D suggests reduced BCAA
      oxidation to propionyl-CoA, which can cause TCA cycle a malfunction. During homeostasis,
      transamination of valine and isoleucine leads to α-keto-isovalerate (KIV) and
      α-keto-methylvalerate (KMV) production, which can be further converted to propionyl CoA and
      the TCA cycle intermediate succinyl-CoA. Therefore, increased valine and isoleucine
      transamination can promote anaplerosis and stimulate mitochondrial energetic flux. Because of
      this, we believe that there is a critical need to identify therapies that can be used to
      restore TCA function in obese T2D.

      Furthermore, Type 2 diabetes causes and contributes to a variety of central nervous system
      (CNS) complications. CNS complications with type 2 diabetes include cognitive and motor
      dysfunction. There have been a number of studies investigating the association between
      diabetes and cognitive decline indicating deficits in psychomotor speed, executive function,
      memory, and attention. Research has also indicated motor deficits with complex motor skills,
      motor coordination, balance, and muscle strength in type 2 diabetics. However, the majority
      of research investigating motor dysfunction in type 2 diabetes has focused on lower body
      dysfunction (balance/gait) and muscular strength (grip) using gross motor control. It is not
      clear from the literature how type 2 diabetes influences upper body coordination and fine
      motor control. Chronic inflammatory states, such as obesity, congestive heart failure,
      diabetes, Alzheimer's disease are also linked to changes in peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMCs) mitochondrial respiration values]. PBMC isolation is a non-invasive way to
      measure mitochondrial function through high-resolution respirometry.
    
  