
    
      The common symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) include but are not limited to resting
      tremor, muscular rigidity, and difficulty in initiating movement. These motor impairments,
      which can negatively impact the fluidity and pacing of movement, can increase the risk people
      with PD face in their daily activities. Additionally, non-motor symptoms such as apathy and
      depression can often lead to isolation, potentially reducing physical activity in people with
      PD.

      In 2001, Dance for Parkinson's Disease (DfPD), a collaboration between Brooklyn Parkinson
      Group (BPG) and Mark Morris Dance Group (MMDG), an internationally known company based in
      Brooklyn, began providing dance classes for the Parkinson community to train other teachers
      in the hopes of developing cognitive strategies and to enhance the sense of community and the
      amount of physical activity in PD population. Since then, positive effects of dance in motor
      and cognitive functions of people with PD have been reported from several types of dance
      classes.

      While recent research has investigated dance as a therapy for people with Parkinson's disease
      (PD), there is only one study, to our knowledge, that investigates the use of Google Glass as
      a portable way for persons with PD to use cued movement as they perform activities of daily
      living to help temporarily alleviate symptoms such as freezing, initiating movement, and
      balancing. This qualitative study explored the acceptability of the Google Glass in five
      participants with PD, as well as their caregivers. The results of this study showed that
      participants highly favored the voice activation system used to control this technology,
      especially in comparison to the frustrations expressed using touch screen smart phones. The
      participants also expressed increased confidence because the Google Glass gave them a sense
      of independence when going out into public alone. Despite the potential beneficial uses of
      the Glass, due to the highly complicated menus with multiple applications participants found
      using the Glass frustrating. Additionally, low number of participants used in this study,
      very short intervention time, and the lack of quantitative data suggests that further
      investigation of use of a simplified version of Google Glass in rehabilitation of Parkinson's
      disease is necessary.

      Recently, MMDG created Moving Through Glass (MTG), a project that was funded by Google, as a
      portable, round-the-clock extension of the internationally acclaimed Dance for PD®. When a
      user activates Glass, they can choose from a variety of different exercises, like "warm me
      up" or "balance me." Once selected, they see the founder instructors of the Dance for PD®
      projected in front of them.

      As a single site research study at Syracuse University, researchers will be conducting the
      pilot phase of the research project. MMDG provided the research team with the three pairs of
      glasses needed to complete this study. At the end of this study, the glasses will be returned
      to MMDG. The MTG questionnaire (described in detail in Section 4), provided by MMDG as part
      of their product development, will also be given to the participants to collect information
      about the product. MTG questionnaires, including only deidentified, gross data, will be
      shared with MMDG as a part of product development, not research. Researchers will NOT be
      reporting our research findings to Google or MMDG.

      The purpose of the study is to investigate the impact of MTG on quality of life and motor
      functions (i.e. balance, gait, fall efficacy). Researchers are trying to answer the following
      questions:

      Purpose #1: What are the Parkinson's disease patients' experiences (constraints, benefits,
      strategies, etc) related to physical activity?

      Purpose #2: What is the participants' perception of using Google Glass during their daily
      activities? In topics related to:

        -  Perceived competence

        -  Movement independency

        -  Participation in physical activity

        -  Participation in social interactions

      Participants in this study will be people with Parkinson's disease. Researchers plan to
      recruit 15 subjects in this project. Due to the limited number of Google Glasses (3 pairs),
      only 3 participants will go through the study at a given time period. Once recruited, the
      participants will be expected to make three visits to Women's Building at Syracuse University
      in a one-month period. On the first visit, researchers will go over the consent form with the
      participants. Upon signing the forms, participants will be asked to complete the Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment (MOCA, 10 min). The MOCA is shown to be a highly sensitive cognitive
      assessment even for mild cognitive impairment and is used widely with Parkinson's population.
      Researchers will use this assessment to have a cut-off point for the exclusion criteria for
      the participants who are in a high-risk group for dementia. The optimal cut-off value of 22
      is determined on a 30-point scale, with 30 indicating no cognitive problems. The scale is
      comprised of 7 sub scores that include executive functioning, memory, naming, attention,
      language, abstraction, and orientation. If the inclusion criteria are met, the participants
      will also participate in a face-to-face semi-structured interview to explore their perception
      regarding movement strategies, fear of falling, patterns of physical recreation, perceived
      benefits, and constraints. This interview will occur before the implementation of the
      program. The duration of each interview will be between 60 to 75 minutes. This interview will
      be audio and video recorded. The purpose of video and audio recording of the interviews is to
      ensure that we capture the essential meaning of participants' experiences.

      Once the interviews are completed, the participants will receive a package that includes
      several questionnaires and surveys.
    
  