
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a chronic and debilitating disorder caused by
      experiencing a stressful or traumatic event. Although there is evidence that treatments for
      PTSD are effective, many people do not seek treatment or seek treatment only after their PTSD
      has become severe. This study will test a low-cost, brief, and easily implemented treatment
      that may encourage people to seek treatment for PTSD. The treatment, called written
      disclosure (WD), involves writing about the traumatic event that caused a person's PTSD. In
      this study, people who have PTSD as the result of a motor vehicle accident will test two
      versions of WD, one administered in a clinic and the other administered over the phone.

      Participation in this study will last 5 weeks, with follow-up assessments continuing until 6
      months after treatment. After screening, participants will be assigned to one of three
      conditions: WD treatment delivered in the clinic, WD treatment delivered via phone, and
      waitlist. The WD treatment involves five weekly writing sessions. During the first session,
      trauma reactions and the rationale for WD will be explained to all participants, and then
      participants will write for 30 minutes about their motor vehicle accident. The next four
      sessions will involve only writing for 30 minutes. For those receiving treatment in the
      clinic, a therapist will communicate directions and explanations to participants, and
      participants will have their heart rate activity recorded continuously for 5 minutes prior to
      writing and during the 30 minutes of writing. For those receiving treatment over the phone,
      explanations of the study will be provided in writing, and a study staff member will call
      participants before and after each writing session to ensure that participants understand the
      directions and are not experiencing any unexpected negative reactions after writing.
      Participants in the waitlist condition will not receive treatment for the first 4 months.
      After that period, they will be offered the WD treatment.

      Assessments of all participants will occur at baseline, after treatment, and 3 months after
      treatment. Participants assigned to receive WD treatment, either in a clinic or via phone,
      will also be assessed 6 months after treatment. Assessments administered at these points will
      involve semi-structured clinical interviews, self-report questionnaires, and measures of
      mood-related symptoms. Participants receiving treatment will also complete self-report
      measurements of emotional response after each writing session and the Daily Experiences
      Questionnaire every day during the 5 weeks of treatment. Participants on the waitlist will
      also undergo assessments of suicidal thoughts and PTSD symptoms every 2 weeks.
    
  