
    
      Specific aims: Smoking cessation and relapse prevention represent and important opportunity
      to improve cancer survival rates , reduce the risk of cancer treatment complication, and
      improve the quality of life of patients with and survivors of cancer . Previous studies
      showed that repetitive TMS (rTMS) reduced cue craving to smoking and treat nicotine dependent
      smokers. Recently one study completed by our team demonstrated that 10 sessions of rTMS over
      the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) reduced cigarette consumption and cue
      craving, and also increased quitting rate on target quit date in nicotine dependent smokers.
      Thus, we propose conducting a controlled, double-blind trial comparing the effect of
      treatments of active rTMS and sham rTMS on cigarette abstinence days, cigarette consumption
      and smoking craving during a 7-days of quit attempt period in 20 nicotine-dependent patients
      with cancer. Specific aims are: Aim 1: Assess a feasibility of the rTMS for smoking cessation
      in cancer patients. Aim 2: Obtain preliminary estimates of whether one-week active rTMS of
      left DLPFC tends to be more efficacious than sham rTMS during a 7-days of quit attempt
      laboratory model period increasing abstinence days, and also decreasing cigarette consumption
      and cue-elicited craving in cancer patients with smoking.

      1.1. Primary objective To assess a feasibility of the rTMS for smoking cessation in cancer
      patients: The primary feasibility measures are : whether or not we can enroll 20 cancer
      patients with smoking within 12 months? 1.2 Secondary objectives

      (1) Study attrition. How many subjects can complete 7-day quit attempt during rTMS treatment?
      How many subjects will complete one-month follow-up? (2) To obtain preliminary estimates of
      whether one-week active rTMS of left DLPFC tends to be more efficacious than sham rTMS during
      a 7-days of quit attempt laboratory model period increasing abstinence days, and also
      decreasing cigarette consumption and cue-elicited craving in cancer patients with smoking.

      1.3 Exploratory objectives Self-reported number of cigarettes smoked per day, The brief
      questionnaire of smoking urges (QSU - Brief), visual analog scale for craving and side effect
      will be measured pre and post each rTMS session. Other assessment, Carbon Monoxide,
      Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND), and Minnesota Nicotine withdrawing Scale
      (MNWS) will be completed at baseline and the last TMS. Quitting attempt will verify daily CO
      < 5 ppm. FTND, Feasibility metrics will also be tracked, including numbers of complete TMS
      sessions and dropout rate.
    
  