
    
      The anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids are well known. The beneficial effects in
      postoperative pain, postoperative nausea and vomiting are well-documented.

      Knee-arthroplasty surgery and the inflammatory stress response in general affect the
      potential of recovery. The quadriceps muscle strength is shown to be reduced significantly
      (80%) early after surgery. The mechanism is thought related to inhibitory reflexes and pain
      caused by surgical induced inflammation around the knee joint. The effect of glucocorticoids
      on the quadriceps muscle function after knee-arthroplasty surgery is unknown and calls for
      further investigation.

      The study is to be considered as explorative.

      The primary analysis of the primary outcome measure is a comparison of the changes in knee
      extension strength from baseline to 48 hours postoperatively between the two groups.

      For calculation of sample size the average loss of strength from baseline (before surgery) to
      48 hours after TKA-surgery being 0.8 Nm/kg body weight (SD=0.39, Holm et al. 2010), a risk of
      type I errors 5% and a risk of type II errors 20% (80% power) were used. The sample size is
      estimated to reveal a group difference in knee extension strength of minimum 40%.

      The primary analysis is carried out on all included patients (intention-to-treat) with
      baseline values as covariate. Secondary exploratory per-protocol analysis might be performed.
      Missing outcomes will be analysed using multiple imputation due to expected strong time
      trends.

      The secondary outcome measures; a group difference of 6 sec. (Timed Up & Go) and 2 cm (knee
      circumference) are considered clinically relevant. The statistical power is based on the
      calculation outlined above using the same test prerequisites.

      For further details please also view the European Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT)
      registration:

      EudraCT nr.: 2014-003395-23
    
  