
    
      The physical therapy sessions will average duration of one hour, often twice a week for six
      weeks. The exercise intensity will be monitored by the physiotherapist as determined by the
      participant's ability to complete 10 repetitions for a particular exercise and its difficulty
      of execution perceived by the modified Borg scale (CR-10). The exercises are performed with
      load between 60-80% of their capacity, the load will be increased from 2 to 10% when the
      patient can perform 14 full repetitions in the last series (76). It will be set to 30 seconds
      of rest between reps and 2 minutes between sets of exercise.

      Both groups will perform prior heating exercises exercise bike for 10 minutes with moderate
      intensity with the Borg scale. Then there will be two stretches repetitions held for 30
      seconds of muscle groups: hamstrings, quadriceps, abductors, adductors and gastrocnemius.
      Manual therapy for patellofemoral and tibiofemoral joint will be held after the completion of
      stretching. Recent clinical guidelines on knee OA strongly recommend the use of strengthening
      exercises of the lower limbs, both in closed kinetic chain and open. Thus, they will be
      performed strengthening exercises in extension and knee flexion in open kinetic chain, squat
      up and down a step and exercises to sural triceps. For symptom control during exercise in CKC
      will be used the numeric scale of pain before and after its execution.

      The GABQ add the hip abduction exercises in lateral decubitus, exercise "Clam" and pelvic
      elevation. Studies prior point out that these exercises are among those with higher
      electromyographic activity of the gluteus medius muscle.

      The GADQ add the adduction exercises hip in lateral recumbency, bilateral adduction with a
      ball between the legs and functional diagonal leg.

      The exercises will be carried out to load 60-80% of 1 repetition maximum 8-12 reps, 1-3 sets
      and 2-3 times a week. All exercises are performed without worsening pain and intensity of
      exercise will be controlled according to the perceived exertion scale of Borg.
    
  