
    
      In recent years, new pieces of information obtained through immunophenotyping, cytogenetics
      and genomic profiling. Chemotherapy resistance have contributed to a better understanding of
      the pathology of this complex disorder and to recognition of subgroups of patients who
      respond differently to therapy.

      The possible impact of the expression of various markers has been studied in ALL.

      In patients with acute leukemia, treatment decisions are based on the status of peripheral
      blood and bone marrow cellularity. This provides a measure of the efficacy of therapy and can
      reveal leukemia relapse. The reliability of morphologic examination of peripheral blood and
      bone marrow largely depends on the hematologist's expertise, and its sensitivity is
      fundamentally limited by the similarities in appearance between leukemic cells and normal
      lympho-hematopoietic progenitors. Therefore, patients in complete morphologic remission may
      still have a large number of residual leukemic cells (potentially up to 1010).

      Minimal residual disease (MRD) is currently the most powerful prognostic indicator in
      Precursor B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B ALL). MRD analysis can be done by either ﬂow
      cytometric or molecular techniques. Flow cytometric detection holds potential for wider
      applicability than molecular techniques because ﬂow cytometric methods for leukemia diagnosis
      are already established at most cancer centers worldwide.

      Flow cytometric detection of MRD is based on the principle that ALL cells express
      immunophenotypic features that can be used to distinguish them from normal hematopoietic
      cells, including hematogones and activated lymphocytes commonly referred to as Leukemia
      associated immunophenotype (LAIP). In virtually all patients with ALL, leukemia-associated
      immunophenotypes can be deﬁned at diagnosis and then used to monitor MRD during treatment.

      The reliability of ﬂow cytometric MRD assays depends on several factors. The most important
      being the correct marker combination in use. Applicability is limited in some cases by the
      lack of suitable leukemia associated immunophenotype (LAIP) with the currently used markers
      and also antigen immunomodulation post treatment. Therefore, the identiﬁcation of new
      leukemia markers that are easily detectable and are stably expressed in a large proportion of
      ALL cases should simplify the application of MRD studies, help extend their beneﬁt to all
      patients and possibly enhance the sensitivity of MRD detection.
    
  