
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, single-arm clinical trial introducing a new functional
      index of clinical success of endovascular treatment and investigating the feasibility of
      volume flow-guided balloon angioplasty of dysfunctional AVF assessed with intraprocedural
      percutaneous DUS. The study will include consecutive patients undergoing
      fluoroscopically-guided percutaneous balloon angioplasty due to dysfunctional AVF in the
      investigator's center. Exclusion criteria will be: (i) not available volume flow values at
      the time of AVF maturation, (ii) patients with arteriovenous synthetic grafts. Patients'
      demographical data, dialysis access history, and procedural details will be recorded.
      Intraprocedural volume flow measurements will be obtained just prior to the procedure and
      after each balloon dilation. Volume flow measurements will be correlated with digital
      subtraction angiography quantitative vessel analysis (QVA) performed by an independent
      investigator blinded to the volume flow analysis outcomes. Follow up DUS imaging including
      volume-flow assessment will be set at 24h, 6, and 12 months after the index procedure, while
      fistulograms with QVA analysis will be performed at 6 and 12 months. All DUS measurements
      will be performed using the same imaging protocol and the same operator. The study's primary
      endpoints will be (i) the quantification of angioplasty outcome using sequential DUS volume
      flow analysis following each balloon catheter dilation and (ii) to assess the correlation
      between volume flow and clinical success defined as high-quality dialysis for a period of at
      least one month. Secondary endpoints will be (i) re-intervention-free interval defined as the
      time interval between endovascular treatment and reintervention due to dysfunction recurrence
      of the treated AVF and (ii) correlation between volume flow and QVA measurements.
    
  