
    
      IDO2 utilizes high fidelity continuous and intermittent patient data to feed a Bayesian model
      which predicts the risk of inadequate tissue oxygen delivery. This index (the IDO2) is FDA
      510k cleared for pediatric patients 2 kg up to 12 years of age to continuously report the
      risk for inadequate tissue oxygen delivery (defined as a mixed venous oxygen saturation less
      than 40%). The index is continuously displayed in graphical form at the bedside. Clinical
      decision support systems (CDSS) such as IDO2 may inform inform the clinician when it is
      appropriate to de-escalate care on a critically ill. Appropriate de-escalation plays a role
      in the safe, efficient utilization of resources in the CICU, and may reduce duration
      intervals of care such as duration of support with vasoactive and inotropic drugs, mechanical
      ventilation and length of stay. In support of this hypothesis, the investigators for this
      proposed study have recently completed a retrospective, multi-center analysis of 2,556
      patient encounters demonstrating that elevated IDO2 during a wean off inotropic agents is
      associated with weaning failure. When compared to conventional markers of cardiac output,
      6-hour average IDO2 was superior to lactate elevation, fall in base deficit, and fall in
      urine output in discriminating inotrope weaning success from failure. Additionally, for those
      patients who failed inotrope wean, rescue with re-starting an inotrope was associated with a
      concomitant fall in IDO2. This analysis supports an underlying hypothesis that IDO2 reflects
      underlying patient stability, and the rescue of deteriorating physiology leads to an improved
      physiologic state, and hence a lower IDO2.7 Data suggest that simple CDSS which prompt
      discussion about management decisions, such as those made during daily ICU rounds, may
      improve outcomes. These CDSS are often in the form of checklists and apply to usual or
      standardized practices. These simplified mechanisms may not apply to the more dynamic
      clinical situations in which specific and intensively monitored patient populations can
      demonstrate variable response to drugs and recovery. In these circumstances, a CDSS utilizing
      a 6-hour rolling average value of IDO2, in which the physiologic response to decisions is
      demonstrated continuously, may inform a more rapid more efficient and safe de-escalation of
      vasoactive and inotropic drugs when implemented on each of the twice daily clinical work
      rounds in the CICU.
    
  