
    
      As a result of many technological advances in the last two decades, current factor VIII
      (FVIII) concentrates (both plasma-derived and recombinant products) are considered very safe
      in terms of pathogen safety.

      The development of inhibitors against FVIII or factor IX (FIX) is considered as a major
      complication during replacement therapy of haemophiliacs.

      Prospective studies of previously untreated patients (PUPs) have suggested that inhibitors
      develop in up to 33% of patients with moderate to severe haemophilia A. Several strategies
      are used to control bleedings in such patients, e.g. high-dose treatment with FVIII
      concentrates, treatment with activated prothrombin complex concentrate (aPCC) or treatment
      with activated factor VII (FVIIa).

      Immune tolerance induction (ITI) in order to eradicate inhibitors in patients suffering from
      an inhibitor to FVIII with high dose treatment of FVIII was first reported in 1977 by
      Brackmann & Gormsen in the so-called "Bonn Protocol" and was investigated from then on in a
      series of clinical studies applying the same or a modified version of the "Bonn Protocol".
      During these investigations high dose FVIII treatment has been proven efficacious in inducing
      immune tolerance and was shown to exert a long lasting effect in more than 80 % of the
      patients treated.

      The observational immune tolerance induction research program (ObsITI) will allow a
      systematic prospective and retrospective data documentation and analysis on the success rate
      of ITI by using individualized concentrate selection.

      Pre-ITI-phase:

      Aim of this evaluation is to assess current pre-ITI treatment strategies in inhibitor
      patients from detection of inhibitor until start of ITI (early start vs. delayed start) and
      the effect of pre-ITI treatment (prophylaxis and on-demand treatment in case of
      bleeds/surgery) with bypassing agents (rFVIIa, NovoSeven®, aPCC, FEIBA®, emicizumab,
      Hemlibra®) and / or FVIII on the titre at start of ITI, on the success rate of ITI, the
      number of break-through bleeds and life-threatening bleeds.

      ObsITI-Rescue ITI Study:

      Patients who fail FVIII-stand-alone ITI or who are no candidates for FVIII-stand-alone ITI
      and who are treated with ITI regimens including immunosuppressive agents can be included in
      this sub-study. Aim of this study is to document ITI regimens including immunosuppressive
      therapy (Rituximab, steroids, mycophenolate mofetil/MMF, sirolimus or other immunosuppressive
      agents) combined with regular FVIII administration, potential drug related side effects,
      outcome and duration of immune tolerance (relapse and recurrence of inhibitors).

      Optional sub-studies:

      In order to investigate the role of in vitro tests on individual ITI success rate in patients
      undergoing ITI, the inhibitor plasma samples can be assayed against different FVIII
      concentrates using the following in vitro tests:

        1. Batch selection: The potential variation in inhibitor reactivity with different FVIII
           concentrates/batches of the same concentrate can optionally be studied according to a
           modified Oxford method (HZRM Hämophilie-Zentrum Rhein Main, Germany).

        2. Thrombin generation assay (TGA): In this optional in vitro test the plasma samples from
           an inhibitor patient can be spiked with different concentrates and the thrombin
           generation will be measured using the TGA to evaluate the potential of different FVIII
           concentrates to generate thrombin (Haemophilia Centre Malmö, Sweden).

        3. Thrombin Generation Test (TGT): TGT will evaluate the correlation between clinical
           bleeding phenotype of patients and their thrombin generation capacity before ITI in
           order to predict the patients with the highest risk of bleeding. In vitro efficacy of
           two FVIII doses (low and high) in the presence and absence of FEIBA® and emicizumab will
           be evaluated (Louis Pradel Cardiology Hospital, Bron, France).

        4. Epitope mapping / IgG Subclasses: The isotypic antibody epitopes on FVIII will be
           identified in plasma samples from inhibitor patients. This will help to identify
           relevant epitopes recognised by inhibitors in haemophilia A. This research program will
           give an opportunity to comprehensively study various aspects of inhibitors and the
           induction of immunetolerance in a relevant number of patients. Knowledge about relevant
           epitopes from patient plasma rather than from model systems (i.e. monoclonal antibodies
           or mouse models) will help to understand the immune response to FVIII and to develop
           novel strategies to deplete inhibitors or inhibitor secreting B cells (Haemophilia
           Centre, University Hospital Bonn, Germany). Plasma samples will also be tested for
           IgG-subclasses specific for FVIII. Most inhibitors belong to the subclasses IgG1 and
           IgG4. There are some indications that the ratio of IgG1 and IgG4 might influence ITI
           outcome (Haemophilia Centre, University Hospital Bonn, Germany).

        5. Immunogenotyping / HLA Genotyping: In addition, this study will investigate genetic risk
           factors (gene defect responsible for haemophilia, HLA class II alleles, immune response
           genes) as a potential variable with impact on course and outcome of ITI. Recently a
           significantly higher inhibitor incidence has been found in patients (brothers) with
           IL-10.G allele 134, TNFα - 308G>A polymorphism within Hap and polymorphisms in the
           CTLA-4-gene compared to those brothers without the above mentioned polymorphisms
           (Haemophilia Centre, University Hospital Bonn, Germany).
    
  