
    
      AQVAR is a study of type not exposed presentations, study ancillary of controlled study,
      multicentric with randomization to cluster, the study IPREA3, for which a financing was
      already obtained within the framework of the Hospital National Clinical Program of Research
      on 2012, current study, the inclusions of which began on October 1st, 2014 after the
      obtaining of all the necessary authorizations. To date, more than 4300 patients were included
      in the study IPREA3 within 34 departments or intensive care units participating on approval.
      All the patients included in the study AQVAR will be patients included before in the study
      IPREA3 and which a complete questionnaire IPREA3 of measure of the discomforts collected by
      all the patients of intensive care will be available.

      The AQVAR study leans on the original current research IPREA3 which consists of the
      evaluation of a program with multiple components of reduction of the discomforts collected by
      the patients of including in intensive care:

        1. The preliminary identification of a binomial doctor-nurse of local coordinating experts
           of the program IPREA3

        2. A systematic measure of the discomforts collected by means of the questionnaire IPREA
           administered the day of the exit.

        3. An immediate return of the scores of discomfort in every nursing administering the
           questionnaire IPREA

        4. The implementation of measures targeted by reduction of the discomforts, based on the
           analysis of the results appropriate to the intensive care unit.

      The innovative character is also brought by the research for the association between
      conditions of hospitalization in intensive care according to the perception of the patient
      and very remote quality of life of the hospitalization in intensive care , as well as by the
      evaluation of a method of primary prevention of the psychiatric morbidity post-intensive
      care.

      The individual profits waited for the patient hospitalized in an intensive care unit having
      implemented the program of reduction of the discomforts IPREA3 are the improvement of its
      conditions of hospitalization during its whole stay in intensive care, such as the patient
      perceives them at the exit of intensive care, then remote, a reduction of the risk of arisen
      a state of post-traumatic stress, anxious and/or depressive symptoms, and cognitive
      dysfunctions. This reduction of the psychiatric morbidity should lead to an improvement of
      its quality of life bound to the health, but also to the recourse to the consultations in an
      emergency department or to the new hospitalizations.

      The expected main collective profits are a better description of the post-traumatic states of
      stress consecutive to a hospitalization in intensive care, as well as an understanding of
      mechanisms and risk factors of arisen this psychiatric morbidity.

      If the study AQVAR allows to show the tested hypothesis, it will be an additional, decisive
      argument, to implement in all the intensive care units a program with multiple components of
      type IPREA3 of reduction of the received discomforts, requiring the commitment of all the
      healthcare professionals, whose feasibility is in the course of demonstration, and which must
      be integrated into the projects of department and establishment.

      The additional expected collective profits concern two other populations:

        -  The close relations of the patients hospitalized in intensive care, according to the
           hypothesis of an interaction between the quality of life of the patients after the
           intensive care and that of their susceptible close relations they too to develop a state
           of post-traumatic stress after the hospitalization in intensive care.

        -  The health workers practicing in intensive care, among which the job satisfaction, and
           possibly the level risks of professional exhaustion, should be improved by the
           membership in a department applying the program, federative, of reduction of the
           discomforts in intensive care, applied by the whole team specialized in intensive care.
    
  