
    
      Background:

      Tourniquets are commonly used during total knee replacement (TKR) surgery to provide a
      bloodless field to improve visualisation [1]. The optimum timing of tourniquet release (ie
      prior to or after wound closure) has been the subject of many randomised controlled trials
      with a recent meta-analysis [1] concluding that whilst early release may increase blood loss,
      it may protect patients from regional complications requiring re-operation such as wound
      dehiscence, haematomas requiring drainage, knee stiffness and infection. Thus, there is good
      evidence to suggest that tourniquet use of short duration may be optimal as far as
      complications are concerned. Few studies have looked at the effect of tourniquet duration on
      functional recovery, but one [2] observed that quadriceps lag recovered more quickly if short
      duration tourniquet was used. There has been no research to date on using a tourniquet just
      during cement fixation of the prosthesis when good visualisation is key to preventing
      blood-cement mixing. Such an approach is important to investigate as it could further reduce
      the risks of tourniquet use. However, tourniquet use of such short duration may increase
      blood loss and increase the risk for donor blood transfusion.

      Aim: To establish whether a short duration of tourniquet application (from cement fixation to
      cement setting)is associated with better outcomes compared to a long duration of tourniquet
      application (from surgical incision to cement setting).Research Design: A randomised
      controlled trial will be used to assess the research hypothesis. The research hypothesis is
      that tourniquet use during cement fixation only will be associated with better physical and
      functional recovery. However, it may be associated with greater need for donor blood
      transfusion. Methods: Consenting patients will be randomly allocated to have tourniquet use
      of either short or long duration in the operating theatre after the patient has been
      anaesthetised.The tourniquet will be applied at the time of the first skin incision (standard
      practice for the surgeons involved) for those allocated to the Long-Duration Group, and
      applied just during cement fixation of the prosthesis for the Short-Duration Group. In both
      groups, the tourniquet will be removed when the cement has set.

      Assessments will be conducted at baseline (up to 6-weeks before surgery during a
      pre-admission visit), at discharge, then at 2,10, 26 and 52 weeks post surgery. The outcomes
      of interest include patient-centred measures (Oxford knee score -primary outcome)and other
      physical measures such as stair climbing test quadriceps lag, and knee range of motion. As
      the risk of donor blood transfusion may increase with short tourniquet duration, the use of
      donor blood is also a primary outcome. Reinfusion drains will be used routinely on all
      patients in order to reduce the need for donor blood. All enrolled patients will undergo a
      screening leg doppler and another at 2 weeks post surgery for detection of DVTs. Length of
      stay, and discharge destination (home versus rehabilitation),will also be recorded.
      Complication type and frequency (including evidence of prosthesis loosening in the first
      year) will be monitored. The study will be powered to detect a significant difference in
      Oxford scores. Thus, a sample size of 200 patients will provide sufficient power (80%) at
      0.05 significance level to detect a 0.5SD difference in Oxford scores between the 2 treatment
      arms. This provides for a 20% loss to follow-up and also provides sufficient numbers to
      detect a large absolute difference (> 20%) in transfusion rate between the groups.
    
  