
    
      Contact information. On the day of enrollment, contact information (address, phone number)
      will be obtained from the subject. Subjects will also be asked to provide the contact
      information for a family member or friend who the study team may contact in case of emergency
      or if unable to get in touch with subject at follow up. Subjects unable to provide contact
      information for at least one family member will not be enrolled.

      Baseline evaluation.

      On the date of enrollment, study staff will obtain two types of information:

        1. Baseline clinical characteristics. Study staff will obtain specific clinical variables
           from the patient to gather information about variables that could impact levels of
           hopelessness/optimism after discharge. These variables include: age, gender, # of prior
           admissions [zero, 1-5, more than 5], presence of substance use disorder (assessed via
           inpatient chart review), admission for suicide attempt or suicidal ideation only, and
           involvement in exercises that can increase feelings of well-being like gratitude,
           forgiveness, using one's personal strengths, and acts of kindness.

        2. Baseline outcome measures: Study staff will also administer six instruments:

             -  Beck Hopelessness Scale (BHS):14 This is a 21-item scale used to assess feelings of
                hopelessness.

             -  Concise Health Risk Tracking Scale (CHRT):15 This is a 12 item scale used to assess
                the presence and intensity of suicidal thoughts.

             -  Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R):16 This is a 10-item scale that measures
                optimism (and pessimism).

             -  Positive Affect Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS):17 This is a well-validated
                20-item self-report measure of more general positive and negative affect.

             -  Sheehan Disability Scale:18 This is a 5 item scale used to assess the degree to
                which the subject's condition or disease (psychological, social, physical) has
                impacted his or her functioning in daily life.

             -  Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology, Self Report (QIDS-SR):19 This is a
                16-item questionnaire that assesses the subject's depressive symptoms. It will
                serve as an additional reliable, valid way to gather information on the subject's
                mood.

      This evaluation should take approximately 20-30 minutes.

      Follow-up assessments.

      Follow-up assessments will occur by phone or mail at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 8 weeks. Similar to
      initial assessments, the follow-up assessments will have two components:

        1. Assessment of characteristics: Study staff will inquire about subjects' living situation
           at discharge (homelessness, living alone), employment/academic status, treatment
           postdischarge (follow-up with therapist, psychiatrist, PCP, groups, AA/NA, partial
           hospital programs, and other treatment and forms of peer support), and involvement in
           exercises that can increase feelings of well-being like gratitude, forgiveness, using
           one's personal strengths, and acts of kindness.

        2. Assessment of study outcomes: Staff will readminister the five measures above, and will
           also inquire about psychiatric readmissions, suicide attempts, and episodes of self-harm
           (cutting, burning, banging/hitting body parts, ingesting toxic materials/objects, and
           other intentional non-suicidal self-harm behaviors). This evaluation should take 20-30
           minutes.
    
  