
    
      This research study attempts to reveal whether coronary artery dilation in patients with
      Kawasaki disease refractory to standard therapy could be prevented using a matrix
      metalloproteinase inhibitor: doxycycline.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that oral administration of doxycycline for two
      weeks during the acute phase of Kawasaki disease (KD) effectively blocks matrix
      metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity in the coronary arteries and therefore prevents the
      progression of coronary artery dilation and aneurysm formation in children with KD.

      Rationale There is no specific treatment for children with KD, who develop coronary artery
      dilation or aneurysm. Based on the animal studies and adult trials showing beneficial effect
      of doxycycline on coronary artery dilation and abdominal aneurysms, this selective MMP-9
      inhibitor offers a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent progressive coronary artery
      dilation in children with KD.

      Specific aims

        1. Measure serum MMP-9 activity, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 activity (TIMP-1),
           serum levels of degradation products due to MMP-9 activity (elastin and gelatin
           degradation products) before and after treatment with doxycycline in children with KD.

        2. Compare serum MMP-9 activity and degradation product levels of children receiving only
           standard therapy for KD (IVIG, infliximab) with children receiving standard therapy and
           doxycycline treatment.

        3. Measure the coronary artery diameters before and after doxycycline treatment in children
           with KD.

        4. Compare coronary artery measurements of children receiving only standard therapy for KD
           (IVIG, infliximab) with children receiving standard therapy and doxycycline treatment.

        5. Design a multi-center prospective randomized blinded placebo-controlled trial to assess
           the efficacy of doxycycline in preventing coronary artery dilation and aneurysm.
    
  