
    
      Routine hepatitis B vaccination beginning at birth was provided to Alaska Natives several
      years before other areas of the United States began routine infant hepatitis B vaccination
      programs. Follow up studies of hepatitis B immunity among Alaska Native children provide an
      early opportunity to assess long term protection against hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection
      for children vaccinated at birth with the currently used recombinant vaccine. This protocol
      describes an evaluation of long-term protection against HBV infection among children who
      received the recombinant hepatitis B vaccine beginning at birth, and who currently receive
      medical care at the Alaska Native Medical Center (ANMC) in Anchorage, Alaska.

      The specific objective of this study is to evaluate the immune response to a five microgram
      dose of recombinant hepatitis B vaccine among 5-6 year old and 10-14 year old children who
      received the primary recombinant hepatitis B vaccine series beginning at birth. The
      concentration of antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) will be measured
      immediately before administering the vaccine, and compared with levels in serum drawn 1, 2
      and 4 weeks afterwards. A rapid antibody response (anamnestic response) indicates that immune
      memory, and therefore immunity to HBV infection, is preserved. The frequency and magnitude of
      the anamnestic response for the group of older children will be compared to that of the
      younger group.

      Currently, there is no recommendation for a routine booster dose of vaccine after receiving
      three doses at birth. This study will provide valuable information regarding the need for and
      response to an additional dose (booster dose) of hepatitis B vaccine among children entering
      primary school or adolescence. If evidence of waning immune memory (as measured by a delayed
      or diminished response to the additional dose of vaccine) is found, these two age groups
      would be the most easily accessible for routine delivery of a booster dose.
    
  