
    
      Rationale for this Non-Interventional Study According to the Japanese Asthma Prevention and
      Management Guideline 2015 (Japan guideline (JGL) 2015), the goal in the management and
      treatment of asthma is "to be able to lead a life like a healthy individual." In order to
      achieve this therapeutic goal, the achievement of "well-controlled" state based on the asthma
      control status is considered to be a clinical goal. However, there are few studies in which
      the asthma control status is accurately surveyed in a real life setting in adult asthma
      patients receiving continued treatment from physician in Japan and the actual situation is
      unknown. By understanding the status of asthma control in asthma patients in a real life
      setting, the clinical issues could be clarified. Therefore, such information would contribute
      to appropriate treatment of asthma.

      Thus, we planned this study to evaluate the asthma control status, asthma symptoms (severity,
      frequency, and limitations on activities, etc.), Quality of line (QOL), and use of drugs for
      asthma attack in the study population in a real life setting by recruiting patients through
      medical institutions providing continued care for asthma patients.

      Objectives of this Non-Interventional Study

        1. Primary objective

           To assess the proportion of adult asthma patients receiving continued treatment from
           physician in Japan in each asthma control status defined by JGL 2015
           ("poorly-controlled," "insufficiently-controlled," and "well-controlled").

        2. Secondary objectives

      To evaluate asthma symptoms (intensity, frequency, and limitations on activities, etc.), QOL,
      use of drugs for asthma attack, and emotional feelings in the study population; and to
      investigate the effects of demographic characteristics and pathologic properties of each
      patient on the status of asthma control, asthma symptoms, QOL, use of drugs for asthma
      attack, and emotional feelings.
    
  