
    
      A multi-center prospective sibling oocyte vitrification trial where, in the first phase, half
      of the patients' oocytes will be vitrified and warmed (experimental group). The remaining
      oocytes will not be vitrified and will serve as the control group. In the second phase all of
      the patients' oocytes will be vitrified and the embryo transfer will be performed in a
      following cycle. This simulates the situation of a normal cryopreservation embryo transfer.
      The study population consists of 20 women who will undergo a fresh IVF cycle during the study
      period. The primary objective in the first phase is to assess survival, fertilization and
      embryo development after oocyte vitrification/warming with the new media. The results will be
      compared with results from sibling oocytes which have not been vitrified. Secondary
      objectives are to assess the clinical results such as implantation, miscarriage and pregnancy
      rate as well as delivery rate and neonatal outcome.

      The primary objective in the second phase is to assess the delivery rate after oocyte
      vitrification/warming with the new media. Secondary objectives are to assess survival,
      fertilization, embryo development, utilization rate, pregnancy rate and neonatal outcome on
      the previously vitrified and warmed oocytes. The results will be compared with results from a
      control group of patients, treated at the same clinics within the same time period, using the
      same inclusion and exclusion criteria. All patients who undergo embryo transfer will have a
      serum beta-hCG test conducted 14 days after oocyte retrieval. If positive, repeat beta-hCG
      testing will be conducted 2-4 days later. If appropriate, a pregnancy ultrasound will be
      conducted between 6-8 weeks gestation (menstrual age) to record gestational sac(s) and fetal
      heart beat. The delivery outcome will also be recorded. For patients with an unsuccessful
      treatment, there will be a follow-up period of 6 months after study completion. From this
      follow-up, data from frozen cycles, i.e. from embryos after oocyte vitrification, can be
      evaluated as well.
    
  