
    
      Goal: Conduct a prospective randomized pilot clinical trial embedded within the care delivery
      system at UCSF Medical Center (UCSF). It is intended to evaluate the efficacy of optima4BP in
      improving care coordination for patients with uncontrolled hypertension (HTN). Although
      optima4BP has been evaluated during patient-physician office visits, it has not been
      evaluated for its efficacy to support treatment changes remotely, over time. PRECISION
      investigates this aspect and its impact on stakeholders (physicians and patients). The
      outcomes will set the stage for a scaled-up study of 300 patients at UCSF.

      Study Design: The patients will be randomized to 2 arms (a) optima4BP surveillance and
      treatment recommendation support (O4BP); (b) usual care (UC) - usual care seen appropriate by
      the treating physician). NOTE: The original design prior to study initiation considered a 3
      arms randomization which would also include: enhanced care (EC) representing a "step up" from
      UC by providing the physician with raw remotely collected BP values sent on a monthly cycle.
      However, this arm was abandoned at enrollment because patients in the UC arm were proactively
      reaching out to their physicians with remotely collected BP values from the Qardio® device
      therefore rendering the initially projected Extended Care arm unuseful.

      Every 30 days, the collection of patient information will be followed by an arm-specific
      action. For identified patients in need of a medication change, O4BP physicians will receive
      a treatment change recommendation for review. UC physicians will not receive any information.
      All patients will undergo at least 2 in-office visits, a baseline visit and an exit visit.
      All patients will be asked to provide every 30 days the following information: (a) adherence
      to current HTN treatment; and (b) experienced side-effects and severity. The communication
      will be performed via e-mail between Health-e-Heart (HeH) automated system
      (https://www.health-eheartstudy.org/) and the patient. HeH will automatically obtain BP
      values from the remote monitors provided to each patient.
    
  