
    
      Since long, the standard loco-regional treatment of the early-stage breast cancer is breast
      conservative surgery (tumorectomy) followed by a selective biopsy of the sentinel lymph node
      and, if positive, lymphadenectomy of axillary levels I and II. Complementary irradiation of
      the breast and ganglionar areas has shown to reduce disease-specific mortality. Therefore,
      adjuvant radiotherapy of the whole breast is currently indicated after conservative surgery.

      The recommendation to irradiate axillary lymph nodes is clear in patients with more than
      three affected nodes. The standard volumes to irradiate after lymphadenectomy include
      supraclavicular and level III axillary regions, while axillary levels I and II, and the
      internal breast lymph node chain, are reserved for cases of cumbersome axillary affectation,
      patients who have not undergone lymphadenectomy or it was insufficient, or affectation of the
      internal breast lymph node chain.

      However, when only 1 to 3 nodes are affected, there is no unanimity on the recommendation of
      radiotherapy, despite some studies have shown that irradiation improves survival. In
      addition, the National Cancer Institute of Canada trial (NCIC-CTGMA20), high risk patients
      with negative lymph nodes and patients with positive lymph nodes (most of them with 1 to 3
      affected nodes) showed that local irradiation with or without regional lymph node irradiation
      improved disease-free survival, as well as loco-regional and distant disease control.
      Moreover, a systematic review including more than 20,000 patients from 45 studies concludes
      that the irradiation of the breast reduced the loco-regional relapse, even in patients
      without affected lymph nodes.

      One Step Nucleic Acid Amplification (OSNA) is a technique developed by Sysmex Corporation
      that allows a readily and complete analysis of sentinel lymph nodes during surgery. OSNA
      provides a quantification of the Cytokeratin 19 (CK19) tumour cell marker in the messenger
      ribonucleic acid (mRNA) of the sentinel node, the result being expressed as "total tumour
      load" (TTL), which is a discrete number of copies per microliter. This technique has shown
      ability to discriminate macrometastasis, micrometastasis or negativity, and to predict
      affectation of non-sentinel lymph nodes. According to previous results, a TTL < 15,000 is
      associated with a 85% probability of non-affectation of (non-sentinel) axillar lymph nodes.

      The therapeutic value of the axillary lymphadenectomy has been questioned since long, and the
      recent publication of the Z0011 study proposes solely a selective biopsy of the sentinel
      lymph node. This has impacted clinical practice guidelines as prestigious as those of the
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network; however, irradiation is always considered in these
      cases.

      In summary, the amount of nodal volumes to irradiate in early stages of breast cancer is
      under discussion, particularly in the case of patients not submitted to axillar
      lymphadenectomy despite affectation of sentinel lymph nodes. In most cases, the irradiation
      of the breast implies "incidental" irradiation of the axillary level I, and in some cases the
      level II. For this reason, some groups have decided not to irradiate these axillary regions
      intentionally, while others advocate irradiating these regions intentionally.
    
  