
    
      The general aim is to study the mechanisms of the dissociation between the inflammatory
      activity and the joints destruction in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in remission
      but presenting a progression of the bone erosions.

      The primary aim is to detect differences between patients with AR in clinical remission, but
      presenting progressive articular erosion and patients in complete clinical and radiological
      remission, by characterizing the proteins, particularly the chromogranin A (CHGA), present
      both at articular and systemic levels.

      The secondary aims are: to characterize the cellular inflammatory intra-articular infiltrate
      and the cells of the immune system present in the circulation; to characterize protein
      profile of the cells resident in the synovium, cartilage and bone of the damaged
      articulation. It is hypothesized that with this approach it is possible to detect protein or
      cellular markers able to identify early the patients at risk to progress towards articular
      erosion and to identify specific cellular and protein targets for the development of local or
      systemic therapies suitable for the control of the erosive RA.

      This is a, observational with additional procedure, court, prospective study. 160 patients 80
      RA patients (Group 1) of which:

        -  Group 1A: at least 10 patients, maximum 70,with RA in remission, but presenting
           progressive bone erosion who must undergo a surgical procedure.

        -  Group 1B: at least10 patients maximum 70, with RA in remission, without bone erosion A
           group of 80 controls,

        -  Group 2: 10 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) who must undergo a surgical procedure.

        -  Group 3:70 without RA and OA but hospitalized for any other orthopedics pathology who
           must undergo a surgical procedure.

      Since several practical issues (e.g. unsuitableness or low amount of biological material) can
      occurs, we envision the possibility to recruit additional patients until the achievement of
      complete samples for the groups described.

      Males and females RA patients in clinical remission or not, osteoarthritis patients and
      patients hospitalized for any other orthopedics pathology (used as controls) will be
      enrolled. For the RA patients, pharmacological treatment, laboratory data, RA activity,
      assessment of bone erosions with hands and feet x-ray will be recorded.

      From RA patients with bone erosion, OA patients and controls whole blood will be collected;
      from RA patients without bone erosion whole blood will be collected. From whole blood
      mononuclear cells will be isolated and plasma will be harvested. A further tube will be
      collected for serum retrieval to perform CHGA dosage. From both RA and OA patients synovial
      fluid will be collected along with mononuclear cells present in this fluid and from both RA
      and OA patients candidate for total articular replacement fragments of synovial membrane,
      cartilage, bone and bone marrow will be collected during surgery as waste material.

      The nuclear cells isolated from whole blood, synovial fluid and bone marrow will be
      characterized using a panel of markers indicated by the Human Immunology Project.

      Protein arrays on plasma samples obtained from RA, OA patients and controls will be performed
      to identify a panel of acute phase proteins, cytokines and chemokines present at systemic
      levels and to highlight analogies and differences in the systemic protein profile.

      The synovial fluid will be used to identify the proteins present in the synovial fluid of RA
      and OA patients. The main identified target will be quantified and used as markers of erosion
      progression, to develop intra-articular pharmacological therapies and to suggest the
      therapeutic doses of drugs. The same kind of analysis will be performed even on tissues
      obtained from surgical patients (RA and OA patients) to establish the pathways involved and
      the tissue specific targets to be stimulated, i.e. with trophic factors, to promote the
      tissue homeostasis after switching-off the autoimmune and inflammatory processes.

      To reach this goal, the characterized protein profiles will be functionally evaluated by
      using Systems Biology techniques based on the study of protein-protein (PPI) interaction
      networks (8). Moreover, the protein profiles will be processed using statistics (Pearson,
      Spearman) able to evaluate the dependence between variables and to allow the building of
      protein co-expression networks (9). In both cases, PPI and/or co-expression networks, the
      study of the networks structure will allow the identification of hubs, bottlenecks and moduli
      (10) typical of the RA patients with or without erosion.

      Serum will be sent to IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele for the quantification of chromogranin A.
      Part of cells obtained from whole blood and synovial fluid will be sent to the IRCCS Ospedale
      pediatrico Bambino Gesù (Rome, Italy) for further immunological analysis.
    
  