
    
      The intervention will invite obese pregnant women with a BMI ≥30 to participate in a research
      study where participants may be offered a programme of nutrition and lifestyle advice, unless
      participants meet the exclusion criteria.

      The programme of nutrition and lifestyle advice will comprise a series of weekly 7 x 2 hour
      group sessions, which will be delivered in community venues by trained Healthy Lifestyle
      Support Workers (HLSWs) employed within the maternity service.

      The group sessions will follow the scripted "Foodwise in PregnancyTM" manual of nutrition
      information; practical cooking sessions; and information on low impact exercise e.g. walking.
      'Foodwise in PregnancyTM' has been developed by a group of NHS Dietitians and Midwives and is
      adapted from the existing Foodwise for Life programme. Pedometers will be provided at session
      three to raise participants awareness of the benefits of physical activity. The programme is
      participative in its approach to experiential learning.

      The group sessions will also promote breastfeeding (All Wales Maternity Strategy Key
      Performance Indicator/Measure) to assist healthy weight gain for babies, healthy weaning and
      the importance of play and physical activity. Delivery of the sessions will be quality
      assured by a specialist public health dietitian and public health midwife employed within Cwm
      Taf University Health Board.

      Because eligible women will initially be referred by a midwife, all midwives will be trained
      by a public health dietitian on the "Eating for 1, Healthy and Active for 2" Royal College of
      Midwives accredited compact training, to ensure a sensitive and effective conversation (using
      motivational interviewing techniques) that raises the issue of excess weight in pregnancy.
      The Healthy Lifestyle Support Workers, delivering the intervention, will also attend this
      training.
    
  