
    
      Background: General anesthesia may predispose patients to aspiration of gastroesophageal
      contents because of depression of protective reflexes during loss of consciousness. The
      laparoscopy would increase the intra-abdominal pressure, which is regarded as a predisposing
      factor of gastroesophageal reflux during the anesthesia. The lower esophageal sphincter is
      the important physiological mechanisms that prevent regurgitation and aspiration. However,
      the change of LES pressure and gastroesophageal reflux before and after laparoscopic
      physiological condition is still unknown because the prospective evaluation of
      gastroesophageal function in human is limited. In addition, the relationship between the
      change of intra-abdominal pressure and the LES pressure were still unknown, too.

      The esophageal manometry has pressure sensor to measure the LES pressure. The AbViser
      ®AutoValve®IAP Monitoring Device is a sterile non-invasive disposable monitoring device, that
      is routinely used to measure intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) in the intensive care unit.
      Therefore, application of esophageal manometry and pH impedance via second-generation SADs
      may help to detect gastroesophageal functional change and ongoing gastroesophageal
      regurgitation during perioperative period. We also used the AbViser ®AutoValve®IAP Monitoring
      Device to monitor the change of IAP before and after laparoscopic condition. In this study,
      we aimed to observe the changes of gastroesophgeal function parameters by esophageal
      manometry and intra-abdominal pressure measured by AbViser ®AutoValve®IAP Monitoring Device
      before and after laparoscopic condition.

      Objectives: we aimed to observe the changes of gastroesophgeal function parameters by
      esophageal manometry, pH impedance, and intra-abdominal pressure measured by AbViser
      ®AutoValve®IAP Monitoring Device before and after laparoscopic condition.

      Patients and methods: Consecutive patients who will receive scheduled laparoscopic surgery
      under general anesthesia and aged >= 20 will be enrolled. All subjects provide basic
      demographic data and fill in standard symptom questionnaire for evaluation of baseline upper
      gastrointestinal symptoms. After induction, the endotracheal tube (ETT) will be inserted to
      establish airway. Then, the esophageal manometry would be inserted to monitor the LES, and
      the AbViser ®AutoValve®IAP Monitoring Device will be inserted to monitor the IAP before and
      after the laparoscopic condition. After the surgery and removal of ETT, the patients will be
      followed for the oxygen saturation, sore throat or hoarseness in the postoperative care unit,
      as well as the possible complications.

      Expected result: We will observe the changes of LES function, gastroesophageal reflux and the
      relationship between the IAP and the LES function before and after the laparoscopic
      condition.
    
  