
    
      This is a randomized controlled study to investigate non-deceptive placebos (open-label
      placebo, OLP) in depressed adolescents. Participants in this study will be randomly assigned
      to one of three groups: OLP with the 4-point rationale group (n=20), OLP without rationale
      group (n=20), and controls (n=20) who will receive the same level of supportive attention
      from the study clinician. MRI scanning and clinical assessments will be performed at the
      baseline and after the 2-week treatment or waiting period. The main objective here is to
      estimate the effectiveness and understand the mechanism of OLP in depressed adolescents. The
      central hypothesis is that the mechanism by which OLP exerts its action in adolescent
      depression is by forming a positive expectation, which activates endogenous mu-opioid
      receptor (MOR)-mediated neurotransmission in a network of regions implicated in emotion,
      stress regulation, and the pathophysiology of depression, namely, the anterior cingulate
      cortex (ACC) - striato - amygdalo - thalamic network. The investigators plan to test the
      central hypothesis in 60 13-18 year-old adolescents with mild to moderate depression by
      pursuing the following Aims:

      AIM 1: To test the effectiveness of OLP in depressed adolescents. Depressed adolescents will
      be randomly assigned for two weeks to an OLP with the 4-point rationale group (n=20), OLP
      without rationale group (n=20), and controls (n=20) who will receive the same level of
      supportive attention from the study clinician. Hypothesis 1: The improvement in depression
      symptoms measured by the self-report Reynolds Adolescent Depression Scale (RADS-2) in the OLP
      + rationale group (that combines conscious positive expectation with conditioned response to
      the ingestion of medication) will be higher than in the OLP without rationale group
      (conditioned response only) and controls. Positive expectation of recovery will be assessed
      before and after group assignment and accounted for in the analyses.

      AIM 2: To measure neural response to OLP. The OLP groups will receive the first dose of the
      OLP in the MRI scanner and changes in the cerebral blood perfusion (CBP) will be measured
      using arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI. Mechanistically, the investigators expect that the
      MOR-mediated neurotransmission activated by placebo will be associated with a CBP increase,
      specifically: Hypothesis 2a: The CBP increase in the ACC - striato - amygdalo - thalamic
      network after the administration of the OLP + rationale to be higher than in the OLP group
      and controls. Hypothesis 2b: This CBP increase will correlate with the improvement in RADS-2
      scores after two weeks.

      AIM 3: To test neural network normalization in depressed adolescents (by comparing to the
      existing database of MRI scans of healthy teens). The second MRI will be performed after the
      two weeks. Mechanistically, the investigators expect that through the regular activation by
      OLP, myelination of the ACC - striato - amygdalo - thalamic network will increase, leading to
      a normalization of the previously demonstrated hypoconnectivity. Hypothesis 3: The increases
      in structural and functional connectivity of the ACC - striato - amygdalo - thalamic network
      after two weeks will correlate with decreases in RADS-2 depression total scores.
    
  