
    
      Background Patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are known to be at risk for
      thrombo-embolic events. Virchow's triad describes the major risk factors in three categories:
      venous stasis, vessel injury and activation of blood coagulation. A prolonged mechanical
      ventilation together with the hemodynamic effects of this ventilation with a high positive
      and expiratory pressure (PEEP), the presence of central venous catheters, the immobilization
      of these patients and the presence of obesity or other comorbidities can attribute to the
      occurrence of a deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in patients admitted at ICU. The incidence of
      DVT during ICU stay has been reported between 5 and 15%.

      On the 13th of March, the first COVID-19 patient was admitted at the ICU at the Jessa
      Hospital. Within a few days, the admissions at our COVID-19 unit grew exponential. In these
      difficult time, research concerning COVID-19 has been performed indicating the COVID-19 virus
      induces a hyper-inflammatory state. It has been suggested that systemic inflammation induces
      endothelial injury. This will activate the coagulation cascade and impair fibrinolysis with
      disruption of endothelial barrier, and loss of physiologic antithrombotic factors which may
      elevated the risk for DVTs significantly. Up to now, there is still no causal treatment for
      COVID-19. The current management of COVID-19 is mainly supportive i.e. a prolonged
      inflammatory status and a prolonged risk for VTE.

      We have shown in a previous cross sectional study that the prevalence of deep venous
      thrombosis (DVT) in critically ill ICU patients with COVID-19 treated with a prophylactic
      dose of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is more than 60% (submitted manuscript).
      Consequently, the risk of VTE complications in this patient group is very high. In the light
      of these findings, an intensified thromboprofylaxis protocol was applied in critically ill
      ICU patients with COVID-19 at our ICU units since 31st of March 2020.

      Aim The aim of this study is to investigate and compare the mortality, the incidence of DVT
      and the incidence of kidney and liver failure in patients admitted to the ICU before and
      after the implementation of an intensified thromboprofylaxis protocol on 31st of March 2020.
      Patients in the before group are admitted at the ICU from 13/3/2020-30/3/2020 and patients in
      the after group are admitted to the ICU from 31/3 until 20/4/2020.

      Design This is a retrospective, longitudinal, before-after controlled study investigating the
      mortality, the incidence of DVT and the incidence of kidney and liver failure in COVID-19
      patients admitted to the ICU before and after the implementation of an intensified
      thromboprofylaxis protocol.

      Outcome measures The primary endpoint of this retrospective study is to investigate the
      mortality in critically ill ICU patients before and after the implementation of the
      intensified thromboprofylaxis protocol in our hospital.

      Secondary endpoints are the incidence of DVTs with the number and locations of these
      thromboses, the incidence of kidney failure and the incidence of liver failure in COVID-19
      patients admitted to the ICU before and after the implementation of the thromboprofylaxis
      protocol.

      Additional data collection

      Additional collected parameters are listed below and are collected as a standard-of-care in
      our hospital:

        -  Demographics: i.e age, gender, BMI, Apache II score (to predict mortality)

        -  Comorbidities: smoking, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
           respiratory disease, malignancies, renal failure (AKI), liver failure, gastrointestinal
           disease, neurological conditions, mental state, other

        -  Symptoms at the time of admission to ICU: i.e fever, body temperature, dyspnoea,
           headache, diarrhea etc…

        -  Laboratory results of all standard parameters measured

        -  Treatment: antiviral agents, antibiotics, etc…

        -  Complications: shock, heart failure, sepsis, stroke, etc…

        -  Ventilation: method, PEEP, FiO2, P/F ratio ..

        -  SOFA score (Sequential Organ Failure Assessment)

        -  Radiological findings: pneumonia, ground-glass opacity..
    
  