
    
      This study will be a multi-institutional randomized clinical trial of a short course of
      pre-operative antibiotic prophylaxis in addition to perioperative antibiotics. Once patients
      have been identified and enrolled into the study, they will be grouped based on the
      sensitivity profiles of their positive urine culture or the presence of indwelling kidney
      drain tube (nephrostomy tube, nephroureteral stent, ureteral stent). Each of these groups
      will be individually randomized as follows:

      Group 1) Kidney stone subjects with indwelling drain tube (nephrostomy tube or ureteral
      stent) and negative urine culture

      Randomization:

        -  7 day course of oral Macrobid (Nitrofurantoin) 100 mg twice daily + <24 hours
           perioperative intravenous (IV) antibiotics

        -  48 hours perioperative oral Macrobid (Nitrofurantoin) 100mg twice daily + <24 hours
           perioperative IV antibiotics

      Group 2) Kidney stone subjects with positive urine culture sensitive to oral antibiotics

      Randomization:

        -  7 day course of an oral antibiotic (proven effective on sensitivity profile) + <24 hours
           perioperative IV antibiotics

        -  48 hours of an oral antibiotic (proven effective on sensitivity profile) + <24 hours
           perioperative IV antibiotics

      Macrobid is preferred oral agent if shown to be effective per culture sensitivities. If
      patient has previous allergies to Macrobid and/or sensitivity profile indicates
      ineffectiveness of Macrobid, the one antibiotic will be provided in the order of choice:
      nitrofurantoin > sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim > doxycycline> ciprofloxacin > keflex >
      cefpodoxime.

      Group 3) Kidney stone subject with positive urine culture sensitive to only
      intravenous/intramuscular antibiotics (resistant to oral agents)

      Randomization:

        -  7 day course of an IV/Intramuscular (IM) antibiotic (proven effective on sensitivity
           profile) + <24 hours perioperative IV antibiotics

        -  48 hours of an IV/IM antibiotic (proven effective on sensitivity profile) + <24 hours
           perioperative IV antibiotics peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) line, IV or
           intramuscular injection for administration of antibiotics.

      The participating institutions are academic medical centers in the United States and Canada
      that are part of the EDGE (Endourologic Disease Group of Excellence) research consortium, a
      research collaborative that has the goal of producing high quality, multi-institutional
      studies of nephrolithiasis. Separate IRB approvals will be obtained from each institution.
      University of California San Diego (UCSD) will be the coordinating institution. Member
      institution of EDGE maintain frequent email contact with one another and hold a monthly
      teleconference to discuss safety updates, interim results, issues with accrual, and
      modifications to research protocols and consents (if necessary).

      Treatment Assignments:

      Patients will be assigned based on a predetermined allocation sequence that will be generated
      by a computerized random number generator. Patients will be stratified by institution in
      permuted blocks of varying size. Only study staff at the coordinating institution (UCSD) will
      have access to the full allocation sequence. i.e. no clinical staff involved in recruiting
      and consenting patients for the study at UCSD or other participating institutions will have
      knowledge of the allocation sequence at their institution prior to enrollment of each
      patient. To further aid allocation concealment, the block size will be varied.

      Standard of care procedures:

      Patients will be identified based on clinic visits or hospital admission. All patients will
      be counseled on standard treatment options-extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL),
      percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) and ureteroscopy (URS). The discussion regarding
      treatment options and subsequent care will not deviate from routine care. Patients consenting
      for percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) will be considered for enrollment into the study and
      will be enrolled to have data collected prospectively. Patients will be consented prior to
      prescription of antibiotics and to the surgery for collection of demographic, disease,
      perioperative, and postoperative data. Abdominal pelvic computed tomography (CT), if not
      already obtained, will be used to delineate pre-operative stone size and for preoperative
      planning. If the patient does not consent to the study, the use of antibiotics will be based
      on routine clinical practice of the treating urologist. Both prophylaxis with preoperative
      antibiotics and no prophylaxis (i.e. periprocedural only) are considered standard of care.

      Investigational portion of treatment:

      Group 1 patients will be randomized to nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystalline 100 mg
      twice daily for 7 days prior to PCNL with the final day of prophylactic course being 1 day
      prior to surgery or to nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystalline 100mg twice daily for 48
      hours prior to PCNL. Nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystalline is currently indicated for
      the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Both groups will receive
      antibiotics the day of surgery-i.e. a dose of ampicillin intravenous (IV) (2 g) and
      gentamicin intravenous (IV) (5 mg/kg) within 120 minutes of surgery start time. Patients with
      penicillin allergy will receive vancomycin intravenous (IV) (1 g) instead of ampicillin and
      patients with gentamicin/aminoglycoside allergy will receive ceftriaxone intravenous (IV) (2
      g) instead of gentamicin. Postoperative antibiotics in the absence of sepsis (see definition
      of sepsis below) will be <24 hours of IV antibiotics.

      Group 2 patients will be randomized to either 7 days or 48 hours of oral antibiotics prior to
      the PCNL with the final day of prophylactic course being 1 day prior to surgery. Antibiotic
      choice will be determined by the culture sensitivity profile, with nitrofurantoin
      monohydrate/macrocrystalline 100 mg twice daily being the preferred agent if shown to be
      effective against the uropathogen(s). If patient has previous allergies to Macrobid and/or
      sensitivity profile indicates ineffectiveness of Macrobid, then one antibiotic will be
      provided in the following order: nitrofurantoin > sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim >
      doxycycline> ciprofloxacin > keflex > cefpodoxime.

      Antibiotics the day of surgery will be a dose of ampicillin IV (2g) and gentamicin IV
      (5mg/kg) within 120 minutes of surgery start time. Patients with penicillin allergy will
      receive vancomycin IV (1g) instead of ampicillin and patients with gentamicin/aminoglycoside
      allergy will receive ceftriaxone IV (2g) instead of gentamicin. Postoperative antibiotics in
      the absence of sepsis (see definition of sepsis below) will be <24 hours of IV antibiotics.

      Group 3 patients will be randomized to either 7 days or 48 hours of an injectable (IV/IM)
      antibiotic prior to the PCNL with the final day of prophylaxis being 1 day before surgery.
      Antibiotic choice will be determined by the culture sensitivity profile.

      Antibiotics the day of surgery will be a dose of same IV/IM antibiotic within 120 minutes of
      surgery start time. Postoperative antibiotics in the absence of sepsis (see definition of
      sepsis below) will be <24 hours of IV antibiotics.

      Central randomization will take place with UCSD as the lead site. Randomization will occur in
      block randomization in block sizes of 10.

      Standard of care procedures:

      Patients will have PCNL performed in typical fashion, without deviation from standard of
      care. Per the usual practice of the treating surgeon, percutaneous access to the kidney will
      be obtained either by Interventional Radiology or by the operating surgeon. At the time of
      surgery, urine from the renal pelvis, urine from the bladder, and the stone itself will be
      sent for culture. Placement of renal drainage devices (ureteral stents, nephrostomy tubes,
      nephroureteral stents) will be left up to the discretion of the surgeon. Post-operatively,
      the patients will be admitted to the hospital and monitored per usual clinical procedure.
      Unless clinically indicated as described above, <24 hours of post-operative antibiotics will
      be prescribed. Labs will be obtained pre-operatively and on post-operative day 1 if the
      patient is admitted, and will include: complete blood count (CBC), basic metabolic panel
      (chem 7). Further laboratory tests will be dictated by the patients' clinical status as per
      the standard of care-i.e. for patients that exhibit signs of sepsis such as tachycardia
      (>90/min), low systolic blood pressure (<90 mmHg), fever > 38.3 Celsius, hypothermia <36
      Celsius, altered mental status, respiratory rate >20 min or leukocytosis >12000 or leukopenia
      <4000, further urine culture, blood culture and serum lactate will be obtained.

      The patient will be discharged from the hospital per the usual clinical protocols.
      Post-discharge the patient will be seen in clinic 1-12 weeks after surgery. Patients will
      undergo a non-contrast CT abdomen/pelvis, an abdominal plain radiograph, and/or a renal
      ultrasound during this postoperative period.

      Demographic fields will be obtained preoperatively and include age, race, gender, American
      Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score (for comorbidity assessment), body mass index (BMI),
      and prior stone disease. Disease fields that will be obtained include stone size (maximal
      axial and coronal dimensions), degree of hydronephrosis (mild/moderate/severe), history of
      diabetes mellitus, history of cardiac disease, hypertension, prior urinary tract infection,
      history of bowel diversion, or neurogenic bladder.

      Perioperative fields include OR (surgical) time, type of anesthesia, number of access tracts,
      use of internalized ureteral stent, nephrostomy tube, or nephroureteral stent, estimated
      blood loss, and intraoperative complications. Postoperative fields will include postoperative
      maximum body temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, urine culture results, stone culture
      results, stone composition, white blood cell count, serum lactate, postoperative serum
      creatinine, need for admission to intensive care unit, hospital length of stay (LOS), and
      stone-free status at 1-12 week postoperative imaging. Patients will be followed during
      routine clinical visits as part of their continuing care.
    
  