
    
      Diabetes is a global health emergency, which is estimated to increase throughout the 21st
      century (Guariguata et al., 2014). The prevalence of diabetes in Canada is increasing; in
      2014, 6.7% of Canadians and 9% of Newfoundlanders and Labradorians had diabetes (Statistics
      Canada, 2014). In 2020 the number of people in Canada with diabetes is expected to rise to
      2.5 million people, or 9.9% of the population (Canadian Diabetes Association, 2009).

      Patients with diabetes are at risk for poor foot health and the estimated lifetime incidence
      of a diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) for this population is 25% (Singh, Armstrong, & Lipsky, 2005).
      In Canada in 2011 DFUs and related care cost the healthcare system 547 million dollars
      (Hopkins, Burke, Harlock, Jegathisawaran, & Goeree, 2015). Complicated DFUs that do not heal
      can lead to amputation; an estimated 85% of amputations are the result of a DFU (Canadian
      Association of Wound Care, 2015).

      The increasing number of people with diabetes will result in a rise in foot complications
      such as DFUs (Canadian Diabetes Association, 2009). Therefore, it is important to develop
      strategies for the prevention of DFUs. An important aspect of maintaining foot health is
      self-management (Boulton et al., 2008; Chang, Peng, Chang, & Chen, 2013). However, there is
      limited literature related to the experiences of diabetic patients with foot management
      (Delea et al., 2015). As a result, little is known of the factors that need to be addressed
      to ensure successful uptake of a self-management strategy. Further exploration of the issue
      of foot self-assessment and self-management with patients and health care providers is needed
      in order to develop and implement effective and sustainable interventions.

      Interventions to prevent DFUs need to provide patients with strategies to prevent skin
      breakdown. Due to neuropathy individuals with diabetes do not recognize the inflammation that
      occurs prior to skin breakdown. In many instances, by the time individuals have identified a
      problem the ulceration had already occurred (Lavery et al., 2004). For patients with diabetes
      factors such as pressure can contribute to inflammation and increase plantar foot
      temperature. Commercially available-infrared thermometers (CAITs) can be used to detect this
      temperature increase before skin breakdown. Once the increase is identified, the individual
      can relieve pressure, for example by resting, until the temperature normalizes and
      inflammation decreases. If the temperature does not normalize in two days then a physician
      should be consulted. Therefore, self-management strategies that focus on identifying and
      addressing early signs of inflammation, such as a temperature increase, may be effective in
      preventing skin breakdown.

      Various systematic reviews, which contained three randomized control trials (RCTs), have
      indicated that the use of personal temperature monitoring with a medical grade thermometer
      was an effective way to predict, and thus prevent DFUs (Arad, Fonseca, Peters, & Vinik, 2011;
      Houghton, Bower, & Chant, 2013; van Netten et al., 2015). These thermometers cost
      approximately $700, which can be prohibitively expensive. A recent study compared inexpensive
      CAITs, that cost under $100, to medical infrared thermometers and found them to be a reliable
      measure of skin temperature (Mufti, Coutts, & Sibbald, 2015). However, this technology has
      not been used as part of an intervention and it is unknown if the CAIT will result in the
      same positive results as the medical grade thermometer. This study will fill this empirical
      gap.

      The Canadian Diabetes Association's position statement on amputation prevention calls for
      affordable and timely access to devices, education, and care (Canadian Diabetes Association.,
      2015). Use of a CAIT may potentially meet this need and offers a low-cost self-management
      tool to prevent skin breakdown. The purpose of this mixed-methods study is to determine if a
      self-management strategy that utilizes a low-cost CAIT is effective to prevent DFUs. Through
      engagement with patients and healthcare providers this research will also examine factors
      impacting self-management not addressed in prior studies and utilize this information to
      inform the intervention.

      Phase 1 (Qualitative) Purposive convenience sampling will be utilized in Phase 1 and
      patients, support persons, and healthcare providers will be selected that will inform the
      researcher about issues with foot self-management. To gain a comprehensive understanding of
      foot self-management, participants will be selected who have a variety of experiences and
      characteristics, such as patients with diabetes with various foot health challenges and
      healthcare providers with different professional designations such as physicians and nurses.
      Semi-structured interviews lasting 20-30 minutes will be conducted at a mutually convenient
      location over six-weeks. All interviews will be recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed
      using content analysis to identify themes and recommendations for the intervention. For
      example, a finding from Phase 1 may be that patients are not sure what information to
      communicate to their healthcare provider about their feet. Such a finding would be addressed
      by incorporating into the intervention further education about communication and potentially
      a checklist that the patients can use to take with them for appointments.

      Phase 2 (RCT) Using a list of randomly generated numbers patients will be assigned to the
      intervention or control group. The control group and intervention group will receive foot
      self-management education. The content of the education will be finalized following
      completion of Phase 1. The education will be provided in video format utilizing the Canadian
      Association of Wound Care (CAWC) diabetic foot management YouTube video and one-on-one
      teaching. Both groups will be provided with an inspection mirror with an extendable handle to
      assist with visualizing the bottom of the feet and a pedometer to measure daily activity.
      Additionally, the intervention group will receive a CAIT. Education on use of the CAIT will
      be provided through demonstration using a foot model and CAIT. The foot model will be marked
      with a zigzag pattern on the plantar surface to illustrate the path that should be used when
      measuring temperature. The support person will be included in the teaching if he/she will be
      assisting the participant to obtain temperature readings. The participant will also be
      provided with a letter explaining the study to take to his/her healthcare provider.

      Data collection is the same for both groups with the addition of foot temperature measurement
      for the intervention group. The initial one-hour intake session will take place in the
      participant's home or at Memorial University School of Nursing and will include completing
      baseline assessments and distributing requisitions for bloodwork and the orthotic assessment,
      log books, and equipment. Use of one trained interviewer will minimize information bias
      during data collection.

      At the end of the initial visit a second 15-minute visit will be booked with participants in
      the intervention group for one week later. The purpose of the second visit will be to
      determine if the thermometer is being used correctly and the documentation is being completed
      as intended. This will also be an opportunity to answer any questions. Next, the RA or
      researcher will contact the participant and support persons one week later (e.g.,, week 2)
      via phone to check if there are any questions or concerns. If the participant's concerns
      cannot be answered over the phone the RA or investigator will book a time to visit the
      participant. The log books for participants in the control group and intervention group will
      be picked up on a monthly basis either by the investigator or RA. A tracking form will be
      used to organize the timeframe for the phone calls and visits. Participants in the control
      group will be contacted via phone one week after the initial visit to address any questions
      or concerns. At three months and six months another hour-long appointment will be made with
      all participants to complete assessments and questionnaires.

      If a participant develops an ulcer during the RCT his/her participation in the study will end
      but data collected will be included. A participant will be advised to immediately contact
      his/her physician if an area of concern is identified. Also, a participant will be asked to
      contact the investigator if he/she develops an ulcer.

      The primary outcome is incidence of ulceration measured through physical assessment and
      self-report utilizing a standard definition of DFU. Secondary outcomes include any other
      foot-related changes, changes in satisfaction, quality of life, and self-efficacy.
      Confounding variables include: pedometer readings, HbA1C, orthotic assessment, temperature,
      depression symptoms, foot care behaviors, and information collected in the participant
      profile.

      Phase 3 (Qualitative) At the end of the data collection of Phase 2 participants will be
      recruited for Phase 3. Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with 25 RCT participants
      (15 participants from the intervention group, 5 participants and their support person who
      assisted with measuring the foot temperature, 5 participants from the control group) and 10
      healthcare providers who were consulted by participants during the intervention to obtain
      information about the experiences with self-management and the intervention. The interview
      with the participants and healthcare providers will be of 30-45 minutes duration and will
      take place at a mutually convenient location. The interviews with the support person will be
      conducted separately from the participant and will be of 20 minutes in duration. All
      interviews will be recorded and transcribed verbatim. The details of the methods, including
      the analysis that will be utilized in phase 3, will be developed after the completion of
      phase 2.
    
  