
    
      This is a prospective, open label, uncontrolled clinical trial, phase I/II. Patients will be
      screened according to the Study Inclusion and Exclusion criteria and will be candidate for
      the treatment if all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria are met.

      After confirmation of eligibility, patients will undergo biopsy for the collection of the
      autologous epidermal cells to be used to produce the tissue for the treatment. In case all
      criteria are met, the transplantation of the new cultured transgenic epidermis will be
      planned according to the procedures and the need of the patient.

      The study treatment consists of a surgical intervention for new restored stem cells
      implantation.

      The surgery will be carried out in 2 stages, the first aims at taking biopsy to isolate
      epidermal cells including stem cells. The biopsy will be processed in a laboratory of a
      regenerative medicine manufacturing site where they will be corrected, expanded and prepared
      as final sheets to be implanted. Therefore, the patient can have his second intervention. In
      this second surgery, genetically corrected cultured epidermal autograft (Hologene 17) will be
      implanted into the selected area. The specialist surgeon will either use a local or general
      anaesthetic for the transplant operation. The treated area will be immobilized for some days
      after this operation. Antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs will be administered (if
      necessary) to prevent infections and to minimise swelling.

      Three months after the transplantation, primary endpoint will be evaluated by the
      Investigator. The study completion will be reached when 1 year (secondary endpoint) of
      follow-up after the last transplant in the last patient will be accomplished.

      The end of the trial is defined as the last visit of the last patient after the last
      treatment if any.
    
  