
    
      Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common monogenic and the
      fourth cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in adults worldwide. Cardiovascular diseases
      are the most important non-cystic complications and continue to be the leading cause of
      premature mortality in these patients. Hypertension (HTN) is present in approximately 50% of
      the patients at early stages, and increases to nearly 100% at ESRD. Furthermore, HTN
      contributes to the underlying renal disease progression. Nitric oxide (NO) associated
      endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation has been shown to be impaired in small subcutaneous
      resistance vessels from patients with ADPKD before the development of HTN. However, the
      principal contributors to vascular dysfunction remain unclear.

      The investigators broad objective is to evaluate the presence and extent of endothelial
      dysfunction and its association with oxidative stress in young normotensive patients with
      ADPKD, with the long term goal of timely intervention to slow the progression of the disease
      in these patients.

      Participants in this study will have their endothelial function assessed using a non-invasive
      technique, peripheral arterial tonometry (PAT), which has been shown to be a useful, highly
      reproducible, and non-operator dependent method for non-invasive assessment of vascular
      health. The investigators will assess longitudinal changes in endothelial function using PAT
      with the intention of establishing if this methodology offers the potential of non-invasive
      measures of early vascular disease in young normotensive patients with ADPKD. Biochemical
      markers of endothelial dysfunction will be assessed concomitantly. In addition, the
      investigators will assess oxidative stress levels in these patients, with the intention of
      determining the association with endothelial dysfunction.
    
  