
    
      Study design: A placebo-controlled adaptive multi-center randomized controlled trial.

      Study population: High risk HCW with direct patient contacts, defined as physician
      assistants, respiratory therapists, nurses, physicians or other HCWs working at emergency
      rooms, ICUs and in locations within hospitals where COVID-infected patients are treated.

      Intervention: Participants will be randomized between intradermal administration of BCG
      vaccine or placebo in a 1:1 ratio.

      Recruitment, Randomization, treatment allocation, and blinding

      A standardized, IRB approved email will be sent to department chairs describing the study. A
      research coordinator will reach out to interested participants via phone with the help of an
      IRB-approved verbal script to introduce the study, confirm eligibility and provide further
      instructions on how to access and sign the IRB-approved ICD via REDCap using their own
      electronic devices. It is important that the investigators obtain the consent via REDCAp to
      a) avoid direct person-to-person contact and comply with social distancing imposed
      recommendations, and b) minimize the waste of reconstituted BCG by allowing the research
      personnel to schedule vaccinations in a controlled fashion. Patient registration into the
      trial will happen immediately after consent has been provided and will involve entering of
      baseline information into an electronic data capture system (RedCap).

      Once the eligibility is confirmed and the ICD signed by the participant and stored in REDCap,
      the research coordinator will randomize the participant and communicate the treatment
      assignment to the nurse administering the vaccination. The nurse will subsequently assign an
      appointment and communicate date and time of vaccination with the participant. All eligible
      participants will receive intradermal injections of BCG:placebo in a 1:1 ratio.

      Both, participants and investigators will be blinded to the treatment assignments during the
      study. However, in case of an emergency where it is important to know the treatment received,
      the investigator and/or participant can reach out to the unblinded study personnel who will
      provide the unblinded data. All participants will receive their treatment allocation at the
      end of the study, after the data analysis is finalized.

      Unblinded personnel will not be involved in the collection and analysis of study data other
      than the baseline eligibility criteria.

      The end of the study is defined as the last patient's last entry in the electronic data
      capture system.

      Informed Consent and Eligibility

      The following types of procedures will be conducted as indicated below:

      Medical history will be obtained from patient medical record/clinical chart. Informed Consent
      will be obtained to access these records. When information cannot be obtained or is not
      available from the patient medical record/clinical chart, it will be obtained via patient
      interview. Physical examination will be conducted solely to look for existing BCG vaccination
      scars.

      Symptom evaluation will be conducted via an electronic survey administered to participants
      every 1-3 days.

      HIV and pregnancy will be collected as self-reported information. If unknown, a urine
      pregnancy test will be performed.

      Nasopharyngeal, oral and/ or rectal swabs will be collected for rt-PCR test for SARS-CoV2
      infection if a study develops symptoms consistent with Covid-19.

      If a participant does not know their PPD/IGRA status from within the last 24 months (all
      health care providers should have this information), an IGRA can be performed to evaluate
      eligibility.

      Study participants have the option of donating blood via phlebotomy (for serological test for
      Covid-19 disease and PBMCs for immune correlates) or providing a fingerstick and dried blood
      spot (for serologic test for Covid-19).

      Data will be collected at four time points/periods: (1) after consent, (2) at baseline, (3)
      during follow-up period, and (4) at study end.

      Data to be collected during screening includes medical history, physical exam results,
      results of rt-PCR and serological test results.

      Data to be collected during baseline enrollment includes eligibility confirmation,
      demographic information, risk factors, randomization assignment, confirmation of BCG
      vaccination/placebo, any immediate reactions to BCG vaccination/placebo.

      Data to be collected during follow-up includes intermittent surveys about the presence of
      flu-like symptoms, rt-PCR test results if done, serological test results, if testing positive
      for Covid-19 information regarding their disease course, and disease outcome status.

      THE FOLLOWING IS COLLECTED AFTER CONSENT IS OBTAINED:

      Date of signed Informed Consent Form

      Role in hospital

      Department in hospital

      rt-PCR test for SARS-CoV2 result

      Serological test for Covid-19 result

      Number of BCG scars (by visual/physical examination)

      Medical history*

      Previous PPD and IGRA test results

      History of TB disease

      History of previous HIV testing

      Urine Pregnancy test result (if applicable)

      Plans of pregnancy in 30 days

      Plan to stop working in 3 months/ leave facility in 6 months

      Current diabetes mellitus

      Current chronic kidney disease

      Currently taking immunosuppressive drugs

      Living with someone with HIV, immunocompromised, taking immunosuppressive drug

      Chemotherapy in past 3 months

      History of organ/bone marrow transplant

      Access to smartphone

      BASELINE DATA COLLECTION/PROCEDURES

      The following procedures will be conducted and data collected as indicated below:

      A questionnaire to obtain information about age, sex, demographic information, who they live
      with, smoking status, any current medications they are on, and other comorbidities

      Participants will then be randomized to either receive a single dose of BCG vaccination or
      placebo.

      BCG vaccination or placebo will be administered.

      Eligibility screening data will carry forward into the trial.

      The following additional data points will be collected:

      Age

      Sex

      Race

      Ethnicity

      Nationality

      Who they live with

      Height

      Weight

      Smoking status/tobacco use

      Alcohol use

      Current list of medications

      Current list of comorbidities

      History of diabetes mellitus

      History of hypertension

      History of stroke

      History of kidney disease

      History of COPD

      Randomization assignment

      BCG/placebo administered

      FOLLOW-UP PROCEDURES AND DATA COLLECTION:

      Participants will be followed to assess whether they get infected with SARS-CoV2:

      Participants will complete intermittent surveys via an electronic system every 1-3 days to
      assess the presence of any flu-like symptom, including sore throat, fever, headache, malaise,
      and cough. Note that this is part of routine surveillance for Covid-19 in health workers at
      the United States site. Consent forms will ask for consent to access this survey information.

      Any positive response on the survey will trigger a nasopharyngeal, oral and/ or rectal swab
      to be collected to test for Covid-19 via rt-PCR

      All participants, regardless of survey responses, will have serology for Covid-19 tested at 4
      week intervals during the follow-up period (6 months)

      If a participant completes the follow-up period and does not test positive for disease, their
      study participation is complete

      If a participant does test positive for disease, their disease status will be ascertained for
      up to two months or until an outcome is available through one of the following mechanisms:
      (1) an electronic survey if they are not admitted to the hospital, including questions about
      the number of days they are ill, daily fever, and other symptoms; or (2) (2) if they are
      admitted to the hospital, ordinal outcomes for disease severity will be extracted from the
      hospital¿s electronic medical records system.

      During the first week of follow-up, all participants will actively be asked about any adverse
      events; thereafter, participants will report unsolicited AEs through the electronic survey.
      Vaccine related adverse events will be graded using the FDA guidance
      (https://www.fda.gov/media/73679/download) and noted using WHO-recommended Adverse event
      following Immunization forms (AEFI;
      https://vaccine-safety-training.org/classification-of-aefis.html).

      Participants will have the option of donating 12 mL of blood for plasma (serology) and PBMCs
      for secondary analysis of immune correlates and for future analysis based on covid19-specific
      IgM and IgG. If they do not donate 12mL of blood, a fingerstick will be required for baseline
      COVID19 serology.

      Dried Blood Spot (DBS): all participants are HCWs and will self-collect DBS samples at week
      4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24. Envelopes to store the DBS are provided upon enrollment and can be
      dropped off at work and picked up by study coordinators to minimize HCW distractions.

      COVID specific RNA is found in stool for ~21 days when an individual develops infection
      (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2196-x). Participants will have the option of collecting
      stool swabs monthly if they are asymptomatic or weekly if they develop symptoms. Nucleic acid
      testing will be performed in retrospect to support secondary objectives.

      If participants develop symptoms consistent with COVD19, will be PCR tested for COVID19. They
      will be given the option of donating 12 mL of blood for plasma and PBMCs 2 weeks after
      symptoms resolve.

      Week 12 (+/- 2 Weeks), participants will be given the option to donate 12 mL of blood for
      plasma and PBMCs for secondary analysis of immune correlates and for future secondary
      analysis based on covid-specific IgM and IgG.

      Week 24 (+/- 2 Weeks), participants will be given the option to donate 12 mL of blood for
      plasma and

      PBMCs for secondary analysis of immune correlates and for future secondary analysis based on
      covid-specific IgM and IgG.

      Except for the administration of BCG vaccine or placebo and the above mentioned DBS and
      phlebotomy, participants will undergo no invasive procedures for study purposes.

      The following data points will be collected during the follow-up period AND AT

      END OF STUDY TIMEPOINT:

      Sore throat (collected at multiple time points)

      Fever (collected at multiple time points)

      Headache (collected at multiple time points)

      Malaise (collected at multiple time points)

      Cough (collected at multiple time points)

      rt-PCR test for SARS-CoV2 result (as indicated)

      Serological test for Covid-19 result (every 2 weeks)

      Number of days ill

      Daily fever

      Other Covid-19 symptoms

      Admitted to hospital

      Required oxygen

      Treated in intensive care

      Required ventilation

      Death

      Severe pneumonia

      Respiratory failure

      Acute respiratory distress syndrome

      Sepsis

      Septic shock

      *Already being collected as part of routine surveillance of health care workers. Will request
      access to this information in Informed Consent Form.

      Subjects can leave the study at any time for any reason if they wish to do so without any
      consequences. The investigator can decide to withdraw a subject from the study for urgent
      medical reasons. Participants who received placebo will be unblinded at the end of the study
      and pending a recommendation by the DSMB, they will be offered the option of receiving the
      BCG intervention.

      A participant will only be replaced in case of withdrawal before the administration of BCG
      vaccine/placebo.
    
  