
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of the administration of nilotinib between Day 81 and Day 365
      after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients with Philadelphia chromosome
      positive (Ph+) leukemia.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantify the breakpoint cluster region (BCR)/Abelson murine leukemia (ABL) transcript
      load after HCT during tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy in patients with Ph+ leukemia treated
      sequentially with imatinib (imatinib mesylate) and nilotinib from the time of engraftment.

      II. To evaluate survival at 1 year in patients with Ph+ leukemia who received sequential
      imatinib and nilotinib from the time of engraftment.

      III. To determine if imatinib can be co-administered with nilotinib for patients with rising
      levels of BCR/ABL on 2 consecutive occasions after HCT.

      IV. To confirm that imatinib can be delivered at an average daily dose of 400 mg at least 85%
      of the time in the majority of adults during the first 80 days after HCT.

      V. To determine whether nilotinib can be administered safely at a daily dose of at least 300
      mg (175 mg/m^2 in children < 17 years) at least 70% of the time to patients with imatinib
      resistant Ph+ leukemia during the first 80 days after HCT.

      VI. To determine treatment efficacy success at 1 year post-transplant as demonstrated by
      complete hematological remission, absence of Philadelphia chromosome, and not satisfying any
      of the criteria for treatment failure.

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning after engraftment and blood count recovery (21-28 days after allogeneic stem cell
      transplant), patients with imatinib-sensitive leukemia receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO)
      once daily (QD) until day 80 and then nilotinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 81-445. Patients
      with imatinib-resistant leukemia receive nilotinib PO BID beginning after engraftment and
      blood count recovery until day 445.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  