
    
      IMPAACT 2016 is a multi-site, two-arm, individually randomized, controlled study to evaluate
      whether an Indigenous Leader Outreach Model (ILOM) of trauma-informed cognitive behavioral
      therapy (TI-CBT) delivered by Indigenous Youth Leaders (IYL) is associated with improved
      mental health outcomes and ART adherence among youth living with HIV in resource-limited
      settings. To adapt the intervention for the local context, the trial will be preceded by an
      adaption of the TI-CBT intervention at each site using the "ADAPT-ITT" model, which includes
      focus groups and pilot tests. In the randomized study, youth will be individually randomized
      to either the TI-CBT Intervention Arm or the Discussion Control Arm. Participants will meet
      as a group within their randomized arm and receive multiple group sessions within an
      eight-week period. Each group will include an average of eight youth for an approximate total
      of 192-256 youth in the Randomized Trial (96-128 youth per arm). TI-CBT and Discussion
      Control groups in each arm will be mixed-gender unless it is determined necessary to have
      single-gender groups during the focus group. Caregivers (as available and with youth
      permission) will be assigned to the same study arm as their youth. Caregivers will meet as a
      group for two caregiver-specific sessions on two separate weeks and separate from their youth
      group sessions. Youth and caregivers will complete a follow-up visit immediately after their
      last group session and two additional follow-up visits at six and 12 months. Youth and
      caregivers will also receive one two-hour booster group session consistent with their
      assigned study arm immediately after the six-month evaluations. The booster sessions are
      intended to enhance treatment effects and increase sustainability. Once all participants have
      completed their six-month evaluations, data from these evaluations will be analyzed to
      determine the short-term effects of the intervention. Additional analyses to assess the
      longer-term effects of the intervention, including the effects of the booster group session,
      will be performed after the completion of follow-up.
    
  