
    
      Study Introduction:

      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a global health disease associated with significant
      morbidity and costs. Many anti-depressants exist within the monoaminergic system yet novel
      therapeutics are still needed outside of this system. Ezogabine, currently approved by the
      FDA for adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures, may serve as a potential key agent
      for those with MDD. Ezogabine is known to bind to and activate KCNQ transmembrane K+ ion
      channels, specifically targeting KCNQ2 in the VTA. Such membrane activity has been show to
      play a role in previous studies involving a social defeat model of depression. Specifically,
      data has shown that KCNQ channels were upregulated only in resilient mice and moreover,
      ezogabine was able to potentiate KCNQ channel activity to result in a fast reversal of the
      depressed phenotype.

      General Investigational Plan:

      Objectives:

      A. Primary Efficacy Objective: To test the antidepressant effects of Ezogabine in MDD.

      B. Primary Safety Objective: To characterize the safety and tolerability of Ezogabine in
      patients with MDD.

      C. Secondary Objectives: To measure the effects of Ezogabine on ventral tegmental area
      (VTA)-striatal reward circuitry in MDD using reward task-based functional MRI. Rationale:
      Ezogabine is hypothesized to modulate the firing rate of VTA dopamine (DA) neurons and
      thereby influence the functioning of the mesolimbic reward system.

      Hypotheses

      A. Efficacy Hypothesis:

      Hypothesis 1a: Depressive symptoms will be significantly decreased following an 8-week
      treatment period compared to baseline, as measured by change in Montgomery-Åsberg Depression
      Rating Scale (MADRS).

      Hypothesis 1b: The antidepressant response rate at study end (defined as 50% in depressive
      symptoms compared to baseline) will exceed 50%, consistent with known response rates of
      current antidepressant agents.

      B. Safety Hypothesis: Ezogabine will be safe and adverse event rates will be similar to rates
      observed in other adult populations. Specific safety items to be monitored include frequency
      and intensity of adverse events as measured by the Patient Rated Inventory of Side Effects
      (PRISE) and treatment-emergent suicidal ideation or behavior as measured by the
      Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS).
    
  