
    
      The patients will be told about the study and have all their questions clarified. After
      agreeing to participate in the study they must sign a declaration of free and informed
      consent.

      All the radiation treatments will be carried out in the Radiotherapy Department of the
      Haroldo Juacaba Hospital. The primary intention of the radiotherapy (RT) is to treat the
      entire breast. Initially, with the patient in supine position and the making of an individual
      immobilization device, it will be done a pre-planning in a conventional radiotherapy
      simulator. After that, a CT-scan will be performed for the three-dimensional conformal
      radiation planning.

      The contouring of the treatments volumes (target volumes and organs-at-risk) and the
      dosimetric calculations will be performed in the Eclipse treatment planning system (Varian
      Medical Systems, Palo Alto-CA, USA). The total dose prescribed will be of 30 Gy, in 5
      fractions of 6.0 Gy, 1 fraction per week, 1 week apart in the same weekday. In the dosimetric
      analysis, at least 95% of the breast target-volume must be covered by ≥ 95% of the
      prescription dose. The point of maximum dose must be less than 110%.

      Clinical evaluations will be carried out weekly during the treatment course and in the 4th
      and 8th weeks after the conclusion of RT. The toxicity will be graduated according to the
      Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), v 3.0.

      Breast photographs will be held initially and 6 and 12 months after treatment. Breast
      cosmetic appearance will evaluated by 2 radiation oncologists and classified according to the
      Harvard scale. The patient's self-referred quality-of-life (QoL) data will be collected in 3
      different moments, before the begging of RT just at the end and 1 month after the conclusion
      of RT. The QoL evaluation tools to be used are the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-30 and the breast cancer specific module QLQ-BR23
      questionnaires. The projected sample size is 40 patients.

      Which patient has the right of no longer be part of the study at any time, if this will be
      her desire. The study will be interrupted in the case of severe toxicity (≥ grade IV), death
      caused by the treatment and/or local recurrence superior than the expected, as the reported
      by literature. Interim analyzes will be performed every 6 months for better monitoring of
      these possible outcomes.
    
  