
    
      Delivery of healthcare has been traditionally limited to in-person office visits or
      hospitalizations, while patients spent the majority of their time at home or work. Digital
      Medicine (e.g. apps, remote monitoring, telemedicine, patient reported outcomes ePRO has the
      potential to bridge this gap, but it is unclear how to implement in a mainstream clinical
      practice that can lead to high-level patient and provider adoption. Through the creation of a
      Digital Transformation Network (DTN) for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), the study team
      plans to reduce digital disparities and scientifically address the evidence gap of digital
      health interventions across populations and communities.

      AIM I. Unify existing digital assets (mobile app, ePROs, assessment for digital disparities
      and behavioral health, referral to IBD home and health education) into an IBD Digital
      Therapeutics Toolkit and integrate with EHRs at 3 CTSA hubs. Hypothesis: Integration with
      EHRs will lead to higher adoption by providers and limit disruption of workflow.

      AIM II: Establish baseline levels of digital connectivity, disease control, quality of life
      and care metrics in cohorts at the three IBD centers. Hypothesis: A multipronged approach of
      assessment through text, phone, an app, and in-person will yield higher adoption.

      AIM III. Implement and evaluate precision-matched interventions (digital skills, social
      determinants, behavioral health, monitoring through apps, and referral to interdisciplinary
      care) among 1500 patients with IBD using a stepped-wedge, cluster- randomized trial.
      Hypothesis: Medical homes supported by a unified platform will translate to sustainable
      improvement in population health outcomes. Analyze the Impact of DTN interventions. The
      primary outcome will be the improvement of the percentage of patients in DTN in disease
      control and decrease in urgent care utilization (emergency department visits and
      hospitalization days) across the three CTSA sites.

      AIM IV. Support sustainability and dissemination across CTSA sites. Hypothesis: The patient-
      centric DTN will be sustainable through alignment with value-based healthcare.

      Anticipated Impact: About 2 million Americans suffer from IBD and many more with chronic
      inflammatory diseases. The study team hopes that this study will help the study team build an
      evidence-based approach to determine whether digital medicine can engage a diverse group of
      patients and improve outcomes; and if yes, how it can be reproduced and replicated across
      different settings to address theT3 and T4 translational gaps.
    
  