
    
      Bacterial vaginosis (BV, or vaginal bacteriosis) and vaginitis are the most common vaginal
      infections of women during the child-bearing years, with BV alone accounting for 27-41% 1
      prevalence in Americans. BV is characterized by replacement of the healthy
      lactobacillus-dominant microbiome by a diverse polymicrobial overgrowth of multiple taxa of
      commensal facultative anaerobes and other pathogenic bacteria. Molecular-based phylogenetic
      analyses, including the newly-completed Human Microbiome Project and other next-generations
      sequencing (NGS) studies, revealed the complexity of the vaginal microbiome in health and
      disease. BV does not appear to be a single entity, but rather consists of multiple bacterial
      community clusters. Clusters are dominated by Lactobacillus iners, Lactobacillus crispatus,
      or anaerobic combinations with or without Lactobacillus spp. (species) in varying
      proportions. In addition, multiple significant BV-associated pathogens were discovered that
      had escaped notice with other detection methods such as cultures; previously overlooked were
      Atopobium vaginae, Lactobacillus iners and other Lactobacillus spp., and multiple
      Lachnospiraceae spp (Bacterial Vaginosis Associated 1, Bacterial Vaginosis Associated 2, and
      Bacterial Vaginosis Associated 3; BVA1, BVA2 and BVA 3 respectively). This multisite study
      proposes to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Gynecologene Next-Generation
      Sequencing test in women with symptoms of vaginitis/vaginosis. To the investigators'
      knowledge, the Gynecologene is the first commercially-available comprehensive NGS-based
      laboratory-developed test available to assist with diagnosis and clinical management of BV.

      This multisite site study compares the diagnostic performance of the Gynecologene
      Next-Generation Sequencing test with the clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis/vaginitis
      (Nugent score). The second objective is to compare the sensitivity and specificity of the
      Gynecologene Score with the Nugent Score for diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis/vaginitis. The
      third objective is to identify the prevalence and diagnostic thresholds of bacterial loads
      with the Gynecologene test.

      Women between 18-55 years of age will be eligible for this study when diagnosed with
      bacterial vaginosis or vaginitis confirmed using the CDC (Centers for Disease Control)
      diagnostic gold standard of Nugent score; Amsel criteria will also be recorded. Other
      inclusion as well as exclusion criteria exist. A minimum of 5 geographically different sites
      will be enrolled in the study. Co-investigators will follow the protocol to enroll
      participants and collect 2 vaginal swabs and 1 slide smear. The patient has no financial gain
      nor responsibility within this protocol.

      Overall, the study will have 90% power at a significance level of 0.05 to detect ± 5%
      positive percent agreement of the study device with the predicate device. To achieve this
      level of power, 100 total samples will be assayed per group to account for withdrawals and
      treatment failures. Samples that contain more than one targeted organism can be counted twice
      as the analyses for each organism are independent of each other. The provision of treatment,
      including type, dose, and duration, is solely at the discretion of the clinician according to
      his/her current routine procedures to reflect typical contemporary practice.

      AIBiotech will serve as a central medical diagnostic laboratory for this trial. Results of
      all analytical tests will be provided to the Principal Investigator.

      Data for analysis will be blinded for patient identification and other PHI (protected health
      information) by the study administrator. Data will be analyzed and reported.
    
  