
    
      A. Improve the universality of the mouth-interface using facial anthropometry techniques.

      For this first part of the study, the investigators will use a portable 3D camera (as
      previously used by our group) to acquire 250 3D facial images of healthy children under 5yrs
      of age in the DRC. While in hospital/clinic, the investigators will use a three-dimension
      (3D) special camera to obtain an image of the child's face. The child can sit on the lap of
      the parent and we will take the image. The image acquisition takes less than 30 seconds.
      There are no specific requirements from the child, and the image can be taken if the child is
      asleep or awake, cry or settled. No medical or identifying information will be collected.

      All the computerized images will be cluster analyzed (using previously established
      methodologies from the Technion, Israel) and three 3D average faces of all small, medium and
      large faces will be constructed. The investigators will use these "faces" to design better
      Multimometers with improved mouth-interface for this population.

      B. Integrate into the current device a reflexive pulse oximeter sensor which will allow
      measurements of oxygen saturation and heart rate.

      For the addition of HR and SpO2 measurements, the investigators will integrate a reflective
      pulse oximetry chip into the probe. Together with the manufacturer (RespiDx Inc., Israel) the
      investigators will design and manufacture optimal prototype devices suitable for performing
      clinical trials on this population.

      C. Compare vital signs measurements by Multimometer® to simultaneous vital signs measurement
      using conventional devices.

      For this part of the study, repeated (x5 times) measurements of the 4 vital signs in 50 young
      children (under 5 yrs) in hospital/clinics in Butembo DRC with suspected pneumonia, will be
      recorded using the Multimometer. These signs will also be measured at the same time, by
      conventional methods (regular thermometers for temperature, observed respiratory rate using
      recorded chest movements and end-tidal carbon dioxide (CO2) for respiratory rate, standard
      pulse oximeters for oxygen saturation and heart rate). All these measurements take less than
      5 minutes. The investigators will repeat these sets approximately 5 times during the same day
      in the hospital or during a clinic visit. The vital signs will be compared between the two
      methods using Pearson's correlation coefficient and using Bland-Altman plots for agreement.
    
  