
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a common and devastating disease with an annual incidence of 22-30
      per 100,000 in the UK. The incidence is increasing. AP is most commonly triggered by
      gallstones or alcohol excess and has a range of outcomes, from complete resolution to death,
      with an overall mortality in Scotland of 5.2%. AP is characterised by acute inflammation of
      the pancreas, which initiates a cascade of inflammatory events throughout the body that can
      lead to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in approximately 25% of AP patients.
      Mortality in AP is greatest in those patients who develop MODS, with death rates reported to
      be up to 28%.

      The development of persistent organ failure characterises severe AP (SAP) as defined in the
      revised Atlanta classification, and is strongly predictive of a fatal outcome. A significant
      proportion of research has focussed on reducing mortality and morbidity in the first week. As
      a consequence, it remains to be seen whether the patterns of early organ dysfunction are
      reflected in the causes of long-term mortality and morbidity.

      Recently published data from a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to the Royal
      Infirmary of Edinburgh with acute pancreatitis has shown that the early development of MODS
      is associated with an increased mortality rate up to 10 years after the index presentation.
      This strongly suggests that MODS in acute pancreatitis (AP-MODS) has a persistent and
      deleterious impact on patients' physiological status, though the exact nature of this
      pathology remains to be characterised. Recent data has indicated that the severity of the
      first attack of AP significantly influences the risk of progression to chronic pancreatitis,
      and therefore subsequent long-term morbidity.

      This observational clinical cohort study aims to characterise the nature and extent of the
      pathophysiological impact of SAP on organ function over the first 3 years following the index
      event and the long-term deleterious effect of SAP. This will be achieved by prospectively
      evaluating the pathophysiological consequences of an episode of AP by measuring organ system
      function in patients recruited during a hospital admission with AP. We will obtain an
      in-depth assessment of patients' health at presentation, and at 3 months and 36 months after
      the first episode of AP using markers of organ function and/or disease in the peripheral
      blood. In a nested cohort within the main study cohort, we will conduct cardiorespiratory
      evaluation tests (including exercise testing), specialised blood tests of the immune system,
      tests for precision medicine, and imaging to assess structure and function of key organ
      systems.

      The results of this study will inform the design of future interventions designed to improve
      the long-term prognosis of patients.
    
  