
    
      Introduction:

      Severe periodontitis is the 6th most prevalent disease of mankind. It is a non-communicable
      non-resolving inflammation and biofilm dysbiosis; if untreated it leads to tooth loss and
      masticatory dysfunction. It is: i) one of the top 80 human disease contributing 3.5 million
      years lived with disability, ii) a source of social inequality, iii) together with its major
      sequel - tooth loss - it is responsible for 88% of lost productivity from oral diseases
      (estimated at 54 billion USD), and iv) it is the major cause of escalating oral health costs
      ( 442 billion USD/year) that in advanced economies represent up to 10% of total medical
      expenses. Addressing this major public health problem requires greater attention to
      prevention and early detection.

      Periodontitis cases in the population remain largely undetected due to lack of knowledge of
      early warning signs that can be self detected and to the fact that affected individuals adapt
      to life with increased degrees of disability as the disease progresses from an early stage
      (stage I) towards increasingly severe and invalidating stages (III-IV). Not unexpectedly,
      treatment outcomes improve with early detection while costs increase for later diagnosis due
      to the need for surgical intervention and rehabilitation of the teeth that have been lost. In
      partnership with the American Academy of Periodontology (AAP), the Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United states, has validated a questionnaire (CDC/AAP
      questionnaire) for first step is important but its focus on more advanced disease, while
      appropriate to address individuals with more advanced disease, while appropriate to address
      individuals with more advanced disease towards specialist care, is unlikely to produce
      cost-effective health gains.

      Spontaneous gingival bleeding or gingival bleeding upon tooth brushing (BoB) is a key sign of
      periodontitis with the potential to become a useful sentinel sign for self-detection.
      Surprisingly little is known about BoB and its relationship to professional assessment and
      diagnosis. Few studies have shown that it is highly sensitive to detect gingival inflammation
      but it has low to moderate specificity for periodontitis as it is shared by both gingivitis
      (superficial gum inflammation) and periodontitis. Its diagnostic performance, however, may be
      improved by combining it with salivary test able to discriminate between gingivitis and
      periodontitis. Salivary activated matrix metalloproteinase-8 (aMMP-8) is a biomarker
      associated with the inflammatory driven destruction of the periodontal ligament and alveolar
      characteristic of periodontitis; it has been shown to be able to discriminate between
      gingivitis and periodontitis in a point of care, professional setting.

      The general aim of this program is to improve early detection of periodontitis in the
      population using a self-detection approach based on BoB as a sentinel sign and a consumer
      version of a point of care aMMP-8 test as a screening test for an individual to seek
      professional attention early in the periodontitis disease process.

      Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested The aims of this diagnostic trial are to assess the
      diagnostic performance of: i) bleeding on brushing (BoB) as a sentinel sign, ii) salivary
      aMMP-8 as a biomarker, iii) a validated questionnaire alone and/or in combination for the
      early detection of periodontitis.

      The general hypothesis is that combining self-assessment of a sentinel sign with a biomarker
      assessment of key inflammatory process underlying periodontitis will increase the diagnostic
      accuracy of a screening approach in the population.

      Plan of Investigation (i) Subjects The study will involve two populations: i) a convenience
      sample of adult and elderly subjects reporting for oral health care at Prince Philip Dental
      Hospital and ii) a validation sample drawn from the Hong Kong adult and elderly population.

      Study 1. Consecutive patients reporting to Prince Philip Dental Hospital reception clinic
      (screening and admission clinic) will be invited to participate.

      Study 2. A validation sample will be drawn from a population of Hong Kong adult and elderly
      population in community and primary care settings. Subjects will be invited to participate
      and will be examined at the Clinical Research Center of the Prince Philip Dental Hospital.

      The prevalence of different stages of periodontitis in the population is estimated at 8-12%
      for stage III-IV periodontitis and 28-32% for stage I-II periodontitis.

      A sample size of 332 subjects has been estimated based on previous studies evaluating the
      area under the receiving operating curve (ROC curve) of the CDC/AAP questionnaire (0.68) and
      the ability to detect a 0.07 improvement with 80% power and p<0.05. A total of 400 subjects
      will be recruited in each trial to compensate for missing data.

      (ii) Methods Consenting subjects will be subject to 3 sequential index tests in a specified
      sequence: i) they will be administered a validated Cantonese version of CDC/AAP
      questionnaire; ii) subjects will be instructed to perform a 30 second mouthwash with a
      standard buffer in order to collect a full mouth sample for aMMP-8 analysis. This will be
      quantitatively assessed with a point of care test. iii) Subjects will then be instructed to
      brush their teeth for 2 minutes and the obtained slurry (saliva) quantitatively analyzed for
      the presence of blood with a spectrophotometric test.

      Positive CDC/AAP test will be defined based on the pattern of response to 5 questions
      according to the criteria specified by a previous study.

      Positive BoB test will be defined by the subject's identification of traces of blood in the
      brushing slurry and later validated quantitatively with a spectrophotometric method based on
      hemoglobin concentrations.

      Positive aMMP-8 test for periodontitis will be defined as a concentration of aMMP-8 > 20
      ng/ml as determined with quantitative point of care lateral flow immunoassay.

      After completion of the 3 experimental tests, subjects will undergo a full-mouth periodontal
      examination conducted by a trained and calibrated periodontal specialist who will determine
      the clinical diagnosis based on the 2017 international classification and case definition of
      periodontitis and gingivitis.

      (iii) Study design Cross sectional diagnostic trial with independent blind comparison of
      experimental tests with a reference standard (professional diagnosis of periodontitis by a
      registered specialist in a clinical setting). First trial on a convenience sample of subjects
      reporting to Prince Philip Dental Hospital for oral health care, validation trial in a
      representative sample of the Hong Kong population.
    
  