
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Identify a panel of methylated gene markers in serum from women with metastatic breast
           cancer that is significantly different from that observed in healthy participants.

        -  Assess changes in a panel of methylated gene markers from baseline, after 3-4 weeks, and
           after 9-12 weeks of systemic therapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

        -  Determine the potential effects of common exposures (i.e., alcohol, smoking,
           medications, and dietary factors) on patterns of serum methylation in patients with
           metastatic breast cancer and in healthy participants.

        -  Develop a predictive model using DNA methylation profiles in serum that predicts
           clinical outcome for an individual patient with metastatic disease.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate circulating tumor cells (CTCs) with clinical outcome in patients with
           metastatic breast cancer.

        -  Correlate CTCs with serum methylation in these patients.

        -  Determine if the addition of CTCs to serum methylation results in an improved predictive
           model.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, multicenter study.

      Patients and healthy participants fill out health assessment questionnaires at baseline, week
      3-4, and week 9-12.

      Patients undergo blood collection for methylated marker analysis at baseline, weeks 3-4, and
      weeks 9-12 and circulating tumor cell levels at baseline and weeks 3-4. Healthy participants
      undergo blood collection for methylated marker analysis at baseline. An additional cohort of
      healthy participants undergo follow-up blood collection ≥ 1 week after baseline.

      DNA methylation is measured by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific polymerase chain
      reaction (QM-MSP) assay.

      After completion of study procedures, patients are followed every 3-4 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 150 patients and 150 healthy participants will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  