
    
      Chest pain results in up to 9.4% of presentations to emergency departments in the UK and up
      to 27.4% of hospital admissions. The morbidity, mortality and economic costs associated with
      this constitute a significant burden on the National Health Service (NHS). Distinguishing
      patients with serious and potentially life-threatening causes of chest pain from those with
      'benign' causes is important but often difficult.

      There are numerous risk stratification scores available for estimating risk in patients with
      heart attacks but these have not been widely applied or tested in those presenting to
      accident and emergency department with chest pain when the diagnosis of a heart attack has
      not yet been established but is suspected. These tools were based on conventional Troponin
      assays. The advent of the new Elecsys highly-sensitive (HS) Troponin T assays has led to
      improved and earlier detection of heart attacks. high sensitivity refers to analytic
      sensitivity - much lower concentrations of troponin can be identified in the blood.

      The aim of this prospective observational cohort study is twofold. Firstly to determine
      whether the results of a single high sensitivity troponin and electrocardiogram (ECG) could
      be used alone to direct care (expedite early discharge in those ECG and troponin negative). A
      discharge strategy of high sensitive troponin (<5ng/l) with a nonsichaemic ECG will be
      directly compared to the following: hs troponin at or below the 99th percentile (<15ng/l) + a
      nonischaemic ECG, TIMI score <2, HEART score ≤ 3 and GRACE score <75.

      Secondly we wish to determine which of the three established methods of risk stratifying
      patients (predicting risk in suspected heart attacks) namely, the Global Registry of Acute
      Coronary Events (GRACE), Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) and HEART score in the
      era of HS troponin T performs best.

      Patients presenting to the emergency department at Aintree University Hospital, Merseyside
      between June 2011 and October 2011 with suspected cardiac chest pain are prospectively
      recruited and information entered into an electronic database. The study comprises of 1750
      consecutive patients (3056 with chest pain but only 1750 with suspected cardiac chest pain).
      All data collated will form the basis for risk stratification scores (GRACE, TIMI, HEART)
      calculation. These risk scores will give a predicted event rate (death, heart attack,
      stenting procedure or bypass).

      The main outcome measures are major adverse cardiac events(MACE)- death, non-fatal myocardial
      infarction and emergency revascularisation at 6 weeks, and 1 year. the outcomes will be
      blinded (to initial risk scores) and independently adjudicated by consultant cardiologists
      with a 3rd consultant cardiologist experienced in clinical endpoint adjudication used to
      resolve differences.
    
  