
    
      UCDs are a group of rare genetic diseases that affect how protein is broken down in the body.
      The cause of UCDs is a deficiency in one of eight enzymes responsible for removing ammonia, a
      waste product of protein metabolism, from the bloodstream. Normally, ammonia is converted
      into urea and then removed from the body in the form of urine. However, in people with UCDs,
      ammonia accumulates unchecked and is not removed from the body. Toxic levels of ammonia can
      build up and cause irreversible neurologic damage that can affect metabolism, cognition,
      sensation, and movement. This study will focus on the most common enzyme disorder among UCDs,
      ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (OTCD), a disorder inherited from mothers. Using
      different types of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), this study will evaluate how UCD-related
      neurologic injuries affect metabolism, cognition, sensation, and movement in adults with
      OTCD.

      This study will be separated into three sections. The first study will study longitudinal
      changes in OTCD. The second section will study the recovery of OTCD participants from a
      hyperammonemic episode over time. The third section will be a longitudinal study of the
      distal urea cycle disorders. In all cases, participants in this study will attend an initial
      study visit that will include a review of medical history, current symptoms, impairments, and
      diet history; a physical exam; a full neurological exam; and cognitive and motor testing.
      During this visit, participants will undergo imaging studies and additional cognitive and
      motor testing over a 1-2-day period. This will include standard MRI studies and four sessions
      consisting of functional MRI (fMRI) (CNMC only), diffusion tensor imaging, and 1H magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy. For the fMRI study, participants perform various motor and behavioral
      tasks while in the imaging scanner. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is used to study
      and evaluate the chemical makeup of specific brain areas. Diffusion tensor imaging is used to
      assess myelination of major brain pathways and their alteration in disease states. This study
      will involve multiple time point participation. The study will be conducted at Children's
      National Medical Center and Boston Children's Hospital.
    
  