
    
      Seicean et al, in a prospective study, evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA with
      CH-EUS using SonoVueTM versus EUS-FNA without CH-EUS. They found that the diagnostic accuracy
      of EUS-FNA with CH-EUS was higher than that of EUSFNA without CH-EUS (86.5% vs 78.4%).
      However, the difference did not reach the threshold required for statistical significance.
      Also, only FNA, but not FNB, was performed in this study.

      The FNB needle was introduced to further improve upon EUS guided tissue sampling. It is
      designed to collect a larger amount of core sample tissue with preserved histological
      architecture for further analysis, including molecular analysis. Also the FNB needle has been
      shown to obtain samples with higher cellularity compared to the standard FNA needles.
      Compared with EUS-FNA, EUS-FNB had a better specimen adequacy, higher diagnostic accuracy,
      and fewer number of needle passes but no increase in complications rate.

      The technique of macroscopic on-site evaluation (MOSE) has recently been advocated for
      estimating the adequacy of a core specimen obtained by EUS for histological diagnosis. MOSE
      involves immediate examination of the FNB specimen for the presence of a "macroscopic visible
      core" (MVC), which is defined as whitish or yellowish pieces of tissue with an apparent bulk.
      The total length of the MVC is then measured and the optimal cut-off MVC length was 4 mm.
      This study demonstrated that EUS-FNB with MOSE provided comparable diagnostic yield as
      EUS-FNB without MOSE (92.6% vs 89.3%) with fewer numbers of passes.

      Puncturing avascular or necrotic area of a tumour could be the major reason of false negative
      rate during EUS-guided FNB. Contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS (CH-EUS) can define avascular or
      necrotic area inside a tumour which may improve the false negative rate during EUS-FNB. In
      this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the diagnostic performance of CH-EUS-guided FNB
      with MOSE for solid pancreatic masses. The investigators expect the study will define the
      best EUS-guided tissue acquisition technique in the absence of ROSE and replace FNA with ROSE
      as gold standard for tissue sampling for solid pancreatic masses.
    
  