
    
      Linguistically Accurate Screening and Assessment is Critical for Quality Patient Care.
      Accurate screening, diagnosis and treatment are entirely dependent on a
      linguistically-accurate and culturally-relevant assessment, especially for sensitive topics
      such as substance use. Language accessibility is essential to quality healthcare, the lack of
      which is an independent predictor of poor control of chronic disease and a significant
      contributor to health disparities, lack of patient satisfaction with healthcare, and poor
      quality patient education and understanding of their disorder. Hispanics experience a
      disproportionate burden of disability associated with mental disorders because of these
      disparities.

      Primary care settings often are the gateway to identifying undiagnosed or untreated
      behavioral health disorders through effective screening. Thus, primary care settings can play
      a critical role in reducing behavioral health disparities by identifying individuals at risk
      of substance use problems. As the first steps in ensuring access to appropriate intervention
      or linkage to treatment services, screening and assessment are essential ingredients in
      quality care. It is widely believed that substance use problems are over represented in
      primary care settings, but providers lack the tools to effectively screen. Most of the
      patients seen in primary care are unlikely to seek treatment in the specialty behavioral
      health service system. Moreover, failure to identify unhealthy alcohol and other drug use can
      produce harmful medication interactions, resulting in significant clinical complications.

      The "Tobacco, Alcohol, Prescription medication, and illicit Substance use screening Tool (or
      TAPS Tool), is a two-stage screening and brief assessment tool that first screens the four
      broad substance abuse categories (tobacco, alcohol, prescription drug misuse, and illicit
      substance use). In the second stage, the patient is assessed for more specific risks related
      to an expanded array of substances (tobacco, alcohol, cannabis, cocaine, methamphetamines,
      prescription stimulants, heroin, prescription opioids, sedatives, and other substances). The
      4-item screener triggers brief assessment on these substance categories, and each substance
      yields a score of 0-3 (except alcohol, which is scored on a 0-4 range), which conveys to
      providers whether an intervention is indicated (a score of 1 suggests sub-diagnostic problem
      use; a score of 2 suggests substance use disorder). The TAPS Tool was validated against
      established diagnostic assessments in both interviewer-administered and self-administered
      iPad formats in a large, multi-site study (described in Preliminary Studies, below). However,
      only 11.7% of the original TAPS study sample reported Hispanic ethnicity, and the TAPS Tool
      currently exists only in an English language version.

      The Proposed Study: TAPS-Electronic Spanish Platform (TAPS-ESP). The current study proposes
      to develop a technology platform for delivering the TAPS Tool to a Spanish-speaking, health
      disparity population in community health centers. This Phase 1 STTR project will involve: the
      adaptation of the TAPS into Spanish, its development on a self-administered mobile/tablet
      technology platform, and an empirical study of its preliminary validity, feasibility, and
      acceptability in a Spanish-speaking primary care sample. The investigators refer to this
      novel adaptation of the TAPS Tool as the TAPS-Electronic Spanish Platform, or TAPS-ESP.
    
  