
    
      In the US, 92-96% and 43-63% of men and women do not meet recommended intakes for αT and PQ,
      respectively. Dietary recommendations strongly encourage a diet rich in fruits and vegetables
      to meet dietary αT and PQ requirements. However, αT and PQ bioavailability from most plant
      foods is quite poor, thereby emphasizing a need for effective food pairings that can enhance
      the absorption and promote adequate status of these health-promoting nutrients. The objective
      of this application is to use deuterium-labeled spinach (containing stable isotopes of αT and
      PQ) to validate eggs as a dietary tool to improve αT and PQ bioavailability directly from a
      model plant food, and hence achieve nutrient adequacy. Our hypothesis is that the
      bioavailability of αT and PQ from deuterium-labeled spinach will be potentiated by egg intake
      in a dose-dependent manner by increasing their secretion in intestinal-derived chylomicrons.

      To test this, our specific aim is to assess egg-mediated improvements in αT and PQ
      bioavailability by conducting a randomized cross-over pharmacokinetic study in healthy men
      and women. In Study Arms 1-4, participants will ingest deuterium-labeled spinach (containing
      2 mg αT and 500 μg PQ) with 0, 1, 2, or 3 hardboiled eggs (containing 0, 4.8, 9.6, or 14.4 g
      total fat, respectively). In Study Arm 5, participants will ingest spinach alone followed by
      1 egg 3-hours later. In Study Arm 6, participants will ingest spinach with 1 egg followed by
      another egg 3-hours later. Thus, Study Arms 1-4 will test the dose-dependent effects of eggs
      on nutrient bioavailability and Study Arms 5-6 (with comparison to Study Arms 1 and 2) will
      test the 'timing'-dependent effects of eggs on nutrient bioavailability. Eucaloric diets will
      be controlled for αT and PQ intakes for 3 d prior to and during the initial 24 h of each
      trial to minimize heterogeneity of pharmacokinetic responses. Spinach-derived
      deuterium-labeled αT and PQ will be measured in plasma and isolated chylomicrons collected at
      timed intervals from 0-72 h post-meal ingestion, and biomarkers of antioxidant status and
      oxidative distress will be assessed at baseline (0 h) of each trial. Outcomes from this study
      are expected to demonstrate a dose- and time-dependent function of eggs to increase
      deuterium-labeled αT and PQ bioavailability (based on AUC0-72 h, Cmax, and % estimated
      absorption).

      The rationale for this study is that, by establishing the efficacy of eggs to potentiate
      plant-derived fat-soluble nutrient bioavailability, a strong framework will exist for an
      easily implementable health-promoting food pairing strategy to overcome malnutrition of αT
      and PQ.
    
  