
    
      Background:

      Despite compelling evidence of the benefits of treatment, hypertension is controlled in less
      than one-quarter of US citizens. Using a cluster randomized controlled trial, we tested the
      effect of explicit physician-level and practice-level financial incentives to promote the
      provision of guideline-recommended anti-hypertensive medications and improved control of
      hypertension in the VA primary care setting.

      Objectives:

      The goals were to: (1) determine the effect of physician-level financial incentives on
      processes and outcomes of care for outpatients with hypertension; (2) assess the impact of
      practice-level incentives; (3) ascertain whether there were additive or synergistic effects
      of physician- and practice-level incentives; (4) evaluate the persistence of the effect of
      incentives after the intervention ceases; and (5) identify any negative impacts of incentives
      on patients, providers, or health care organizations.

      Methods:

      We randomized 12 VA hospital-based outpatient clinics to the following arms: (1)
      physician-level incentives; (2) practice-level incentives; (3) physician- and practice-level
      incentives; and (4) no incentives. We enrolled 83 primary care physicians and 42 practice
      group members (e.g., nurses). All participants received audit and feedback performance
      reports. Study measures included the use of guideline-recommended anti-hypertensive
      medications and the proportion of patients who achieved national (JNC 7)
      guideline-recommended blood pressure goals or received an appropriate response to
      uncontrolled blood pressure. The intervention period consisted of five four-month performance
      periods. For each period, trained reviewers collected medications, blood pressure readings,
      comorbid conditions, medication allergies, and lifestyle recommendations from the VA
      electronic health record system for a sample of eligible patients from the physicians'
      panels. After the final performance report, we implemented a 12-month washout period. To
      determine the impact of incentives for the intervention period, we performed a
      repeated-measures longitudinal analysis using the hospital as a random effect. We evaluated
      the rate of change in the proportion of patients who met the study measures over time for the
      intervention group physicians. We assessed post-washout performance using a linear analysis
      with clustering by hospital. To evaluate unintended consequences of the incentives, we
      examined the incidence of hypotension in the physicians' panels.

      Status:

      The study is completed. The primary findings were published in September 2013 in the Journal
      of the American Medical Association (JAMA). We are currently preparing manuscripts describing
      findings from the study's secondary aims.
    
  