
    
      The incidence of community-associated (CA) staphylococcal infections, especially those caused
      by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), has increased dramatically in recent
      years. Although the majority of these infections are limited to the skin and soft tissue and
      thus not life threatening, the number of invasive cases in otherwise healthy individuals is
      increasing and some are fatal. As a first step toward understanding pathogenesis, there has
      been significant focus on elucidating the key CA-MRSA virulence factors. The relative
      significance of these factors is still being delineated. By comparison, there has been little
      focus on host factors associated with these invasive infections. In this protocol, we will
      recruit 100 otherwise healthy subjects with invasive staphylococcal infection, 50 otherwise
      healthy subjects with recurrent staphylococcal infections, and obtain samples from 150
      unidentified healthy controls from the blood bank to investigate host immunologic factors
      predisposing people to staphylococcal infection. Subjects will receive standard of care
      treatment for acute or recurrent staphylococcal infections. The primary objective of this
      research is to identify host genetic factors that contribute to susceptibility or severity of
      community acquired staphylococcal diseases. We will use three experimental approaches to
      complete this objective: 1) expression microarray analyses of study population s (subjects
      and controls) white cells (neutrophils and peripheral blood mononuclear cells) at rest and
      stimulated with staphylococci, 2) evaluation of toll-like receptor (TLR) pathways in the
      study population s cells, and 3) evaluation of Th17 cells. The proposed research will address
      a key area of staphylococcal pathogenesis for which there is a striking lack of information.
      We fully anticipate that the research also will provide critical new information directly
      relevant to vaccine, diagnostics, and therapeutics development.
    
  