
    
      The Critically ill is a special population needing immediate and aggressive treatments and
      interventions. Neuromuscular blockade is frequently used to secure an airway, optimize
      ventilation/oxygenation in ARDS, aid in maintaining hypothermia in patients post-cardiac
      arrest. Muscle relaxants can also contribute to neuromuscular weakness in the critically ill
      which can be a devastating condition. Appropriate depth of neuromuscular blockade is
      important but unnecessary paralysis need to be avoided. Rocuronium is one of the most popular
      neuromuscular blockade agents used in the critically ill (1). Sugammadex is a modified
      γ-cyclodextrin that reverses the effect of the steroidal nondepolarizing neuromuscular
      blocking agents rocuronium and vecuronium (2). Sugammadex results in rapid, predictable
      recovery from moderate and deep neuromuscular blockade. Sugammadex has been mostly studied
      and used in the surgical population but its use outside the operating room is still very
      relevant. The investigators set up to evaluate the potential benefit that may result from the
      reversal of NMB with sugammadex compared to neostigmine.

      Objectives

      In critically ill patients undergoing intubation receiving appropriate depth of NMB (moderate
      and deep blockade) the investigators will assess:

      Primary objective:

      1. To determine if choice of reversal agent affects time from intubation to return of a train
      of four (TOF) count of 1, and, separately, to return of a TOF ratio >0.9

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To document the ability of 1.0 mg/kg rocuronium (maximum 100 mg) to achieve satisfactory
           intubation conditions in the ICU, based on measurement of the number of intubation
           attempts and intubation grades in the entire cohort

        2. To document General adverse effects: Hemodynamic instability, need for vasopressors etc
    
  