
    
      Although it seems clear that an abnormal function of the colonic epithelium is the central
      problem causing inflammation and the unusual immunological response to the normal gut flora
      in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the actual causes of these dysfunctions are still
      unknown.

      Short Chain Fatty Acids (SCFA) are the main fuel of the colonic epithelium, and are normally
      produced by the bacterial flora by fermentation of the complex carbohydrates forming non
      soluble fibers usually introduced with everyday diet. Butyrate alone contributes 70% of the
      normal colonocyte energy.

      Studies done using animal models and colonic mucosa biopsies from patients suffering form
      ulcerative colitis (UC) have consistently shown that a metabolic change occurs in diseased
      colonic mucosa, with an impairment of butyrate oxidation (and of beta-oxidation) and an
      energy shortage that is only incompletely compensated by oxidation of glucose and other
      substrates such as glutamine.

      It is also well known that matrix metalloproteases production is highly increased in IBD and
      that serum transglutaminase activity is significantly reduced in patients with IBD.

      Transglutaminases are enzymes contributing to the crosslinking of matrix proteins and the
      reduction seen in patients affected by IBD correlates well with the endoscopic and
      histopathologic grading in UC, meaning that part of the circulating enzyme is sequestered in
      the injured colonic tissue in the effort to re-build the extracellular matrix during the
      healing process.

      Propionyl-L-carnitine Hydrochloride (PLC) is a molecule that has already been shown to reduce
      membrane lipid peroxidation in endothelial cells from bovine aorta and coronary vessels, to
      reduce the effects of hypoxia in coronary endothelial cells, and to play a role in the
      cardiac metabolic abnormalities that contribute to the mechanical dysfunctions leading to
      heart failure.

      Given these properties of Propionyl-L-carnitine Hydrochloride (ST 261) and given the
      peroxidative damage suffered by colonocytes in UC together with their metabolic impairment,
      the use of this molecule for the treatment of UC seemed to be appropriate and sound, in
      particular as a carrier of a propionate moiety that, once transformed into succinate, enters
      the Kreb cycle, acting as an extra burst fuel improving the balance of energy production
      inside tissues.

      Previous clinical experience has shown that PLC promoted complete or nearly complete
      regression of cutaneous trophic ulcers in a large number of vasculopathic patients refractory
      to all other therapies.

      As far as the UC pathology is concerned, the effects of ST 261, given orally or
      intrarectally, were investigated at different dosages, in preclinical experimentation, either
      after a single trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) administration (acute colitis) or after
      repeated TNBS administrations (reactivated colitis). The results showed a reduction in the
      damaged colon area both in acute model and reactivated colitis, even if the beneficial effect
      of restoration of TNBS-induced alterations of tissue morphology is more evident in the
      reactivated colitis model, particularly after oral administration.

      Based on the above-described results a development plan in humans started to investigate the
      activity of PLC in the treatment of ulcerative colitis.
    
  