
    
      Adult male and female in care PLWHA with fasting plasma glucose (FPG) >94 mg/dL and <125
      mg/dL will be recruited. Measures of FPG and HbA1c obtained from overnight fasted subjects.
      Alcohol use disorder (AUD) will be assessed by AUDIT and time-line follow back
      questionnaires, coupled with Phosphatidylethanol (PEth) measures. Glucose tolerance will be
      assessed by oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Blood sample collected at the time of the
      OGTT will be used for determination of circulating levels of adipokines (adiponectin and
      resistin).

      A subset of adult male and female PLWHA +/- AUD with impaired OGTT will be recruited to
      undergo skeletal muscle (SKM) biopsy (vastus lateralis), 90 min after a defined (calorie and
      nutrient composition) meal (i.e.,Ensure, Carnation Instant Breakfast). Muscle samples will be
      used for phenotype characterization (markers of inflammation, insulin signaling,
      mitochondrial homeostasis) and for myoblast isolation.

      Adult male and female PLWHA +/- AUD with impaired OGTT will undergo a moderate intensity
      aerobic exercise intervention that will include the wearing of an accelerometer (i.e. Fitbit
      Zip) to monitor daily activity and steps. A SKM biopsy will be performed after completion of
      the exercise protocol in a subset of subjects to examine the changes in gene expression and
      myoblast mitochondrial oxidative capacity. We will expand recruitment by enrolling PLWHA +/-
      AUD based on a FPG between 94-120 mg/dL to participate in the exercise intervention.
      Clearance for participation in this study will require EKG, completion of a physical activity
      readiness questionnaire, and medical clearance from a staff clinician. Individuals with
      significant peripheral neuropathies or the prevalence of significant cardiovascular
      impairments (i.e. resting cardiac abnormalities or arrhythmias, severe hypertension, etc.)
      will be excluded from exercise testing or intervention. The 10-week exercise intervention
      program will consist of aerobic exercise 3 days per week of moderate intensity for 30-45
      minutes each session with the goal of achieving 135 minutes per week. The program will begin
      at low-moderate intensity (40 to 50% of heart rate reserve; HRR) and progress to a higher
      intensity (50 to 60% HRR) exercise after week 4 of the program. The frequency and duration of
      exercise sessions will remain constant after week 4 so the absolute dose of exercise will be
      altered through increasing intensity, i.e. from low-moderate to more vigorous. All exercise
      will be completed on a treadmill at the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center
      (LSUHSC) Wellness Center. Additionally, each participant will be provided with a Fitbit Zip
      to monitor daily activity and steps. Data from the Fitbit Zip will be downloaded weekly
      basis. Participants will be given a healthy step goal of 7000 steps per day. Based on initial
      step counts after the first week of wearing the accelerometer, individual goals will be
      discussed with the participants. Personal limitations that develop during the study period
      (i.e. peripheral neuropathy, orthopedic limitation, etc.) will be monitored and will be
      reason for exclusion from the exercise program. All sessions will be supervised and adherence
      to the exercise prescription will be fully monitored under the supervision and care of Dr.
      Stefany Primeaux in consultation with Dr. Neil Johannsen.
    
  