
    
      Coronary artery disease is the most frequent cause of death for women in the United States.
      Increasingly coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is used for women as a treatment for
      this disease and women now account for nearly 30% of patients undergoing CABG surgery. Women
      are reported to have higher morbidity and mortality after CABG surgery than men. In addition
      to this higher complication and death rate, recent studies suggest that women experience more
      fear, stress, depression and anxiety before and after surgery than men. This randomized,
      controlled study was developed to research the feasibility and possible effects of providing
      health education and complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) tools to women after they
      have undergone cardiac surgery.

      This study is a randomized controlled clinical trial of 150 women from the Columbia campus of
      New York Presbyterian Hospital who recently had cardiac surgery. Baseline information on risk
      factor status, psychosocial status, quality of life, and CAM usage and expectancy will be
      obtained on all participants. Women will be randomized to CAM health education or standard
      care and will be followed for 6 months. Patients randomized to CAM health education will
      receive a three-tiered program in CAM education by a certified or trained practitioner in
      Yoga, Guided Imagery, and Nutrition. Patients will receive both personalized instruction in
      use of these CAM therapies and custom-designed instructional material including a:

        1. videotape on cardiac yoga,

        2. a guided imagery audiotape and

        3. a booklet on micronutritional approaches to cardiac care (developed by Dr Oz and the
           Columbia Integrative Medicine Program)

      Women randomized to CAM health education will be contacted at 2, 4, and 6 weeks, 3 months,
      and 6 months post surgery to assess progress toward reaching prevention goals, their
      utilization of CAM therapies, and their impact on psychological and physical health. The
      health educator will problem solve with the patient to overcome barriers toward reaching
      prevention and CAM goals.

      Assessments of the following outcomes will be made at 6 weeks and 6 months post intervention:
      overall mood as measured by the Profile of Mood States12, perception of stress as measured by
      a single-item, likert stress scale, psychological and mental health status as measured by the
      SF36, and the occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (cardiovascular disease death,
      nonfatal myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedure, stroke, non-coronary
      arterial revascularization, cardiovascular hospitalizations).

      It is hypothesized that the CAM education intervention is a feasible mode of disseminating
      information and encouraging the use of CAM tools to women post cardiac surgery. It is also
      hypothesized that the CAM intervention will increase overall mood (POMS), will decrease
      perceived stress (self report stress score), will increase self report of physical and mental
      functioning (SF36, PH and MH scales) and will decrease episodes of major adverse cardiac
      events at 6 months postsurgery.

      Data analysis will include evaluation of the following within group outcomes: overall
      adherence and utilization of CAM tools, overall frequency of use by tool (yoga, guided
      imagery, dietary changes), time point of initiation of CAM use, frequency of use by
      demographics (age, ethnicity, surgery type, previous CAM exposure, employment status, marital
      status), most frequent barriers to use, rate of refusal, rate of dropout. In addition,
      comparisons of the between group outcomes (Mood, Stress, and Physical and Mental Functioning)
      will be evaluated.
    
  