
    
      Nutrition Literacy Assessment Tool (NLit): a validated, 64-question survey that assesses
      nutrition literacy across 6 subscales:

        -  Nutrition and Health

        -  Energy Sources in Food

        -  Household Food Measurement

        -  Food Label and Numeracy

        -  Food Groups

        -  Consumer Skills

      Dietitians who work within 6 different outpatient clinics (1 dietitian per clinic) will be
      recruited to the study; each dietitian will recruit 19 patients from their clinic. All
      patient participants will take the NLit survey prior to an initial visit with their
      dietitian. Dietitians randomized to the intervention arm (n=4) will have access to their
      participating patients' NLit results, and tailor their intervention to the patient's
      nutrition literacy weaknesses. Dietitians randomized to the control group (n=2) will not have
      access to their participating patients' NLit scores, and will provide the same
      standard-of-care intervention usually provided.

      All participating patients will then re-take the NLit a month after their initial session
      with their dietitian, and we will examine the results to see if a) nutrition literacy
      improved within groups, and b) if the patients of the intervention dietitians showed more
      improvement in nutrition literacy than their counterparts being treated by the control
      dietitians.

      We will also collect dietary pattern information from participating patients before their
      initial session with their dietitian, and again one month after their initial session with
      their dietitian. We will examine the results to see if a) dietary patterns improve with
      increased nutrition literacy, and b) if the dietary patterns of patients in the intervention
      group improve more than patients in the control group.

      Finally, we will collect survey information from patients pertaining to the perceived
      patient-centeredness of the session with their dietitian. We will also collect audio
      recordings of the sessions between patients and dietitians, which will be analyzed for
      patient-centeredness. We will also analyze readability and clearness of printed materials
      used by dietitians during their interventions with patients.
    
  