
    
      Potential subjects may complete a pre-screening interview (by phone) and will complete a
      Screening Visit to assess their eligibility. Based on meeting eligibility requirements, it is
      desirable that subjects will be enrolled into the study on the same day of their Screening
      Visit. However, because of delays in receiving clinical laboratory test results, additional
      time may be needed to complete Enrollment. It may be necessary that subjects will need to
      return to the clinic on another day to compete Enrollment.

      To minimize bias, subjects will be assigned to either Product A or Product B based on the
      scheduled visit to the clinic during Screening and Enrollment. Subjects will then be assigned
      to one of the seven e-liquid flavor variants for either Product A or Product B. Subjects will
      be allowed to sample or try flavors and determine which flavor that they would like to use
      for the length of the study.

      At the Screening/Enrollment visit, subjects will be provided an orientation to the product,
      including the power unit and cartridges for their assigned product, and the corresponding
      Product Use and Behavior (PUB) instrument, PUB application, and an electronic device provided
      by the Sponsor. Based upon their UB ENDS usage, they will be given a sufficient amount (for
      three weeks of ad libitum use equaling 375% of their self-reported UB reported weekly use) of
      their assigned Product A or Product B cartridges.

      The study will involve a one-week acclimation period followed by a two-week product use
      evaluation period. Subjects will be instructed to use their assigned Product A or Product B
      product in place of their UB ENDS during the three-week study period, but they will be
      allowed to use non-ENDS tobacco/nicotine-containing products according to their normal use
      pattern. The PUB instrument will collect topography data, and product use data will be
      uploaded frequently using a web-based PUB application installed on the electronic device
      provided by the Sponsor.

      At the end of the first week of the study, subjects will receive a phone call from the clinic
      to assess Investigational Product (IP) compliance and to ensure that they are not using their
      UB ENDS. Throughout the study, subjects will receive weekly phone calls at a minimum to
      remind them of guidelines for using their assigned IP. All used cartridges may be disposed of
      by the subject.

      At the conclusion of the three-week ambulatory period, the subjects will return to the
      clinic, return the Product A or Product B power unit, any associated USB charger, all unused
      IP cartridges, the corresponding PUB instrument and its charger, and the provided electronic
      device. Each subject will complete all End of Study procedures including completing the
      Product Evaluation Scale (PES) questionnaire, and then subjects will be discharged from the
      study.
    
  