
    
      There are 2 separate experiments proposed, both of which use repeated-measures designs.

      1: Electrocorticography (ECoG) study of visual working memory. Each trial from the behavioral
      task will start by presenting subjects with two visual images, one each from two of these
      three categories: faces, words, and outdoor scenes. They will then be cued as to which one
      they'll be tested on with a recognition probe, and after the first probe the cuing-probing
      process is repeated. Patients selected for this study will have depth electrodes implanted in
      the left medial temporal lobe and/or grids covering left occipital, temporal, and/or parietal
      cortex, and suitability of a patient's data for the final dataset will require that a minimum
      of one stimulus category can be decoded from them. (The precise minimum number of trials
      required cannot be calculated a priori, because this requires knowing the signal-to-noise
      ratio in a dataset, a property that is highly variable in electrocorticography data.)

      2. Electrocorticography of spatial selective attention. Each trial from the behavioral task
      will start by presenting subjects with a white "+" on a screen, with each arm pointing to a
      potential target location. During each 92-trial block of trials, only two 180-degree opposing
      locations will ever be cued, with one arm of the "+" turning yellow and the opposing one
      turning blue, to indicate with 75% validity the location at which an oriented Gabor patch
      will appear (5 degrees from fixation; cue color mapping counterbalanced), requiring a speeded
      "R/L" tilt judgment. Orthogonal to cue-color configuration, half of the trials in each block
      will begin with presentation of an "x" that will rotate by 45 degrees with an unpredictable
      lag (.5 sec +/- .3). On these trials, the cue-to-target interval (i.e., from rotation to "+"
      to color-cue onset) will be 750 msec. On trials that begin with the onset of a "+",
      cue-to-target interval will vary unpredictably between 650, 750, and 850 msec. Decomposition
      of alpha-band oscillations (brain waves cycling at roughly 10 times per second) into
      components associated with each location will be derived by filtering the whole-scalp signal
      with weights from the inverted encoding model trained to encode the four critical locations.
    
  