
    
      After the first visit the Patients will undergo a run-in Home Phase, during which they will
      be asked to have 4 sexual intercourse sessions with their female partners, in the privacy of
      their home, during which their partner will measure their intravaginal ejaculatory latency
      time (IELT) using a stopwatch.

      After the run-in Home Phase the Patients will be requested to attend to the hospital (Visit
      2) and the ones with a IELT value confirming their eligibility will be randomized in the
      trial (otherwise they will be excluded as Screening Failures).

      Visit 2 will include three steps. Step 1: conditioning stimulation, delivered to the
      Patient's forearm muscles, aiming at familiarizing and adapting the Patient to transcutaneous
      electrical stimulation. Stimulation during Step 1 will be delivered using a CE approved
      TensMed S82 device. Following the conditioning stimulation, the Patient will undergo Step 2:
      incrementally increasing perineal stimulation, in order to identify the electrical intensity
      of his sensory and motor activation. The Patient will recognize motor activation as a muscle
      contraction, similarly to the voluntary induced muscle contraction when delaying urination.
      Step 2 will be repeated twice. Finally, the Patient will undergo Step 3: 10 to 15 minutes
      (according to Investigator's discretion) of continuous functional intensity stimulation,
      delivered to the Patient's perineum, aiming at demonstrating safety of prolonged stimulation.
      Stimulation during Steps 2 and 3 will be delivered using the investigational BLE (Bluetooth
      Low Energy)-enabled vPatch device. Furthermore, the Investigator will carefully instruct the
      Patient how to safely place the device, how to safely use of the device, and how to remove
      the device. During this visit the baseline assessments (see flow chart) will be carried out.

      Following the Visit 2, the Home Phase will initiate, where the Patients will be asked to have
      4 sexual intercourse sessions with their female partners, in the privacy of their home,
      during which their partner will measure their Intravaginal Ejaculatory Latency Time (IELT)
      using a stopwatch. The 4 sessions will include four IELT measurements, while the
      investigational BLE-disabled vPatch device is applied, pre-configured either delivering a
      functional stimulation to 40 Patients (Active Device Group) or sensory stimulation to 20
      Patients (Sham Device Group). All Patients will be informed that the stimulation is not
      necessarily detectable. The Investigator will call the Patients every day during the first
      three days of the Home Phase to monitor the progression and to remind to fill in the 72 h
      Safety Questionnaire.

      The Patients will be requested to return to the site (Visit 3) after 4 intercourse sessions
      with their female partners in order to undergo the assessments foreseen by protocol (see flow
      chart) and to return the filled questionnaires and the used device. This will be considered
      the End of Trial Visit.
    
  