
    
      TITLE : A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-control Study Evaluating the Efficacy of
      Entecavir in Patients with Chronic Hepatitis B Virus Infection and Persistently Normal
      Alanine Aminotransferase INDICATION : Chronic hepatitis B virus infection with persistently
      normal ALT

      OBJECTIVES :

      Primary objective To evaluate the efficacy of entecavir (ETV) in improving liver histology in
      patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection and persistently normal ALT.

      The primary endpoint is to compare the proportion of subjects in each treatment group who
      achieve the histologic Endpoint, defined as improvement in the necroinflammatory score (≥ 2
      point decrease in Knodell HAI score) and no worsening of fibrosis (≥ 1 point increase in the
      Knodell fibrosis score), at the Week 52 compared to baseline.

      Secondary objectives

      To compare the proportion of subjects in each treatment group with the following objectives
      at week 52, week 104, and week 156, and post-dosing 24 weeks:

        1. Undetectable HBV DNA by the Roche TaqMan® HBV Test (limit of detection 60 IU/mL); HBV
           DNA by PCR will also be evaluated as a continuous parameter;

        2. The reduction of HBV DNA from baseline.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a 3-year prospective randomized, double-blind, placebo-control study.
      Enrolled subjects will be allocated according to HBeAg status (HBeAg-positive and
      HBeAg-negative), then randomized to ETV or placebo group.

      ETV group: 1st year: ETV 0.5mg qd, then open with ETV 0.5mg qd for 2nd, 3rd year Placebo gr:
      1st year: placebo, then open with ETV 0.5mg for 2nd, 3rd year

      Dose of ETV: 0.5 mg/day Screening period: 6 weeks Timing of liver biopsy: baseline, 52th
      week, 156th week NUMBER OF PATIENTS 130 (1:1)

      STUDY PERIOD NOV 2007 ~ MAY 2011 DRUG ADMINISTRAITON Route: oral Dose: ETV 0.5 mg/day
      Comparable placebo

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Sample size determination:

      An evaluation of the efficacy of entecavir compared to placebo is planned. A test for
      superiority of entecavir to placebo will be conducted that has high power to demonstrate
      superiority if there are larger histologic improvements of clinical importance. Histologic
      improvement after one year is estimated as 50% of entecavir treatment and 25% of placebo.
      Thus, a sample size of 47 will be required for 90% of confidence level with 5% of error.
      Finally, we estimate that it will be appropriate to enroll 65 patients in each arm due to
      probably patients' withdrawal.

      Statistical Analyses The difference in response rates for the Histologic Endpoint
      (entecavir-placebo) along with its standard error and 95% confidence interval will be
      computed. Subset analyses defined by prognostic variables [e.g. gender, and HBV DNA level]
      for the Histologic Endpoint will be performed.

      Change from baseline at Week 52 and 156 in Knodell Scores will also be summarized as a
      continuous parameter. The secondary efficacy variables will also be summarized and compared
      between the treatment groups.
    
  