
    
      Glaucoma is the 2nd leading cause of blindness worldwide and affects over 2.5 million
      Americans over the age of 40. It is thought that elevated intraocular pressure causes damage
      to the optic nerve fibers which leads to silent vision loss in glaucoma. Therefore, the
      primary approach to managing this disease process is through intraocular pressure reduction
      with a) topical drops that decrease intraocular fluid production or increase fluid outflow,
      b) laser therapy to the outflow structures in the eye (trabecular meshwork) to increase fluid
      egression, c) or incisional surgery with or without placement of setons to create a new
      pathway for fluid outflow. When medical therapy has been maximized or patients do not
      tolerate topical therapy, laser trabeculoplasty is common applied to achieve further
      intraocular pressure reduction. There are two types of laser therapies: argon laser
      trabeculoplasty (ALT) and selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT). The former involves applying
      laser to create outflow pathways in the trabecular meshwork (TM) and induces thermal damage
      to the TM. The latter selectively applies energy which induces inflammatory restructuring of
      the TM without creating a burn. Studies have shown comparable results between the two
      treatment modalities with SLT offering the advantage of repeatable treatment. Studies have
      also shown laser trabeculoplasty to be comparable to the effect of topical drops in
      intraocular pressure reduction. Side effects for both types of laser trabeculoplasty include
      post procedure intraocular pressure elevation and intraocular inflammation which is treated
      with topical drops after the procedure.

      This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of micropulse laser trabeculoplasty in
      intraocular pressure reduction in patients with open angle glaucoma as compared to
      conventional selective laser trabeculoplasty. Secondary aims would be to determine whether
      its reduction is comparable to that of topical intraocular pressure lowering drops, length of
      therapeutic intraocular pressure reduction, and incidence of side effects commonly
      encountered with traditional laser trabeculoplasty including intraocular inflammation and
      intraocular pressure spikes.
    
  