
    
      Coronaviruses (CoVs) are the largest group of viruses belonging to the Nidovirales order.
      They are enveloped, non-segmented positive-sense RNA viruses.1 Coronavirus are believed to
      cause a significant proportion of all common colds in adults and children. The Novel
      Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), also known as Wuhan coronavirus, causes the 2019-nCoV acute
      respiratory disease. The initial cases of 2019-nCoV occurred in Wuahn, China in December
      2019.2 A recent review evaluated the potential impact of 2019-nCoV in pregnancy.3 The authors
      reported published data on CoVs in pregnant women, including 2019-nCoV, severe acute
      respiratory syndrome (SARS-COV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-COV). The review
      included 12 women with SARS-COV,4 11 women MERS-COV,5 and 9 women with 2019-n-CoV6 in
      pregnancy. No cases of vertical trasmission were reported, but the authors showed an high
      rate of preterm birth (45.8%), cesarean delivery (70.8%), maternal admission to intensive
      care unit (ICU) (63.3%), and maternal death (18.8%).

      The number of patients infected in Italy closely followed an exponential trend, and Italy
      reported the highest number of infected patients and deaths in the world excluding China.7
      Therefore, Italy can be a great source of data, including data on pregnant women.

      The aim of this study was to evaluate the pregnancy and perinatal outcomes of pregnant women
      with 2019-n-CoV.

      This was a multicenter, retrospective, cohort study. Clinical records and compiled data of
      all consecutive hospitalized and outpatient pregnant women with laboratory-confirmed
      2019-n-CoV Data on recent exposure history, clinical symptoms or signs, laboratory findings,
      and maternal and perinatal outcomes were collected. All medical recors were sent to the
      coordinator center at University of Naples Federico II. Data were entered into a computerized
      database and cross-checked. If the core data were missing, requests for clarification were
      sent to the coordinators.
    
  