
    
      Lean body mass (LBM) deficits are common in Crohn's Disease (CD) and persist beyond
      achievement of remission. In a recent review of 21 studies with a total of 1,479 youth with
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), 93.6% of patients with CD showed deficits in LBM compared
      to healthy controls. LBM deficits in CD are multifactorial though largely explained by
      malnutrition. Even with weight restoration and remission however, youth with CD continue to
      show deficits in LBM compared to healthy peers. Despite proportional deficits in fat and LBM
      at baseline, weight restoration is explained by gains in fat without similar gains in LBM,
      suggesting that additional mechanisms interact to maintain deficits such as low physical
      activity (PA) or altered energy partitioning. Chronic LBM deficits can have deleterious
      effects including decreased physical function, myopenia, metabolic dysregulation, increased
      risk of infection, compromised peak bone mass accrual, and development of
      osteopenia/osteoporosis. While some factors are not readily modifiable (e.g. underlying
      disease mechanisms), targeting factors amenable to change may result in an increase in LBM
      and thus improved health outcomes. Health behaviors, including exercise, are modifiable and
      associated with the development of LBM. Resistance training (RT) has been associated with
      improved LBM in youth with and without chronic illness. To our knowledge, no evidence-based
      resistance training interventions have been developed to promote LBM accrual in pediatric CD.
      The overarching aims of this proposal are to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and effects of
      12 weeks of RT on LBM in youth with CD aged 14-18. Specifically we aim to:

      Aim 1: Evaluate feasibility, safety, and preliminary estimates of RT efficacy to promote LBM
      accrual in patients with CD aged 14-18. This will be achieved by conducting a parallel 2-arm
      randomized-controlled pilot trial of RT compared to usual care. At weeks 0 (pre-treatment), 6
      (mid-treatment), and 12 (post- treatment), feedback regarding safety, feasibility, and
      acceptability will be collected from participants through surveys and interviews. Magnitude
      of the effect size of the intervention on LBM, muscle strength, and health-related quality of
      life (HRQoL) will also be estimated.

      Positive findings would have broad implications for growth and long-term health outcomes
      including bone disease and metabolic health in these young patients. More broadly, the
      findings would have promising potential to be extended to patients with IBD across the
      developmental and disease spectrum including youth with ulcerative colitis (UC) and adults
      with IBD as they demonstrate similar LBM deficits. The proposed study will also provide
      preliminary data to inform a evaluation through a larger trial.
    
  