
    
      A total of 120 patients between the ages of 18 and 80 years who were scheduled for elective
      robotic radical nephrectomy will included in the study. This is randomized controlled
      double-blind clinical trial.

      A standard anesthesia protocol will be used in both groups. Bladder catheter inserted by the
      OP-nurse. After ports installment under IAP of 7 mm Hg, the surgeon leaves the operation
      field and sits at a surgical console. The ground nurse opens the sealed letter which
      indicated the pressure for operation (electronic randomization was previously performed by
      investigator using https://www.graphpad.com/quickcalcs/index.cfm) The required IAP sets by
      the ground nurse before the surgery started. Assistants are not blinded in the study, but the
      surgeon is. Intra-abdominal pressure will be maintained at 7 mmHg in Group Low IAP and at 12
      mmHg in Group High IAP throughout the surgery. If under operation the surgeon required to
      raise the IAP because of bad views, or bleeding, he/she can always ask the ground nurse to
      raise the pressure by 2- or 3-mm Hg at a time until surgeon obtain the preferred view. This
      involved both groups. Patient will not be excluded from study if pressure increased, but the
      duration of raised IAP will be registered.

      During the operation, the surgical working space will be evaluated by surgeon using an
      adopted version of SRS (Surgical rating scale). 1st time during mobilization of bowel, 2nd
      time during renal vascular dissection, and last time when surgeon remove the kidney and set
      it in the Endobag.

      All patients asked to register their 24-hour urine production before the operation day.
      Intra-operative urine output will be also registered. 10 ml urine will be collected 3 times
      in order to investigate the risk of Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) by kidney injury biomarker
      (u-NGAL, og KIM-1). Pre-operatively during urinary catheter placement, 2-hour
      post-operatively, and 24 hours after operation. Urine samples collected and stored in -80 C
      for later analyses.

      Investigator will test the quality of recovery using a validated Quality of recovery-15
      (QoR-15) questionnaire before the surgery and at day 1,3,14,30 post-op.
    
  