
    
      Study Protocol The effect on Micronutrient Status of a diet of 100% Huel

      Aims of the study This project will assess the effect of Huel Powder on 30 generally healthy
      individuals over 4 weeks on the volunteer's micronutrient status. The aim is to identify any
      changes in the micronutrient status of volunteers in any of the 20 micronutrients to be
      monitored. Micronutrient status will be measured at the start of the study, after one week of
      their habitual diets and again after four weeks of consuming Huel powder as their single food
      source.

      Huel Powder is a nutritionally complete powdered food that is high in protein and fibre,
      essential fats, carbohydrates, rich in phytonutrients and all 26 essential vitamins and
      minerals, with further information on Huel's website
      https://huel.com/pages/what-people-ask-about-huel.

      Secondary measures of BMI, weight, waist and hip circumferences, and body composition will
      also be taken to observe any changes over the study period.

      All researchers will be trained in GCP and phlebotomy. Potential volunteers will sent a
      health and activity questionnaire to assess their energy consumption and expenditure. This
      can be discussed over a Zoom call (or similar platform) if required. This will be used to
      screen the volunteers to see if they are suitable for the study. The energy intake
      information will also be verified from the first week of the study when they are consuming
      their habitual diet and completing their food diaries on my fitness pal. The energy
      requirements will inform the researcher how much Huel the volunteers will require over the
      course of the four weeks.

      The volunteers will come to the study centre at Newcastle on three separate occasions. The
      first, at the start of the study they can have any further questions answered and if they are
      happy to take part in the study, they will be asked to complete a written consent form. They
      will also have their height, weight, body composition, waist and hip circumferences, measured
      as well as giving a blood sample (30ml) for micronutrient analysis. The second visit, at the
      end of the first week, will also measure the weight, body composition, waist circumference
      and take a blood sample. The final visit will be at the end of the study taking weight, body
      composition, waist circumference and a blood sample for micronutrient analysis.

      The micronutrients and blood markers to be measure are listed below.

      Markers to be tested; Haemoglobin Sodium Calcium HbA1c Cholesterol status Iron status Vitamin
      A Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin C Folate Vitamin B12 Choline Magnesium Potassium Zinc Copper
      Manganese Selenium Iodine (TSH)

      Analysis Plan Although this trial is a pilot study, changes in BMI, weight, body composition,
      waist circumference, and micronutrient/blood marker will be compared between 0 and 1 week, as
      well as 1 week and 5 weeks, will be assessed. A one-way ANOVA will be used to assess
      differences for individual volunteers.

      Test conditions Each volunteer will be asked to continue to consume their habitual diet for
      the first week and record their food intake in food diary app, myfitnesspal. At the end of
      the first week volunteers will be asked to consume only the Huel Powder provided and water.
      Volunteers will be asked not to consume any other food or drinks during these four weeks but
      still record their Huel intake in myfitnesspa.

        -  100% Huel - Only a diet comprising of Huel powder must be consumed for the last four
           weeks of the trial. No other snacks/food are permitted.

        -  Energy intake - Daily calorie requirements varies from person to person and is
           determined by weight, height, gender, age and activity levels. The researchers will help
           estimate individual calorie requirements. Once you have your calorie requirements,
           manipulate your Huel serving sizes to reflect daily calorie intake.

        -  Huel products - Only Huel powder - as well as Huel Flavour Boosts, if desired - must be
           consumed as part of this study. Huel Granola or Huel Bars cannot be consumed during this
           study.

        -  Fluid intake - Only plain water, herbal tea (excluding citrus teas), black tea or coffee
           must be drunk. No additions must be made to fluid, i.e. no additional sugar, sweeteners,
           milk or honey are permitted during the length of the study.

        -  Alcohol intake - No alcohol must be consumed during the study.

        -  Exercise/Activity- Participants are able to continue with normal exercise and activity
           during the study.

      Volunteers Thirty generally healthy volunteers, males and nonpregnant, nonlactating females
      aged over 18 years will be recruited for the study. Volunteers will be recruited by posters
      and word of mouth from Newcastle University staff and their associates.

      Anonymity

      Volunteers will be assigned a 'Participant Identification Number', which volunteers will use
      to complete questionnaires and researcher will use to label volunteers blood samples. Ony one
      documents will contain volunteers names and Participant Identification Number, and this will
      be destroyed after the final volunteer has completed the study or once the study has been
      concluded, which ever occurs first. Consent forms will not contain Participant Identification
      Numbers and will be kept for 12 months after the completion of the study.
    
  