
    
      The costoclavicular space block technique is a new developed approach of ultrasound-guided
      infraclavicular brachial plexus block(USG-ICB) in last two years and has not been studied
      much yet. USG-ICB represents an attractive option for upper-limb surgery at or below the
      elbow joint with similar success rate and fewer adverse effects compared with
      ultrasound-guided supraclavicular block. The paracoracoid approach serves as a standard and
      traditional method for USG-ICB in clinical practice, easy to learn and perform. However, the
      minimum effective volume(MEV)of this approach has been studied by different investigators
      with different regional anesthetics or its mixture, and specially, the 95% MEV result of this
      approach is more than 30ml in all related researches which is still a large volume. According
      to the investigators' experience in using the costoclavicular space technique for forearm
      surgery, it usually can get a comparable sensation and motor block effect by no more than
      25ml. Recently, there was a clinical randomized control study which compared the
      costoclavicular and paracoracoid USG-ICB for upper limb surgery using a 35ml-mixture of 1%
      lidocaine-0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine 5 ug/ml and came to the conclusions: two groups
      resulted in similar onset times and no intergroup difference were found in terms of
      performance time and success rate. However, 35ml is a much larger regional anesthetic volume
      than what we used in routine brachial plexus block. So, we set this parallel controlled
      dose-finding trial to work out the MEV with 0.5% ropivacaine of both approaches above for
      forearm surgery and compare the performance time between them, providing reasonable evidence
      for clinical choice. Patients enrolled in this study will be assigned to costoclavicular
      group and paracoracoid group and in each group, the volume of local anesthetic applied to
      patients start with 30ml, and then decreased by 2.5ml for next patient when the previous
      block is successful, otherwise increased by 2.5ml when failed,which is also called a
      staircase up-and-down method usually applied in dose-finding research of nerve block. After
      certain reflections of the local anesthetic volume sequential line graph, the minimum
      effective volume could be calculated.
    
  