
    
      Using advances in low-cost sensor technologies and computer-aided analysis, the investigators
      have developed a disposable, non-invasive device for the continuous monitoring of abdominal
      sounds, called an AGIS sensor (Acoustic Gastro-Intestinal Surveillance). Following abdominal
      surgery, the standard protocol employed by most hospitals is to feed patients on their first
      post-operative day. However, one in every four patients is unable to tolerate feeding because
      of delayed recovery of bowel function, a condition called post-operative ileus (POI).
      Following abdominal surgery, monitoring for POI is typically limited to incidental
      interactions with the attending physician or other staff, which occur only intermittently
      throughout the day. The AGIS system specifically addresses postoperative digestion monitoring
      by offering continuous analysis of GI signals, automated processing of the signals, and
      immediate reporting of the patient's progress to caretakers.

      The AGIS system is a compact, rapidly deployable unit that is comfortable for subjects and
      convenient in application. The AGIS sensor includes a standard microelectronic microphone for
      measurement of abdominal vibration and acoustic signals. The material in contact with the
      subject is standard 3M Tegaderm wound bandage adhesive material which is disposable, avoiding
      the need for cleaning and disinfection.

      The AGIS sensor includes fine, flexible and convenient cables that connect to the AGIS
      Gateway, a low voltage battery powered device with a size approximately of a smartphone. The
      AGIS Gateway monitors the AGIS sensor signals and provides a measurement of intestinal
      motility and reports an AGIS Feeding Index score. The score is calculated using the number of
      acoustic events detected by AGIS per minute.

      The investigators recently performed a proof-of-concept, cross-sectional study to test
      whether the AGIS monitoring system could distinguish healthy control participants from
      patients recovering from GI surgery. Seven healthy control participants were fed a breakfast
      and monitored with AGIS for two hours following the meal, allowing the investigators to
      obtain acoustic data and calculate a normal range of AGIS scores. The investigators also
      placed the sensor on patients recovering from abdominal surgery. The investigators monitored
      each patient for two hours and compared their AGIS scores to those of healthy controls using
      ANOVA with post-hoc comparisons. AGIS successfully discriminated among healthy control,
      patients tolerating food, and patients with POI.

      Although the investigators' pilot data indicate that AGIS can distinguish patients from
      healthy controls, and can further distinguish between patients with POI vs. those tolerating
      food, the investigators do not yet know if AGIS can reliably predict which patients will fail
      to tolerate postoperative feeding. The investigators propose to test the predictive validity
      of the AGIS system in a pragmatic, observational study of patients scheduled for abdominal
      surgery.

      Hypothesis: Using AGIS signals recorded on the day of abdominal surgery, AGIS can predict
      which patients will fail to tolerate postoperative feeding vs. which can be safely fed; AGIS
      will achieve an overall accuracy of 80% or greater.

      Study Design: The investigators will place the AGIS sensor on GI patients for 20 minutes
      during the immediate pre-operative phase to establish a baseline AGIS motility rate.
      Following abdominal surgery, the surgeons will place the AGIS sensor on the patient in the
      operating room, and will begin recording for 60 minutes as the patients is transferred and
      recovers in the post-anesthesia care unit. AGIS recordings will be collected continuously
      throughout the remaining of the patient's hospital stay. As this is an observational study,
      physicians and nurses will not be made aware of the AGIS readings. Patients will be managed
      according to standard practice. The investigators' goal will be to determine the accuracy of
      AGIS in predicting post-operative feeding tolerance in the context of usual care and without
      the "Hawthorne effect" potentially impacting care decisions. Investigators blinded to the
      AGIS recordings will abstract all data and outcomes.
    
  