
    
      Participants Study participants are community-dwelling elderly.

      Assessments Demographic data will be collected at the start. Psychological tests for
      depression and anxiety and neuropsychological tests of cognitive functioning will be done at
      the start, at 3-months and at 9-months, the end of the study. A urine sample will be
      collected at the start and at the end of the study; blood, fecal and saliva samples will be
      collected at all three time points. Participants will also undergo a brain neuro-imaging scan
      at the start of the study and at the 3-months interval.

      Intervention Sessions This is an intervention study with a control group design. The strength
      of this design is its experimental nature with randomization. The control group is the health
      education program participants.

      In the Mindful Awareness Program, all 30 participants will be seen in a group format once a
      week for 40 minutes for 12 weeks, followed by once a month for 40 minutes for 6 months. The
      intervention is modelled on similar groups teaching mindfulness meditation to the elderly.
      The sessions will be led by an experienced instructor who has conducted pilot studies on the
      use of mindful awareness practice techniques with the elderly.

      Participants shall be required to practice these techniques at home daily and will be asked
      to keep a log of their practice.

      For the Health Education Program, all 30 participants will be seen in a group format once a
      week for 40 minutes for 12 weeks, followed by once a month for 40 minutes for 6 months. Each
      weekly session will cover a healthy living topic related to maintaining and improving
      cognitive function. The monthly sessions will review the topics covered with a discussion of
      how participants have implemented the imparted knowledge to their daily lives. The sessions
      will be led by an experienced instructor who has conducted similar teaching sessions to the
      elderly.

      Participants will be provided with hand-outs at each session, and there will be discussions
      to encourage them to practice what is being taught in their daily lives.
    
  