
    
      Sampling:

      In this project, (80 people) eligible women (with at least one score from the CTS2
      questionnaire) are selected through available health centers in the villages covered by
      Mashhad-e-Kobeh Health Center and Mashhad-e-Koboeh Health Center by available sampling
      method. They are randomly divided into intervention and control groups.

      Randomization type:

      Randomization is blockchain. 20 blocks with a volume of 4 are used, two allocations for the
      control group and two allocations for the intervention group. Random sequencing is done using
      a web-based random site (https://www.sealedenvelope.com).

      Sequence Hiding: Sequence hiding is when someone outside the research team has a random
      assignment list. As soon as a person is eligible to participate in the study, the sampler
      contacts the person who has a random assignment sequence and he / she gives the code to the
      participants to enter the study according to the sequence list.

      Acceptance and commitment therapy sessions are held by a researcher who has learned the
      workshop before starting the project. In the evaluation phase, one week and one month after
      the intervention, the questionnaires are completed by trained questioners. The statistical
      consultant who will help analyze the data is unaware of the codes of the participants in the
      groups. Therefore, the study will be of the three-blind type.

      Data collection method:

      Questionnaires are completed by pre-intervention interviews by trained researchers and
      samplers and in the evaluation phase after the intervention and follow-up by trained
      interviewers. Before starting the study, questioners with high public and social relations
      are selected for sampling and during a session, the necessary training is given to them by
      the researcher. During the briefing, the objectives of the study and the work process, the
      sampling method, the confidentiality of customer information and the privacy of the
      participant, and all ethical principles related to domestic violence research are taught to
      the samplers.

      Data collection tools:

      The instruments studied in this study include Demographic Questionnaire, CTS2 Conflict
      Resolution Tactics Questionnaire (to determine the status of violence) and Connor and
      Davidson Resilience Questionnaire (to determine the status of resilience).

      Hypothesis:

      Acceptance and commitment to therapy affect women's resilience to domestic violence.

      all purpose: The effect of treatment acceptance and commitment on the resilience of women
      affected by domestic violence is determined.

      Specific objectives:

      Determining and comparing the mean resilience score in the intervention and control groups,
      before, one week after the intervention and one month after the intervention.

      Functional purpose:

      If the effectiveness of acceptance and commitment therapy in improving the resilience of
      women affected by domestic violence is confirmed, this intervention method can be used in
      counseling centers and its use can be taught to service providers, especially midwives.
      Applying this method will probably be effective in reducing the rate of violence and mutual
      violence against women, promoting women's health, improving marital relations and marital
      satisfaction, strengthening the family and reducing the rate of divorce.
    
  