
    
      Main objective:

      - To describe short and long-term complications associated with pelvic organ prolapse repair
      using macroporous polypropylene transvaginal mesh (TVM) using a transobturator or
      transgluteal approach.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To describe anatomical restoration of the pelvic floor following transvaginal mesh
           repair of pelvic organ prolapse using the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification system
           (POP-Q).

        -  To describe subjective patient outcomes using validated questionnaires with regard to
           pelvic organ function (UDI), sexual function (PISQ) and quality of life (IIQ).

      Study design:

      - A prospective multicenter open labeled single cohort study.

      Study protocol:

        -  At baseline patients receive oral and written information about the study.

        -  Following informed consent, patients are included in the study if pelvic organ prolapse
           surgery is indicated and all inclusion, and no exclusion, criteria are fulfilled.

        -  Preoperatively all patients answer a detailed self reported questionnaire on health
           history, previous surgery, obstetrical history and current diseases and medications. The
           questionnaire also includes questions on symptoms from the pelvic organs and pelvic
           floor.

        -  Preoperatively all patients undergo a clinical examination using the POP-Q system, as
           well as, a validated clinical inflammatory grading of the vaginal compartments.

        -  Patients undergo the TVM procedure in a standardised manner with all participating
           surgeons having undergone pretrial surgical training and adopting the same surgical
           technique. All patients receive standardised intraoperative antibiotics.

        -  Complications during the immediate peri- and postoperative hospital stay are registered
           in hospital charts.

        -  All patients receive a clinical follow-up appointment 2 months, 1 year and 3 years after
           surgery. At follow-up identical self reported questionnaires are used for subjective
           assessment. Clinical examinations are performed as preoperatively suing the POP-Q system
           and macroscopic inflammatory grading. Complications are registered in a specific
           protocol and hospital charts.

        -  All protocols are to be submitted after the 2 months follow-up for an interrim safety
           analysis. The study chair is responsible for stopping the study if the rate, or
           seriousness, of complications exceed the expected.

        -  Patients are free to withdraw from the study at any point.
    
  