
    
      Parenting children with developmental disabilities or Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) can be
      challenging. Often, these children process information in an atypical manner and they may
      struggle to learn through social engagement. At times, regular parenting techniques do not
      work with these children, which may leave parents feeling distressed and confused. In their
      ground breaking interpretation of the International Classification of Functioning, Health and
      Disability (ICF), The 'F-words' in childhood disability, (2011) Dr. P. Rosenbaum and Dr. J.
      Gorter state that, "Family represents the essential environment of all children." They point
      to research that confirms that parental physical and mental health is challenged in families
      who have a child with a disability. Specifically, behavioural issues of these children
      significantly contribute to parental stress scores, impact attachment, the relationship with
      a spouse, parental depression and in particular, a sense of competence. By providing parents
      the opportunity to understand their child's unique learning style, and the opportunity to
      learn how to mindfully engage their child, it is the investigators' goal to restore parental
      competence and the natural parent/child relationship.

      The objectives of this new learning series program are to help parents understand their
      child's unique learning style and to give parents the practical tools to become their child's
      best teacher and guide. Becoming a mindful parent requires a solid understanding of the
      child's underlying social learning challenges, and it requires parents to be both
      self-reflective and analytical. Behaviour change takes time and repeated experience. Parents
      also need the opportunity to practice in a safe and supportive environment. This learning
      series will consist of ten in-person sessions, over a period of 12-14 weeks.
    
  