
    
      Participants will learn about the study through flyers, e-mail, and social media (i.e.
      Facebook and twitter), which will describe the main eligibility criteria and the researcher's
      contact information. Participants will also learn about the study from their eating disorder
      unit if they are currently outpatients at one of the identification centres. Inpatients will
      not be recruited.

      Interested individuals will be asked to contact the researchers, who will then send an
      information sheet detailing the study procedure and what participation would involve. After
      reading the information sheet, interested individuals will be contacted by the researchers in
      order to confirm all eligibility criteria including diagnostic assessment. If these are met,
      a PDF of the consent form will be sent to the participants, including information about their
      rights as participants and their ability to withdraw at any time without having to give a
      reason. Participants who sign the consent form will respond to the e-mail with the attached
      document. Next, participants will be randomly allocated to the experimental condition (TAU +
      training) or control group (TAU only). Researchers will then inform the participant which
      group they have been allocated to. If they are in the intervention group, the researcher will
      contact the participant to give details about the training. All participants will be asked to
      complete a battery of questionnaires on Qualtrics, an online platform.

      The questionnaires will collect data regarding: 1) a demographic information, 2) eating
      disorder symptoms (Eating Disorders Examination Questionnaire; Self-Regulation of Eating
      Behaviour Questionnaire; Adult Eating Behaviour Questionnaire; Yale Food Addiction Scale;
      Food Liking Task), 3) impulsivity (Negative Urgency Scale), 4) symptoms of anxiety or
      depression (GAD-7 anxiety; PHQ-9 Depression) and 5) quality of life (EQ-5D-3L).

      Participants in the intervention group will be asked to complete the training and a food
      diary for four weeks. After the four weeks, all participants will be asked to complete the
      same battery of questionnaires (except for the demographic questionnaire). One month
      post-intervention, a follow-up questionnaire will also be sent.
    
  