
    
      Study participation will start at signature of informed consent and each subject will be
      assessed preoperatively, within 4 weeks before surgery. A patient information leaflet will
      form the basis of discussions with the patient before written informed consent is obtained.

      Patients will be evaluated intra-operatively, at 24 and 48 hours after surgery, and at
      discharge.

      At the preoperative visit, the following information will be recorded on the patient's Case
      Report Form by a specialist Registrar:

        -  Patient number

        -  Patient initials

        -  Date of visit

        -  Demography (date of birth, sex, height, and weight)

        -  Preoperative FEV1 and % predicted FEV1

        -  Co-morbidities (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [yes/no], current smoking habit
           [yes/no])

        -  levels of hemoglobin (preoperative, postoperative, 24 h, 48 h and discharged)

        -  perioperative complication.

      Interventions

      Patients undergoing Major Lung Surgery will be randomly assigned to one of two management
      strategies before the starting of the operation:

        1. Electrocautery Using routine instrument for hilar dissection, hemostasis and lisys of
           eventual pleural adhesions.

        2. Transcollation Technology Using Transcollation Technology for hilar dissection,
           hemostasis and lisys of eventual pleural adhesions.

      Randomization Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to Transcollation technology (TT) or
      electrocautery. Patients will be allocated to the two different groups following a block
      randomization with sealed envelopes. This study is open-label: patients, investigators.

      Allocation concealment The nature of the treatment precludes blinding of the surgeon
      administering the intervention. However, allocating, monitoring and measurement of all
      primary and secondary endpoints will be made by a dedicated investigator without the
      knowledge of, or reference to, the treatment allocation (electrocautery or Transcollation
      technology).

      A dedicated investigator will provide a series of sealed envelopes, each containing a
      randomized treatment allocation. The operating surgeon will ascertain the treatment
      allocation for each eligible patient by opening the next available sealed randomization
      envelope. For each patient, the opened envelope will be attached to the Case Report Form for
      statistical analysis.

      Sample Size Group sample sizes of 77 and 77 achieve 90% power to detect a difference of 65,0
      ml of chest drain fluid at 24 h between the null hypothesis that both group means of chest
      drain fluid are 425,0 ml and the alternative hypothesis that the mean of group 2 is 360,0 ml
      with known group standard deviations of 124,0 ml, with a significance level (alpha) of 0,05
      using a two-sided two-sample t-test. We consider a 10% of drop-out then we will recruit 170
      patients.
    
  