
    
      Introduction The number of incident strokes, prevalent stroke survivors, disability-adjusted
      life-years (DALYs) lost due to stroke, and stroke-related deaths is increasing in the word
      (1). Stroke is the most common cause of complex disability in Taiwan (2). After the acute
      phase of stroke, many patients are left with impairment of upper-limb movement (hemiparesis)
      because of the hand weakness and abnormal contractions. Motor recovery of the hand is the
      slowest and most difficult, leading to limited hand activities and occupational disability.
      Therefore, facilitating motor recovery of hand after stroke is crucial in stroke
      rehabilitation.

      The mechanisms of recovery after stroke are multifactorial and the effect of rehabilitation
      programs is complex (3). Activity-dependent neural plasticity of the cortical maps adjacent
      to the lesion probably occurs, particularly during the acute period after stroke (4). In
      order to stimulate such plasticity, many new rehabilitation methods, including rehabilitation
      robots, have been developed according to the principles of motor learning (5). Robotic
      systems can provide repetitive, reproducible, interactive forms of physical therapy that can
      be quantified (6). The advantages of using robots in neuromotor rehabilitation includes
      favoring attention and reducing the effort of the patient during training (7), boosting
      motivation and adherence to treatment (8), as well as help in multi-sensory and sensorimotor
      integration (9). Some results are very promising, showing that robot-assisted therapy is safe
      and well tolerated and that it has a positive impact on muscle strength and function in the
      paretic arm (10-12). However, the quality of these evidence is still controversial and
      inconclusive. The effectiveness of robotic over conventional therapy is arguable and the best
      therapy strategy is still not clear. Furthermore, there is little understanding of the
      neurological mechanisms involved in functional recovery of the hand (13). In this study, the
      investigators hypothesize that the robot based assistance would outperform conventional
      therapy during the subacute stage of stroke.

      Study objective

        1. To establish whether robot assisted therapy provides any additional motor recovery for
           the hand when administered during the subacute stage in a Chinese adult population
           diagnosed with stroke.

        2. To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of robot-assisted hand rehabilitation in
           improving arm function abilities in subacute hemiplegic patients.
    
  