
    
      The high morbidity and mortality associated with both pandemic and seasonal influenza, and
      the anticipation of future influenza pandemics, puts influenza front and center in infectious
      disease research. Because the natural history and pathogenesis of human influenza has not
      been well characterized and cannot be adequately studied in animal models or with current in
      vitro techniques, important questions about influenza pathogenesis can only be approached
      through human challenge studies.

      Previous human challenge studies have addressed some aspects of the natural history of
      influenza by evaluating the timing of viral replication, shedding, clinical symptoms, and
      innate and adaptive immune responses. Although these studies have provided important
      information, in the United States, all but 1 were performed prior to 1990. Without exception,
      these studies had limitations due to the scope of the study and/or the scientific techniques
      available at that time.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the dose of influenza A 2009 H1N1 human
      challenge virus that will induce a mild to moderate uncomplicated influenza infection in
      healthy volunteers. This protocol will examine some of the basic questions that remain
      unanswered regarding the pathogenesis of influenza in humans, namely, a detailed clinical and
      immunological characterization of uncomplicated influenza viral pathogenesis in healthy adult
      volunteers.

      Secondary objectives will evaluate clinical disease, length of viral shedding, and
      pathogenesis in those with influenza infection including identification of clinical markers
      of the disease. Notably, the exploratory objectives will seek to discover viral factors
      necessary for human infection/adaptation and to evaluate host immune response, viral
      replication, viral fitness, and the intrahost evolution.

      Collaboration between National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)
      investigators and outside scientists will generate opportunities to further develop and
      expand areas of clinical influenza research based on the proposed challenge model.
    
  