
    
      In our study design we propose to use a web-based application and inform asthma patients
      through weekly Text Message (SMS) reminders to take their controller medication regularly and
      also a message to visit the web-based e-AAP and assess the current level of asthma control.
      This will be a two-way interaction and personalized feedback protocol to monitor patients at
      home and during daily activities. We will use an adequate sample size to provide an interim
      analysis of efficacy and the subsequent total number of subjects that will need to be
      enrolled. Each patient (in the relevant group, as explained below) will have his/her own
      profile, which will enable us to send and receive personalized (exchange) information using a
      web application process via cell phones. This approach will allow interaction between patient
      and asthma care counselor/ provider aiming to improve asthma control.

      This study will test the hypothesis that using mobile phone reminder messages and web-based
      monitoring, as part of a structured care plan, will improve clinical outcomes; namely
      reduction in the rate of exacerbation, in patients with asthma. We also aim to explore the
      cost-effectiveness of this technology. Our research group proposes to complete a feasibility
      study, with an interim analysis for a formal power calculation and then acquire ethics to
      report these results and study design with anticipated publication prior to proceeding with a
      full randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of this intervention. We predict that
      using a combination of Internet and SMS messaging technology will empower patients to manage
      their asthma and eventually prevent asthma exacerbation based on their personalized action
      plan as well as a SMS application. We plan to compare the web-based/SMS reminder method with
      written action plan approach in a 24-month time frame, as explained later in this proposal.
    
  