
    
      Study Objectives:

        -  To estimate the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in Saudi Multiple Sclerosis(MS)
           patient coming to King Khalid hospital, multiple sclerosis clinic.

        -  To compare the difference in the relapse rate among Multiple Sclerosis patients who are
           taking vitamin D3 (50,000 IU per week) versus those who are not taking Vitamin D3
           supplements.

        -  To assess and compare the improvement in the Expanded Disability Status scale and
           clinical symptoms among those who are taking vitamin D3 versus those who are on placebo

      Study Design: A single centre, triple-blinded, parallel randomized placebo controlled trial.

      Methods: All eligible patients with clinical definite MS will be assigned a
      computer-generated Identification number by the statistician and through randomization
      divided into two groups, one group receiving vitamin D3 (the intervention arm) and other
      getting placebo (the control arm). All patients will continue with their routine
      pre-intervention trial treatment for relapse and remission phases of multiple sclerosis. The
      first treatment group will receive 50,000 IU units of vitamin D3 per week . The control arm
      patients, instead of vitamin D3 will receive a placebo supplement that looks, smells and
      tastes the same as the vitamin D3 for 52 weeks. Compliance with the study treatment will be
      verified by asking the patients about missed doses and by counting used and unused bottles.

      All patients will be asked questions related socio-demographic data, vitamin D related
      dietary products, physical activity questions, exposure to sunlight and variation according
      to season, use of sunscreen, body coverage when in sunlight and any previous treatment for
      Multiple Sclerosis, including any vitamin D supplements. Every follow up visit shall include
      documentation of complete neurologic and medical history and findings. This will be a
      triple-blinded trial. The patient, the treating physician and the statistician will be masked
      to the type of treatment each patient receives.Sealed envelopes containing the vitamin D3 or
      placebo are going to be handed over to the physician with the computer assigned number of the
      patient. At each follow-up visit all patients will be required to bring their envelopes along
      with empty/ filled bottles to assess their compliance with the treatment.

      The treating physician will follow all the patients at set regular intervals: 0 (baseline),
      4, 8, and 12 months to assess the relapses and the EDSS scores and also to check for any
      adverse effects arising because of the vitamin D3 supplements. Patients who are going to miss
      their appointment shall be contacted by the project staff to set another appointment in the
      subsequent week. All patients are going to be emphasized about the importance of these
      clinical visits and their compliance with the treatment. All patients will be evaluated by
      the same treating physician.
    
  