
    
      In this study, the demographic and preoperative data, imaging data, operative data and
      postoperative follow-up data will be prospectively recorded according to the patient
      information forms for the patients with kidney stone smaller than 2 cm who will undergo
      either ultra-mini PCNL or micro PCNL.

      A total of 60 (sixty) patients, aging between 18 and 65 years, with similar stone size and
      location are being planned to be enrolled into the study; and will be prospectively
      randomized into two groups with a 1:1 ratio, thus 30 (thirty) patients will receive
      ultra-mini PCNL while 30 (thirty) patients will undergo micro PCNL.

      Preoperatively, blood and urine Cystatin C levels will be measured. After the surgery, blood
      and urine Cystatin C levels at postoperative 12th hour will be recorded. Besides these,
      classical kidney function tests, namely blood urea and creatinine levels, will be measured
      preoperatively and postoperatively.

      Parameters listed below will be also recorded and evaluated:

        1. Preoperative general evaluation data: Age, height, weight, body-mass index, concomitant
           comorbidities, prescriptions used, history of operation(s), American Society of
           Anesthesiologists (ASA) score

        2. Preoperative urological evaluation data: History of extracorporeal shock wave
           lithotripsy (ESWL)/PCNL/ureterorenoscopy (URS)/retrograde intrarenal surgery (RIRS)/open
           surgery, whole blood count, kidney function tests, automatic urine test, urine culture,
           preoperative imaging modality (KUB, US, CT), number-dimensions-localization-composition
           of stone(s), existence of hydronephrosis

        3. Operative data: Access fluoroscopy duration, total access duration, total fluoroscopy
           duration, operation duration, use of double-J stent, preoperative complications

        4. Number of previous ESWL seance, total duration of ESWL, number of shots during ESWL (if
           any)

        5. Follow-up data: Urethral catheterization time, hospitalization time, need of any other
           treatment for being stone-free, time to full stone-free, duration to removal of double-J
           stent, existence of residual stone(s), formation of new stone(s), complications in late
           period
    
  