
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the frequency of chemoprevention informed choice at 6 months after registration
      among women with atypical hyperplasia (AH) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) between the
      intervention (RealRisks decision aid/breast cancer risk navigation [BNAV] + standard
      educational materials) and control (standard educational materials alone) arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess patient chemoprevention knowledge, chemoprevention intention/decision, perceived
      breast cancer risk and worry, accuracy of breast cancer risk perception, decision conflict
      and decision regret at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months in the intervention and control
      arms.

      II. To compare patient chemoprevention usage, adherence, and reasons for discontinuation of a
      selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) or aromatase inhibitor (AI) annually for up to 5
      years between the intervention and control arms.

      III. To assess shared decision-making about chemoprevention among patients and healthcare
      providers after their 6-month clinic visit in the intervention and control arms.

      IMPLEMENTATION OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the implementation of the decision support tools, RealRisks and BNAV, into
      clinic workflow, and to better understand barriers and facilitators to chemoprevention usage
      by conducting telephone/video-conference interviews of healthcare providers and high-risk
      women with AH or LCIS assigned to the active intervention.

      OUTLINE: Recruitment centers are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I (CONTROL): Patients receive standard educational materials about breast cancer risk
      and chemoprevention in RealRisks via the patient portal or website.

      GROUP II (INTERVENTION): Patients receive standard educational materials about breast cancer
      risk and chemoprevention in RealRisks via the patient portal or website. Patients receive
      patient-centered decision support within the patient portal via an action plan summarizing
      their breast cancer risk profile, their risks and benefits of SERMs and AIs, and personal
      preferences for chemoprevention. Health care providers receive decision support and action
      plans based on their patients' interactions with RealRisks via the BNAV provider-centered
      support tool within the electronic health record (EHR). A sample of patients participate in
      an audio-recorded interview via telephone or video conference over 45-60 minutes at 12 months
      after registration. A sample of health care providers participate in 3 audio-recorded
      interviews via telephone or video conference over 45-60 minutes each at baseline, within
      12-36 months after study activation, and within 12 months after study closure to accrual.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months.
    
  