
    
      Given the increasing prevalence of obesity and fact that many adults have a strong preference
      to lose weight without attending weekly treatment meetings, there is need to develop
      effective alternatives to behavioral lifestyle interventions requiring less face-to-face
      contact. The Internet offers exciting opportunities to deliver behavior change interventions
      that minimize face-to-face interaction. We have recently developed and tested an Internet
      behavioral weight loss program compared with an Internet educational program in a randomized
      trial and found the behavioral program produced significantly better weight losses (4.1 kg)
      at 6 months. Our study clearly establishes the potential for using the Internet to deliver
      alternative treatment programs; however, treatment efficacy research is needed to further
      develop an Internet approach that will promote longer-term weight loss. The objectives of the
      proposed study are I) to enhance our Internet program to develop a state of the art Internet
      Cognitive-Behavior Therapy (I-CBT) program for obesity treatment; and 2) to conduct a
      randomized trial comparing the enhanced program with a Minimal CBT program also delivered via
      the Internet. We propose to recruit 100 overweight adults and randomly assign them to
      Enhanced Internet CBT or Minimal Internet CBT programs. The Minimal I-CBT condition will be
      given links to weight loss websites, weekly structured cognitive-behavioral lessons for
      weight loss, weekly prompting, and an on-line bulletin board. The Enhanced I-CBT program will
      have these same features plus weekly on-line group therapy sessions, computer-aided
      self-monitoring diaries, and weekly individual e-mail feedback from a therapist. The primary
      outcome is weight loss from 0-12 months. Secondary outcomes will examine patterns of weight
      change and changes in waist, diet, physical activity, and social support. The proposed
      research has significant implications for expanding the audience served by obesity treatment
      program by using the Internet. This study utilizes an innovative approach and extends our
      programmatic research on the development of a cognitive-behavioral Internet treatment for
      obesity.
    
  