
    
      Primary objective: to validate the usefulness of the esophageal print in avoiding temperature
      rises caused by radiofrequency (RF) application at the left atrial (LA) posterior wall during
      atrial fibrillation ablation

      Secondary objectives:

        1. to establish if there is a linear relationship between intraesophageal temperature rise
           and atrio-esophageal distance as calculated by the MDCT-derived esophageal print.

        2. to analyze the need for ablation line modification.

        3. to analyze the need for energy (power settings, ablation index, ablation time, etc.)
           modification.

        4. to develop a new multimodal approach to esophageal monitoring during AF/AT ablation.

      Interventions

        1. Pre-procedural scan and Esophageal Isodistance Print

           The methods for the acquisition of the cardiac MDCT and the image processing have been
           described in Part 1. During the segmentation process, the epicardial layer of the
           posterior atrial wall and the esophageal wall have been defined. The distance between
           these two structures is computed at each epicardial point, allowing to create an
           esophageal print on top of the epicardial layer. The isodistance color map uses a color
           scale to depict a range of distance; red being the closest (< 1 mm) and purple being the
           most distant (> 4 mm). Yellow, green and blue will be considered the intermediate
           values.

        2. Luminal esophageal temperature (LET) monitoring

           A multi-thermocouple temperature probe (SensiTherm, St. Jude Medical, Inc., St. Paul,
           MN, USA) will be advanced via transnasal or transoral access into the esophagus once the
           patient is under general anesthesia. When the esophageal print is close to the ablation
           line, the temperature probe position will be adjusted under fluoroscopic guidance before
           application at each pair of pulmonary veins to ensure that it overlaps the ablation
           line. All esophageal temperature rises above 39 °C will be documented and RF application
           will be stopped.

        3. Pulmonary vein ablation lines regarding Esophageal Isodistance Print

      Before randomization, an investigator blinded to the esophageal position will draw the PVI
      ablation line around both pairs of veins based on the type of AF (closer to the ostium for
      paroxysmal AF and wider for persistent AF).
    
  