
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and more than 1 % of the
      population suffers from AF, it is an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke One major
      unresolved issue concerning AF is the large variety in symptoms. In some AF is diagnosed
      accidentally while in others symptoms are severe and disabling.

      It is known that B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is
      stored in nodules in the atrial and ventricular myocytes and is produced in response to
      increased 'afterload' and 'preload' to restore and maintain cardiovascular homeostasis.
      Vasopressin (AVP), a non-cardiac plasma marker of cardiovascular disease, is released from
      the neurohypophysis in response to changes in plasma osmolality and is involved in
      osmoregulation and cardiovascular homeostasis. Adrenomodullin originates primarily in
      endothelial cells where cellular stress, ischaemia and hypoxia result in an increased
      production.

      It is well-known that the concentrations of the natriuretic peptides are elevated in patients
      with AF and that the plasma concentrations decreased after conversion to sinus rhythm (SR).
      Yet their reaction when AF initiates is totally unknown. Moreover the role of ADM and
      AVP-hormonal system has not been researched in this category of patients.

      Patients scheduled for catheter ablation of AF for the first time will be included; all with
      symptoms varying from moderate to severe. Using four health related quality of life forms the
      impact of AF on symptoms will be evaluated. Patients will be investigated with
      echocardiography, invasive hemodynamics and measurement of the levels of peptide indicators
      of heart failure and/or impact on myocardial function. Patients will also be categorized
      according to metabolic profile.

      The information on this subject is scarce. Hemodynamic data is old and not correlated to
      symptoms. Effective and validated means of measuring health related quality of life including
      symptoms burden are relatively new tools. The aim is to find correlations between the impact
      on health related quality of life and parameters from echocardiographic measurements, from
      analysis of biomarkers (peptides) and from analysis of the metabolic profile.

      In order to study the response of these four different neurohormonal systems (represented by
      NT-proBNP, MR-proANP, MR-proADM, copeptin) after the initiation of AF, a randomized
      interventional clinical sub-study is to be performed where the eligible population of SMURF
      main study can be randomized to AF induction or to control if freedom from AF is confirmed
      with thumb-ecg during the last 4 days before ablation. 45 patients are to be included to the
      sub-study with 2:1 allocation ratio with simple randomization.

      If such correlations can be found alternate means for symptoms relief in AF patients can be
      identified and further ahead implemented in general health care.

      The sub-study can give us a better insight on the AF initiation and the activation of
      different neurohormonal systems, an areas which is not well investigated.
    
  