
    
      BIFSORB is a prospective, randomized multicenter trial comparing 6-month healing outcome
      after treatment of simple coronary bifurcation lesions by Absorb or Desolve BRS. for
      treatment of coronary bifurcation lesions.

      BRS are promising in treatment of coronary artery disease. The concept of bifurcation
      treatment using BRS is particular appealing as struts covering the side branch ostium may
      resorb over time.

      The aim of this study is to compare the 6 months safety and vessel healing after treatment of
      coronary bifurcation lesions by the Desolve or Absorb BRS.

      Hypothesis: Treatment of coronary bifurcation lesions using Absorb and Desolve bioresorbable
      stents is safe. Treatment of coronary bifurcation lesions by Desolve BRS is associated with a
      lower index of adverse vessel wall features (main vessel area stenosis, acquired
      malapposition, evaginations, late recoil, single end attached protruding struts, side branch
      ostial area stenosis) at 6 months compared to treatment with Absorb BRS.

      Methods:

      Prospective, open label, single blind, randomized, feasibility and safety pilot study with
      inclusion of 120 patients. Randomization 1:1 to Absorb or Desolve. Planned 6- and 24-month
      follow-up by OCT and follow-up for clinical endpoints until 10 years.

      Eligible patients with a bifurcation lesion are treated by the provisional technique with
      mandatory jailing of the side branch and provisional opening of side branch ostium by the
      mini-kiss technique in case of severe pinching or TIMI-flow less than III. Proximal
      post-dilatation is mandatory. No dilatation beyond the expansion limits of the BRS.

      The patients are assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) before, during and after
      implantation of the Absorb or Desolve BRS at baseline procedure and again at 6- and 24-month
      follow-up, or before if they are readmitted with a possible target lesion failure.

      The operator is not blinded to pre-PCI OCT images that may be used for sizing and positioning
      of the scaffolds. Procedural OCT may be used to optimize scaffold implantation before
      performing final OCT.

      Results are reported as clinical safety at 6 months (myocardial infarction,
      revascularization, death) and stent healing index by OCT including malapposition, stent
      coverage, side branch ostial area late loss, fracture and evaginations.
    
  