
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational
      intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is
      being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved IL-2 for the treatment of
      cGVHD but it has been approved for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MCC), and metastatic
      melanoma.

      Chronic GVHD is a medical condition that may occur after the participant has received bone
      marrow, stem cell or cord blood transplant. The donor's immune system may recognize the
      participant's body (the host) as foreign and attempt to 'reject' it. This process is known as
      graft-versus-host-disease. Traditional standard therapy to treat cGVHD is prednisone
      (steroids). Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a natural protein involved with regulation of white blood
      cells (WBCs). WBCs are part of the immune system.The investigators looking to see whether
      IL-2 helps control chronic GVHD by stopping the donor's immune system from 'rejecting' the
      participant's body.

      This study will look to see if increasing the dose level of study drug every two weeks can be
      administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have
      cGVHD. Depending on how well you tolerate your initial dose level and subsequent dose levels,
      your study drug dose level may be increased a maximum of two times. These increases in dose
      levels will occur two weeks apart. All participants on the study will start at the same dose
      level.

      Study Drug: You will administer, or have someone else administer if you are unable to
      yourself, IL-2 through an injection under your skin. You should rotate the injection site, if
      possible. You will do this once every day for 8- weeks.

      During the first 8 weeks of IL-2, you will continue to take steroids and other immune
      suppressing medications without changing the dose your doctor has set for you while you are
      on IL-2. After 8 weeks of I L-2 therapy, your doctor may reduce the amount of steroids you
      take.

      If your cGVHD improves after 8 weeks on dose-escalated IL-2, you may have the option of
      continuing extended duration therapy. Extended duration therapy is daily IL-2 treatment
      starting at the end of week 8. You will be re-assessed every 6 months while on extended
      duration IL-2 to determine if IL-2 therapy should continue, at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      Drug Diary: Each day of the first 8 weeks you take IL-2 and each day during extended-duration
      IL-2 (if applicable); you will be asked to document in a drug diary when you took the drug
      and where you injected it. The diary will also ask if the entire syringe was injected, and if
      there were other issues related to IL-2. You will be asked to return your drug diary to
      clinic every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks of IL-2 and at least every 8 weeks for extended
      duration IL-2.

      Chronic GVHD Assessments: While you are on study, a member of the study team will examine you
      to evaluate your cGVHD. These assessments may include examination of your skin,
      joints/muscles, eyes, mouth, lungs, and gastrointestinal system (for example, whether you
      have experienced any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, difficulty swallowing). The investigators
      will also look at the range of motion of different body parts (for example, your arms).
    
  