
    
      CKD stage 4 patients older than 18 years of age and willing to participate to the study were
      screened. Those who had serum phosphorus > 5.5 mg/dl were evaluated for the study. Patients
      with diabetes mellitus, history of coronary artery disease, smokers and those taking statins
      or renin-angiotensin blockers were excluded because of the effect of these factors on
      endothelial dysfunction. Of 62 screened patients 50 met the study criteria and were included
      in this study. Thirty-two healthy subjects were studied as controls. The ethical committee of
      Gulhane School of Medicine approved the study and written informed consent was obtained from
      all patients.

      Study design:

      This was a randomized study conducted from 2005 through 2006 in Gulhane School of Medicine.
      The Outpatient Clinic of Department of Nephrology is a tertiary referral center. At
      admission, most patients were untreated (including phosphate binders) or treated only with
      antihypertensive agents. After the first evaluation, patients receiving phosphate binders
      (n=9) underwent a 2-week washout period. Patients who developed a phosphate level >5.5 mg/dl
      during this period were included in the study. Patients were randomly assigned in 1:1 ratio
      to receive sevelamer (Renagel capsule) or calcium acetate (Phos Ex tablet). The treatment
      phase was 8 weeks. During the study period serum calcium and phosphorus concentration were
      measured every 2 weeks and the dose of phosphate binders were titrated to achieve a serum
      phosphorus concentration < 5.5 mg/dl. The starting dose for sevelamer was 1-2 capsules (800
      mg) three times a day and for calcium acetate (1000 mg) 1 tablet three times a day. The
      medications were given with meal and the doses were increased as needed. Patients were not
      given calcitriol during the study period.

      Fasting blood samples were taken before and after the study to measure serum creatinine,
      serum albumin, hs-CRP, insulin, iPTH, lipid profile and serum fetuin-A concentration.
      Additionally, flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) was also evaluated before and after the study.
    
  