
    
      Approximately 6.2 million Americans have heart failure (HF) and the prevalence is increasing
      rapidly. HF is a common cause of hospitalization and mortality in older adults, and the cost
      of hospital care for HF is skyrocketing. One reason why HF is so burdensome and costly is
      that it is often complicated by cardiovascular and noncardiovascular comorbidities,
      especially in older patients. Psychiatric and medical disorders that are risk factors for
      incident HF persist after HF has developed, and additional comorbidities accumulate as
      patients with HF grow older. Thus, HF is embedded within a larger pattern of multimorbidity.
      Unfortunately, most trials of HF therapies as well as many other studies of HF have excluded
      patients with complex psychiatric and medical comorbidities or severe cognitive impairment.
      This has left large gaps in research on the care of older adults with HF. In addition,
      research on socioeconomic risk factors and health disparities has not been integrated with
      research on multimorbidity in HF. Heart failure is only one of multiple challenges facing
      patients with multimorbidity, stressful socioeconomic circumstances, and psychosocial
      problems, but the fragmentation of research on HF has left us with little understanding of
      patients with complex psychosocial problems. The purpose of this study is to identify
      combinations of comorbidities and health disparities may affect HF outcomes and require
      different mixtures of medical, psychological, and social services to address. It will
      encompass both psychiatric and medical comorbidities but will emphasize the role of
      psychiatric comorbidities. Syndemics theory is a useful framework for studying this type of
      psychosocial and medical complexity. Syndemics, also known as synergistic epidemics, occur
      when there are adverse interactions between prevalent disorders that concentrate in
      populations that are vulnerable due to adverse socioeconomic or environmental conditions. The
      syndemics framework has yielded important insights into a number of other disorders, but it
      has not been used to study the complex psychosocial problems of patients with HF. To our
      knowledge, this will be the first study of the syndemics of psychiatric and medical
      comorbidities in heart failure. The multimorbidity framework is an alternative approach for
      investigating the effects of multiple comorbidities on health outcomes. The specific aims of
      the study are: 1) to determine the coprevalence of major psychiatric and medical
      comorbidities in patients with HF (n=535); 2) to determine whether coprevalent comorbidities
      have synergistic effects on all-cause readmission and mortality risks, heart failure
      self-care, and perceived global health; 3) to identify vulnerable subpopulations of patients
      with HF who have higher coprevalences of syndemic comorbidities compared to less vulnerable
      subpopulations; 4) to determine the extent to which syndemic comorbidities explain adverse HF
      outcomes (readmissions and mortality, poor self-care, and poor perceived health) in
      vulnerable subgroups of patients with HF; and 5) to determine the effects of multimorbidity
      on readmissions, mortality risk, self-care, and quality of life.
    
  