
    
      Rib fractures are one of the most common injuries in trauma patients. These fractures are
      associated with significant pain as well as decreased ability to inspire deeply or cough to
      clear secretions, which together lead to complications of the lungs and breathing which leads
      to risks of further injury and even death.

      The erector spinae plane block (ESPB) is a nerve block that covers multiple rib fractures
      with a single injection. This block entails injecting local anesthetic in the back
      superficial to the vertebral bodies. One study found that the ability to move air into and
      out of the lungs practically doubled with the administration of a single-injection ESPB while
      pain levels nearly halved.

      A single-injection nerve block lasts less than 24 hours while a perineural local anesthetic
      infusion (also termed a "continuous peripheral nerve block") may be administered for multiple
      days. This entails inserting a tiny tube through the skin and into the area around the
      nerves, after which more local anesthetic may be administered prolonging the numbing effects.
      The possibility of extending the duration of a ESPB with local anesthetic administration via
      a perineural catheter has not be investigated.

      We therefore are conducting a randomized, tripe-masked, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm
      study to investigate the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB following
      traumatic rib fracture. Subjects will be individuals who present with rib fracture(s) and
      significant pain. Those who consent to participate in this study will have an ESP catheter
      inserted using ultrasound-guidance on the ipsilateral side at the level of the inferior-most
      fracture. For bilateral fractures, a second catheter will also be inserted on the remaining
      side. The single-injection ESPB will be administered to each catheter with 20 mL of
      ropivacaine 0.5% (with epinephrine).

      Subjects with an accurately-inserted catheter based on visualization of local anesthetic
      spread will be allocated to one of two possible perineural treatments stratified by
      unilateral vs. bilateral fractures (1:1 ratio in blocks of 2):

        1. active (ropivacaine 0.2%)

        2. placebo (normal saline)

      Computer-generated randomization lists will be created by the UCSD Investigational Drug
      Service which will keep the randomization lists and not release them to the investigators
      until the study is completed, at which time they will provide lists of subjects who received
      "Treatment A" and "Treatment B" so that the statistician can analyze the data. Only after the
      analysis is complete will "Treatment A" and "Treatment B" be defined for the investigators
      for manuscript preparation [producing a triple-masked study]. Of note, for bilateral
      catheters the treatments on both sides will always be identical: each subject will be
      randomized to a single treatment and not each side of bilateral cases.

      Subjects will receive a basal infusion of study drug (Ropivacaine vs. placebo) 1 mL/h to keep
      the catheter lumen patent as soon as the infusion pump is initiated with a 500 mL reservoir.
      In addition, intermittent boluses (13 mL programmed automatic bolus every 2 hours) will begin
      5 hours after pump initiation. For bilateral catheters, a 6-hour delay for one of the pumps
      will ensure that the pair of pumps alternate sides for the bolus doses each hour. This
      protocol will provide nearly 71-72 hours of study fluid administration.

      Following local anesthetic reservoir exhaustion, subjects or their caretakers will remove the
      catheters with instructions provided by phone. This is standard at UC San Diego for all
      ambulatory continuous peripheral nerve blocks and will not be unique to study participation.
      The catheter is disposable in the trash and the infusion pump will be returned using a
      pre-addressed and postage-paid envelope provided to subjects prior to leaving the hospital.

      Subjects will be contacted by telephone to collect study data on post procedure days 1, 2, 7,
      and at months 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 6, and 12.

      The ultimate objective of the proposed line of research is to determine if the addition of a
      continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB prolongs analgesia following traumatic rib
      fractures; and, if this analgesic intervention improves pulmonary mechanics measured with
      incentive spirometry.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine if the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB
      improves maximum inspiratory volume following traumatic rib fracture(s).

      Hypothesis 1a: The maximum inspired volume will be significantly increased in the afternoon
      following the procedure [primary endpoint] as well as at other time points following the
      procedure [secondary end points] with the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection
      ESPB [measured with an incentive spirometer].

      Hypothesis 1b: The maximum inspired volume as a percentage of the baseline will be
      significantly increased in the afternoon following the procedure [secondary endpoint of
      greatest interest], as well as at other time points following the procedure [secondary end
      points] with the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB [measured with an
      incentive spirometer].

      Specific Aim 2: To determine if the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB
      decreases the pain associated with rib fracture(s).

      Hypothesis 2a: The severity of rib fracture pain at rest will be significantly decreased
      within the 12 months following the procedure with the addition of a continuous ESPB to a
      single-injection ESPB [measured using the Numeric Rating Scale for pain].

      Hypothesis 2b: The severity of rib fracture pain when using the spirometer or coughing will
      be significantly decreased within the 12 months following the procedure with the addition of
      a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB [measured using the Numeric Rating Scale for
      pain].

      Hypothesis 2c: The incidence of chronic pain will be significantly decreased 6 and 12 months
      following a rib fracture with the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB
      [measured using the Numeric Rating Scale for pain].

      Hypothesis 2d: The severity of chronic pain will be significantly decreased 6 and 12 months
      following a rib fracture with the addition of a continuous ESPB to a single-injection ESPB
      [measured using the Numeric Rating Scale for pain].
    
  