
    
      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common childhood disorder in which
      problems with focusing disrupt a normal life. There are two subtypes of ADHD: combined type
      (ADHD-C), which includes symptoms of inattention and hyperactivity or impulsivity, and
      inattentive type (ADHD-I), in which symptoms are limited to inattention. The profile of
      ADHD-I, including attention deficits, comorbid disorders, social impairments, and
      neurocognitive functioning, is sufficiently different from the profile of ADHD-C that
      treatments effective for ADHD-C may not also be effective in treating ADHD-I. Most studies of
      ADHD treatment evaluate ADHD-C, and there is very little research into treatments aimed
      specifically at ADHD-I. The Child Life and Attention Skills (CLAS) Program is a behavioral
      program designed specifically for ADHD-I and combines life skills training for the child,
      teacher consultation, and parent training techniques adapted from ADHD-C treatments. This
      study will compare the effectiveness of the CLAS Program, standard parent training, and
      community referrals in treating children with ADHD-I.

      Participation in this study will last 11 to 12 weeks, followed by a 5- to 7-month follow-up
      period. On the basis of parent and teacher evaluations of each child's behavior, invitations
      to participate in screening procedures for the study will be extended to children and their
      parents. There will be two screening visits, during which the child will undergo reviews of
      medical and developmental history, diagnostic interviews, intelligence testing, academic
      achievement testing, and neuropsychological testing. The child and parent will be videotaped
      in a series of interactions, and both will complete questionnaires about child functioning,
      parent functioning, family functioning, and family relations. The child's teacher and school
      principal will also be contacted to ensure that they are willing to participate in the study.

      Eligible participants will then be randomly assigned to receive the CLAS Program,
      parent-focused training (PFT), or community referrals. The CLAS Program will involve a
      half-hour orientation and up to five half-hour weekly meetings with the child's teacher,
      therapist, and parent over 11 to 12 weeks. The program will also involve ten 1.5-hour group
      sessions for parents, with separate group sessions for children at the same time, and up to
      five individual family sessions led by a therapist. Teachers will participate in a
      school-home note system for maintaining and rewarding child behavior; parents will be taught
      strategies for giving commands, using rewards and consequences, and establishing routines and
      organizational schemes; and children will be taught social interaction skills, homework
      skills, and organizational skills.

      Participants in the PFT group will attend the ten 1.5-hour parent group sessions and up to
      five individual family sessions. Participants in the community referrals group will only
      receive referrals to community mental health practitioners.

      All participants will undergo assessments that are similar to those in the screening visit
      after completing treatment and again at a follow-up visit 5 to 7 months later. Participants
      in the CLAS and PFT groups will continue monthly individual family sessions with a therapist
      until undergoing the follow-up assessment.
    
  