
    
      Based on healthy aging research in HIV- populations, it is already known that many older
      people living with HIV could protect or improve their brain health through lifestyle change .
      However, no intervention is effective if it is not done. Sustained lifestyle change is hard
      for everyone, but expected to be harder still for those with a chronic condition that affects
      cognitive ability, eroding the very executive functions needed for effective goal-directed
      behavior. Thus, the key question is not whether interventions will help brain health in HIV
      but rather how we can improve adherence to the most promising interventions in people
      experiencing brain health challenges.

      This study will test an innovative approach to enhance adherence to lifestyle interventions,
      building on feasibility evidence from pilot trials in the Brain Health Now (BHN) study. Goal
      Management Training (GMT) is a fully manualized cognitive rehabilitation program delivered
      over 9 weeks in small groups. It targets executive dysfunction, teaching self-management and
      mindfulness. GMT also trains participants to use explicit strategies to reduce cognitive load
      in everyday tasks, and methods to cue attention to maintain focus on specific tasks, through
      weekly 2-h sessions and practice at home. We hypothesize that GMT priming before a
      personalized Healthy Lifestyle Program (HLP) will improve adherence to that program and
      subsequently improve health outcomes, compared to the HLP without GMT priming, in cognitively
      frail men and women living with HIV.

      Study objectives

      The overall objective of Action for Brain Health Now is to understand, empower and act to
      protect and improve brain health in HIV, in order to empower patients to take charge of their
      brain health. This sub-study is directed to the third aim, act. This proposed study addresses
      the real-world challenge of implementing tailored recommendations, recognizing that the
      cognitively frail individuals who would benefit the most from lifestyle changes are least
      equipped to successfully adopt and sustain healthy behaviours. We will trial a novel
      cognitive rehabilitation approach using goal-management training to boost adherence to a
      tailored active living intervention.

      Specific objective

      Estimate the extent to which cognitive rehabilitation before a personalized healthy lifestyle
      program (HLP) is associated with greater uptake of health recommendations, achievement of
      health-related goals, and better brain health and general health outcomes compared to the HLP
      alone.

      Methods

      Design

      A blinded, randomized control trial will be conducted in 100 participants at two sites
      (Montreal and Vancouver) in order to assess the impact of cognitive rehabilitation on the
      uptake of a healthy lifestyle program. More specifically, 50 participants will be recruited
      in Montreal and 50% (i.e. 25 participants) will be assigned to the intervention group and the
      other 50% (i.e. 25 participants) will be assigned to the control group. The same is true for
      the site in Vancouver.

      Recruitment

      The eligibility criteria will be given to the data team who will do a search among the
      participants and send the investigators a list of ID of potential participants. If these
      potential participants have agreed, in the main study consent form, to be contacted for
      sub-studies, they will get a phone call, email or will be contacted directly during a clinic
      visit by the research coordinator involved in the main study (ABHN). Ethics approval for the
      Glen site including Royal Victoria Hospital & Center for Innovative Medicine (CIM) /
      Montreal, the Clinique Médicale l'Actuel / Montreal and Clinique Médicale Urbaine Quartier
      Latin / Montreal will be obtained through the MUHC REB. A separate application for the
      university-based clinic at St-Paul's Hospital / Vancouver will be sent to their own REB for
      approval.

      Intervention

      The sample will be drawn from cohort participants. The ABHN full cohort will receive a
      personalized My Personal Brain Health Dashboard populated directly from their study data
      accompanied by a document with 7 Simple Tips for Better Brain Health. In addition, the
      participants of this trial will receive a short list of relevant local resources (e.g.
      low-cost gyms, community social groups, smoking cessation programs). To test whether a
      cognitive rehabilitation program will increase healthy lifestyle adherence, people meeting
      eligibility criteria will be identified and, if in Vancouver or Montreal, offered entry into
      a randomized trial asking whether priming with GMT will increase adherence to a HLP focused
      on physical and social activity. All of the participants who agree to enter the trial will be
      invited to attend the Ready, Set Workshop which will occur before randomization at each site
      (50 participants per site) and will last approximately four hours long.

      Ready: All of the participants will be shown how to best interpret the My Personal Brain
      Health Dashboard. All of the participants will also be provided with the Garmin vívofit 4
      Activity Tracker (worn on the wrist); they will also be trained how to use the Garmin vívofit
      4 Activity tracker as well as the mobile app that accompanies it, the SmartAge digital
      platform for activity tracking and feedback (collaborator Guaraldi). Participants who do not
      have an app compatible device will be provided with one for the duration of the study.

      Set: During the Workshop there will be instruction on SMART goals and demonstration of the My
      Goals app to use for recording and monitoring goals.

      Go: Following the workshop, the participants will be randomized to priming with GMT as they
      enter the HLP, or to entering the HLP directly. The study period will last 52 weeks for both
      groups. The intervention group will participate in GMT, a standardized cognitive
      rehabilitation program which will be given as per the manual, which consists of 9 sessions
      each 2-hours in duration. The control group enters directly into the HLP without any other
      study visits.

      For all the participants, the HLP includes, physical activity monitoring (step count,
      calories burned and sleep) with the Garmin vívofit 4 Activity Tracker, and recording and
      monitoring of goals with the My Goals app. Moreover, participants will be offered an exercise
      program with weaning to community-based resources and home exercise recommendations for
      longer-term sustainability.

      In addition, all participants will be assigned a HLP coach to facilitate the transition into
      using community resources to meet their goals. The HLP coach will provide feedback,
      encouragement, and suggestions for increasing activity via weekly phone or text interactions
      throughout the HLP via the SmartAge Digital Platform. The physical activity target will be
      current Canadian guidelines for older people (150 minutes per week of moderate to vigorous
      exercise, accumulated in bouts of at least 10 minutes), while the social activity target will
      be one social event per week. All the strategies in the HLP have evidence for effectiveness.

      The participants will also be asked to track the progress of their goals on the MyGoals app
      and report their participation in any activities they do by taking a picture of something to
      represent the activity. A research assistant will record the details of the activity (when,
      what, if it was alone or in a group) and then the picture will be deleted.
    
  