
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effectiveness of induction paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide followed by
           autologous tumor cell vaccine and sargramostim (GM-CSF) followed by high-dose
           chemotherapy with cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, and carmustine, autologous bone marrow or
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, and interleukin-2 in patients with recurrent
           or refractory primary high-grade brain tumors.

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine if a specific quantitative cellular response can be elicited in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: After partial surgical resection of tumor, patients receive induction chemotherapy
      comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients
      also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning on day 3 and continuing
      until peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) or bone marrow collection is completed.

      After the collection of PBSC or bone marrow, patients receive autologous tumor cell vaccine
      and sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC once every 2 weeks for up to 5 vaccinations. Two weeks after the
      last vaccination, patients undergo a second leukapheresis to collect lymphocytes.

      After completion of the second leukapheresis, patients receive high-dose chemotherapy
      comprising cisplatin IV continuously over 24 hours on day -5, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour
      on days -5, -4, and -3, and carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -2. Patients undergo autologous
      bone marrow or PBSC transplantation on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF IV daily beginning on
      day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Approximately 12 weeks after bone marrow or PBSC transplantation, patients receive autologous
      lymphocytes IV over 2-5 hours. Patients also receive interleukin-2 IV once every other day
      for 10 days.

      Patients are followed at 18, 24, 36, 40, and 52 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  