
    
      The study will be conducted in two parts; an initial safety phase (Part A), followed by an
      expansion cohort (Part B). The initial safety phase (Part A) is based on a 3+3 design such
      that patients will be treated in a cohort of 3-6 patients. A maximum of 6 patients will be
      allocated to Part A exploring SBRT 30 Gy in 3 fractions in combination with pembrolizumab. If
      there is more than one DLT in the first 3 patients or two or more DLTs in the first 6
      patients, this treatment combination will be deemed as being unacceptable and it would lead
      to termination of the study. During the expansion cohort (Part B), 12 patients will have SBRT
      30 Gy in 3 fractions with pembrolizumab to obtain additional safety and response data.
      Maintenance pembrolizumab will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicities,
      the patient withdraws consent to the trial, or the patient has completed 35 cycles of
      treatment. A maximum of 18 patients will be treated in the study.

      All patients will receive pembrolizumab on cycle (C) 1 day (D) 1, in Part A and B of the
      study. All patients will receive SBRT on C1D15, C1D17 and C1D19, as per SBRT protocol.
      Patients in part A will receive SBRT 30 Gy in 3#. Patients in Part B will receive 30 Gy in 3
      fractions if considered safe after part A. All patients in Part A and Part B will receive
      pembrolizumab dosed at 200 mg every 3 weeks, until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicities, the patient withdraws consent from the trial or the patient has completed 35
      cycles of treatment.

      In the initial safety cohort, a minimum of 3 patients will be treated at the SBRT dose of
      30Gy in 3 fractions combined with pembrolizumab. The gap left between the treatments of each
      subsequent patient will start after the second cycle of Pembrolizumab in the previous dosed
      patient to mitigate against multiple patients suffering from acute toxicity. The DLT period
      for this study is 12 weeks from the last dose of SBRT (i.e. at C6D1). Patients included in
      Part A will be considered by the Safety Review Committee (SRC) once the 3rd and 6th patient
      in the Part A cohort has completed the DLT period. If 0 out of 3 patients experience a DLT,
      or if 1 out of 3 patients experience a DLT in Part A, then the cohort will be expanded to 6
      patients. If 1 in 6 patients experience a DLT, then it will be acceptable to move forward to
      the expansion cohort (Part B).

      However, if ≥ 2 in 6 patients (or more than 1 in the first 3 patients) experience a DLT then
      the maximum administered dose (MAD) will have been reached. If the MAD is seen at a dose
      level of 30 Gy in 3# then the study will be terminated.

      While waiting for 3 or 6 patients to complete the DLT period, no additional patients will be
      recruited. Further patients can only be recruited after the SRC has reviewed the toxicity
      data for the cohort to proceed to Part B. Patients obtaining complete response or having
      completed 35 cycles of pembrolizumab must discontinue and may recommence for additional 17
      cycles upon subsequent disease, the CI/PI will need to discuss with the sponsor and MSD, on a
      case by case basis for the continuation of pembrolizumab
    
  