
    
      Background: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic disease currently considered a worldwide
      epidemic and has become a major public health problem. One of the important complications of
      DM is the diabetic foot that may present ulcers, which result from multiple risk factors,
      being diabetic peripheral neuropathy and ischemia due to peripheral vascular disease
      considered the main causes. In this way, the ulcers of the lower extremities of diabetics,
      have a complex and long healing process, as they present a reduction in the angiogenic
      response and deficiency of growth factors, making difficult the action of conventional
      treatments. The treatment of chronic wounds is challenging, the diversity of treatments is
      great, however the search for new modalities of effective, scientifically proven and
      financially viable therapeutic resources that are available and readily accessible to
      clinical practice is still desirable. Objective: To evaluate the responses of phototherapy
      with light emitting diodes (LED) and electrical stimulation with the fixed diphasic current
      (DF) in diabetic patient ulcers. METHODS: Diabetic volunteers of both genders, aged 30 to 65
      years, who present chronic skin ulcers grade I or II will also be randomized (n = 13) in:
      Treatment group with LED 620 nm (G-LED 620) , Treatment group with LED 940 nm (G-LED 940),
      Treatment group with fixed diphasic current (G-DF) and Control group (GC). Interventions will
      occur three times a week for 12 weeks. The evaluations will take place on the
      pre-intervention day 1, 30, 60 and 90 days, followed by follow-up after 30 days of the end of
      the treatment, through the following instruments: numerical scale of pain, digital
      photography, infrared thermography, digital analgesimeter, Digital durometer, infrared
      plethysmography and bioimpedance. Statistical analysis: To analyze the data, normality test
      will be used to verify the distribution of the data and adequate statistical test for the
      appropriate inter- and intragroup comparisons, being thus considered two factors in the
      comparisons, time and group. A significance level of 5% will be adopted.
    
  