
    
      The Institute for Research in Operative Medicine as part of the Private University of Witten
      /Herdecke is planning and performing a clinical trial project to evaluate the efficacy of
      Vacuum Assisted Closure® (V.A.C.®) Therapy for the treatment of postsurgical abdominal wound
      healing impairments after surgery without fascial dehiscence. The clinical trial project is
      fully financed by Kinetic Concepts Incorporated (KCI). The V.A.C.® Therapy devices that will
      be used in this study include the ActiV.A.C.® Therapy System, InfoV.A.C.® Therapy System, and
      V.A.C. Freedom® Therapy System. All V.A.C.® Therapy devices to be utilized in this study bear
      the CE mark and will be operated within normal conditions of use and according to
      manufacturer's specifications.

      Background of the clinical trial project is the decision of the Joint Federal Committee of
      Germany (Gemeinsamer Bundesausschusses (G-BA)) that Vacuum assisted closure therapy is
      inadmissible to be a standard benefit of health insurance companies in Germany.

      This decision is based on systematic review & meta-analysis of existing trials performed by
      Institute for Quality and Economic Efficiency in the Healthcare System (Institut für Qualität
      und Wirtschaftlichkeit im Gesundheitswesen (IQWiG)) which showed an insufficient state of
      evidence regarding the efficacy of negative pressure wound therapy for the treatment of acute
      and chronic wounds.

      This study project compares Vacuum Assisted Closure® and standard conventional wound therapy
      in the treatment of acute abdominal wounds after surgery without fascial dehiscence and will
      be conducted in abdominal surgical hospital departments with the required structural,
      manpower, and scientific qualifications. Patients will be stratified according to hospital
      and wound size. Trial therapy will be started in-hospital and may be continued in ambulatory
      care.

      The study is designed as a multinational, multicentre, prospective randomized controlled,
      adaptive design, clinical superiority trial, with blinded photographic analysis of the
      primary endpoint.

      The primary objective is to compare the clinical, safety, and economic outcomes of V.A.C.®
      Therapy and SCWT in postsurgical abdominal wound healing impairments without fascial
      dehiscence.

      The primary outcome to be observed in this study is time to complete abdominal wound closure
      where closure is observed at or before day 42 and is confirmed to have been sustained for a
      period of at least 14 consecutive days. This study design also will allow detailed
      description of specific covariates to determine their effect on response variables (healing).

      This study's hypothesis is that the use of the V.A.C.® Therapy System, when compared to SCWT
      in the management of post-surgical abdominal wound healing impairments with intact fascia,
      will result in a decrease in the time to achieve complete wound closure with confirmation
      after subsequent 14 days.

      Using V.A.C.® Therapy is an effective and safe treatment option for hospitals as well as for
      outpatient care for treatment of subcutaneous abdominal wounds with wound healing impairment
      in the postoperative course.

      Randomisation to treatment arms will be performed at a 1:1 ratio. Randomisation will be
      performed via a centralized system with an Internet-based tool. To address issues of
      blinding, wound photo documentation will be obtained during the trial and confirmation of
      wound closure will be assessed via blinded photographic analysis, which will serve as the
      method of primary endpoint analysis.

      Primary closed abdominal wounds with wound healing disorder in the postoperative course after
      surgical intervention without fascial dehiscence are eligible to be included in the trial if
      the diagnosis of a wound healing impairment in the postoperative course is manifested as a
      wound with spontaneous dehiscence, a wound that requires an active reopening of the suture by
      the treating physician or a wound that cannot be closed by primary intention and requires
      further treatment to achieve permanent closure.

      During active recruitment phase, the pre-trial estimates indicate approximately 600 patients
      will be required to yield the target of 552 evaluable participants. Using an adaptive design
      study sample-size calculations will be re-estimated upon planed interim analysis of study
      data of 250 patients. Patients will be enrolled from approximately 25 centres in Germany, the
      United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands.

      The evaluation of the primary Endpoint defined as time (number of days) to achieve complete
      wound closure verified by photo documentation and blinded, computer-based wound quality
      assessment as well as wound closure confirmation after 14 consecutive days and secondary
      endpoints including clinical endpoints like recurrences, safety endpoints, patient reported
      outcome parameters and economic-based outcome measures will provide data regarding efficacy
      and efficiency of NPWT therapy for the treatment of acute post-surgical abdominal wound
      healing impairment in hospital as well as in the ambulant setting.

      The results of the study will be provided to make a contribution to the final decision of the
      Joint Federal Committee about NPWT to be a standard benefit of health insurance companies in
      Germany for inpatient and / or outpatient care.
    
  