
    
      Patients with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) represent the vast majority of TBI patients
      admitted in the emergency department (ED). According to French recommendations, mild TBI
      patients with brain lesions on initial CT scan are directed to a standard ward, where
      neurologic monitoring consists of repeated CT scanning and clinical exams. Patients with no
      lesion on initial cerebral CT scan are also hospitalized 1) when their GCS after CT scan is
      lower than 15, 2) in case of persisting nausea, vomiting or headache, 3) in case of
      concomitant alcoholic intoxication and, 4) in case of on-going treatment with aspirin. This
      strategy induces significant hospital stay with potential morbidity, whereas neurologic
      worsening rarely occurs.

      In this context, the implementation of a triage tool in the ED would be useful to screen
      patients at risk of early neurologic worsening. Hence, low risk patients may be discharged at
      home immediately after the ED. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) is a non-invasive technique that
      measures cerebral blood flow velocities in intracranial cerebral arteries. These velocities
      and a derivated parameter (pulsatility index, PI), estimate cerebral blood flow (CBF) and
      have become a standard of care to optimize CBF in after severe TBI. Only few studies report
      the use of TCD after mild TBI. In a single-center cohort of patients with mild-to-moderate
      TBI, TCD parameters measured at hospital admission accurately predicted early neurologic
      worsening. These encouraging results indicate that TCD, in combination with CT scan findings,
      could play a role in the management of patients with mild TBI.

      The aim of this project is to determine whether a TCD-based strategy is non-inferior to the
      standard management in terms of the overall neurological outcome at 3 months after mild TBI
      with no/minor lesions detected on a cerebral CT scan.
    
  