
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the clinical activity of the combination of cediranib and olaparib, as measured
      by radiographic progression free survival (rPFS), as compared to olaparib monotherapy in
      patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the clinical activity of the combination of cediranib and olaparib, as measured
      by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate, radiographic response rate by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, and overall survival (OS), as
      compared to olaparib monotherapy in patients with mCRPC.

      II. To evaluate association of homologous recombination deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair
      deficiency (HRD) with the clinical activity of the combination of cediranib and olaparib or
      olaparib monotherapy, as measured by rPFS, in mCRPC patients.

      III. To evaluate the safety the combination of cediranib and olaparib and olaparib
      monotherapy in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize genomic alterations by whole exome sequencing in mCRPC patients and
      correlate that with clinical activity or resistance to olaparib with or without cediranib.

      II. To characterize changes in ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression of DNA repair genes,
      angiogenesis markers, and immune markers, by whole transcriptome sequencing and correlate
      with clinical activity or resistance to olaparib with or without cediranib.

      III. To characterize changes in immune tumor microenvironment in mCRPC patients by profiling
      expression of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory molecules and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes,
      and correlate with clinical activity or resistance to olaparib with or without cediranib.

      IV. To identify baseline predictive biomarkers for rPFS or response and to identify
      on-treatment markers of acquired resistance in men with mCRPC receiving either olaparib plus
      cediranib or olaparib alone.

      V. To explore biomarker signatures that correlate with the clinical activity or resistance to
      olaparib with or without cediranib, including changes in gene expression or acquired
      mutations in tumor biopsies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and cediranib PO once daily
      (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.
    
  