
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Pain is a common symptom among children with a variety of medical illnesses. Currently, a
      number of rating scales are used to assess pain interference and pain severity in adults.
      However, relatively few measures assessing these variables have been validated for use with
      children and adolescents, and existing tools have limitations.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The primary objective is to validate the self-report and parent versions of the Pain
      Interference Index (PII) and the Pain Rating Scale (PRS) by comparison with previously
      validated measures of pain interference (Modified Brief Pain Inventory) and pain
      severity(Faces Pain Scale - Revised) in children, adolescents, and young adults ages 18 to 34
      years with cancer, neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1), or other genetic tumor predisposition syndromes
      (GTPS), and their parents, and in adults with cancer, NF1, GTPS, or Sickle Cell Disease
      (SCD).

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Eligible participants must:

      - Have a diagnosis of NF1, GTPS, leukemia, or malignant solid tumor (including sarcoma,
      neuroblastoma or melanoma). Be 18- 34 years of age, and enrolled on an NCI clinical trial or
      natural history study.

      DESIGN:

      Eighty-four patients with solid tumor, NF1 or leukemia ages 8 to 34 and up to 108 parents of
      these patients ages 8 to 25, and 69 patients with SCD will be asked to respond one time to
      the PII and the PRS, as well as the Modified Brief Pain Inventory and Faces Pain Scale -
      Revised during a scheduled clinic visit for their primary NCI protocol, or while inpatient.
      In addition, demographic (patient gender and age, parent gender (if applicable) and medical
      (diagnosis, date of diagnosis, pain medication) data will be collected from review of the
      patients medical record. Parents of participating patients will be asked to complete the
      Parent version of the PII and the Parent PRS. Correlations between patient and parent
      questionnaire results for patients with solid tumor, NF1, GTPS, and leukemia will be
      correlated to establish validity and reliability of the PII and PRS. Also, results from
      mother and father reports will be correlated to assess inter-rater reliability. Data on up to
      12 patients ages 6 and 7 years will be collected to determine the feasibility of the forms in
      this younger age group. A subset of evaluable patients with SCD (n=28) will be asked to
      repeat the PII after approximately 1 month to assess test-retest reliability in this tool.
    
  