
    
      Lidocaine and bupivacaine hydrochloride (HCl) are the most commonly used drugs for wound
      infiltration during laparoscopic surgery for post-operative pain control. There is some
      evidence that wound infiltration decreases immediate post-operative pain. While bupivacaine
      has a slightly slower onset of action (5-10 minutes), it has become the preferred injectable
      anesthetic for surgical use because of its longer duration of effect (4-8 hours versus 1-2
      hours for lidocaine).

      DepoFoam bupivacaine (EXPAREL, Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Parsippany, NJ, USA) is a newer
      extended-release formulation of bupivacaine HCl approved by the U.S. Federal Drug
      Administration in October 2011. In this suspension, bupivacaine is encapsulated in
      microscopic spherical lipid-based particles of varying size to allow dispersion of the drug
      over an extended period of time. Analgesia is prolonged up to 96 hours. Given the extended
      duration of action, this liposomal bupivacaine may be better at providing post-operative pain
      relief in laparoscopic surgery.

      Phase three trials have shown better pain control in the first 24 hours and less opioid use
      overall in bunionectomies, hemorrhoidectomies, and total knee replacement surgery when
      compared to placebo. No studies, however, have been published evaluating extended-release
      liposomal bupivacaine for laparoscopic surgery, or gynecologic surgery in general. Currently,
      we are using liposomal bupivacaine for pain relief after laparoscopic hysterectomies, but as
      stated, it has never been formally evaluated.

      We hypothesize that liposomal bupivacaine ("extended-release") provides extended pain relief
      and decreases the need for supplemental opioid use after major laparoscopic surgery. We will
      be evaluating whether pre-incision infiltration of extended-release bupivacaine decreases
      post-operative pain from laparoscopic and robotic-assisted hysterectomy compared to
      bupivacaine HCl ("short-acting"). To achieve this evaluation we designed a double-blinded
      randomized controlled trial.

      Patients who are scheduled to undergo a laparoscopic or robotic-assisted hysterectomy will be
      invited to participate. Group A will receive pre-incision infiltration of each trocar site
      with 4 ml of 0.25% Bupivacaine HCl. Group B will receive pre-incision infiltration of each
      trocar site with 4 ml of extended-release bupivacaine (EXPAREL) (13.3mg/ml). Subjects and
      outcome assessors will be blinded to group allocation.

      Data will be collected while patients are in the hospital on pain levels and consumption of
      opioid pain medications. Upon discharge, pain levels, functioning, and quantity of opioid and
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) pain medications will be collected through online
      questionnaires. Subjects will be followed until their 2-3 weeks post-operative visit.
    
  