
    
      Background: EAT has emerged as a new independent, and, potentially, modifiable cardiovascular
      risk factor for CAD. EAT volume assessed by computed tomography (CT) was independently
      associated with the presence of coronary stenosis, coronary calcification and myocardial
      ischemia in cross-sectional studies, and, prospectively, with major adverse cardiovascular
      events. Most of these clinical studies were, however, derived from community-based patients
      with low-to intermediate-risk profile and the role of EAT in high-risk patients is currently
      unclear. Accumulation of EAT has been also associated with left atrial (LA) dilation,
      presence, chronicity, and recurrence of atrial fibrillation (AF). Although there is evidence
      suggesting that EAT may be a major determinant of the LA vulnerable substrate of AF, the
      mechanisms in the causal pathway between the EAT and LA remodeling are not completely
      elucidated.

      Aims: The main aims are to investigate if the volume of the EAT on CT and EAT proteome
      assessed by SWATH-mass spectrometry are associated with extent, distribution and complexity
      of coronary stenosis and coronary artery calcification, left atrial strain and incidence of
      postoperative atrial fibrillation in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.

      Methods: This a prospective study enrolling symptomatic severe aortic stenosis patients
      referred to aortic valve replacement. The protocol includes preoperative detailed clinical
      and nutritional evaluations, echocardiography, CT, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and
      invasive coronary angiography. During cardiac surgery, biopsies from the EAT, mediastinal and
      subcutaneous thoracic adipose tissues will be performed to undergo analysis of proteome using
      SWAT-mass spectrometry. Samples from the pericardial fluid, circulating and coronary sinus
      blood samples will be collected as well in order to find local and peripheral adipose
      tissue-derived biomarkers of the disease.
    
  