
    
      In Kenya, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has significantly increased adult and child mortality.
      Current prevention options, including the ABC model (Abstinence, Be faithful and correct and
      consistent Condom use) have not been sufficient to curb the generalized HIV epidemic. The
      development of topical microbicides provides a potential new prevention option against
      sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV. Despite widespread use of topical
      microbicides among U.S. servicemen during World Wars I & II to prevent STI, the current HIV
      agenda has thus far focused almost exclusively on microbicide research for intravaginal use
      by females. Research on use of topical microbicides on the male genitalia has only examined
      potential adverse effects on the penis of microbicides intended for intravaginal or rectal
      use. Further research is necessary to determine what formulations, what doses, and what types
      of topical antimicrobials might prove acceptable, and tolerable for external genital use by
      male sub-populations, and effective for preventing HIV/STI in men. This Phase 1 safety trial
      is the culmination of a stepwise series of studies examining male genital hygiene and safety
      and acceptance of an alcohol-based topical microbicide among Kenyan men. The purpose of this
      randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial is to assess the safety and
      acceptability of 62% ethanol in emollient gel (intervention) and 15% ethanol in emollient gel
      (placebo), applied to the penis by men each morning and after every sexual exposure. The
      study population will include 30 healthy, uncircumcised Kenyan men working in the fishing
      industry. Participants will be randomly assigned to initial use of 1 of the 2 products for a
      2-week interval. After a subsequent 2-week wash out period in which no topical gel will be
      used, the men will then cross over to use of the second product. The primary study objective
      is to assess the safety and toxicity of 62% and 15% ethanol in emollient gel on the penile
      epithelium and urethral mucosa. The secondary study objective is to assess the acceptability
      and compliance with the topical microbicide (62% ethanol) and placebo (15% ethanol) by men
      each morning and after each act of sexual intercourse. The primary study outcome measures
      include: self-reported urethral pain, urethral burning, penile itching, penile rash, penile
      blisters, penile ulceration or penile discharge at follow-up clinic visits on days 7, 14, 28,
      35, 42 or 56; erythema (with or without induration), vesiculation, bullous reaction, and
      ulceration, of the penile shaft, foreskin, and glans, as observed by visual exam at follow-up
      clinic visits on days 7, 14, 28, 35, 42, or 56; erythema or ulceration of the urethral
      meatus, as observed by visual exam at follow-up clinic visits on days 7, 14, 28, 35, 42 or
      56; and adverse events other than those listed as primary endpoints judged related to product
      use. The secondary study outcome measures are reported positive attributes (ease of use,
      increased pleasure during sex, positive feedback from primary sex partner) or negative
      attributes (difficulty of use, decreased pleasure during sex, negative feedback from primary
      sex partner) of the study products; reported willingness to use and recommend the products;
      and reported adherence with use of condoms and of the topical microbicide. Each participant
      will take part in the study for up to 8 weeks, including the screening period. The entire
      study should be completed within 5-6 months.
    
  