
    
      Crohn's disease is considered to be an immune-mediated disease of the intestinal tract,
      typically treated using immune modulating or immune suppressive therapies. These treatments
      include local anti-inflammatory agents such as 5 aminosalicylic acid products, broad immune
      suppression using corticosteroids, azathioprine, or methotrexate; cytokine suppression such
      as antibody against TNFα; IL-12 and antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin and metronidazole that
      work by decreasing the putative antigen exposure to the intestine. There is little in the
      literature available on mortality data related to Crohn's Disease, but one series by Farmer
      et al showed 6% mortality attributable to Crohn's disease. The mortality rate for selective
      patients with refractory and severe disease is probably higher.

      This protocol is based on the premise that the sustained inflammation of the GI tract that is
      characteristic of Crohn's disease is the result of defective mucosal T cell tolerance. The
      mucosal tolerance is normally maintained by CD4 + T cells characterized as T helper 3 (Th3)
      and T regulatory 1 (TR1) T cell clones producing TGFβ and IL-10 respectively. There has been
      much speculation on a possible infectious etiology of IBD implicating primarily mycobacterial
      organisms, though despite extensive research no pathogenic organisms have definitively been
      identified. In genetic cytokine knockout animal models of IBD, the typical nonpathogenic
      enteric flora is sufficient to induce a chronic inflammatory reaction. Autoreactive T cells
      appear to have broken through the mucosal tolerance with characteristic T helper 1 cytokine
      profile secreting IL-1 and IFNγ.

      In theory the most efficient approach to eradicate autoimmune T cell clones is through
      replacement of the defective immune system with hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) from a healthy
      allogeneic donor. However, the risks of morbidity and mortality associated with allogeneic
      HSC transplantation currently do not appear to be justified even in treatment of refractory
      cases of Crohn's disease. An alternative approach is to use autologous HSC from which
      potential autoreactive T-cells have been eliminated, based on the hypothesis that from the
      T-cell depleted autologous graft reconstitution of normal immunity will occur without
      regeneration of autoimmune clones. Pilot trials in Crohn's and other autoimmune diseases have
      confirmed the validity of this hypothesis. T-cells in the CD34 selected PBSC product are
      significantly depleted. If active disease recurs despite intensive immunoablation, it is
      likely that either CD34 selection did not adequately remove cells responsible for the
      autoreactive state, or that the emerging genetically predisposed immune system was re-exposed
      to autoantigens.

      Unlike allogeneic transplants, the autologous transplant approach has greatly reduced
      morbidity and mortality due to the absence of graft rejection and graft versus host disease
      reactions. Currently, autologous HSCT demonstrate that transplant-related mortality is around
      5% when transplanted for acute leukemia.
    
  