
    
      Hypoglycemia remains a barrier to optimal glucose control, which is necessary to prevent
      diabetes-related complications including eye, kidney, and nerve diseases. Despite treatment
      advances such as insulin pump therapy and continuous glucose monitoring, hypoglycemia remains
      a concern, even when insulin is given in a closed-loop system. A closed-loop system consists
      of a glucose-measuring device, from which data are collected and entered into an algorithm,
      which in turn controls insulin delivery. The difficulty of delivering regular or analog
      insulin in such a manner is related to its slow onset and prolonged effect when delivered
      subcutaneously. Until a more rapidly-acting insulin preparation is available, discontinuation
      of subcutaneous insulin during impending hypoglycemia, with any algorithm, may be
      insufficient to prevent hypoglycemia.

      Glucagon, a hormone secreted from the alpha cells of the normal endocrine pancreas, rapidly
      raises circulating glucose levels within minutes via glycogenolysis, even when given
      subcu-taneously. Glucagon is approved for use as a parenteral injection for treatment of
      severe hypoglycemia. Our group has successfully completed studies in humans using a
      closed-loop system that delivers insulin (in a nearly continuous fashion) to prevent and
      treat hyperglycemia as well as glucagon (intermittently) to prevent and treat hypoglycemia.

      However, it is unknown whether or not repeated doses lead to hepatic glycogen depletion,
      which would increase the risk of a severe hypoglycemic episode. 13C MRS (magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy) has been successfully used to quantify hepatic glycogen in a non-invasive
      fashion. We are proposing to use 13C MRS to compare glycogen stores in subjects with type 1
      diabetes after a period without glucagon vs after a period of repeated glucagon dosing. The
      comparisons will be made when glycogen stores should be replete (after a lunch meal) and when
      glycogen stores should be lower (after an overnight fast). If repeated doses of glucagon do
      cause glycogen depletion, then we would revise our dosing strategy in the closed-loop system
      and/or consider alternative methods for preventing hypoglycemia.
    
  