
    
      A key goal in the Affordable Care Act is building a national culture of prevention through
      workplace health and safety initiatives. To achieve this goal, methods for scaling up
      evidence-based programs from research to wide-scale dissemination are needed to help balance
      effectiveness and cost. In many cases, there are pressures to reduce scale-up costs but at
      the expense of lower program implementation and effectiveness. A scale-up method that
      sacrifices effectiveness but reduces costs and reaches a larger number of employers may be
      acceptable. The investigators will model the effectiveness and cost trade-off, along with the
      extent and representativeness of reach, when scaling up the evidence-based occupational sun
      protection intervention, Sun Safe Workplaces (SSW), for national distribution. The
      intervention, which relies on personal contact with managers and in-person employee training
      (SSW-IP), created large improvements in comprehensive workplace sun safety (i.e., policy
      adoption and employee education) in a randomized controlled trial. The investigators will
      compare the existing in-person program delivery methods (SSW-IP) to a lower-cost
      dissemination method that utilizes Internet technology (SSW-T), i.e., virtual meetings,
      social networking, online training, and program materials. The aims of the research are to:
      1) estimate the program reach (number and representativeness) and implementation rates (i.e.,
      adoption of policies and delivery of education on occupational sun protection) achieved by
      the SSW-IP and SSW-T in a model of national distribution to public safety and public works
      industries; 2) estimate the costs associated with the SSW-IP and SSW-T (i.e., intervention
      costs and induced employer costs) and compare the estimated program benefits (i.e., policy
      and education) to cost; and 3) estimate the effect and cost-effectiveness of SSW-IP and SSW-T
      in secondary outcomes of a) changes in workplace environments and procedures for sun safety
      and b) workers' sun safety practices. In a 5-year project, SSW-T will be created by
      redesigning the very effective SSW-IP methods to use the latest web conferencing, social
      networking, and online training technology for dissemination. The implementation rates
      (defined as policy adoption and education delivery) and costs associated with SSW-IP (n=50
      employers) and SSW-T (n=150 employers) will be modeled in a randomized two-group
      pretest-posttest design, enrolling a national sample of 200 employers (i.e., firefighting
      departments and state departments of transportation). Unlike traditional randomized trials,
      the primary analysis will be of cost effectiveness to test the hypothesis that SSW-T can be
      delivered cost-effectively to an expanded group of worksites producing a lower implementation
      rate than SSW-IP but at substantially lower cost. Secondary analyses will compare the two
      scale-up strategies on implementation rate, differences in rate by employer groups (e.g.,
      size and region), changes to workplace environment/procedures, and employee sun safety
      practices. The findings will have high impact by helping public health practitioners select
      the best strategy for scaling up evidence-based workplace health and safety programs to
      achieve this ACA goal.
    
  