
    
      On visit one, the participant will 1) be seen by a nurse who will complete a pubertal
      assessment exam, 2) complete questionnaires, including ones on pubertal development,
      screening for MRI safety, and quality of relations with parents and friends. The participant
      will also have a chance to experience a simulated MRI in order to determine whether they will
      be comfortable in an actual MRI.

      Within 2 weeks the participant will return to the University where undergo the following
      protocol. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of 4 conditions that differ by who is
      with them in the scanner room: Primary Parent, Close Friend, Experimenter, No Social Partner.
      (N=50 per condition, 25 male, 25 female).

      Once at the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, participants and the individual who will
      be with the participant in the scanning room will undergo an MRI safety screening (the repeat
      of what the investigators completed over the phone). Girls will be shown to a changing room
      where the investigators will privately question them about any possibility of pregnancy.
      Participants will be shown into the scanning control room and one more safety check will be
      performed before they enter the scanner room and the scanner. If they are in one of the
      social buffering conditions, the social buffering partner will also enter the scanning room
      and will sit to the side of the scanner.

      The scanning bed will then be moved into the barrel of the MRI machine. The participant will
      be wearing head phones to protect his/her hearing and to receive instructions from the
      control room. The participant will also be able to see two judges and hear the judges
      instructions when the participant is in the scanning control room. The participant will then
      complete a variant or the Trier Social Stress Test, a social evaluative stressor, which
      produces elevations in heart rate and cortisol.

      When saliva is collected, the scanning bed is withdrawn from the barrel of the MRI machine
      and the participant will be able to see and briefly interact with the social partner while
      saliva is sampled for steroid collection. Once the scan is over the participant will return
      to a waiting area and complete additional questionnaires, provide additional saliva samples,
      and another urine sample.
    
  