
    
      Brain tumors account for nearly 20% of all childhood malignancies. Of these, gliomas
      represent 50% of all brain tumors in children and young adults. Gliomas are classically
      divided into two subtypes - low-grade and high-grade. Low-grade gliomas (LGG) include
      pilocytic astrocytomas and diffuse astrocytomas, and high-grade gliomas (HGG) include
      anaplastic astrocytoma and glioblastoma multiforme. Although patients with grade I and II
      tumors have a good prognosis with 5-year overall survival rates of 80-90%, those cases that
      are recurrent, refractory, and/or unresectable remain a challenge. The prognosis of children
      and young adults with recurrent or refractory malignant brain tumors remains poor despite
      dramatic improvements in treatment over the past few decades, with only a minority achieving
      long-term survival if recurrence occurs following initial surgical resection and adjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      For patients with HGG prognosis remains dismal despite aggressive treatment. In this subset
      of patients, the 5-year overall survival for anaplastic astrocytoma ranges from 20-40% and
      for glioblastoma 15-20%. Diffuse intrinsic brain stem gliomas (DIPG) have the worst overall
      prognosis with a nine-month mean overall survival and with most patients dying from the
      disease within 2 years. Thus, the development of new treatment protocols for children and
      young adults with both high grade gliomas and with recurrent or refractory low grade gliomas
      is crucial to improving the survival rates of these patients.

      The Ketogenic Diet (KD) has been in clinical use for nearly a century, initially designed to
      mimic the effects of starvation. Over the last two decades metabolic studies have been
      gaining momentum as increasingly promising in disease modification of central nervous system
      disorders and tumors.

      Tests in animals and studies in adult patients with brain tumors have shown that there are
      advantages to using the ketogenic diet. These include: improved response of the tumor to
      standard treatment (chemotherapy/radiation) and improvement in quality of life measures
      (alertness).
    
  