
    
      The CDC estimates that 1.1 million people living in the U.S. are infected with HIV [1]. Only
      a quarter of person living with HIV (PLWH) successfully keep the virus under control [2].
      Medication non-adherence is a significant contributor to unsuccessful viral suppression; a
      recent meta-analysis found that only an estimated 59% of participants in North American
      studies were adherent at a commonly accepted minimal threshold for successful viral
      suppression [3]. While newer antiretroviral therapy (ART) medications can produce viral
      suppression at lower levels of adherence, relatively high adherence is still necessary to
      avoid disease progression and shortened lifespan [4-6]. In addition, low levels of adherence
      increase the risk of infecting others and contribute to the development of treatment
      resistant strains of HIV [7;8].

      Interventions have been developed to address the significant public health problem presented
      by poor adherence, with most studies demonstrating some degree of success in the short-term
      [9]. However, the impact of the interventions is generally not sustained over time [9], and
      most HIV treatment settings do not have the resources to deliver more intensive
      interventions. As a result, there has been interest in developing efficacious
      electronically-delivered interventions. Very little research has focused on establishing the
      efficacy of mobile health applications for ART adherence. Further, no published studies have
      examined a single session face-to-face intervention combined with a mobile application and
      coaching support to reinforce sustained adherence.

      Delivered over a smartphone, portable applications would allow for real-time adherence
      tracking and feedback and ready access to content or services to enhance adherence. The
      long-term goal of this line of research is to disseminate an efficacious, mobile health ART
      adherence application that can be integrated readily into clinical care. The objective of
      this application is to develop a mobile health ART adherence application, to pilot the
      application, and to conduct a preliminary randomized controlled trial of the application.
    
  