
    
      The aim of this study is to improve awareness in right-brain-damaged patients with USN
      following stroke using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). tDCS is a
      neuromodulatory technique that delivers a low-intensity direct current (e.g., 1-2 mA) to
      cortical areas facilitating (anodal tDCS) or inhibiting (cathodal tDCS) spontaneous neuronal
      activity. This stimulation is delivered by a stimulation device with two (or, rarely, more)
      electrodes placed on the scalp. The electrode assembly most commonly used for tDCS comprises
      (1) a conductive rubber electrode, (2) an electrode sponge, and (3) an electrolyte-based
      contact medium (e.g., saline, gel, or conductive cream) to facilitate delivery of current to
      the scalp, as well as (4) any materials used to shape these components or otherwise direct
      current flow (plastic casing, rivets). The tDCS mechanism of action is a subthreshold
      modulation of neuronal membrane potentials, which alters cortical excitability and activity
      dependent on the current flow direction through the target neurons. tDCS does not induce
      activity in resting neuronal networks, but modulates spontaneous neuronal activity:
      consequently, the amount and direction of effects critically depend on the previous
      physiological state of the target neural structures. In this sense, tDCS represents a
      neuromodulatory technique which do not induce massive synchronized discharge of action
      potentials as the Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation.

      The introduction of tDCS in the clinical context took place about 15 years ago. Seminal
      studies demonstrated that weak, direct electric currents could be delivered effectively
      transcranially: specifically, anodal direct current stimulation was shown to increase
      cortical excitability, whereas cathodal stimulation decreased it. tDCS has been tested in
      thousands of subjects world-wide with no evidence of important side effects. For instance, it
      has been used in healthy individuals to change the efficacy of various motor and cognitive
      processes, with only mild and transient effects such as tingling and itching sensation under
      the stimulation electrode, moderate fatigue and headache. Moreover, since it is
      well-tolerated also in patients, a growing body of evidence is focused on the use of tDCS in
      clinical context for rehabilitative purposes: after brain damage, the induction of
      enhancement of the damaged hemisphere through anodal tDCS is effective in reducing the
      cognitive deficits caused by the lesion (e.g., stimulating perilesional areas).

      We will select USN patients, showing anosognosia for neglect symptoms, from a previous study.
      If only a few patients will accept to participate in this protocol, new right-brain-damaged
      patients will be recruited at HUG.

      A protocol using anodal tDCS (i.e., excitatory stimulation) will be administered. We will
      target brain areas that could be involved in anosognosia for USN and, if these sites are
      damaged by the lesion, perilesional unimpaired regions will be stimulated, as the rationale
      is that excitatory stimulation of these sites can restore the defective error monitoring, and
      temporarily ameliorate anosognosia.

      Before and immediately after each stimulation, the three measures of anosognosia (i.e.,
      explicit self-rating, SCR and EEG error-related potentials) will be recorded: this procedure
      has been chosen in order to compare the tDCS effects on the different features of
      anosognosia. To control for the size of the parietal and frontal damage, which could
      influence the beneficial effect of tDCS, we will estimate the number of voxels damaged in
      these regions through the lesion maps of patients.

      Each one of the three experimental sessions is expected to last no more than 2h30min. This
      includes: 15/20min to welcome the participant, explaining the experiment and make him sign
      the informed consent and the screening criteria for tDCS ; 30min of neuropsychological
      screening (only for patients who did not undergo Study 1 or only for the first session);
      20min of preparation of the set-up (connecting the cables for SCR, placing the EEG cap and
      connecting all the electrodes, installing the tDCS electrodes); 60min for the experiment's
      recording (anosognosia + tDCS + anosognosia); 10/15min for cleaning up the set up and doing a
      short debriefing with the participant.
    
  