
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is associated with considerable blood loss and increasing needs
      for allogenic blood transfusion. Previous studies demonstrated a transfusion rates ranging
      from 10% to 38% after standard TKAs. Transfusion carries significant risks of cardiopulmonary
      embarrassment, disease transmission, immunological reaction and postoperative infection.

      The major causes of postoperative blood loss following TKA are attributed to surgery itself
      which induces a considerable activation of the coagulation cascade and local fibrinolysis,
      the latter is further enhanced after release of the tourniquet at the end of surgery.
      Tranexamic acid (TXA), an inhibitor of fibrinolysis, was reportedly effective reducing blood
      loss after standard TKA. Our previous experiences in minimally invasive (MIS) TKA showed that
      intraoperative infusion of TXA reduced 45% of postoperative blood loss and needs for
      transfusion from 20% to 4%. However, most of the orthopedic surgeons still hesitate to use
      TXA systemically in TKAs especially in high risk patients with a potential increase in
      thromboembolic events following surgery. A recent study by Nishihara et al demonstrated that
      use of TXA in total hip arthroplasty did not appear to affect the prevalence of either
      proximal DVT or PE. Another study by Xie J et al also showed the incidence of postoperative
      VTE was unchanged when TXA was administered in primary unilateral TKA, but in there study the
      total occurrence of vascular occlusive events was statistically significantly higher (17.55%
      Vs 9.35%, p < 0.001) in the TXA group. However, in this two studies the patient with high
      risk of thromboembolic events (ischemic heart disease, chronic renal failure on hemodialysis,
      cerebral infarction, previous VTE disease, thrombophilia associated with genetic diseases)
      were excluded.

      We believe the topical use of hemostatic agent in patients with high risk of thromboembolism
      can avoid its systematic effect and decrease its potential perioperative risk of
      thromboembolic complications (arterial thrombosis, myocardial infarction and pulmonary
      embolism). Recently, there were some reports demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of topical
      application of TXA in TKA patients. Besides, thrombin-based hemostatic agents, Floseal速, have
      been widely used in surgical procedure including gynecology, general surgery, and orthopedics
      which were still attracting the attention and interest of multitudinous surgeons. Some recent
      studies demonstrated that topic use of Floseal速 in primary TKA can reduce hemoglobin decline
      and calculated total blood loss after TKA and is not related to adverse reactions or
      complications such as wound infection, venous thromboembolism events(VTE). But there were
      another studies showed Floseal速 does not reduce blood loss in TKA procedures.

      Our purpose of this study therefore is to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial
      to investigate the blood-conservation effect of this two topic hemostatic agents and their
      safety in a primary TKA procedures in patients with risk of thromboembolic events. The first
      group by topical TXA application, the second group by topical Floseal速 application, and the
      third group of placebo and observe whether there is difference in the the blood-conservation
      effect by total blood loss calculation, hemoglobin loss and transfusion requirement among
      these patient groups.
    
  