
    
      Primary objective: to evaluate the efficacy of the specific implant management currently
      offered to XLH patients according to the recommendations, in terms of implant survival.

      Secondary objectives: 1. to study the evolution of the peri-implant bone level within 2 years
      after implant placement ; 2. to study the evolution of the stability of the peri-implant
      tissues in the 2 years following the installation of the implant ; 3. to describe the
      osseointegration of the implant 6 months after insertion ; 4. to evaluate the effectiveness
      of the specific implant management in terms of the delay in occurrence of the first implant
      loss of patients ; 5. to describe the reasons for removal of the implants ; 6. to evaluate
      the satisfaction of the implant treated patient ; 7. to describe the occurrence of dental
      plaque, suppuration or bleeding around implants.

      Experimental plan: this is an observational prospective study with historical control group
      (retrospective compendium) comparing XLH-specific implant management (prior phosphorus /
      vitamin D supplementation and prolonged implant healing) to non-specific management. For
      prospective inclusion (patients with specific implant management) patients will be recruited
      from adults with XLH as part of an oral assessment. After inclusion each patient will be
      followed 24 months. The surgical treatment and the clinical and radiographic follow-up
      correspond to the specific management proposed in our service to the patients presenting an
      XLH. Prior to implant placement, a cone-beam computed tomography scan will confirm adequate
      bone volume for implant placement. Implant surgery will be performed under local anesthesia
      following the protocols recommended by the manufacturer. The follow-up is done during the
      healing period and the realization of the implant prosthesis (6 months after surgery) then
      12, 18 and 24 months after the surgery. It will include a clinical and radiographic
      examination, and will verify the presence of the implant in the mouth (survival of the
      implant), and the stability of the peri-implant tissues (level of attachment and bone level)
    
  