
    
      Non-adherence to antiretroviral medications can lead to the development of treatment
      resistant genetic variants of HIV which can then be transmitted to sexual risk partners.
      Interventions are urgently needed to reduce the risk of HIV treatment resistance and the
      risks of transmitting HIV. This application proposes to test a theory-based behavioral
      intervention to simultaneously improve HIV treatment adherence and reduce HIV transmission
      risk behaviors in people living with HIV-AIDS. Grounded in behavioral theory, the
      experimental intervention will be delivered in a mixed format model with five group sessions
      preceded by and followed by one individual counseling session conducted by community-based
      group facilitators. The intervention will be conducted at an AIDS service organization in
      Atlanta. Men and women will be recruited from a variety of AIDS services and infectious
      disease clinics. Following informed consent and baseline assessments participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive either the (a) integrated HIV treatment adherence - risk
      reduction intervention or (b) a time-matched sexual risk reduction intervention, or (c) a
      time matched non-contaminating comparison intervention. Participants will be followed over
      the course of a 9-month observation period. Assessments will include measures of information,
      motivation, and behavioral skills pertaining to HIV treatment adherence and HIV transmission
      risks and risk reduction, medication adherence, sexual transmission risk behaviors, viral
      load, and CD4 cell counts. The study will test the hypothesis that a unified, integrated
      theory-based HIV treatment and risk reduction intervention will improve HIV treatment
      adherence, reduce HIV transmission risk behaviors, and improve health as indexed by viral
      load and CD4 cell counts. The study will also examine the influence of theoretical constructs
      on intervention outcomes. The intervention under investigation will be among the first to
      simultaneously address treatment adherence and risk behavior in an integrated model derived
      from a single, unified theory of health behavior. If shown effective, the intervention model
      will be ready for immediate dissemination to community services for people living with
      HIV-AIDS.
    
  