
    
      Pompe disease is an inherited autosomal recessive glycogen storage disease caused by partial
      or total deficiency of acid α-glucosidase (GAA), resulting in the accumulation of glycogen in
      the lysosomes of skeletal muscles, heart, liver and other tissues. There is an inverse
      correlation between the amount of residual GAA activity and disease severity. The clinical
      phenotype varies with regard to age of onset, organ involvement, and severity of progression.
      In 2006, enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with recombinant human GAA (Genzyme Corporation,
      Cambridge MA, USA) was approved and, since then, decisive modification of the course of the
      disease has been reported. Clinical studies in infants showed that ERT led to improvement in
      cardiac, respiratory and skeletal muscle functions, with achievement of independent walking,
      higher levels of physical activity, and survival beyond infancy.

      Exercise capacity significantly affects Pompe patients' clinical picture and quality of life
      [5]. However, data on the effects of ERT on physiological variables related to exercise
      capacity is scarce. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is a well-known procedure to
      assess exercise capacity in adults and children in healthy and chronic conditions. Little is
      known regarding exercise capacity in the pediatric Pompe population. Our aim was to evaluate
      the acute effect of ERT on exercise capacity and different physiological variables in
      pediatric Pompe patients.

      Patients were evaluated before and two days after ERT (20mg/kg/EOW). Each evaluation included
      CPET, pulmonary function tests, 6MWT and GMFM-88. All tests were carried out by the same
      experienced physician, exercise physiologist, and physiotherapist.

      Visit 1: Patients arrived at that hospital at 7:00 am, vital signs were collected and a
      complete neuromuscular evaluation was carried out (gross motor function measure score sheet
      (GMFM-88), 6MWT, pre-CPET questionnaire (demographics, physical activity level, risk
      assessment, asthma/atopy/smoking history, family history), pulmonary function tests and CPET.
      Following the evaluation, at approximately 9 am, the patient started infusion of ERT.

      Visit 2: Two days following visit 1, the patient arrived at the hospital at 2:00 pm, vital
      signs were assessed and GMFM-88, 6MWT, pulmonary function tests, and CPET were performed.
    
  