
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with oligometastatic melanoma
      treated with the combination of stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (SABR) (stereotactic
      radiosurgery) and ipilimumab in patients with oligometastatic melanoma using modified World
      Health Organization (mWHO) criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the 6-month progression-free survival of the combination of SABR and 3 mg/kg
      ipilimumab in patients with oligometastatic melanoma using immune related response criteria
      (irRC) criteria.

      II. To evaluate the tolerability and safety of the combination. III. To evaluate the response
      rate based on mWHO & irRC criteria. IV. To evaluate the local control rate. V. To evaluate
      the overall survival rate.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate changes in blood and serum markers: absolute lymphocyte count, T-cell activation
      markers, T-cell suppression markers, T-helper cells and related cytokines, T-regulatory
      (T-reg) markers, co-stimulatory molecules, and serum cytokines when SABR is added to the
      ipilimumab regimen.

      II. Evaluate genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations in key melanoma genes and their
      correlation with response, progression-free survival, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1, 4, 7, and
      10. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 total doses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. At approximately 5-6 weeks, patients undergo
      stereotactic radiosurgery over 2-3 days per week. Patients with stable disease or confirmed
      partial or complete response after completion of ipilimumab therapy at week 12 may receive
      re-induction ipilimumab at the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  