
    
      Sample: The sample will be made up of 240 children of 8-12 years old (IMC>P90). The dropout
      rate is expected to be 20%. The majority of the participants will be recruited through
      Primary Health Care Services, in collaboration with Paediatrics Area. A small percentage of
      the sample contacted the program after receiving information from their school or advertising
      posters. After assessment, they are assigned randomly to one of the three conditions.

      For Patient Registries:

        -  Spanish Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness provides an annual quality
           assurance for monitoring and auditing all financial projects (4-yr). This plan addresses
           data validation and registry procedures.

        -  A review of databases is regularly scheduled.

        -  Sample size assessment has been verified, specifying the number of participants
           necessary to demonstrate an effect (size effect; N=240). Regarding the sample size,
           assuming a two-tailed test α = .05 and a power (1 - β) of .80, estimating a 23%
           difference in the prevalence rates of childhood obesity, and applying a correction of
           according to the guidelines of Browner, Newman, Cummings and Hulley (2007) to anticipate
           a possible sample loss of approximately 20%, based on the study by Robertson (2008), a
           sample size of 80 children per group has been estimated (n = 240). Therefore, it is
           expected to collect substantial changes with an N = 60 in each of the groups at the end
           of the 12-month follow-up.

        -  A preliminary statistical analysis plan has been described with the analytical
           principles and statistical techniques to be employed in order to address the primary and
           secondary objectives, as specified in the study protocol or plan. A preliminary plan for
           missing data has also taken into account and missing values will be taken into account
           in analyses. An expert methodologist collaborates in the Project and advises us in this
           field of work.

        -  Standard operating procedures to address registration operations and analysis
           activities, such as patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data
           analysis, adverse event reporting, and change management. All members of the Project has
           received a specific training by A.R.S.

        -  A data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each variable used by the
           registry, including the source of the variable, coding information if used and normal
           ranges if relevant. This document is provided to the principal members of the team.

      Assessment: The clinical evaluation consists in an interview where socio-demographic and
      family clinical variables are evaluated, the semi-structured child diagnostic interview is
      carried out (K-SADS-PL) based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
      (DSM-5) criteria and a battery of questionnaires are administered to the child and both
      parents. Assessment are carried out over time (T0 baseline vs. T1 post/6-month vs.T2, T3 and
      T4, 6, 12 and 18-month follow-up, respectively).

      Multidisciplinary team: Most of the sessions of the psycho-family sessions workshop group and
      the psychological workshop group with children are conducted by psychologists, with at least
      Clinical Psych MSc, some of them also doing Clinical Psych PhD. All therapists have received
      specific training prior to the protocol and work from Motivational Interview perspective. The
      team also has a nutritionist, psychiatrist and an expert in physical activity, training in
      Motivational Interview. Finally, paediatricians and nurses from the health centres in the
      area collaborate actively in the Project. Meetings for feedback about the progress of the
      project and annual specialist seminars are organized. The results and progress are also
      shared in Paediatrics and Psychology conferences. A multidisciplinary project from Primary
      Care, combining the joint effort of different professionals that allows a rapid and effective
      overweight patient care protocol to be developed. Interest has grown in the Project by
      international PhD students and Postgraduate students as evidenced in their project
      collaboration and consequent training.

      Relevance of the study: Overall, this project will represent a significant contribution to
      the scientific understanding of this field as well as a significant savings in economic costs
      derived from this illness. It is expected to have an important clinical impact in the Madrid
      region, providing assistance to 240 families in the hospital. This is a pioneer research
      project that examines the efficacy of the new program of psychosocial family-based
      intervention for childhood overweight and obesity within Primary Care. The innovation and
      creativity of the ENTREN program for children highlights the broad content in emotional
      self-regulation, which has two aims: it helps to overcome the emotional difficulties
      (frustration, anxiety, impatience) and modify their eating habits, in turn, it could help to
      reduce the onset of unhealthy eating patterns or their prevalence (binge eating, emotional
      eating, picking). In addition, it highlights the inclusion of the family as a key factor in
      the change and implement of healthy lifestyles in children with overweight/obesity. The
      programme ENTREN-F (pilot study results) has been awarded by the Ministry of Health and
      Consumer Affairs, Strategy for Nutrition, Physical Activity and Prevention of Obesity (NAOS
      annual Award) in December 2017.

      Ethical approval: The study received ethical approval by the Child and Adolescent Hospital
      Niño Jesús (Ref. R-0058/16), Central Committee of Research, Primary Care Commission (Ref.
      32/17; 13.12.17) and Autonomous University Ethics approval (CEI-76-1394).
    
  