
    
      A phased approach, as recommended for development and evaluation of complex interventions,
      will be used. In phase 1 the current transitions from stroke units to the home environment
      will be explored and facilitators / barriers to coordinated person-centred safe transitions
      will be identified. Knowledge generated in phase 1 will inform phase 2; a co-design process
      of new coordinated person-centred transitions conducted by people with stroke, significant
      others and staff from stroke units and interdisciplinary home rehabilitation teams together.
      Knowledge from phase 1 and phase 2 will inform phase 3; implementation and evaluation of the
      missing link.

      Phase 1 Aims: Explore current state of transitions combined with rehabilitation in the home,
      identify facilitators and barriers to person-centred transitions, current patient and
      caregiver outcome, satisfaction, and resource use of health services during the first year
      after stroke.

        1. Design: prospective longitudinal observational study. Participants: people with
           mild/moderate stroke, referred from stroke units to home rehabilitation and their
           significant others will be asked to participate before discharge from the stroke unit.
           Data collection: Baseline data on medical and socio-demographic aspects and functioning
           will be collected from the medical records. Data on satisfaction with the transition
           process will be collected after discharge from the stroke unit. At 3, and 12 months
           people with stroke will be assessed regarding disability, perceived impact of stroke,
           participation in social activities, health related quality of life, perceived needs of
           health services and satisfaction with services received using reliable validated
           measures and structured interviews. Data on caregiver burden, life satisfaction and
           informal care will be collected from significant others. Data on use of health care will
           be obtained from the register at Region Stockholm. Analyses: Statistical analyses to
           identify factors at baseline associated with satisfactory transitions, and associations
           between perceived quality of transitions and patient and significant other outcomes at 3
           and 12 months.

        2. Data: Medical records will be reviewed on the planning and decisions regarding
           transitions e.g., criteria for referral to home rehabilitation, timing and planning,
           information exchange between stroke unit and interdisciplinary home rehabilitation
           teams, and use of decision support. Analyses: Quantitative content analyses.

        3. Participants: staff of stroke units and interdisciplinary home rehabilitation teams.
           Data collection: Focus group interviews with staff of stroke units on experiences of
           identifying candidates for home rehabilitation, the planning and decisions; and with the
           interdisciplinary teams on experiences of preparation for rehabilitation in the home and
           establishing new contacts with people referred for home rehabilitation. Analyses:
           Thematic analyses with constant comparisons.

        4. Participants: Strategic samples of people with stroke based on satisfaction with
           transition and their significant others. Data collection: Semistructured individual
           interviews on the experiences of the transition from the stroke unit to the home and the
           initiation of the home rehabilitation. Analyses: Thematic analyses with constant
           comparisons.

      Phase 2 Aims: Develop new person-centred coordinated transitions. Design: Workshops with all
      stakeholders using a collaborative design process which include reflection, analysis, and
      description of the problem, visualization to get a common picture, modelling and/or
      prototyping. Participants: People with stroke, significant others, staff from stroke units
      and interdisciplinary home rehabilitation teams in a series of five workshops. Data
      collection: field-notes, diaries and documentation of the design process.

      Phase 3 Aims: Implement the new person-centred transitions between stroke units and the home,
      a) evaluate new person-centred transitions from stroke unit to home rehabilitation compared
      to transitions without coordination in a feasibility cluster randomised controlled trial
      regarding satisfaction with the transitions, patient and caregiver outcomes and use of health
      care during the first year after stroke and explore experiences of the new transitions from
      all stakeholders involved.

      Design: a) Cluster randomized controlled feasibility study. Interdisciplinary home
      rehabilitation teams collaborating with the participating stroke units at Karolinska
      University hospital and Danderyd hospital will be randomised to deliver either the new
      person-centred transitions or initiation of rehabilitation in the home as usual. Based on
      core aspects of person-centred transitions identified in phase I and phase 2 and transition
      designs developed in phase 2 the interface to coordinate the transitions between the
      stroke-unit and each interdisciplinary team will be identified and organised. Participants:
      people with mild to moderate stroke, referred to receive rehabilitation at home in
      participating stroke units, their significant others, staff of the participating stroke units
      and interdisciplinary teams. Data on satisfaction with the transition process will be
      collected after discharge from the stroke unit. At 3, and 12 months people with stroke will
      be assessed regarding disability, perceived impact of stroke, participation in social
      activities, health related quality of life, perceived needs of health services and
      satisfaction with services received using reliable validated measures and structured
      interviews. Data on caregiver burden, life satisfaction and informal care will be collected
      from significant others. Data on use of health care will be obtained from the register at
      Region Stockholm. Analyses comparing outcomes of people who receive the new person-centred
      transitions and transition as usual will be performed intention to treat. Analyses will
      include health economic aspects of the new transitions. b) In addition, open ended questions
      will be asked to the participants with stroke and the significant others pertaining to their
      experiences of the new person-centred transition and the rehabilitation in the home
      environment. Members of the participating interdisciplinary teams and staff of the
      participating stroke units will be interviewed regarding their experiences. Analyses:
      Thematic applied analyses using constant comparisons will be applied to transcripts of the
      interviews to identify experiences of the new person-centred transition of the staff in the
      stroke units and the participating interdisciplinary teams.
    
  