
    
      A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any grade 3, 4 or 5 toxicity event that is
      considered to be definitely, probably or possibility related to the protocol radiation
      therapy. Patients that cannot complete protocol therapy due to acute radiation side-effects
      will also be considered to be a DLT. The general (non-exhausive) list of organ based toxicity
      that could be related to this type of radiation therapy include toxicity to the liver,
      kidney, bowel, spinal cord, and pancreas. Side-effects that are exclusively due to TKI
      targeted therapy are not considered to be DLT in this protocol.

      Three patients will be recruited for the first cohort of the trial. These patients will have
      the PTV prescribed a dose of 25 Gray to be given in 5 daily fractions over a period of one
      week (first treatment to start on a Wednesday or Thursday, with planned treatment on
      successive business days). All therapy should be delivered within 10 business days including
      any treatment breaks for acute toxicity. After 3 patients have been seen at the 4 week follow
      up visit, CTCAE version three will be noted. If precisely 1 patient has a DLT, then an
      additional 3 patients will be recruited to the same cohort and given the same treatment. If
      no patient has DLT, then a new cohort of 3 patients will be treated to an increased dose of
      30 Gray in 5 fractions. Similar criteria will dictate whether the trial ends, or continues
      with the next cohort being treated to a dose of 35 Gray in 5 daily fractions. There will be a
      maximum of 4 cohorts (25Gy, 30Gy, 35Gy, and 40Gy) in this study assuming no early DLT issues,
      each containing 3 or 6 patients. Allowance for a -1 cohort arm of 20 Gy in 5 fractions is
      made in this protocol for early DLT issues. The diagram below displays the schema in more
      detail.

      Any patient that does not complete protocol therapy due to toxicity issues or is unavailable
      for the 4-week toxicity assessment is considered to be non-evaluable. These patients will
      need to be replaced in terms of study accrual. Patients are not to be given TKI therapy
      during the 4 week window post-RT in order to allow for proper evaluation of the RT
      intervention; however, the treating oncologist ultimately can override this if it is in the
      best medical interest of the patient (e.g. progressive and symptomatic systemic disease)
    
  