
    
      Background

      The investigators in the Prolyse in Acute Cerebral Thromboembolism (PROACT) II study found
      that intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) with prourokinase within 6 hours after onset of
      symptoms was beneficial in patients with middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion.
      Intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) thus is an option for treatment of selected patients who
      have major stroke of <6 hours' duration due to occlusions of the MCA. Recently observational
      study showed that IAT was more beneficial than intra-venous thrombolysis (IVT) in the
      specific group of stroke patients presenting with hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign on
      CT, even though IAT was started later.

      However complications after both reperfusion treatment modalities such as symptomatic
      intracerebral hemorrhage, malignant brain oedema, re-occlusion, infection, and seizures may
      occur. Unfortunately few clinical signs provide prognostic information for clear risk
      stratification. The guidelines for reperfusion therapies in Switzerland, Europe and the US do
      not include -for the time being- biomarkers in the decision-making-process. However there
      might be powerful biomarkers, which can serve as point of care tools for the risk
      stratification of candidates to receive thrombolysis. Plasma copeptin concentration has
      recently been shown to be an easy to determine, steady parameter which independently predicts
      functional outcome and death in patients with an acute ischemic stroke. Copeptin derives from
      a larger precursor peptide (pre-provasopressin) along with two other peptides, Vasopressin
      (AVP) and neurophysin II. Released in an equimolar ratio, the amount of copeptin mirrors the
      production of AVP. AVP plays an important role in the regulation of the
      hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and, thus, reflecting the individual stress
      response. "Stressors" such as stroke are strong stimulators of the release of AVP. The close
      and reproducible relation of copeptin levels to the degree of activation of the stress axis
      is the basis of its usefulness as a biomarker. Early prognostic factors to predict mortality
      and outcome in stroke patients are important to guide and tailor early decision on treatment.
      In this context, copeptin may be helpful tool in the early risk stratification of stroke
      patients to guide the decision for reperfusion therapies.

      Objective

      To evaluate copeptin as prognostic tool to predict outcome in a well-defined cohort of stroke
      patients.

      Methods

      Step 1. All eligible patients in the emergency department or the neurological ward will be
      evaluated for enrollment into the study. On admission, 2 x 7.5ml- EDTA-blood tubes will be
      drawn during the first routine blood sampling, and 2 x 7.5ml-EDTA-blood tubes on the
      following routine blood-sampling. Copeptin levels will be assessed in a blinded batch
      analysis upon completion of the plasma asservation. Measurement will be performed with a new
      chemiluminescence sandwich immunoassay.

      Step 2. All baseline data will be collected. CT or MRI will be performed 22 to 36 hours after
      IAT. All complications including death after the reperfusion therapies will be assessed until
      discharge.

      Step 3. A telephone follow-up regarding morbidity and mortality will be obtained after 3
      months. An unfavorable outcome will be defined as a mRs of 3 to 6
    
  