
    
      Families are facing unprecedented challenges during the COVID-19 pandemic. Emerging evidence
      from our recent family research shows elevated rates of maternal depression in parents of
      0-5-year-old children, compared to pre-pandemic cohorts with similar demographic profiles. In
      our combined data of over 3000 families of 0 to 5-year-old children, 37-48% of mothers were
      classified as depressed, based on child age group, with 65% of depressed mothers also
      experiencing anxiety. In early childhood, exposure to maternal mental illness predicts risk
      for children's own mental health problems, developmental delays, asthma, and injury risk. For
      mothers themselves, depression contributes to health problems and low quality of life.
      Notably, these harms are most pronounced when depression persists, highlighting the
      importance of intervening early to prevent intergenerational health impairments.

      Although evidence-based treatments exist to address maternal mental illness, there are high
      barriers to accessing care due to COVID-19. These include physical distancing, high costs of
      individual therapy, closure of existing services, and overwhelming childcare demands. Only 5%
      of mothers in our sample with depression report accessing services in the past month. The
      parenting stress associated with maternal depression is established to lead to low-quality
      interactions and harsh discipline, which is particularly concerning with children are
      spending nearly all their time at home.

      Addressing these intergenerational health concerns will require innovative program design
      methods to simultaneously treat maternal mental illness and address parenting risks. We have
      developed the Building Emotional Awareness & Mental Health (BEAM) program to immediately
      address these needs. Investing in maternal mental health now, before problems are entrenched,
      is expected to yield high health and economic benefits by preventing the long-term
      consequences of maternal depression from becoming embedded in children's biological and
      behavioural development. Our team of mental health, parenting, and program development
      experts will address these needs through an online psycho-education and social-connection
      platform.

      There are 3 objectives for this study:

        1. Support maternal mental wellness and parenting stress by creating an interactive
           psychoeducation & social connection online platform.

        2. Evaluate the acceptability of the app and integrate parent feedback

        3. Determine the potential benefits of BEAM on maternal and child well-being.
    
  