
    
      The coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) emerged in December 2019 and has rapidly spread worldwide. The
      mortality of critical ill patients with COVID-19 has been reported variously as low as 11%
      and as high as 61%. The application of scoring systems can facilitate the effective
      evaluation by physicians to screen severe patients. At present, however, there are no
      specific scoring systems for the evaluation of COVID-19 patients. Scoring systems such as the
      Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score can help emergency or critical care
      physicians for prognosis and predicting mortality. The SOFA score described the condition of
      multiple organ dysfunction through several parameters, including oxygenation index, mean
      arterial pressure, Glasgow come scale, creatinine or urine volume, bilirubin, platelets for
      the respiratory, circulatory, neurological, renal, hepatogenic and coagulation systems
      respectively. The function of each organ system is scored from 0 to 4, and the individual
      SOFA scores are summed to a total score. Although SOFA was not initially designed to predict
      mortality, several studies reveal that SOFA could predict morbidity and mortality in severe
      ill patients.

      Besides the SOFA score, the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (Apache II) scores
      was designed to measure the severity of disease of patients admitted to the ICU and to
      predict mortality. The Apache II score is calculated based on physiological measurements such
      as body temperature, mean arterial pressure, pH, heart and respiratory rate, Glasgow coma
      scale, oxygenation and blood parameters such as sodium, potassium, creatinine, hematocrit and
      white blood cell count. Recently, the Apache IV score is developed where additional
      parameters such as admission information, admission diagnosis and chronic health conditions
      were take into account.
    
  