
    
      This 5-year study evaluates the effects of a 10-week technology-based and delivered
      cognitive-behavioral stress management intervention (T-CBSM) on symptom burden in men with
      advanced prostate cancer (APC) undergoing hormonal therapy (HT), or HT with prior
      radiotherapy (RT) and/or radical prostatectomy (RP). APC is chronic and debilitating with
      survival rates about 32% and even lower rates for ethnic minorities. Most (70%) men diagnosed
      with APC receive HT to control progression. HT is associated with side effects including
      depression, fatigue, hot flashes, and sexual and urinary dysfunction, while RT and RP also
      lead to fatigue, irritation, urinary dysfunction, etc. Symptoms combined with challenges of
      living with advanced disease (e.g., unpredictable disease course) significantly deteriorate
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Yet, there is limited information on how psychosocial
      factors impact symptom burden, or on the efficacy of psychosocial interventions in reducing
      symptom burden and improving HRQOL. Furthermore, psychosocial modulation of endocrine and
      immune function is associated with symptoms and HRQOL in cancer patients, including those
      with advanced disease. Stress-related disruption in diurnal cortisol can promote inflammation
      that can exacerbate symptoms (e.g., fatigue, depression, pain). In our pilot work we observed
      that audio-based T-CBSM improves social and physical functioning, and decreases symptom
      burden in APC. Moreover, targets of T-CBSM (e.g., coping skills) explain reductions in
      symptoms, whereas decreases in inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-6) and enhanced
      cortisol regulation are associated with decreases in symptoms such as depression, pain,
      urinary dysfunction and fatigue. We propose to deliver an enhanced T-CBSM intervention to (a)
      capitalize on new technology using a video-conferencing for hard-to-reach and ethnically
      diverse patients, (b) incorporate a neuroimmune model of symptom regulation and management,
      and (c) test the efficacy of Web-CBSM in a multi-ethnic sample of 200 men living with APC.
      Men will be randomized to a T-CBSM group intervention or a health promotion group (T-HP)
      control condition. Our primary aims are to determine the extent to which randomization to
      T-CBSM relative to T-HP is associated with: (Aim 1) improved symptom burden management and
      HRQOL, (Aim 2) reduced distress and interpersonal disruption, and improved stress management
      skills, and (Aim 3) improved neuroimmune regulation (i.e., normalized diurnal cortisol &
      decreases in inflammatory cytokines). We will also test (Aim 4) a set of hypothesized
      pathways (e.g., T-CBSM driven changes in distress, stress management skills, neuroimmune
      regulation, etc.) that explain the association between group assignment and our primary
      outcomes of symptom burden and HRQOL. This is a 2x3 randomized experimental design with
      condition (T-CBSM vs. T-HP) as the between groups factor and time (baseline [T1], 6-mos.
      post-baseline [T2], & 12-mos. post-baseline [T3]) as the within groups factor.

      Experimental Design. This is a randomized experimental trial designed to evaluate the effects
      of a 10-week technology-based group cognitive-behavioral stress management intervention vs. a
      health promotion group-based attention matched control condition. Primary outcomes are
      symptom burden (e.g., urinary function, fatigue, pain) and HRQOL (e.g., general, physical &
      social functioning).

      Participants. Participants will be 200 ethnically diverse men ages 50 or older, with stage
      III or IV prostate cancer (i.e., APC) who are on hormonal treatment (HT; androgen ablation,
      androgen deprivation, chemical castration) with or without radiotherapy (RT). They must also
      have undergone HT within the past 12 months.
    
  