
    
      Background. Though methadone effectively treats opioid dependence in polydrug users, some
      abstinent patients relapse to maladaptive use of cocaine during treatment. Relapse may be
      triggered by cocaine-associated cues. Work in a rodent relapse model has demonstrated that
      the atypical neuroleptic drug aripiprazole (Abilify), a partial agonist at dopamine D2
      receptors, can block relapse to cocaine use induced by cocaine-associated environmental
      stimuli or by priming doses of cocaine.

      Scientific goals. To determine whether aripiprazole prevents relapse to cocaine use more
      effectively than placebo in cocaine-abstinent patients maintained on methadone.

      Participant population. A total of up to 275 opioid-dependent outpatients abusing cocaine and
      opioids (110 evaluable) will be enrolled. Target enrollment will include 40% women and 60%
      minorities (mostly African-American).

      Experimental design and methods. The study will be a randomized double-blind clinical trial
      with two treatment groups (55 per group): aripiprazole (15 mg oral daily) and placebo. All
      patients will receive standard treatment (methadone daily and individual counseling weekly)
      for 39 weeks. To establish abstinence prior to aripiprazole induction, contingent vouchers
      will be given for each cocaine-negative urine specimen during the first 12 weeks (weeks
      1-12). Participants who are abstinent from cocaine during weeks 11 and 12 will be randomized
      to receive aripiprazole or aripiprazole placebo in weeks 13 through 27 (induction, weeks 13
      and 14; taper, week 27). From weeks 28-33, participants will receive methadone and counseling
      only, and then will be offered assistance to transfer to another program; those who do not
      transfer will undergo an 8-week methadone detoxification. The primary outcome measures will
      be time to relapse and longest duration of cocaine abstinence. Secondary objectives include
      evaluating whether the treatment groups differ in self-reported changes in drug use and
      proportion of drug-negative urine specimens. In addition, drug use, drug craving, stress, and
      HIV-risk behaviors such as injection practices will be assessed via electronic diaries
      (ecological momentary assessment, EMA).

      Benefits to participants and/or society. Participants will receive methadone, drug
      counseling, and contingency-management therapy. The methadone, counseling, and voucher
      interventions are likely to reduce participants use of heroin and cocaine and HIV risk
      behaviors. Aripiprazole may reduce the incidence of relapse to cocaine use.

      Risks to participants. Participants may experience side effects from aripiprazole and
      methadone and discomfort during withdrawal from methadone and aripiprazole. Methadone could
      raise serum levels of aripiprazole via inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolic pathways. The EMA
      component of the study may generate some assessment burden.
    
  