
    
      It is estimated that approximately 4 out of 10 people with an enlarged heart due to heart
      failure develop MR, referred to as secondary MR. This type of MR is caused by enlargement of
      the left ventricle (LV), one of the heart's main chambers. In turn, the enlargement leads to
      stretching of certain heart muscles around the mitral valve and of the valve itself. Symptoms
      of secondary MR may include shortness of breath, fatigue, dizziness, swollen feet, cough, and
      heart palpitations. Mitral valve repair or replacement surgery is sometimes considered as a
      treatment option to restore proper heart function in people with secondary MR. Surgical
      repair with placement of an artificial ring around the mitral valve can help to tighten the
      valve and add benefit to non-surgical treatments for MR. However, although surgical placement
      of the ring improves mitral valve function in most people, it is not known whether this
      surgery helps people live longer and healthier lives. This study will compare the safety and
      effectiveness of surgical mitral valvuloplasty with placement of an annular ring (SMVR) added
      to optimal medical treatment (OMT) versus OMT alone in non-ischemic heart failure patients
      with significant secondary MR.

      Participation from baseline through follow-up in this study will last 18 months. All
      potential participants will initially undergo a transesophageal echocardiogram to confirm the
      presence of an abnormal mitral valve. Eligible participants will then undergo a number of
      baseline tests, which will include cardiopulmonary exercise stress testing, a chest wall
      echocardiogram, blood draw, 6-minute walk test, medical questionnaires, and a physical exam.
      Next, participants will be randomly assigned to receive immediate open heart surgery with the
      placement of a mitral valve ring, delayed surgery at least 18 months later, or OMT.
      Participants assigned to receive immediate surgery will undergo the surgery 2 weeks after
      baseline testing. Participants assigned to receive OMT will receive treatment with any of the
      following medication regimens: combination of vasodilator therapy and diuretics, nitrates and
      nifedipine, and beta-adrenergic blocker therapy. Follow-up visits for all participants will
      occur at Months 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 and will include repeat baseline testing. Long-term
      survival status data may be collected beyond 18 months for some participants.
    
  