
    
      Breast cancer is sensitive to a range of chemotherapeutics agents, but despite initial
      sensitivity, resistance typically emerges, resulting in disease relapse or progression.
      Exploration of novel classes of agents in the treatment of breast cancer is therefore in
      urgent need. Vorinostat or SAHA, a potent inhibitor of histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity,
      represents a novel class of anti-cancer agents in early stages of development. Vorinostat is
      active in inducing differentiation, cell growth arrest, and/or apoptosis in a wide variety of
      transformed cells in culture, and has shown activity against breast cancer in cell lines and
      animal models. Exploratory pharmacokinetic analysis has demonstrated that oral Vorinostat has
      excellent bioavailability. Oral Vorinostat has been administered to more than 300 patients
      enrolled in completed or ongoing clinical studies. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is 400 mg
      q.d. or 200 mg b.i.d. continuously, or 300 mg b.i.d. x 3 consecutive days per week.
      Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) are non-hematologic (anorexia, dehydration, diarrhea and
      fatigue), that resolve quickly once drug administration is interrupted. This study will
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of Vorinostat in breast cancer patients who have failed
      anthracyclines and taxanes, and if proven active, will add an important new class of agents
      to the treatment armamentarium of breast cancer. The study will be divided into 2 phases:
      phase I to determine the MTD in our population, starting with 400mg q.d. continuously, with
      progressive dose decrements in the event of DLT; and phase 2 to determine efficacy of
      Vorinostat at MTD in 12-37 evaluable patients. Correlative studies (pharmacokinetics,
      pharmacogenetics, plasma proteomics, tumor histone acetylation, genomics and proteomics) will
      be carried out to identify markers that will predict treatment response and/or toxicity to
      Vorinostat, to achieve the future goal of tailored therapy.
    
  