
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effect of therapy with paclitaxel to therapy with liposomal doxorubicin on
      progression-free survival and on global assessment of quality of life of subjects with
      advanced AIDS-related K.S.

      II. To compare the toxicity profile of intravenous paclitaxel with liposomal doxorubicin in
      patients with advanced AIDS-related K.S.

      III. To compare the overall and complete response rate of intravenous paclitaxel with
      liposomal doxorubicin in patients with advanced AIDS-related K.S.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of intravenous paclitaxel as compared with therapy with liposomal
      doxorubicin on the clinical course of HIV infection in patients with advanced AIDS-related
      K.S., by monitoring CD4 and CD8 lymphocyte subsets, HIV viral load and the incidence and type
      of opportunistic infections.

      V. To explore the relationship between viral load and response to the therapy for patients
      with AIDS-related K.S.

      VI. To describe the relationship between "technical" response as measured by the current KS
      response criteria and the clinical benefit of therapy as measured by the revised KS clinical
      benefit criteria.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to receive either paclitaxel
      (arm I) or doxorubicin HCL liposome(arm II).

      Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel over 3 hours by intravenous infusion. Treatment course
      repeats every 2 weeks. Patients are evaluated every third course.

      Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin HCL liposome over 30-60 minutes by intravenous infusion.
      Treatment course is repeated every 3 weeks. Patients are evaluated before every odd course.

      Patients in both arms continue treatment if there is no disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with complete response continue on study treatment for 2 courses beyond
      documented complete response.

      Quality of life is assessed before, during, and after treatment.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 months for years
      2-5, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 240 patients (120 patients in each arm) accrued into this
      study over 24 months.
    
  