
    
      Pelvic girdle pain (PGP) occurs in 70% of pregnant women; of whom 25% have severe pain and 8%
      severe disability requiring the use of crutches, wheelchair or confinement to bed (Wu et al,
      2004). At a personal level, women with PGP find that everyday activities such as turning in
      bed, prolonged walking, or carrying items may cause pain; impacting negatively on quality of
      life (Wang et al, 2004). In economic terms societal costs are significant, mainly as a
      consequence of work absenteeism; with 20% of people requiring an average of 7 weeks sick
      leave (Noren et al, 1997). The impact of this problem is significant; with 812, 970
      deliveries occurring throughout the UK in 2012/13
      (http://www.statistics.gov.uk/hub/index.html). Pregnancy related PGP has also been documented
      to increase.

      PGP during pregnancy is thought to occur due to increased pelvic joint motion as a
      consequence of hormonal and biomechanical factors. For many women PGP symptoms resolve within
      approximately 3 months of delivery, however, approximately 38% of females continue to
      experience pain beyond 3 months following delivery (Gutke et al 2010, Van de Pol et al 2006).
      It is unknown why chronic symptoms persist, but age, parity, pre- pregnancy body mass index
      (BMI), mode of delivery and previous PGP, along with emotional and psychosocial factors have
      been identified as risk factors associated with chronic PGP (Robinson et al, 2010)). Further,
      women having caesarean section are at increased risk of post-partum chronic PGP, which is
      noteworthy given the increasing percentage of women who are electing for caesarean section
      for early symptomatic relief of peri-partum PGP. Urinary incontinence is also documented to
      affect approximately 70% of females suffering with pregnancy related PGP. If PGP symptoms
      continue into the post-partum then urinary incontinence is reported to continue due to an
      association with PGP and pelvic floor muscle weakness (Fitzgerald et al, 2012).

      PGP is difficult to manage with limited guidance from the literature on conservative
      management. European Guidelines recommend exercise prescription for PGP (Vleeming et al.,
      2008) leading to the development of a Specialist Women's Health group information booklet
      that will be used in the current study.

      An integral part of physiotherapists' management approach for PGP is the provision of
      orthoses such as rigid pelvic belts, which aim to improve pelvic joint stability and thus
      reduce pain. Pelvic belts apply forces to the pelvis within the transverse plane. Recently
      dynamic elastomeric fabric orthoses (DEFO) have been developed. A DEFO is made of elastomeric
      panels (e.g. Lycra ®) that are pre-stretched and can provide forces in multiple directions to
      the pelvis. Thus they provide continued multi-axis support whilst being flexible enough to
      allow people to participate in everyday activities. Studies on sports people with pelvic
      girdle pain have shown that the application of forces in more than one plane decreases pain
      and improves function over and above that seen with the application of transverse forces
      associated with pelvic belts (Sawle et al, 2013). Therefore the DEFO may have advantages over
      current rigid pelvic belts in terms of mode of action, clinical effectiveness and user
      satisfaction. To date a comprehensive literature search has revealed there have been no
      trials of orthotic use in women with chronic PGP post-partum. This project will therefore
      follow the recommendations of the Medical Research Council in the development and evaluation
      of complex interventions to establish a clearer understanding of PGP and its management
      post-partum that can inform future clinical trials.
    
  