
    
      Nonmyeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplants are currently being
      investigated in phase I/II trials assessing engraftment, efficacy, and toxicity at a number
      of transplant centers. Our ongoing protocol for patients with severe congenital anemias,
      particularly sickle cell disease (SCD), and an HLA-matched sibling donor has had excellent
      preliminary results. None of the patients who engrafted had sickle-related events or any
      evidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD). There was no significant toxicity associated
      with the conditioning regimen. An additional protocol is ongoing for patients with high risk
      of graft rejection which employs pentostatin and oral cyclophosphamide (PC) pre-transplant to
      further deplete recipient lymphocytes in an attempt to decrease the rate of graft rejection,
      and to date the engraftment rate has substantially improved. Our first haploidentical
      transplant protocol showed improving engraftment and success rates with the addition of
      post-transplant cyclophosphamide, but with a median follow-up of 5 years, the disease-free
      survival was at best 50%. Our new haploidentical transplant protocol has had some encouraging
      early results in the first 5 patients transplanted.

      Based on 67 patients undergoing HLA-matched sibling or haploidentical PBSC transplants at the
      NIH, we sought to determine what donor chimerism level is necessary to reverse SCD. Three of
      the patients had falling donor myeloid chimerism (DMC) levels, and when the DMC level fell
      below 20%, all 3 patients had return of their SCD. Our mathematical model showed that only
      20% DMC (which tracks with donor erythroid chimerism) is necessary due to vast differences in
      donor and recipient red blood cell (RBC) survival. As all 3 patients had persistent but
      insufficient donor chimerism levels, we performed a PBSC boost using the same donor and
      busulfan/alemtuzumab conditioning. Haploidentical patients received CD34-selected PBSCs and
      HLA-matched sibling patients received unmanipulated PBSCs. All 3 patients now remain free of
      SCD with DMC levels of 100% at 1, 2.5, and 3.5 years post-transplant. Therefore, in this
      protocol, we propose repeat PBSC transplants using CD34-selected PBSCs in patients with a
      haploidentical donor and unmanipulated PBSCs in patients with an HLA-matched sibling donor
      from the same donor in a population of patients who have falling DMC and return of SCD.
    
  