
    
      The Southampton Women's Survey (SWS) was established to assess the influence of factors
      operating before conception and during pregnancy on the health and development of the
      offspring. 12,583 non-pregnant young women were recruited and the subsequent offspring of
      3158 of them are being followed-up. Few other longitudinal studies of children have data on
      the tempo of prenatal growth, and none in high-income countries has information recorded
      before pregnancy.

      The objectives of the SWS are: (a) to characterise the influences of a mother's own fetal
      growth and of her dietary balance, body composition and endocrine profile before and during
      pregnancy on (i) the early trajectory of fetal growth; (ii) the maintenance of this growth
      trajectory in late gestation; and (iii) placental and fetal adaptive responses, (b) to
      examine how maternal and intrauterine influences interact with the offspring's genes and
      postnatal environment to determine: (i) weight gain and linear catch-up growth in infancy;
      (ii) the pathways of growth and development during childhood that lead to poor adult health
      (obesity, obstructive airways disease, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and osteoporosis).

      Between 1998 and 2002, 12,583 women aged 20 to 34 years were interviewed and their diet, body
      composition, physical activity levels, lifestyles and social circumstances were assessed.
      Blood, urine and mouthwash samples were collected for genetic and other analyses. Women who
      subsequently became pregnant were followed-up at 11, 19 and 34 weeks' gestation and fetal
      ultrasound scans were performed to obtain longitudinal measurements of fetal growth during
      pregnancy. Between 1998 and 2007, 3,158 women delivered a single live born infant. Biological
      samples were taken and anthropometric measurements of the baby were made within 48 hours of
      birth. In a sample of 1,000 children, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was performed in
      the first two weeks of life.

      The children were followed up at ages 6, 12, 24 and 36 months. A variety of assessments were
      made at the different follow-up interviews including breastfeeding, diet, anthropometry, and
      illnesses. At 24 months, the social circumstances of the family were assessed and, at 36
      months, parenting, and emotional and behavioural issues were recorded. Subsequently, samples
      of the cohort have been seen at specific ages; at 4 years approximately 1,000 cohort
      participants; at 6-7 years approximately 2,000, and at 8-9 years approximately 1,000. At each
      time point from 4 years, body composition and bone indices were assessed using DXA; at 4
      years, cognitive function was measured, at 6-7 years the focus was respiratory health and
      cognitive function, and at 8-9 years cardiovascular structure and function. Over 1000 child
      have been seen at age 12-13 years and the visits at 17-19 years of age have been piloted and
      are about to start with a focus on preparation for parenthood. Furthermore, plans are being
      developed to follow up the 12,583 women originally recruited to the SWS to assess the
      influence of their younger adult lifestyles, body composition and hormones on their
      transition through the menopause.
    
  