
    
      Warzone Veterans exposed to morally injurious events frequently experience numerous
      difficulties in functioning. These Veterans often report suicidal ideation and behavior,
      substance abuse, symptoms of depression and PTSD, and problems in resuming valued living
      (e.g., spiritual practice, close relationships). Despite the transdiagnostic nature of moral
      injury, there are no moral injury-specific transdiagnostic interventions. Existing
      interventions tend to be focused on treating moral injury in the context of PTSD. In addition
      to an emphasis on PTSD, these interventions target beliefs associated with moral injury as
      causal factors in the development and maintenance of suffering. An emphasis on altering
      beliefs associated with moral injury may not optimally facilitate functional recovery as
      moral pain from moral violations may be justified. As one third of warzone Veterans endorse
      exposure to morally injurious events, it is vital to develop interventions that can be
      efficiently disseminated in VHA to facilitate functional recovery. The ideal intervention
      must simultaneously address moral emotions and promote values consistent behavior in the face
      of these emotions.

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for moral injury (ACT-MI) is a recovery-based, psychosocial
      treatment ideally suited for Veterans endorsing difficulties in functioning related to moral
      injury. ACT teaches skills to help Veterans relate differently to painful thoughts, emotions,
      urges, and sensations. Rather than focusing on symptom reduction, ACT is an evidence-based
      intervention that directly targets functional recovery by assisting Veterans in identifying
      and engaging in values-consistent behavior even in the presence of distress. In Veteran
      populations specifically, ACT has been demonstrated effective in treating suicidal ideation
      and depression and as a result, has been "rolled-out" as an evidence based psychotherapy for
      depression within VHA. ACT-MI operates on the principles of ACT, with an explicit focus on
      the social functions of moral emotions. ACT-MI is the only intervention for moral injury that
      is based on social functionalism which purports that moral emotions (e.g., shame, pride)
      serve evolutionary purposes essential to group survival. Thus learning to interact with moral
      emotions differently is crucial to recovery. In ACT-MI, a group-based intervention is used to
      facilitate in-vivo exposure to moral emotions in the context of values. The proposed two arm
      randomized controlled pilot study will evaluate the acceptability of ACT-MI and an active
      control treatment, and determine the feasibility of the randomized controlled trial design
      for a future full-scale efficacy study. To accomplish this goal the investigators will
      continue to refine ACT-MI. Veterans enrolled will be randomized to: (a) Present Centered
      Therapy (PCT) or (b) ACT-MI, both of which will consist of 12, 90-minute group sessions. The
      specific aims of this study are to: (1) Evaluate the acceptability of the ACT-MI intervention
      for Veterans experiencing impairment in functioning associated with moral injury, (2)
      Determine the feasibility of the efficacy study design, and to (3) Select measures and
      calculate the necessary sample size for a future efficacy study. The performance of validated
      scales will be measured, in addition to selected NIH Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System modules. All participants will complete a baseline assessment, post
      treatment, and follow-up assessment one and three months after completion of ACT-MI or PCT.
      Participants in both groups will also complete a post-treatment assessment on the
      acceptability of the intervention. The proposed study represents a crucial first step in a
      line of research likely to yield a recovery oriented, empirically-supported intervention for
      moral injury among Veterans. The objectives of ACT-MI directly align with Rehabilitation
      Research and Development's goal to improve Veteran functioning, increase community
      reintegration, and to facilitate Veteran centered care.
    
  