
    
      Background:

      N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is an oral or intravenous agent that replenishes glutathione which in
      turn allows for the formation of glutathione peroxidase, an important enzyme in the
      degradation cascade of reactive free oxygen radicals. NAC has been shown to reduce recurrent
      cardiac events in the setting of ischemic injury, and help prevent progression of renal
      dysfunction in patients with chronic renal failure exposed to nephrotoxic dye for
      radiographic studies. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has been shown be nephrotoxic that may be
      through the production of oxygen free radicals produced as a consequence of: a systemic
      inflammatory response to the pump, renal hypoperfusion and loss of pulsatile flow to the
      kidney during CPB. Renal dysfunction post cardiac surgery can lead to short or long term
      dialysis, and an increase in mortality rate. NAC therefore may be an ideal agent to preserve
      renal function in those patients who require exposure to CPB and are at high risk of
      developing postoperative renal dysfunction. The hypothesis tested in this study is that IV
      NAC may minimize postoperative renal dysfunction sustained by exposure to the cardiopulmonary
      bypass circuit.

      Objectives:

      This study will answer the question of whether perioperative intravenous N-Acetylcysteine
      (NAC) will be effective in reducing postoperative renal dysfunction as measured by a change
      peak creatinine from baseline values greater than or equal to 50μmol/L between placebo and
      NAC groups in adult, elective patients at high risk of renal insufficiency following exposure
      to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). This study is a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind
      trial that addresses the following objective:

      1.To determine if intravenous N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) is effective in reducing post
      cardiopulmonary bypass renal dysfunction.

      It is hypothesized that IV NAC will provide renal protection and may be an effective
      prophylactic option for patients at high risk of postoperative renal failure after exposure
      to CPB, and avoiding the ensuing high mortality rate associated with this.

      Study Design:

      This study will consist of a single centre, randomized, stratified, double blind, placebo
      controlled trial of intraoperative use of placebo or IV N-acetylcysteine (n=104 patients).

      Study population:

      Includes those patients with preoperative renal dysfunction (serum creatinine level 140
      μmol/L or greater or a calculated glomerular filtration rate of 50 mL/min or less), or a risk
      factor score for postoperative renal dysfunction that adds up to 6 or more based on the
      following scale:

      Score Risk Factor:

      3 scheduled for redo cardiac surgery 3 scheduled for valve surgery 2 age greater than 69 at
      time of surgery 2 known diabetic (Type I or II) 2 congestive heart failure 2 treated
      hypertension 2 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 2 preoperative stroke

      1 left ventricular function -grade 3 or 4 (seen on echo or angiogram)

      1 New York Heart Association Class 3 or 4

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patient is participating in another trial

        -  Patient has received NAC in the past 48 hours.

        -  Patient has allergy to N-acetylcysteine.

        -  Patient scheduled for off-pump surgery or an extracardiac procedure (pericardiectomy
           etc.)

        -  Patient requires emergent surgery

        -  Patient scheduled for a procedure involving circulatory arrest.

        -  Patient requires chronic dialysis (peritoneal or hemodialysis)

        -  Patient unable to give informed consent (dementia, does not speak English, etc.)

        -  Patient has a recent history of cancer (in last five years) or untreated cancer

      Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized to either placebo or IV NAC (one to one allocation). There will
      be four strata. The four strata consist of the major divisions of isolated CABG surgery and
      valve surgery and the subdivisions of risk factor only patients, and patients with
      preoperative renal insufficiency. The patients will be randomized to each of these three
      strata using a permuted-block randomization with block sizes of 4. The randomization number
      will be kept by pharmacy personnel and be available for unblinding in case of any emergencies
      which would include anaphylaxis, hypotension (mean bp less than 60 mmHg), and liver failure.
      Blinding will be preserved as the IV NAC and placebo will be dispensed in identical IV
      solution bags that cannot be distinguished.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized to receive either NAC (150 mg/kg bolus over 15 minutes after
      induction and 50 mg/kg/hr infusion during cardiopulmonary bypass) or placebo (same amount of
      saline both for bolus and infusion).

      We also have provided standard guidelines suggested in the perioperative management of these
      patients as it pertains to renal protection including the use of co-interventions such as IV
      fluid management, pulsatile CPB, and use of vasopressors to maintain adequate perfusion
      pressures both during and following CPB.

      Blinding:

      The patients and caregivers will be blinded to the treatment group as the placebo will be
      identical to the IV NAC in appearance. The research personnel collecting data will also be
      blinded. The pharmacy personnel will be the only ones aware of the treatment assignments.
      Blinding will not be breached except for emergency situations as outlined above. The cardiac
      surgeon and anesthetist will be asked if they believe their patient is on study drug to
      ensure blinding has been preserved.

      Intention to Treat:

      The study will include those patients who do not tolerate NAC and do not receive the full NAC
      dosage because of adverse events in an intention to treat manner. These patients who have not
      have the full maneuver will therefore be included in the final analysis.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome that will be compared between NAC and placebo groups will be the increase
      in serum creatinine from preoperative baseline level after exposure to CPB. The secondary
      outcomes will include glomerular filtration rate (as calculated by serum creatinine, and
      demographic variables as well as serum cystatin C), blood urea nitrogen, early dialysis
      (in-hospital), in-hospital mortality, postoperative myocardial infarction (MI), peak
      troponin, stroke, and postoperative low output syndrome. Adverse events such as hypotension,
      anaphylaxis and alteration of coagulation parameters will be documented.

      Implication of Potential Results:

      If this study shows renal protection with IV NAC it could be used as an effective
      prophylactic option for patients at high risk of postoperative renal failure and the ensuing
      high mortality rate associated with this.
    
  