
    
      The multiple-antigen specific cell therapy which was developed by Hengrui Yuanzheng is
      optimized continuously and has been upgraded from the first-generation MASCT technology to
      MASCT-I. MASCT-I is a technology which add PD1 antibody in vitro cell culture process of
      MASCT cell culture to block PD1 receptor on immunocytes, release the brake on immunocytes'
      reinfusion and interaction with tumor cells for enhancing the efficacy of immunocytes'
      killing tumor cells. At present, the development and validation of manufacturing process has
      been completed, and it is urgently needed to conduct the validation of clinical effect. This
      study is primarily to assess the safety and anti-tumor effect of MASCT-I technology to
      provide data for II/III phase clinical trials.

      This is a Multi-center, phase I clinical study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      multi-antigen autologous immune cell injection (MASCT-I) in patients with advanced solid
      tumor, and to preliminarily evaluate the anti-tumor efficacy of MASCT-I alone, in combination
      with chemical drugs, and in combination with PD1 antibody. About 133 cases of adult patients
      with advanced solid tumors will be recruited.

      This study is divided into four groups: Group 1: Bladder cancer and soft-tissue sarcoma with
      advanced recurrence or metastasis that failed standard treatment: MASCT-I alone will be used.

      Group 2: Advanced metastatic or recurrent urothelial carcinoma that achieved clinical benefit
      after first-line chemotherapy: MASCT-I A; soft tissue sarcoma or osteosarcoma: MASCT-I
      regimen 1 or MASCT-I regimen 2; advanced metastatic or recurrent cholangiocarcinoma that
      achieved clinical benefit after first-line treatment: MASCT-I regimen 2

      Group 3: Advanced metastatic or recurrent urothelial carcinoma, soft tissue
      sarcoma/osteosarcoma, and cholangiocarcinoma that progressed after first-line chemotherapy
      were treated with MASCT-I combined with PD1 antibody until the disease progressed. If disease
      progression occurs during MASCT-I + PD1 antibody combination therapy, treatment will be
      discontinued and then go to follow-up.

      Group 4: Recurrent metastatic solid tumors that had failed previous treatment with PD1
      antibody were treated with MASCT-I regimen 2 combined with PD1 antibody until the disease
      progressed.

      Group 1 is a small sample size safety observation stage where the "3+3" design will be used.
      It represents the group of MASCT-I alone where patients with advanced solid tumors that
      various standard therapies failed in clinical practice are included.

      Group 2 includes stage I ,stage II and stage III.Stage I is a small sample size safety
      observation stage where the "3+3" design will be used .Stage I represents the combination
      group of MASCT-I plus chemotherapy drug or group of MASCT-I alone where patients with
      recurrent or metastatic advanced solid tumor who achieved the clinical benefit after
      chemotherapy (CR, PR, SD) are included.Stage II is a dose expansion stage to observe the
      safety and anti-tumor effectiveness.Advanced metastatic or recurrent urothelial carcinoma,
      soft tissue sarcoma or osteosarcoma ,cholangiocarcinoma scheduled to be enrolled after
      first-line treatment to achieve clinical benefit（CR,PR,SD）.If disease progression
      occured,patients will go to stage III,where MASCT-I + PD1 antibody therapy will be used until
      disease progressed again.
    
  