
    
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a heterogenous group of lymphomas and constitutes
      approximately one-third of all non-Hodgkin lymphoma diagnoses. At diagnosis, approximately
      25% to 30% of patients are found to have limited-stage disease (stage I-II). The
      combined-modality therapy (CMT) including chemotherapy and involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT)
      is the optimal management of limited-stage DLBCL. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network
      (NCCN) guidelines recommend three cycles of R-CHOP+IFRT for early-stage, nonbulky disease but
      also allow the administration of six to eight cycles of R-CHOP with or without IFRT. These
      patients have a favorable prognosis with 5-year overall survival (OS) rates reported between
      70% and 92% following curative-intent treatments.

      In fact, the value from consolidation radiotherapy (RT) in limited-stage DLBCL is uncertain
      in several well-known reports. These include the report of late relapses in the SWOG study,
      the lack of benefit for adding RT to brief chemotherapy in a European study of elderly
      patients, and the reported advantage of an intensive chemotherapy regimen over brief CHOP
      plus RT in younger patients studied in Europe. On the other hand, it is uncertain how many
      cycles' chemotherapy combining consolidation RT is adequate to maintain the efficacy of CMT
      for patients with limited-stage DLBCL. In the trial of GELA LNH 93-1, an aggressive
      chemotherapy alone, a regimen were dose-intensified doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vindesine,
      bleomycin, and prednisone (ACVBP), was designed to compare with three cycles of CHOP plus
      IFRT in patients with stage I-II mostly low-risk aggressive lymphoma. Patients who receive
      the dose-intensity chemotherapy had significantly higher 5-year event-free and overall
      survival (OS) rates because the abbreviated therapy was not enough to overcome the excessive
      distant relapses. In the SWOG 8736 trial, the results were clearly in favor of keeping RT on
      board, but the progression-free survival (PFS) and OS curves between three cycles of
      CHOP+IFRT arm and eight cycles of CHOP arm begin to overlap at 7 years and at 9 years after
      treatment because of the excess number of late lymphoma relapses in the group that received
      three cycles of CHOP+IFRT. For patients older than 60 years with localized aggressive
      lymphoma, the results of the GELA LNH 93-4 trial show that 5-year event-free survival (EFS)
      and OS were no significant differences between four cycles of CHOP alone and four cycles of
      CHOP followed by radiation therapy. In summary, it is not sufficient that three cycles of
      CHOP as systemic treatment in the abbreviated therapy treated limited-stage DLBCL according
      to the results of previous randomized trials. These findings are consistent with the
      retrospective results of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC). Six to eight cycles of
      chemotherapy may be the adequate management for patients with limited-stage DLBCL who
      received RT to ensure a significantly better outcome.

      In order to increase the clinical benefit and decrease the late complications related to
      irradiation and/or chemotherapy, consolidation RT following chemotherapy in patients with
      limited-stage DLBCL has been directed in recent years. This is based on the observation that
      local recurrence is the most common pattern of first failure following systemic therapy alone
      and IFRT achieves excellent infield control in the original sites of disease. Improved local
      control, achieved by the addition of radiotherapy, may translate into improvements in
      long-term outcomes. The advantages of the addition of RT are obvious in the reduction of
      adverse events of dose-intensified or more cycles' chemotherapy, in the increase of local
      control, and even in the improvement of OS. However, the complications related to
      consolidation RT, including second malignancies and other non-neoplastic late events, were
      also needed to emphasize for those patients with limited-stage DLBCL, who were cured and have
      a long-term survival. Reducing the morbidity of treatment is an important consideration to
      optimize the therapeutic ratio. The prefer options include radiation field size reduction and
      radiotherapy dose decrease. The general dose had been guided that 30-36Gy was managed for
      patients with complete response (CR) after chemotherapy and 40-50Gy for partial response
      (PR). Comparing to extensive-field radiotherapy, the brief chemotherapy followed by IFRT for
      early-stage disease is safe and significantly more effective. In order to maintain the high
      rates of local disease control achieved by RT, while minimizing the risks of
      radiation-induced toxicities, the more limited radiotherapy field size changing from IFRT to
      reasonable margin from gross tumor has been reported in patients with limited-stage DLBCL.
      The Korean retrospective results reported by Yu show that the OS and relapse-free survival
      (RFS) at 10 years managed by Involved-node radiotherapy (INRT) following median 4 cycles of
      CHOP or R-CHOP chemotherapy has the same treatment results compared to IFRT on 86 patients
      with stage I, II head and neck DLBCL. The radiotherapy field size of INRT are more localized
      to cover the prechemotherapy gross disease with margins of at least 2 to 3 cm while not
      include ipsilateral whole neck. Aim to reduce radiotherapy-induced toxicities, Campbell et
      al. reduced the field size from IFRT to INRT<5 cm in the treatment of limited-stage DLBCL
      with abbreviated systemic therapy and consolidation RT. The results show that distant-only
      relapse was the most common pattern of first failure, and marginal-only relapse was
      reassuringly infrequent (2%) in the group of INRT. The TTP, PFS, and OS don't be affected by
      radiotherapy field reduction.

      Smaller RT fields will translate to lower rates of radiation-induced toxicity and
      radiation-induced second malignancy in long-term survivors. Unfortunately, some limitation of
      the INRT reported in previous studies will be undertaken. The involved sites are only in head
      and neck and comparison arms are not designed in the Korean research. Though the results of
      Campbell et al show that reducing the field size from IFRT to INRT<5 cm maintains a low
      marginal recurrence risk with no impact on overall outcome, the research was retrospective
      and didn't analyze whether the efficacy of consolidation INRT be affected by the response of
      chemotherapy. Moreover, the clinical target volume (CTV) of INRT in the research of Campbell
      et al encompassed the prechemotherapy volume of disease, within postchemotherapy anatomical
      limits instead of biologic region of the subclinical of gross disease. At the same time, a
      physical concept, the planning target volume (PTV) must be formed from CTV considering
      physiological movement and interfraction set-up variation. For this, the up-to 5 cm directed
      in "involved-node radiotherapy with margins up to 5 cm (INRT<5 cm) '' by Campbell et al
      accounts for the non-uniform margins. The actual radiotherapy field size varied according to
      the discretion of the treating radiation oncologist.

      It is necessary that a research without the limitation being in previous study should be
      designed to evaluate the efficacy of RT with smaller RT field size following sufficient
      systemic treatment for patients with limited-stage DLBCL. Involved-site radiotherapy (ISRT),
      based on a modified involved field, aims to reduce the radiation volume treated and the
      probability of late effects. Its radiation targets include a gross tumor volume (GTV), a
      clinical target volume (CTV), and a planning target volume (PTV), which were defined in
      International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements Report (ICRU) 50. This is based
      on defining the site of gross disease before chemotherapy, the GTV and using a CT-based
      volume with an expansion to form a CTV in the cranio-caudal direction.

      Compared to the IFRT, the PFS and toxicities related to involved-site radiotherapy (ISRT)
      were to be evaluated for CR and PR patients with limited-stage DLBCL after sufficient
      systemic treatment. The CTV of ISRT is defined as the region including the prechemotherapy
      volume of disease with 1.5 cm margin expanded cranio-caudally in the direction of potential
      lymphatic spread. The CTV should not extend into air in the transverse plane and should be
      limited in the involved lymph node region defined by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB).
      The PTV is then extended from CTV by adding the necessary margin for setup error and organ
      motion.
    
  