
    
      prospective, monocentric, randomized open-labeled study.

        1. - Data collected

             1. - during inclusion visit sex, age, full contact details, marital status, number of
                child, level of education, professional status weight, height, BMI, cardiac pulse,
                blood pressure, NYHA, consumption of tobacco and alcohol, concomitant treatments,
                medical history BNP, prealbumin Quality of life questionnaire (Minnesota),
                Depression questionnaire (HAD), autonomy questionnaire (IADL)

             2. - at 6 month weight, height, BMI, cardiac pulse, blood pressure, NYHA, consumption
                of tobacco and alcohol, concomitant treatments, medical history BNP, prealbumin
                Number of consultations, nurses care, number of hospitalization in emergency care
                unit, number of hospitalization due to acute heart failure, number of days of
                hospitalization, number of medical transports Quality of life questionnaire
                (Minnesota), Depression questionnaire (HAD), autonomy questionnaire (IADL)

             3. - at one year weight, height, BMI, cardiac pulse, blood pressure, NYHA, consumption
                of tobacco and alcohol, concomitant treatments, medical history BNP, prealbumin
                Number of consultations, nurses care, number of hospitalization in emergency care
                unit, number of hospitalization due to acute heart failure, number of days of
                hospitalization, number of medical transports Quality of life questionnaire
                (Minnesota), Depression questionnaire (HAD), autonomy questionnaire (IADL)

        2. - Medico-economic evaluation The objective of this evaluation is to analyzed the
           efficiency of telemonitoring in patients with chronic heart failure.

           This evaluation has to be :

             -  quantitative : directs modifications of cost and nature of health care follow-up or
                organization

             -  qualitative : indirect impact on health care costs of situations or behavior

        3. - study of uses "uses" is faculty of recognition, comprehension, use, appropriation and
           diversion of the telemonitoring by patients.

      During the first phase, interviews to obtain qualitative vision of interactions between
      telemonitoring and ecosystems of players.

      40 qualitative interviews during 2 hours of : 30 patients ; 24 users of telemonitoring and 6
      non-users. 10 members of medical and paramedical staff The objectives of the second phase is
      to defined usage scenarios from previous assessments.

      4.- Telemonitoring surveillance of weight, blood pressure and cardiac pulse, 3 times a week
      by the patient at home.

      H2AD platform, general practitioner, cardiology unit, therapeutical education team had to
      manage alarms.

      The devices (balance, blood pressure and pulse monitor) are related by GPRS to a medical
      platform. The platform receive every measure of weight, blood pressure and pulse. When
      weight, blood pressure or pulse increased or decreased, alarms are emitted and patients are
      contacted by a practitioner.
    
  