
    
      With the advances in science and technology in recent years, the rate of survival of
      high-risk newborns has increased in neonatal intensive care units. Some of these babies are
      left in the neonatal intensive care unit for a long time, and because of the need for
      respiratory support, tracheostomy is opened and discharged with home mechanical ventilator
      devices.

      Especially babies with severe BPD cannot be extubated and they may be exposed to trauma of
      long-term intubation. Subglottic stenosis is the most common result of this trauma. Some of
      the babies with severe BPD are discharged by the otolaryngology specialist doctor before
      discharge, to prevent both long-term intubation complications, airway obstruction or tracheal
      stenosis and adaptation to the home mechanical ventilator.

      In addition to babies with BPD, tracheostomy is opened to babies in the early period due to
      various developmental tracheal anomalies in our unit. Some of these are congenital tracheal
      stenosis, congenital laryngeal atresia, laryngeal web.

      In the following process, the growth of the baby, the development of the lungs and auxiliary
      respiratory muscles and the need for mechanical ventilator support are eliminated and the
      patient can wean from the ventilator support. In addition, the tracheostomy procedure secures
      the patient's airway and allows it to be fed easily by mouth and the comfort of the patient.

      When the tracheostomy requirement of the patient disappears (mechanical ventilator, when
      oxygen is not needed), tracheostomy closure can be performed to ensure the patient has normal
      larynx functions (sounding, speech, airway protection reflexes).

      In the literature, there is no comprehensive clinical follow-up study involving early and
      late clinical results related to newborns undergoing tracheostomy. In this study, early and
      late follow-up results (indications, anthropometric measurements, mechanical ventilation and
      oxygen deposition times, complications, tracheostomy closure times, tracheostomy closure
      times, neurodevelopmental patients in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Hacettepe
      University Ihsan Dogramaci Children's Hospital results, accompanying other comorbidities,
      etc.). This study is planned as a retrospective study. Participants planned to determine the
      results of the study whether these babies should be careful in the follow-up and to take
      precautions in order to lead a better and healthier life, and what participants can do in
      order to provide these babies and their families with better health care support.
    
  