
    
      -  In order to participate in this research study, participants must have already been
           diagnosed with cancer. The cancer must be located in a part of the body that is
           accessible for a biopsy and the doctor that will perform the biopsy must agree that the
           participant is a good candidate for biopsy. The biopsy will be done in the usual way, as
           part of your standard medical care.

        -  After the biopsy, the participant will return to the clinic approximately one week later
           for a check on their status. At this visit participants will be asked questions about
           your post-biopsy health. We will continue to follow-up with the participants by phone or
           at subsequent clinic visits for one month following the biopsy.

        -  The biopsy obtained will be studied in the Translational Research Laboratory at
           Massachusetts General Hospital, where it will undergo a panel of genetic tests. These
           tests look to find out what is driving the cancer or making it tick. It is important to
           understand that the genetic tests we will do include a number of cancer related genes or
           proteins that may be important for making treatment decisions, either now or in the
           future. The test results may or may not show a finding that could affect the
           participant's treatment options. There will be no specific testing done for inherited
           genetic abnormalities, so undergoing this research will not give information about the
           risk of cancer for people in the participant's family.

        -  If there is left-over tissue from biopsy, it will also be used to try to discover new
           findings about how cancers respond or become resistant to cancer treatments. These
           experiments will include trying to grow the cancer cells in a petri dish in the lab or
           trying to grow the cancer cells inside research mice to learn more about how the cancer
           works. This portion of the testing os part of the research study and is considered
           experimental, so the results will not be entered into the participants' medical record.
    
  