
    
      Study focus is the promotion of healthy outcomes in young children (0 to 4) whose exposure to
      domestic violence (DV) has been substantiated by child protective services. Young children
      are particularly vulnerable to damage resulting from exposure to DV. Research in
      developmental neuroscience has shown that infancy and toddlerhood is a time of greater
      plasticity of the brain and of sensitive periods for the development of a number of core
      cognitive, emotional, social, and self-regulatory capacities. The public institution with the
      greatest opportunity to promote better outcomes among very young children at high risk for
      compromised mental and physical health development as a result of exposure to domestic
      violence is child protective services. Exposure to domestic violence is one of the most
      frequently substantiated forms of child maltreatment experienced by Canadian children. As
      with other forms of maltreatment, very young children experience disproportionately high
      levels of victimization. Moreover, because infants and toddlers are more often in the
      presence of their mothers than older children, their exposure experiences are more likely to
      be direct (i.e., witnessing violence) as opposed to indirect (i.e., hearing or knowing about
      violence).

      Unfortunately, there is ongoing concern about child protection response to domestic violence
      and about the availability of interventions to address this issue. Interventions are needed
      in two areas. The first is interventions that will reduce impairment (i.e., cognitive,
      social, emotional development) of young child victims of exposure. This issue has been the
      focus of many academic and policy critiques and the source of considerable tension within and
      between the child protection and Violence Against Women (VAW) service communities. One
      tension is that mothers, on whom children rely for sensitive contingent responding to
      traumatic events and traumatic reminders, are also victims of DV. There is a robust
      relationship between DV victimization and symptoms of trauma and depression, and between
      maternal symptoms of depression and trauma and elevated levels of maternal intrusiveness,
      hostility, and non-responsiveness to young children. Domestic violence victimization is also
      a strong risk factor for mother-perpetrated maltreatment and many of the more complex child
      protection cases present with a combination of risk due to ongoing concerns about fathers'
      perpetration of domestic violence and about mothers' DV- or mental health-related neglect.
      There have been numerous calls for better training and greater collaboration between child
      protection and VAW services at this complex area of practice to avoid retraumatization of
      women and to promote better outcomes for children in the context of exposure to domestic
      violence.

      Second, a strong child protection response to DV needs interventions to prevent the
      recurrence of child exposure to violence. Historically, child protection practice in DV has
      focused almost exclusively on mothers' capacity to take actions to "appropriately protect"
      their children from violence exposure. There are many problems with this mother-focused
      strategy of child protection. The more appropriate alternative response is to offer effective
      services to parents (most often fathers) who have perpetrated DV in their families. Child
      protective services have been relatively slow to include fathers in their work, though this
      is changing. There have been numerous calls to continue to change practice in this area in
      order to make work with fathers a greater part of child protection responses to child
      exposure to domestic violence.

      The current study is designed to test the efficacy of providing families' child protection
      ongoing service workers with professional development training, supervision support, and
      priority client access to embedding two parenting interventions - one for mothers focused on
      preventing impairment and one for fathers focused on preventing recurrence - into child
      protection practice. These interventions are "embedded" in recognition of the unique context
      of child protection practice. Within child protection, families are assigned primary workers
      (in this case, ongoing service workers) whose job it is to work with a family to improve
      child safety to the point that the child is safe enough to close the file. Surprisingly,
      referral to parenting intervention is seldom part of child protection practice - most often,
      workers rely on their own work with families to prompt change. However, when parenting
      interventions are suggested, this referral is often linked to child protection plans; i.e.,
      families are not really choosing to access these interventions on their own accord. [There is
      nuance to this, as families are not legally mandated to attend. Yet given the power
      difference between the child protection worker and the family, a strong suggestion from a
      worker that a family access an intervention program carries substantial weight. Families
      retain the ultimate choice about whether or not to participate, but this choice cannot be
      understood as fully independent and voluntary]. Moreover, parents' success (or failure) in
      attending these programs and in making changes to their parenting can have implications for
      the length, intensity, and nature of ongoing involvement of the family with child protective
      services. In this context, it is not feasible to have workers "suggest" that a family access
      an experimental intervention program and then be randomly assigned to receive, or not
      receive, this program. Moreover, given this context, improving outcomes by providing
      parenting intervention requires that change occur first at the child protection worker level.
      Specifically, workers need to be able to identify families in need of intervention, be
      successful at referring/engaging families in intervention, and be able to use information
      resulting from intervention (e.g., reports from the intervention program, observations of
      parenting behaviour changes made as a result of intervention) to improve decision making in
      their child protection practice. Improved child outcomes also hinge on having interventions
      that are themselves efficacious. Because of the embedded, systems context of parenting
      intervention for child protection client, and because the first point of change is worker
      referral, the appropriate level of experimental manipulation is the child protection worker,
      not the individual families. Accordingly, this study makes use of a cluster-randomized
      design, where child protection workers are assigned to additional training, consultation, and
      support in making referrals to mothering, fathering, or both interventions as compared to
      practice as usual. Also relevant to considering design is the fact that child protection
      workers who will be the subjects of this CRT are nested in teams of 5 or 6 under a
      supervisor. Supervisors are responsible (generally speaking) for providing clinical
      supervision, administrative management, and leadership to their team of workers. As such,
      supervisors should be understood as potential "gatekeepers" (i.e., someone who may be called
      up to protect group-based interests that are affects by enrollment in a CRT). Given this
      organizational structure, the most practical and realistic design is to nest randomization by
      teams. Thus, workers in any one team will all be assigned to the same condition.

      Parenting Interventions, Child Protection and Clinical Equipoise In conducting a clinical
      trial, it is also necessary that genuine uncertainty exists in the relevant expert community
      about what therapy(ies) are most effective. Here, the relevant question is whether referral
      to a formal mothering/fathering intervention program is more efficacious than providing
      regular ongoing child protection service, which consists of in-home visits and individualized
      problem-solving with families. There is genuine uncertainty about this question in the area
      of both interventions for mothers and intervention for fathers.

      In terms of intervention for mothers, a major question is whether a "therapeutic" parenting
      program is efficacious when offered as part of child protection service where the typical
      provisions around client-therapist confidentiality are replaced by an agreement for
      collaborative information sharing between the intervention program and the child protection
      worker. This issue has been written about frequently and is one of the sources of tension
      between the CAS and VAW sectors. Also of concern is whether this difficult to engage group of
      mothers can be engaged in services when they are embedded in child protection practice.

      The specific program to be offered in this trial is Mothers in Mind. The Mothers in Mind
      program was developed in response to a recognized service gap for mothers who had experienced
      abuse/trauma, were showing abuse-related deficits in parenting, and had children under the
      age of four. This program is built on the foundation of research showing that dyadic
      parent-child responsivity based approaches are efficacious for improving outcomes for
      children in at-risk circumstances, including infants born prematurely, parented by depressed
      mothers, dyads who have been trauma exposed, and who are in anxiously attached. There is
      preliminary evidence in support of the value of MIM. A 2013 intervention study found that
      both facilitators and management identify that they are satisfied with the support provided
      by CDI in the areas of consultation and training. Pre- to post-program self-report evaluation
      data suggest that the MIM program is specifically helpful to mothers initially presenting
      with challenges in parenting. Specifically, in the subgroup of mothers presenting with high
      levels of challenge, completion of the MIM program was associated with significant positive
      changes in mothers' isolation, attachment, and sense of parenting competency (no other
      dimensions of outcome were assessed).

      In terms of fathering intervention, there is a great deal of concern in the literature about
      the efficacy of any group intervention aimed at reducing abuse recurrence, especially
      domestic violence. A recent meta-analysis concluded that the research evidence on programs
      aiming to change men's perpetration of domestic violence is insufficient to draw conclusions
      about effectiveness. Specifically, Smedslund et al. noted in 2011: "This does not mean that
      there is evidence for no effect. We simply do not know whether the interventions help,
      whether they have no effect, or whether they are harmful" (p. 8). Given the state of
      evidence, experts would certainly be divided on their opinion about whether a trial of this
      nature will show any advantage over service as usual.

      The specific program to be examined in this trial is Caring Dads. Caring Dads aim to reduce
      recurrence of domestic violence by working with fathers to increase their healthy,
      supportive, and non-abusive engagement with their partners and children.

      Caring Dads is currently considered a "promising practice" for addressing child maltreatment.
      Preliminary research on Caring Dads, using a comprehensive evaluation framework, established
      that Caring Dads addresses a need in communities, can be implemented in a way that is
      acceptable to clients and stakeholders, and matched, in its underlying theory, the
      characteristics and needs of most referred. Subsequent examination of Caring Dads using a
      pre- to post-research design showed that intervention is associated with changes in fathers'
      over-reactivity to children's misbehaviour and respect for their partner's commitment and
      judgment, with results being statistically significant, medium in size, moving mean scores
      into the normative range. Interim findings from independent research on Caring Dads being
      carried out in the UK are also promising. Based on data from 204 fathers, 72 partners, and 22
      children, McConnell reports that completion of Caring Dads is associated with pre- to
      post-group reductions in parenting stress and in level of hostility, indifference, and
      rejection as reported by fathers and reductions in domestic violence victimization (emotional
      abuse, isolation, violence, injury, use of children), depression, and anxiety as reported by
      mothers. Changes in identified domains persist over six-months and are well in excess of
      changes made by comparison group fathers over a similar time period. Finally, a small ongoing
      study by the Child Welfare Institute and K. Scott in Toronto finds that, consistent with
      Caring Dads' model of collaboration between group co-facilitators and child protection
      workers, enrolment in Caring Dads is associated with substantially higher levels of contact
      between men and their families' child protection workers and lower rates of re-referral for
      men enrolled in the program as compared to those referred but on a wait-list for service.

      Both the MIM and CD interventions will be embedded as a collaborative intervention across
      child protection and community service. Child protection workers will be directly trained by
      staff of the MIM and Caring Dads program on the nature of the programming provided. Cases
      potentially eligible for this program on the basis of referral and ongoing concerns will be
      flagged. Moreover, child protection staff will have ongoing consultation around the
      complexity of how to interpret and effectively respond to women's joint status as survivors
      of DV and mothers ensuring the safety and well-being of their children and on how to best
      intervene with fathers. Other aspects of embeddedness include ongoing communication through
      intervention and collaborative planning (child protection and community agency) and
      agency-CAST co-facilitation of intervention groups.

      Duty of Care Considerations. The child protection workers and supervisors being recruited
      into this study have a duty of care to the clients on their caseload. As part of their job,
      they need to make decision as to the best services and interventions to provide to their
      clients. Workers and supervisors will be fully aware that they are participating in a study
      where we are examining the effect of embedded parenting interventions. They will also be made
      aware that there is genuine uncertainty about the value of these interventions and will be
      cautioned about the possibility of therapeutic misconception. Depending on the trial arm,
      workers will be trained to better assess and recognize issues in the parenting of mothers and
      fathers of young children and they will be given information about intervention programs that
      have promising evidence of success. In addition, cases potentially eligible for referral to
      these programs will also be "flagged" for workers. However, it is important to note that
      there will be no (explicit or implicit) mandate that flagged clients will be referred to
      these intervention programs. Workers and supervisors will need to continue to use their
      judgment about the ultimate appropriateness of referral for individual clients. In addition,
      workers not assigned to a particular intervention arm (e.g., those assigned to service as
      usual) will not be prevented from making referrals to CD or MIM. Although workers will again
      be aware of the uncertainty of outcomes of these interventions (and the possibility of
      therapeutic misconception) and of their assignment in the trial, we will respond to their
      professional judgment about referral. If space is available for clients of these workers,
      they will be offered intervention regardless of the fact that this will weaken the
      intervention design. However, we anticipate that this will occur in a low number of cases
      because survey of practice reveals that few workers make referrals to parenting interventions
      and because within the context of this trial, we do not expect to have many "empty" spaces in
      intervention.

      Conditions and Hypotheses

      As explained earlier, because the focus of this study is on changing the ways in which child
      protection workers embed intervention into ongoing child protection family service, the
      appropriate level of experimental manipulation is the child protection worker, not the
      individual families. Outcomes will be examined at two levels - the level of the child
      protection worker and the level of the young child identified as being in need of the service
      of the Children's Aid Society (CAST). This trial will have four condition arms: a) embedded
      mother-child dyadic intervention (Mothers in Mind); b) embedded fathering intervention
      (Caring Dads); c) both mother-child dyadic and fathering intervention; d) service as usual.
      Hypotheses are outlined in detail as follows:

      Worker level Case Conceptualization H1: Professional training on embedded interventions
      (i.e., training, ongoing consultation and supported referral) will increase the workers'
      capacity to conceptualize risk and needs in hypothetical cases typical of those open to child
      protection services as a result of child exposure to domestic violence. Specifically, workers
      will demonstrate greater capacity to identify intervention needs relevant to
      fathers'/mothers' attitudes and behaviors; will be more likely to recommend interventions
      relevant to addressing fathers'/mothers' attitudes and behaviors; will be more likely to
      identify specific, concrete behavior changes in fathers/mothers as part of the rationale for
      case closure; and will increase the extent to which workers take intervention progress, or
      lack of progress, into account when making decisions about case closure in responding to
      hypothetical case descriptions. Effects will be evident following training and at a 12-month
      follow-up point in case conceptualization around mothers (for the MIM and combined
      intervention groups) and fathers (for the CD and combined intervention groups) as compared to
      workers in the treatment as usual condition.

      H2: Workers randomly assigned to an embedded intervention condition will have greater
      self-efficacy for referring to and collaborating with intervention programs. Effects will be
      evident following training and at a 12-month follow-up point. Specifically, workers in the CD
      and combined condition (i.e., conditions 3 and 4) will report greater self-efficacy for
      referring fathers and collaborating with fathering interventions than workers in the
      treatment as usual condition and workers in the MIM intervention and combined condition
      (i.e., conditions 2 and 4) will report greater self-efficacy for referring mothers and
      collaborating with mothering interventions than workers in the treatment as usual condition.

      Child Level Rates of re-referral for child protection concerns H3: There will be lower rates
      of re-referral for children of families on the caseloads of child protection workers assigned
      to the embedded CD, MIM and combined intervention than for those on the caseloads of workers
      in the service as usual condition.

      H4: Young children on the caseloads of child protection workers assigned to the embedded CD,
      MIM, and combined intervention will have fewer emotional and behavioural symptoms at one year
      follow-up than children of workers in the service as usual condition.
    
  