
    
      It would be advantageous to detect potential problems with vessel and anastomotic patency
      prior to leaving the operating room. The SPY imaging system makes use of the fluorescence
      properties of Indocyanine Green (ICG) to obtain high quality images of blood vessels. Unlike
      conventional angiography, indocyanine green fluorescence imaging offers the potential for a
      reliable, non invasive, inexpensive and rapid method of intraoperative assessment of vessel
      and anastomotic patency.

      This type of imaging resource could be invaluable in a repair such as:

        1. coronary artery re-implantation following arterial switch procedure for transposition of
           the great arteries, anomalous coronary artery from the pulmonary artery repair, or
           aortic root replacement,

        2. coarctation of the aorta,

        3. Blalock-Taussig shunt, right-ventricle-to-pulmonary artery shunt, or cavopulmonary
           connection for single ventricle palliation, and

        4. branch or distal pulmonary artery reconstruction/unifocalization in tetralogy of Fallot
           and pulmonary atresia/ventricular septal defect.

      The SPY imaging system is feasible for a variety of congenital heart defects and can provide
      valuable information regarding vessel and anastomotic patency.

      Specific Aim 1: Evaluate quality of images for clarity and ability to visualize desired
      anatomic area

      Specific Aim 2: Compare results of images to echocardiography and conventional angiography
      results

        -  Part 1. Compare the results of pre-repair intra-operative SPY images to preoperative
           echocardiography results, and cardiac catheterization results when available

        -  Part 2. Compare the results of post-repair intraoperative SPY images to postoperative
           echocardiography results, and cardiac catheterization results when available

      Approximately 40 patients in total will be enrolled in the study - 10 who have undergone
      coronary reimplantation, 10 who have undergone repair of coarctation of the aorta, 10 who
      have undergone a palliative shunting procedure, and 10 who have undergone pulmonary artery
      reconstruction.

      Echocardiography:

      Preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative cardiac catheterization reports will be
      analyzed.

      Cardiac catheterization:

      Preoperative and postoperative cardiac catheterization reports will be analyzed.

      SPY imaging:

      ICG green will be administered in the following doses: 1.25 mg in infants (< 1 year), 2.5 mg
      in children (<16 years), and 5 mg in adult size patients (17-18 years of age). Doses will be
      injected in 1 ml volumes directly into the aorta, right ventricle or pulmonary artery,
      depending upon the procedure. Repeat dosing and imaging may be performed if needed. The total
      dose of dye will be limited to 2 mg/kg. Images will be obtained in the operating room prior
      to commencing and after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass.
    
  