
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia that is associated with a high
      risk of cardiovascular events and increased morbidity and mortality. Cardiovascular events
      are prevalently localized in the cerebral circulation in which AF is responsible for ischemic
      stroke. Clinical characteristics of ischemic stroke from AF are almost severe and
      thromboembolism is considered the most important cause. Thus, ischemic stroke is deemed to
      origin from thrombus formation generated in the left atrium with ensuing embolism in the
      cerebral circulation.

      Patients with AF are typically associated with different risk factors of atherothrombosis
      including, overall, hypertension which may be detected in about 70-80% of the population;
      other risk factors are diabetes and dyslipidemia. This accounts for instrumental evidence of
      systemic atherosclerosis associated to AF. Thus, signs of atherosclerosis have been detected
      in the thoracic aorta, as represented by aortic plaque assessed by trans-esophageal
      echocardiography; patients with complex aortic plaque had fourfold increased rate of stroke
      compared to plaque-free patients.

      Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a constellation of atherosclerotic risk factors including,
      according to the modified National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III
      (NCEP-ATPIII), hypertension, low HDL, impaired glycaemic control, hypertriglyceridemia and
      central obesity as assessed by waist circumference; the presence of MetS is associated with
      an increased risk of developing cardiac and cerebral ischemic events.

      An higher risk to develop atrial fibrillation (AF) has been well recognized in patients with
      MetS. In a prospective, community-based, observational cohort study with annual health
      check-up 28449 subjects without AF the age-adjusted rates of AF were higher in subjects with
      compared to those without metabolic syndrome during a mean follow-up of 4.5 years.

      Few studies reported on the prevalence of MetS in AF population are still lacking. Some data
      can be inferred from studies regarding recurrence of AF after catheter ablation reporting a
      prevalence ranging from 18.8% to 49.4% . The only population study so far published included
      741 chinese patients and reported a prevalence of the MetS in AF of 46.3%. Taking into
      account the thresholds of waist circumference recommended by international societies for
      different ethnic groups, it is unclear if such prevalence can be extrapolated to population
      of western countries.

      Furthermore the impact of MetS on the incidence of cardiovascular events in patients with non
      valvular AF (NVAF) taking oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) has never been investigated.

      Therefore, our aim was to investigate the prevalence of MetS in a population of NVAF patients
      under oral coagulation treatment and its impact on cardiovascular events during a prospective
      study.

      The study has been modified and approved by local ethical board of Sapienza University of
      Rome to include patients treated with non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (dabigatran,
      apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban) on April 11, 2014 (Prot. 417/14).
    
  