
    
      Despite its therapeutic advantages and proven efficacy in the treatment of HIV-infected
      patients, didanosine may continue to be underutilized because many patients experience
      undesirable gastrointestinal (GI) side effects and palatability problems. Once-daily dosing
      with Videx EC is expected to improve patient adherence with possible improved palatability
      and remove the GI side effects associated with the buffers included in the tablet. Videx EC
      once-daily dosing would improve pill burden by decreasing from 2 tablets to 1 capsule per
      day. Therefore, Videx EC may represent a significant step toward achieving better patient
      satisfaction, improved regimen adherence, and optimal virologic outcomes with
      Videx-containing regimens.

      Patients are randomized to either continue their current Videx tablet-containing regimen for
      an additional 2 weeks or replace their Videx tablets with Videx EC. Patients who remain on
      Videx tablets are switched to the EC formulation at Study Week 2 for the remaining 4 weeks of
      the study period. For patients who continue and successfully complete the Week 6 study visit,
      an optional extended dosing period is offered until Videx EC becomes commercially available
      or the study funder terminates the study. Blood specimens for safety evaluations and viral
      load are collected at Weeks 0, 1, 2, 4, and 6. For patients participating in the extended
      dosing period, the visit schedule is every 8 weeks. Symptom scores between the 2 treatment
      groups are compared, with the primary comparison occurring at the Week 2 visit. Analyses
      include changes in GSRS scores administered by clinician interview at each study visit.
      Assessment of GI symptoms, palatability features, dosing convenience, lifestyle effects, and
      Videx preference is evaluated by the patient. Adverse events are assessed objectively by the
      observations of both the investigator and the patient.
    
  