
    
      Methods Study Design. The current study is a prospective randomized clinical trial registered
      at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02985619). The study protocol adhered to the tenets of the
      Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the local Institutional Review Board, research
      ethics committee of School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto at University of Sao Paulo. All
      patients gave written informed consent before entering one year study and were evaluated in
      the Retina Section of Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine of Ribeirao Preto of
      the University of Sao Paulo with center-involved DME in at least 1 eye between June 21, 2016
      and December 22, 2017 were invited to participate in the study. Recruiting phase considered
      the first 6 months.

      Study Population. Inclusion criteria. Inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Eligible
      participants were aged 18 years with diabetes mellitus (type 1 or 2); (2) center-involved
      DME, defined as a central subfield thickness >300 µm on SB-OCT, despite of macular laser
      photocoagulation, cataract surgery and intraocular injection performed at least 4 months
      previously; (3) best-corrected ETDRS visual acuity (BCVA) measurement between 0.3 logMAR
      (Snellen equivalent: 20/32) and 1.3 logMAR (Snellen equivalent: 20/400); (4) signed informed
      consent. Exclusion criteria. Exclusion criteria were: (1) vitreo-macular traction on SB-OCT;
      (2) proliferative diabetic retinopathy needing panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) or
      anticipated to need PRP in the next 12 months; (3) macular capillary dropout on fluorescein
      angiography; (4) history of glaucoma or ocular hypertension (defined as an intraocular
      pressure higher than 25 mm Hg); (5) an ocular condition (other than diabetes) that, in the
      opinion of the investigator, might affect macular edema or alter visual acuity during the
      course of the study (eg, retinal vein occlusion, uveitis or other ocular inflammatory
      disease, neovascular glaucoma, etc); (6) systemic corticosteroid therapy; (7) any condition
      that, in the opinion of the investigator, might preclude follow-up throughout the study
      period; (8) Recent (within 3 months) thromboembolic events including acute myocardial
      infarction (MI) and cerebrovascular accident (CVA); (9) Other Clinical trial participation in
      the last 30 days.

      Randomization and Intervention. After eligibility was determined, subjects with
      center-involving DME were enrolled and underwent comprehensive ophthalmologic evaluation at
      baseline and every 4 weeks up to week 48. Patients received monthly prn 1.25 mg (0.05 cc) IVB
      throughout 24 weeks if central subfield thickness (CSFT) was greater than 300 µm. At week 24,
      patients who had recurrent or persistent edema (CSFT>300) were randomized 1:1 to Group 1 (prn
      IVB therapy) or Group 2 (quarterly IVT therapy). Randomization was done from binomial
      distribution with parameters that it enters as function arguments. Patients with no recurrent
      or persistent edema (CSFT≤300µm) at 24-week were comprised to Group 3 and continued receiving
      prn IVB therapy. If patient had edema in both eyes and the patient agreed to treat both eyes,
      1 eye received the randomized treatment according to a computer-generated sequence and the
      contralateral eye received the other therapy option on the next day; thus if an eye was
      randomized to the IVB group I, the contralateral eye was allocated to the IVT group II and
      the reverse was also true.

      Examination Procedures and follow-up. Each patient received a detailed ophthalmologic
      examination including measurement of BCVA according to the standardized ETDRS refraction
      protocol using a retroilluminated Lighthouse for the Blind distance visual acuity test chart
      (using modified ETDRS charts 1, 2, and R; Precision Vision, IL), as well as applanation
      tonometry, slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination, indirect fundus examination, and fluorescein
      angiography using high-resolution angiography (HRA; Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg,
      Germany). Spectralis B-scan OCT evaluation (HRA-OCT; Heidelberg Engineering) was performed in
      all patients, and retinal thickness measurements were acquired using a standard 20, 15-degree
      raster scan protocol. CSFT values were calculated automatically as the average thickness of a
      central macular region 1000 mm in diameter centered on the patient's foveola by built-in
      Heidelberg software using retinal map analysis. Patients were scheduled for follow-up
      examinations at monthly intervals. At these visits the BCVA was determined after ETDRS
      refraction and complete ophthalmic examination similar to baseline valuations with the
      exception of fluorescein angiography scheduled at baseline and week 36.

      Antiglaucomatous eyedrops criteria. Intraocular pressure (IOP) ≥ 25 mmHg and/or 10mmHg
      increased from baseline measurement were adopted to initiate anti-glaucomatous eyedrops.

      Intravitreal Injection. All injections were performed using topical proparacaine drops under
      sterile conditions (eyelid speculum and povidone-iodine). Topical antibiotics were not used
      before the day of injection. Before the injection was performed, the eyelids were scrubbed
      with 10% povidone-iodine, and 5% povidone-iodine drops were applied to the conjunctiva. The
      time between application of 5% povidone-iodine solution to the conjunctiva and administration
      of the intravitreal injection was 2 minutes. Povidone-iodine was applied to the conjunctiva
      directly over the intended injection site.21-24 Care was taken in all cases to insure that
      the needle did not touch the lids or lashes. Bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 cc; F. Hoffmann- La
      Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland) or Triamcinolone (1.20 mg/ 0.03 cc; Opthaac, Ophthalmos, São
      Paulo, Brazil) was injected into the vitreous cavity using a 29-gauge 0.5- inch needle
      inserted through the superotemporal pars plana 3.0-3.5 mm posterior to the limbus.25 After
      the injection, central retinal artery perfusion was confirmed with indirect ophthalmoscopy.
      Patients were instructed to instill 1 drop of 0.3% ciprofloxacin into the injected eye 4
      times daily for 1 week after the procedure.

      Retreatment Protocol. Retreatment with the originally assigned treatment was performed
      monthly if central subfield thickness was greater than 300 µm.

      Rescue Therapy. If, after 3 consecutive injections, there was not a reduction in central
      subfield thickness of at least 10% and/or an increase in BCVA of at least 5 letters compared
      with baseline, the patient could continue to receive the same intravitreal medication for an
      additional 3 consecutive visits or quit.

      Outcomes. Primary outcome measure: Mean change in CSFT from baseline to week 48. Secondary
      outcomes measures: Mean change in BCVA from baseline to week 48; mean change in IOP at any
      visit; lens status changes, mean number of intravitreous injections Sample Size. Sample size
      and powering were based on a previous clinical trial on bevacizumab use for diabetic macular
      edema30, where a mean change observed in central subfield thickness from baseline was 130 mm
      with a standard deviation of 122 μm. Therefore, to have 80% power to detect a difference of
      50 μm between central subfield thickness change found in both groups, the sample size
      required in each group was 25 eyes. Thirty eyes per treatment group were required if one
      assumed a 10% dropout rate. With this sample size, there is a 20% chance for a failure to
      detect a true mean difference of at least 50 μm between the treatment groups (type I error),
      or for an incorrect conclusion that a difference of at least 50 μm exists between the
      treatment groups (type II error).

      Statistical Analysis. BCVA and central subfield thickness measured at each follow-up visit
      were compared with baseline BCVA and CSFT values for within- and between-group comparisons,
      which were performed using multiple analysis of variance (MANOVA) for repeated measurements.
      Proportions of eyes with central subfield thickness ≤ 300 mm were compared using the
      likelihood ratio x2 test. In addition, a multivariate analysis comparing BCVA and CSFT
      outcomes in the prn-IVB group and qIVT group was performed, considering number of injections,
      baseline BCVA, and CSFT as effects. A statistically significant effect was defined if P <
      .05, and a trend towards significance was reported if P < .1. Statistical analyses were
      performed using JMP 10.0.0 (2010; SAS Institute Inc, Cary, North Carolina, USA) software.
    
  