
    
      Cataract surgery is a standardized procedure yielding excellent visual outcomes in most
      patients. According to Daien et al., the incidence of cataract surgery in 2012 in France was
      11/1000 person-years. Although there are few complications related to the surgery, patients
      often experience ocular discomfort in the postoperative period.

      Postoperative treatment usually includes topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and
      topical steroids for four weeks to control anterior chamber inflammation, to relieve ocular
      pain after surgery and to reduce the incidence of cystoid macular edema.

      Benzalkonium chloride (BAK) is the most common eye drop preservative and is associated with
      several ocular adverse effects, including dry eye and ocular surface inflammation. Moreover,
      in two clinical trials comparing the effects of BAK-containing and preservative-free eye
      drops, anterior chamber inflammation was reported in response to BAK after 1 month of
      exposure. Finally, besides the fact that intra-ocular inflammation increases the risk of
      macular edema, there is some evidence in the literature suggesting that BAK may also
      contribute to the development of macular edema.

      Because of these well-established detrimental effects of preservatives, pharmaceutical
      industry has invested in the development of preservative-free eye drops in the past decade,
      which has led to preservative-free alternatives for almost all the eye medications.

      The aim of this project is to investigate whether omitting preservatives from the
      postoperative topical treatment after cataract surgery can reduce symptoms and signs of
      ocular surface disease, intra-ocular inflammation and the incidence of cystoid macular edema.

      Additionally ocular microbiome research is added to our study because of its known
      correlation with the ocular immunity. Although the ocular surface is continuously colonized
      by a commensal microbial community, the healthy ocular surface is not in an inflammatory
      state. This phenomenon suggests that there is an interplay between the ocular surface
      microbiome and innate immune mechanisms, which prevents inflammatory responses against
      commensal microbiota.

      St Leger et al. used a murine model to reveal the presence of a commensal, Corynebacterium
      mastitidis, on the ocular surface. Corynebacterium mastitidis elicited an IL-17 response from
      ƔΔT-cells, facilitating recruitment of neutrophils to the ocular surface and secretion of
      antimicrobial peptides in the tears. These findings suggest the presence of a functional
      resident microbiome on the ocular surface which contribute to immune homeostasis and protects
      the ocular surface from pathogens.

      Our expert in the area of ocular microbiome research is affiliated with the department of
      biochemistry and microbiology of the University of Ghent.
    
  