
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of a non-narcotic, postoperative pain
      management regimen for patients undergoing thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy. The
      investigators hypothesize that participants receiving non-narcotic pain regimens will have
      equivalent pain control and satisfaction to those who receive narcotic pain medicines.

      The primary objective will be to identify if there is a difference in average perceived
      postoperative pain scores between participants who do and do not receive narcotic pain
      medications. Secondary outcomes will include need for breakthrough pain medications, patient
      satisfaction scores and the need to call the surgeon office for additional pain medications.

      The participant will undergo total thyroidectomy, partial thyroidectomy or parathyroidectomy
      per the standard of care. The study will have no influence on the surgical procedure
      performed.

      Following the surgery, postoperative analgesia regimens will be prescribed based on study
      randomization.

      Narcotic group regimen (63 patients):

        -  Tylenol tablet 1000 mg by mouth every 8 hours alternating with

        -  Ibuprofen tablet 800 mg by mouth every 8 hours

        -  Oxycodone 5 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for pain, #10 tablets

      Non-narcotic group regimen (63 patients):

        -  Tylenol tablet 1000 mg by mouth every 8 hours alternating with

        -  Ibuprofen tablet 800 mg by mouth every 8 hours

      Participants will be asked to complete a survey each day for the initial 5 days
      postoperatively. Survey data includes:

        -  Average pain level using the 10-point visual analogue scale

        -  Ease of following the pain regimen using a 3-point liker scale

        -  Total dose of oral narcotics converted into oral morphine equivalents that were taken by
           participants post-operatively

        -  If the patient needed to call the office due to inadequately controlled pain

      If the participants do not have adequate pain control with the non-narcotic regimen, they may
      be prescribed additional narcotic pain medication at the discretion of the PI and remain
      enrolled in the study.

      The investigators will also review participants charts for information regarding any
      postoperative office calls regarding postoperative needs (i.e. for pain medications).

      The medical surgical information below is gathered as standard of care for each surgical
      procedure and will also be collected as part of this procedure:

        -  Patient name, medical record number

        -  Patient demographics (age, gender, BMI, ASA score)

        -  Past medical History

        -  Past surgical history

        -  Past social history

        -  Preoperative medications (including steroids, anticoagulation, opioid use)

        -  Pre-operative diagnosis

        -  Procedure performed and pain medications administered in the post-ambulatory care unit

        -  Postoperative complications including need for readmission within 30 days

        -  Length of stay in hospital
    
  