
    
      Introduction:

      Schizophrenic patients and their families often suffer from poor care because of ignorance
      about the disorder1, especially in economically developing countries. Although many patients
      of schizophrenia respond well to antipsychotic treatment, the risk of subsequent relapses is
      generally high2, 40-60 percent relapse within 2 years after discharge from 1st
      hospitalization is observed even if they are receiving maintenance medication1.

      Also non-compliance is quite common in patients with schizophrenia like any other illness,
      and it should be addressed3 because noncompliance and aggression risk profile symptoms are
      positively correlated to hospitalization4.

      Non-compliance is also common in Pakistan like any other society. The commonest reasons for
      non-compliance are unawareness of the benefits of treatment, non affordability of drugs,
      physical side effects, no awareness given by the doctor and unfriendly attitude of doctors5.

      Educational therapy both for patient and family led to significant psychopathological
      improvement at post-treatment and at follow-up.6 The recent trend of family intervention
      produced many models. One long-term family based intervention reduced the risk of psychotic
      relapse to about the half within the first two years. These methods also shorten hospital
      stays, improve compliance with medication, patients' social functioning and relatives'
      well-being, and they seem to be cost-effective.7 Definitive relationship exists between
      compliance and the economic costs of schizophrenia as lower rates of compliance lead to
      higher costs of treating schizophrenia8.

      Family education on schizophrenia in China was effective in improving knowledge and promoting
      improvement in patients' symptoms9. A largest randomized controlled trial from china10 have
      led to increase enthusiasm about psychosocial treatment for schizophrenia but question
      remains about comparative benefit of treatment methods and additional methods of multiple
      treatment11.

      Mostly research done on role of psychosocial-education in schizophrenia is from developed
      countries but no work has been done yet in developing country like Pakistan even Subcontinent
      having a different cultural background. Realizing the need for maintaining the compliance and
      continuity of treatment, I have designed a study program called Supervised Treatment of
      Outpatient Schizophrenia. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of Supervised
      Treatment versus the usual care provided in the outpatient.
    
  