
    
      Major goals of periodontal research are to differentiate pathogenic from host compatible
      plaque microbiotas and to optimize treatments to convert the former to the latter. To this
      end, in the previous award period the composition of supra and subgingival plaques, the
      associations among species both within and between supra and subgingival plaques, and
      differences between plaques from healthy and diseased individuals were determined. One major
      finding was the frequent detection of anaerobic periodontal pathogens at low numbers in
      supragingival plaque of periodontally diseased and to a lesser extent healthy subjects.
      Weekly professional supragingival plaque removal for 3 months in 18 periodontitis subjects
      demonstrated astonishing reductions in the subgingival microbiota which were maintained for 9
      months after cessation of the professional program. The composition of the microbiota at 12
      months in these subjects was similar to that found in periodontal health. In another of our
      studies, systemically administered metronidazole produced similar effects. Thus, in SA1 a 2
      year randomized clinical trial will be performed comparing the effects of 1) SRP alone or in
      combination with 2) weekly professional supragingival plaque removal, 3) systemically
      administered metronidazole or 4) a combination of the 2 on clinical parameters and supra and
      subgingival plaque composition. 200 periodontitis patients will receive SRP under local
      anaesthesia and will be randomly assigned to the 4 treatment groups. All subjects will be
      evaluated clinically and for supra and subgingival plaque composition at 2 weeks, 3, 6, 12,
      18 and 24 months. Supra and subgingival plaque samples will be taken separately from the
      mesial aspect of each tooth and evaluated individually for their content of 40 bacterial
      species using checkerboard DNA-DNA hybridization providing over 3.6 million bacterial counts.
      The results will determine if the beneficial effect of the individual therapies persist
      beyond one year and whether combined treatment produces even greater benefit to the patient.
    
  