
    
      Liver cancer was the third leading cause of cancer death in both sexes in Hong Kong and liver
      resection remains the mainstay of curative treatment. Post-operative recovery from liver
      resection has historically been fraught with a high incidence of complications, ranging from
      15-48%, and the high incidence of complications leads to prolonged hospital stay, ranging
      from 9 - 15 days, and increase costs of hospitalization. Recent advancement in the
      perioperative surgical and anesthetic management of patients undergoing liver resection has
      led to improvement in these outcomes.

      Since its formal introduction in 1990s, fast-track or enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS)
      peri-operative programs have gained territory quickly because of the associated cost
      efficiency derived from the reduction in hospital stay, an important issue in today's context
      of rapidly increasing health care costs and the consequent need for optimization. The
      benefits of fast-track peri-operative programs have been well proven in colectomy. Our
      department had previously demonstrated the feasibility and impact of fast-track
      peri-operative programs after laparoscopic colorectal surgery, which leads to the potential
      for application to other subspecialties. Nevertheless, studies evaluating fast-track
      peri-operative programs in liver resection are scarce. Most of them were carried out in
      Western countries and almost all of them used epidural analgesia for post-operative pain
      control. While most of the livers in Western patients are non-cirrhotic, the main challenge
      of liver resection in Chinese Hong Kong patients is the background liver cirrhosis as
      hepatitis-related hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common indication for liver resection.
      Although epidural analgesia has been showed to be effective after liver resection without
      complication, the debate on epidural analgesia continues. Coagulopathy, thrombocytopenia and
      other haematological abnormalities may impose additional risks of epidural hematoma formation
      following removal of the epidural catheter postoperatively. Especially there is a much
      greater incidence of co-existing liver cirrhosis in Chinese Hong Kong patients with
      hepatocelluar carcinoma. This group of patients is coagulopathic even before liver resection
      and the risk of bleeding complications related to epidural analgesia is a particular concern.
      Continuous wound instillation with local anesthetic agent by the ON-Q PainBuster System
      (I-Flow Corporation, Lake Forest, CA, USA) provides an attractive alternative for this group
      of patients. We had previously demonstrated its analgesic efficacy after open hepatic surgery
      in a randomized controlled trial. Recently, our group had reported, in a retrospective
      cohort, that successful implementation of ERAS protocol was associated with a significantly
      shorten hospital stay. However, there was no direct comparison with convention peri-operative
      program in a randomized controlled manner. Moreover, the peri-operative management in that
      study incorporated only a small proportion of components described in ERAS programs for liver
      surgery, namely pre-operative counselling, no premedication, normothermia during surgery, no
      nasogastric tube and no routine abdominal drain. Furthermore, patient-controlled morphine
      analgesia was the method for post-operative pain control, which might not be enough for open
      hepatectomy and might have restricted the mobilization.
    
  