
    
      Warfarin is the most commonly used oral anticoagulant medication. Due to the difficulty in
      determining an individual's proper warfarin dose, therapy is typically initiated with a
      standard dose followed by INR monitoring with frequent dose adjustment to ensure the medicine
      is working properly. Unfortunately, therapeutic warfarin doses vary significantly from
      patient to patient, so that even a standard dose can lead to excessive anticoagulation with
      its associated risk of causing life-threatening hemorrhaging. Genetic and non-genetic factors
      both influence an individual's warfarin dose requirement and response characteristics. There
      has been substantial evidence demonstrating a clear gene-dose relationship. Although this
      importance of pharmacogenetics to warfarin therapy is understood, clear guidance for how such
      information should be applied to patient therapy is woefully absent. The Personalized
      Medicine Interface Tool (PerMIT) is a software utility that supplies this critical guidance
      by modeling the dose requirements and response characteristics of individual patients based
      on their genotypic and physical characteristics. Using state-of-the-art multivariate
      computations, PerMIT calculates a warfarin maintenance dose estimate and also models the
      influence of repeated dosing on plasma drug concentration.

      Both genetic and non-genetic factors (such as age, weight and gender) influence warfarin dose
      requirement and response characteristics of the individual. Recently, multi-variate
      mathematical equations, which take into account these genetic and non-genetic factors, such
      as age, weight and gender, have been developed to calculate an estimate of the warfarin
      maintenance dose requirement (Linder 2002, Zhu 2007, Sconce 2005, Millican 2007). The
      temporal response to routine administration of medications is dictated by the clearance rate
      of the medication and its effective concentration, the blood concentration over the dosing
      interval that is required to elicit the desired pharmacologic effect. The clearance of
      S-warfarin is primarily dictated by the patient's Cytochrome P4502C9 (CYP2C9) genotype,
      whereas the effective S-warfarin concentration is primarily dictated by the patient's vitamin
      K epoxide reductase complex protein 1 (VKORC1) genotype (Linder 2002, Herman 2005, Zhu 2007).

      It is now well-known that genetic variants of CYP2C9 lead to decreased S-warfarin metabolism
      (clearance) and an increased elimination half-life. The elimination half-life of medications
      dictates the time required for repeated dosing to result in reproducible drug concentrations
      over the dosing interval for a given dosage. This situation is referred to as steady-state
      and is the most reliable time to interpret the dose-response relationship (INR measurements).
      S-warfarin half-life can be estimated based on the individual's CYP2C9 genotype (Linder 2002,
      Herman 2005, Loebstein 2001) and the steady-state concentration of S-warfarin under optimal
      anti-coagulation conditions is closely related to the patient's VKORC1 genotype (Zhu 2007).

      PerMIT: Warfarin has clear theoretical benefits and has been demonstrated to be accurate;
      however, prospective randomized control clinical trials are required to demonstrate the
      efficacy of the PerMIT: Warfarin software in comparison to standard of care. We have designed
      this two-arm, prospective randomized control trial to directly assess the efficacy of PerMIT:
      Warfarin in (a) identifying patients' optimal dose requirements; (b) reducing patients' time
      to achieve stable therapy; (c) reducing the frequency of out-of-range INR measurements; and
      (d) reducing the number of dose adjustments. This study will evaluate whether, and to what
      degree, PerMIT: Warfarin improves these patient care outcomes and, by extension, reduces
      their risk of adverse drug reactions when compared to patients who receive therapy based on
      the standard of care.
    
  