
    
      There is no cure for arthritis; therefore, it is important to develop treatments to
      effectively manage the disease. The primary goals of arthritis management are to reduce pain
      and improve functional ability and quality of life. Existing treatments, including pain
      relievers and anti-inflammatory medications, can only partially manage OA symptoms. Few
      studies, however, have been conducted to evaluate complementary measures, such as exercise
      and education. This study will compare a physical training program, a self-management
      training program, and a program including both physical and self-management training to
      determine their effectiveness in improving physical function in people with early stage knee
      OA.

      Participants in this 2-year study will first undergo a physical evaluation that will include
      answering a questionnaire and having knee x-rays. Participants will then be randomly assigned
      to one of three treatment groups. All three treatments will include a 9-month supervised
      phase (Phase 1) and a 15-month maintenance phase (Phase 2).

        -  Group 1 participants will partake in a community-based arthritis self-management
           program. Phase 1 will include weekly 75-minute training sessions for 3 months. These
           sessions will be led by healthcare professionals and will address topics about arthritis
           and its treatment, healthy lifestyle, and physical activity. After completing the
           training sessions, participants will be contacted weekly by telephone for 3 months to
           discuss their progress. Then the telephone contacts will occur once every other week for
           the next 3 months. During Phase 2 of the self-management training program, participants
           will continue to receive telephone contacts from the project team to help support and
           promote the skills introduced during the training sessions. These contacts will occur
           monthly for 3 months and then every other month for the remainder of the study.

        -  Group 2 participants will first attend an orientation workshop and then start a
           long-term physical training program that will include components of balance,
           flexibility, muscle strengthening, and aerobic conditioning. During Phase 1,
           participants will attend three physical training sessions per week. During Phase 2,
           participants will have the option to continue the program in the location of their
           choice. Study staff will contact participants monthly by phone to discuss their
           progress. Participants may meet with the trainer on an as-needed basis for additional
           assistance with the program. They will also keep a log to track attendance and progress,
           and they will mail in the log monthly.

        -  Group 3 participants will complete both the physical and self-management training
           programs and will follow the schedules outlined for Groups 1 and 2.

      All participants will complete questionnaires before beginning their assigned training
      programs and then every 3 months till Month 24. The questionnaires will take between 30 and
      60 minutes to complete. At various times during the study, participants will measure their
      activity levels with a pedometer or an accelerometer. Prior to starting the training
      programs, at Month 9, and after completing the training programs, participants will complete
      several tests to measure their physical capabilities and muscle strength. Upon completing the
      training programs, participants will receive a follow-up x-ray of their knees at an assigned
      radiology clinic. They will also be asked to provide feedback on their study experiences via
      a mailer questionnaire, and they may be asked to provide feedback in a short telephone
      interview.
    
  