
    
      Dengue fever has various levels of severity, from mild disease to severe hemorrhagic
      complications and shock. Dengue is endemic world-wide and has been found in the United
      States. The mortality from dengue fever can be as high as 15-20%, with nearly 22,000 deaths
      annually, most of them children (Reddy, 2013). There is no reliable way to immediately
      predict which children presenting with a fever during a Dengue fever outbreak will progress
      to more severe disease. Some children with dengue fever will improve with limited clinical
      interventions, but others require intensive therapy. Limited healthcare resources in
      developing countries make decisions on treatment or disposition difficult as many children
      and poor clinical decision increase morbidity and mortality. In more developed countries such
      as the United States, early identification of patients with dengue fever has the potential to
      identify children who may benefit from early interventions. Identifying those patients is the
      first step in exploring early therapies to effect mortality. Previous research has
      demonstrated that intrathoracic/ peritoneal fluid and gallbladder wall thickening is
      associated with more severe disease for hospitalized patients with dengue (Michels, 2013).
      The investigators will explore earlier presentations to the emergency department and
      outpatient department.

      The study hypothesis is that the presence of early sonographic findings in children
      correlates with progression to more severe disease. The study specific aim is to determine
      the association between sonographic features of dengue and disease progression and clinical
      outcome in children with dengue fever.

      This study is a prospective observational clinical study in the emergency department of the
      Angkor Hospital for Children in Siem Reap, Cambodia. Study subjects will include children 16
      years or less, who present during a dengue outbreak with suspected dengue. Subjects include
      children with an acute febrile illness and criteria for dengue based on 2010 WHO guidelines
      (fever and two of the following criteria: anorexia and nausea, rash, aches and pains, warning
      signs, leukopenia, positive tourniquet test). Clinicians will determine their clinical
      suspicion of dengue, intended therapeutic interventions and disposition following a history
      and physical exam. Study personnel will perform diagnostic bedside ultrasound imaging of the
      gallbladder, peritoneal, cardiac, and pleural spaces. Patients will be followed to determine
      clinical outcome, therapeutic interventions and disposition. The primary endpoint is
      progression of disease.
    
  