
    
      The overall goal of this study is to use state-of-the-art monitors to objectively measure the
      24-hour behavioral cycle (sedentary behavior, sleep, and physical activity) in each trimester
      of pregnancy, and to examine associations of these behaviors with hypertensive disorders of
      pregnancy and other adverse pregnancy outcomes linked with future cardiovascular disease
      (CVD) risk. For this, 500 women in early pregnancy will be recruited to take part in a
      multi-site (Universities of Iowa and Pittsburgh) cohort study. Women will wear two
      state-of-the-art devices for seven days in each trimester of pregnancy to assess sedentary
      behavior and physical activity (activPAL micro 3) as well as sleep (ActiWatch Spectrum Plus).
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and other adverse outcomes will be obtained through
      medical chart abstraction. This project will inform guidelines on optimal 24-hour behavioral
      patterns in pregnancy, as well as lay the foundation for future studies testing behavioral
      interventions in pregnancy to achieve optimal outcomes and improve women's long-term
      cardiovascular health.

      Specific Aims:

      AIM 1: Examine associations of sedentary behavior patterns with hypertensive disorders of
      pregnancy. Hypothesis: Women with a consistently high sedentary behavior pattern across
      trimesters will have higher incidence of gestational hypertension/preeclampsia, after
      adjustment for MVPA.

      AIM 2: Examine associations of sleep patterns with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
      Hypothesis: Women with short sleep duration or poor sleep quality patterns across trimesters
      will have higher incidence of gestational hypertension/preeclampsia, after adjustment for
      MVPA.

      AIM 3: Determine optimal 24-hour behavioral patterns during pregnancy to reduce the risk of
      hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. Hypothesis: Statistically reallocating time in sedentary
      behavior for LPA or MVPA, but not sleep (among adequate duration sleepers), will be
      associated with lower incidence of gestational hypertension/preeclampsia.

      Significance: Pregnancy is a critical period for future cardiovascular health where unmasked
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors contribute to the development of maternal CVD later
      in life (Catov, 2015). The American Heart Association (AHA) now recognizes adverse pregnancy
      outcomes, including gestational hypertension and preeclampsia as key risk factors for CVD
      (Mosca et al., 2011). CVD remains the leading cause of mortality among women in the United
      States, accounting for one-third of all deaths (Benjamin et al., 2018). Stagnant CVD rates in
      young women are a particular public health problem. While overall CVD mortality rates have
      decreased over the last 20 years, mortality rates in women younger than 55 years have
      plateaued (Benjamin et al., 2018; Wilmot, O'Flaherty, Capewell, Ford, & Vaccarino, 2015). In
      order to reduce the burden of CVD, it is essential to focus on populations who are more
      likely to develop CVD risk factors, including women of reproductive age. Identifying
      modifiable behavioral factors that are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes could help
      prevent these conditions and the long-term risk they bring to women.

      Based on guidelines, women during pregnancy should generally 'move more and sit less'
      throughout the day (2018 Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee, 2018). While there
      is currently insufficient evidence to define specific quantitative targets for limiting
      sedentary behavior in the general population or pregnant women, the 2018 Physical Activity
      Guidelines Advisory Committee highlighted sedentary behavior and pregnancy as two key topics
      in need of further research. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)
      also does not have sedentary behavior guidelines during pregnancy, although growing evidence
      suggests prescribed bed rest may actually increase the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes,
      rather than decreasing risk as previously thought (Matenchuk et al., 2019). Guidelines also
      suggest that pregnant women should sleep 7 to 9 hours per night on a regular basis (Watson et
      al., 2015). Yet, uncertainty remains about the health effects of short or long sleep duration
      during pregnancy, as well as how sleep quality influences pregnancy outcomes.

      In Aim 1, the proposed research will inform quantitative guidelines for sedentary behavior
      patterns and the development of cardiovascular risk during pregnancy. Aim 2 will address
      existing gaps by evaluating objectively-measured sleep quantity and quality to understand
      nuances in sleep across pregnancy and implications for health outcomes. As established
      guidelines recommend pregnant women get 150 minutes of aerobic MVPA per week or approximately
      20-30 minutes per day, this is not the focus of the current study. However, MVPA is an
      important component of the 24-hour behavioral cycle and must be assessed to understand which
      24-hour behavioral patterns are most associated with optimal cardiovascular health during
      pregnancy, as proposed in Aim 3. Our primary outcome of interest is hypertensive disorders
      that develop during pregnancy (gestational hypertension and preeclampsia) given the high and
      rising prevalence of these conditions, strong association with future maternal CVD, and
      promising pilot data indicating that sedentary behavior may be associated with these
      conditions, even after adjustment for MVPA.

      Examining the dynamic interplay of sedentary behavior, sleep, and physical activity
      (conceptualized as a 24-hour behavioral cycle) is critical to determine optimal patterns for
      pregnancy health. Given that there is a finite amount of time in a day, increasing time in
      one behavior requires decreasing time in another behavior. The effects of sedentary behavior,
      sleep, and physical activity on health outcomes are not only dependent on each behavior, but
      also on the behavior that they displace (Mekary, Willett, Hu, & Ding, 2009). While these
      behaviors are often studied in isolation, this new paradigm considers the importance of
      examining the combined role of sedentary behavior, sleep, and physical activity on health
      outcomes (Buman et al., 2014). Emerging statistical methods to test hypotheses within finite
      time constraints will allow us to better understand the full 24-hour behavioral cycle and how
      these activity domains can be coupled and leveraged for health promotion and disease
      prevention. This study will address a critical gap in knowledge by examining how the 24-hour
      behavioral cycle is related to hypertensive disorders of pregnancy or other adverse outcomes
      that increase CVD risk.

      In summary, preventing hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and other adverse outcomes is a
      potentially potent public health approach to reduce the burden of CVD in women. In the
      context of increasing incidence and limited treatment options, there is a critical need to
      identify novel, modifiable intervention targets that could prevent adverse pregnancy outcomes
      and improve women's cardiovascular health.
    
  