
    
      Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a serious blinding disease characterized by
      irreversible damage to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). At present, there is no effective
      treatment for the rescue of visual function loss caused by POAG.

      Metformin is the classic first-line therapy for diabetes. Recently, it has been found that
      Metformin may have other beneficial effects such as promoting weight loss and reversing
      age-related neurodegeneration. Importantly, retrospective case-control studies found that
      there were associations between Metformin treatment and a reduction in the incidence of
      glaucoma. Specifically, diabetic patients treated by Metformin had a 25% lower risk to
      develop open-angle glaucoma. In addition, previous animal experiments have preliminarily
      shown that Metformin can play a neuroprotective role by activating AMPK kinase, regulating
      methylation levels and promoting ganglion cell survival. Therefore, the investigators
      hypothesize that Metformin can prevent visual function deterioration via rescuing retinal
      ganglion cells.

      The main objective of this study is to assess the progression of visual field loss in
      patients with POAG after treatment with Metformin versus placebo. The secondary objectives
      include the followings: RNFL thickness, vision, cup/disk ratio, safety, and biochemical tests
      to determine the alteration of AMPK and methylation parameters associated to the use of
      Metformin.

      Approximately 40 study subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to each treatment group.
      The treatment group will be assigned to the study intervention (oral Metformin) for 12 months
      while the placebo group will receive placebo containing fructose and starch for 12 months.
      Throughout the 12-month study period, progression of visual function and systematic safety
      examinations will be measured. At 18 months, there will be one additional follow up visit.
    
  