
    
      Case control study, with a 6,10 week follow-up on cases

      Selection of cases :

      Inclusion criteria: Any patient of age 18 and over:

      Presenting with clinical signs compatible with a perioperative anaphylactic reaction to
      neuromuscular blocking drugs, whatever the grade of the anaphylactic reaction That was
      treated following the French Patient Management 2011 guidelines (cf. annex 5) Non inclusion
      criteria: patient dying during the anaphylactic shock

      Selection of controls: One control for each case will be included. Controls will be recruited
      solely at the Hospital BICHAT. Controls should correspond to the following:

      Inclusion criteria: Any patient of age 18 and over Hospitalized for a surgical intervention
      necessitating a neuromuscular blocking drug injection, without developing an anaphylactic
      reaction That had been informed of the particulars of the study and that had consented to
      participate in this study

      Non inclusion criteria: pregnant women NB: If a patient recruited as a control suffers from
      an anaphylactic reaction following neuromuscular blocking drug-injection, this patient will
      be considered a case, and other controls paired, one to this novel case and one to the
      original case patient.

      Pairing : Controls will be paired to cases based on the following criteria :

      - age :+/- 5 years

        -  sexe

        -  infectious status : infected/ non infected

        -  type of surgery: the different sub-classes are classified as follows: orthopedic,
           neurosurgery/visceral, urologic, gynecologic/vascular, cardiac, thoraco/maxillo-facial,
           ophthalmology, ENT/Other.

        -  Pharmacological class of the neuromuscular blocking drug used for surgery

      Duration of the study:Total duration: 26 months Inclusion period: 24 months

      Length of participation for a patient:

      Cases: 6 to 10 weeks Controls: the day of the surgery

      Sample collection Cases: at the time of the shock (blood and plasma sample, and, when
      necessary for the patient, bronchial aspiration liquid) and during the Allergology Anesthesia
      consult 6 to 10 weeks post anaphylactic reaction Controls: blood and plasma sample following
      the injection of neuromuscular blocking drug injection.

      All blood sampling (and eventually aspiration of bronchial fluids) required for this study
      are performed during the normal clinical management of case and of control patients, without
      any additional or non-conventional procedure of intervention, diagnosis or patient monitoring
      (non-interventional study). Supernumerary blood tubes are collected in addition to those
      collected during the normal clinical practice (10 ml on dry tube for serum/plasma and 10 ml
      on EDTA tube) at the same time (case and controls) and the bronchial aspiration fluid is kept
      for analysis instead of being discarded.

      An anaphylactic shock to neuromuscular blocking drug during anesthesia arises in minutes
      following injection/perfusion. Samples from case patients will therefore be collected in the
      30 to 60 minutes following injection/perfusion of the neuromuscular blocking drug, as it is
      already currently performed during surgery, and when the patient's condition has been
      stabilized. The investigators expect that surgical incisions will not be performed in most,
      if not all, case patients as the anaphylactic reactions occur before incisions are possible,
      i.e. just after injection/perfusion of the neuromuscular blocking drug. Samples from control
      patients will therefore be collected shortly after exposure to neuromuscular blocking drug
      and before surgical incisions are performed, to avoid the perturbations induced by this
      surgical act, especially regarding neutrophil activation

      Blood volume collected specifically for this study:

        -  case patient: 10 ml after the anaphylactic reaction, and during the
           Allergology-Anesthesia consult 6 to 10 weeks after the shock le choc.

        -  Control patients: 20 ml following neuromuscular blocking drug injection Samples
           collected in Lithium heparinate for the cell-based study will be sent the day of the
           anaphylactic reaction and the day of the Allergology-Anesthesia consult by an authorized
           delivery service to the Unity Allergologic molecular et Cellularise at Institute
           Pasteur.

      Samples collected on dry tubes (serum sample) will be housed in the sero-tec of Hospital
      BICHAT, and series of aliquots sent to Institute Pasteur upon request. Identical aliquots
      will be used to dose anti quaternary ammonium specific IgG, and specific IgE as currently
      performed at the Unity d'Immunologic Autoimmunity et Hypersensibility at Hospital BICHAT.

      When performed, bronchial aspiration fluids will be kept in part for the study of NETs in the
      Unity d'Immunologic Autoimmunity et Hypersensibility at Hospital BICHAT, and in part for
      analysis of cellular content and PAF levels at the Institute Pasteur, and accordingly
      delivered the same day in the respective laboratories.

      Cutaneous prick tests will be performed during the Allergology-Anesthesia consult 6 to 10
      weeks post-anaphylactic reaction.

      Following each inclusion, each hospital will send, as it is current medical practice,
      information on the patient: age, sex, type of surgery that was planned, nature of anesthetics
      used, history of atopic events including asthma, allergy to food or drugs, comorbidity
      factors. Control patients will be included at Hospital BICHAT only.

      Main judgment criteria:

        1. Percentage of circulating activated neutrophils in the group of patients immediately
           after a neuromuscular blocking drug-induced shock (case) compared to that of the group
           of patients exposed to neuromuscular blocking drug during anesthesia without developing
           a shock (control). This measure will be based on the intensity of expression of the
           activation marker CD62L (L-selectin) by blood neutrophils using flow cytometry. Our
           preliminary data indicate that the Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI) of CD62L is >450
           when considering " non-activated " neutrophils, and CD62L(MFI)<300 when considering "
           activated " neutrophils.

        2. Levels of PAF in the plasma of "cases" than in the plasma of "controls".

      Secondary judgment criteria:

        1. Levels of anti-quaternary ammonium specific IgG in the plasma of "cases" than in the
           plasma of "controls".

        2. Ex vivo activation capacity of blood neutrophils in the presence of neuromuscular
           blocking drug-IgG immune complexes

        3. Presence of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps in the bronchial aspiration fluid of "cases"

           Description of the patient population: A complete description of the entire population
           studied and of the groups will be performed. Variables will be described according to
           their distribution as appropriate (mean and standard deviation for variables with a
           normal distribution; median and interquartile range for variables with abnormal
           distributions; frequency and percentage for category criteria).

           Analysis - The distribution of variables representing the percentage of activated
           neutrophils between cases and controls, as well as each secondary judgment criteria will
           be compared using a conditional logical regression, adjusting on the matching criteria -
           To evaluate the correlation between percentage of activated neutrophils and the severity
           of the shock, or between the level of specific IgG and the severity of the shock, a
           linear tendency test in a general linear model will be performed.

             -  An analysis results obtained in sub-groups of patients defined based on the
                severity of the shock they suffered from, will also be performed

             -  Statistical tests will be bilateral and the risk of first degree will be fixed at
                5%.

             -  Description of the functional parameters of blood neutrophils at basal stage or
                following stimulation with neuromuscular blocking drug-IgG complexes (expression of
                FcRs and of activation markers, release of mediators, induction of NETs), and
                description of the "classical" immunological parameters of the anaphylactic shock
                to neuromuscular blocking drugs (prick test results, ex vivo activation potential
                of basophils).

                5 complementary studies will be performed on samples from patients included in the
                NASA study:

             -  IPAAQ (Identification and Pathologic effects of Anti-Quaternary ammonium
                antibodies), As it will require an additional 10ml sample of sera, a specific
                signed consent will be obtained from every patient included in the IPAAQ study.
                This serum sample will be taken during the allergology visit scheduled 6 to 10
                weeks post-anaphylactic shock.

           The aim of this study is to quantify, identify and purify the different IgG subclasses
           of anti-quaternary ammonium antibodies in the sera of patients that have undergone an
           anaphylactic shock during anaesthesia. The ability of immune complexes, composed of
           anti-quaternary ammonium antibodies and a neuromuscular blocking agent, to bind human
           IgG receptors and/or to activate human neutrophils and basophils in vitro will be
           evaluated. This analysis will enable determining if anti-quaternary ammonium
           IgG-neuromuscular blocking agent complexes may be pathogenic, and validating the
           anti-quaternary ammonium IgG diagnostic test, in addition to the anti-quaternary
           ammonium IgE test performed during normal clinical practice.

             -  NASAmAbs: Different populations of memory B lymphocytes (particularly IgG or IgE +)
                directed against a quaternary ammonium will be isolated from PBMCs of two "cases"
                who have agreed to participate in the study NASAmAbs, by flow cytometry using a
                Quaternary Ammonium (QA) coupled to a fluorescent protein (eg KLH). Genes encoding
                the variable domains of the heavy and light chains immunoglobulins (IgH and IgL)
                expressed by each cell B will first be amplified by RT-PCR, then cloned into
                vectors encoding the constant domains of immunoglobulins. These vectors will be
                transfected into cell lines and resulting recombinant monoclonal antibodies
                (chimeric human-mouse) will be produced and characterized in terms of specific
                reactivity against QA neuromuscular blocking agents (for ELISA), affinity for the
                ligand (by method of magnetic resonance surface), and poly and self-reactivity (by
                ELISA and indirect immunofluorescence). The recombinant antibody will be evaluated
                for their ability to activate cells in vitro in the presence of antigen (QA or
                NMBA) and as to their ability to induce anaphylactic shock in vivo, in transgenic
                mouse models expressing human receptor for the antibody.

           The aim of this project is to generate human recombinant anti- quaternary ammonium
           antibodies to assess their pathological potential (anaphylactogenic).

           As part of the study NASAmAbs, 1 additional 250ml pocket of blood EDTA will be collected
           either during a consulting with the allergologist either during a visit for this
           purpose.

           - NASA LYMPHAQ: The presence of T cells specific for drug allergens is documented in
           allergy to penicillin, but their presence and characteristics in the immediate allergy
           to muscle relaxants has not been described. The purpose of our ancillary study is to
           highlight these T cell by specific activation tests, to characterize phenotypically,
           quantify, and compare their frequency to that of healthy donors.

           The aim of this ancillary study is to identify T cell specific populations for
           quaternary ammonium in patients sensitive to NMBA.

           The research will be performed on mononuclear cells already isolated during the
           post-shock visit as part of the NASA study.

             -  NASA Quin: In a recent study, the team of Dr. ROUZAIRE revealed a high prevalence
                of sensitization to neuromuscular blocking drug in 17 patients allergic to
                quinolones: 53% versus 3.4% in a control population. As with pholcodine, quinolones
                could thus be a way of sensitization of neuromuscular blocking agents.

           The aim of this ancillary project is to confirm on a larger cohort, the association of
           sensitization between these two drug classes, neuromuscular blocking agents and
           quinolones.

           As part of the study NASAQuin, no additional blood sample will be collected. The
           research will be performed on aliquots of serum and / or plasma conserved as part of the
           study NASA. An aliquot of 300 µl will be used for the assay.

             -  NASA-CAT: Anaphylaxis can cause alone or during the administration of adrenaline,
                heart disease. The amplitude, frequency and pathophysiology of myocardial
                involvements are unknown.

           The aim of the ancillary study "NASA-CAT" is to define, using established plasma
           myocardial biomarkers , the prevalence of myocardial injury during anaphylaxis related
           to anesthetic agents and the role of adrenaline in this injury. Adrenaline is a
           catecholamine which is recommended to administrate intravenously in severe anaphylaxis.
           Adrenaline allows to restore immediately blood pressure due to its vasoconstrictor
           properties. Deleterious effects of adrenaline on coronaries and myocardium have been
           described in acute heart failure. The existence of similar effects in anaphylaxis is not
           known.

           The aim of the study "NASA-CAT" is to assess myocardial involvement in anaphylaxis and
           determine the role of adrenaline in this injury.

           As part of the ancillary study "NASA-CAT", no additional blood sample will be collected.
           The dosing of myocardial biomarkers (troponin hypersensitive, natriuretic peptides,
           adrenomedullin, copeptin) will be performed on samples of 500μl from serum and / or
           plasma stored in as part of the NASA study.
    
  