
    
      Primary Endpoint(s) To evaluate the efficacy of nivolumab when administered with standard and
      reduced bevacizumab dosing among recurrent glioblastoma patients as measured by the rate of
      overall survival at twelve months.

      Secondary Endpoint(s) To evaluate the safety and tolerability of nivolumab in combination
      with bevacizumab administered according to standard and reduced dosage schedules for
      recurrent glioblastoma patients.

      To compare progression free survival (PFS) at 6 months of nivolumab when administered with
      standard and reduced bevacizumab dosing for recurrent glioblastoma patients.

      To compare the overall survival rate of nivolumab when administered with standard and reduced
      bevacizumab dosing for recurrent glioblastoma patients.

      To compare progression free survival (PFS) of when administered with standard and reduced
      bevacizumab dosing for recurrent glioblastoma patients.

      To compare the objective response rate (ORR) of nivolumab and bevacizumab administered
      according to standard and reduced dosage schedules for recurrent glioblastoma patients

      Exploratory Endpoints (s) To evaluate whether baseline values or subsequent changes in
      circulating immunologic parameters (including but not limited to the number of T-cells,
      B-cells and natural killer (NK) cells; the number of T cell subsets; soluble circulating
      cytokines) are associated with outcome.

      To assess neurologic functioning in the treatment arms using the Neurologic Assessment in
      Neuro-Oncology (NANO).

      To assess the perfusion and diffusion base imaging to correlate with changes and response to
      nivolumab when administered with standard and reduced bevacizumab dosing.

      To assess response using the immunotherapy response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria
      relative to survival.

      Study design and duration: This is a randomized, open-label, phase 2 safety study of
      nivolumab and bevacizumab administered according to standard and reduced dosage schedules in
      adult (≥ 18 years) subjects with a first recurrence or second recurrence of glioblastoma
      (GBM). Subjects must have received previous treatment with radiotherapy and may have up to 2
      recurrences. Patients will undergo 1:1 randomization to receive treatment with either
      nivolumab (240 mg flat dosing IV every 2 weeks) and bevacizumab administered according to
      standard (10 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks; Arm A) and reduced (3 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks; Arm B)
      dosage schedules for recurrent glioblastoma patients. The study will allow patients that
      require decadron up to 4 mg/ day to participate in the study.

      Note - In view of the Covid 19 crisis, all in person visits can be substituted for virtual
      visit. All nursing toxicity checks can be performed over the phone rather than in person
    
  