
    
      The study aims at comparing postoperative pain after using two single-file NiTi systems,
      Reciproc reciprocating system and One Shape rotary system, for root canal instrumentation in
      patients with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis.

      After the patient is found eligible, he/she will be randomly assigned to either the control
      (One Shape) or experimental group (Reciproc) and will be treated in a single visit.

      Sequence of Procedural Steps:

        1. Assessment of preoperative pain by NRS before administration of anesthesia.

        2. Administration of local anesthesia using 2% lidocaine (1:100,000 adrenaline).

        3. An access cavity will be done using a round bur and Endo-Z bur.

        4. Isolation of the affected tooth with rubber dam.

        5. Determination of the working length using an electronic apex locator, and confirmed by a
           radiograph using K-file. Then, the working length will be established at 0.5 mm up to
           the radiographic apex.

        6. Canals will be explored with hand K-file ISO sizes 10, 15, 20.

        7. Mechanical preparation for both groups will be as follows:

             -  Experimental group:

                  -  Canals will be instrumented using Reciproc reciprocating system set on an
                     electric motor, with adjusted torque and speed according to the manufacturer's
                     instructions.

                  -  There is no need for coronal preflaring with a Gates Glidden drill or an
                     orifice opener since the design of the Reciproc instrument allows any
                     obstructions in the coronal third to be removed, as claimed by the
                     manufacturer.

                  -  Reciproc file selection: R40 (40/0.06)

             -  Control group:

                  -  Coronal preflaring will be performed using Gates Glidden drill.

                  -  Canals will be instrumented using One Shape single-file (25/0.06) set on an
                     electric motor with adjusted torque and speed according to the manufacturer's
                     instructions.

                  -  For wide canals, One Shape Apical (30/0.06, 37/0.06) will be used.

        8. The rotary files will be introduced inside the canal using EDTA gel.

        9. Canals will be irrigated with 2.6% sodium hypochlorite solution between every subsequent
           instrument. It is prepared by adding 10 ml of sterile distilled water to 10 ml of 5.25%
           sodium hypochlorite solution using a 27 gauge needle fit to 5ml disposable plastic
           syringe placed in the canal space without binding.

       10. Canals will be dried with sterile paper points and obturated using lateral condensation
           technique. A spreader will be used to allow space for auxiliary cones, with resin-based
           root canal sealer.

       11. The tooth will be sealed by temporary restoration, and postoperative pain will be
           assessed immediately after the end of treatment.

       12. The patient will be phone called for follow up after 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours.

       13. The patient will be instructed to return to complete the treatment procedures until
           placing a full-coverage restoration.

       14. The patient will be instructed to take one tablet 600 mg Ibuprofen if he/she experiences
           severe pain.
    
  