
    
      During the last decade, novel approaches for cancer treatment have been developed. Antitumor
      vaccines are one of the most promising approaches in tumor immunotherapy. Tumor cells possess
      low immunogenicity properties due to a number of the not completely understood mechanisms of
      resistance. One of the ways to overcome it is immune genes transfection. Genes encoding
      granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-12 have
      been used most commonly, both in preclinical studies and clinical trials. These cytokines are
      well known to participate in the systemic immune response. Several studies have shown that
      the professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) of the host, rather than the vaccinating
      tumor cells themselves, are responsible for priming CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, both of which are
      required to generate systemic antitumor immunity. Recent findings indicate that the adaptive
      arm of immunity is governed by the innate immune mechanisms that control the co-stimulatory
      signaling of APCs. Recently, investigators identified a novel gene, tag7, also know as
      PGRP-S. The insect ortholog of the tag7/PGRP-S was shown to be involved in the innate immune
      response in Drosophila. In preclinical studies, tag7-modified mouse tumor cells induced a
      long-lasting T-cell dependent immune response in mice. The effectiveness of antitumor
      vaccination was demonstrated on different models of mouse tumors, particularly for melanoma
      cells (M3, B16, F10). Clinically important results of vaccine therapy were achieved in
      patients with melanoma and renal carcinoma in a number of studies. The results with this
      treatment are comparable to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Investigators assume that one has
      to activate the innate component of immunity first, followed by the activation of the
      adaptive one, to make anticancer vaccines more effective. Thus, a phase I/II clinical trial
      has been performed to evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of treatment with autologous
      tumor cells modified with the tag7 gene, which has been shown to be involved in innate
      immunity mechanisms,
    
  