
    
      Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is one of the most common chronic liver diseases. The
      cause of NASH is not completely understood and currently there is no effective treatment for
      this disease. An effective approach to treatment is needed since without treatment this
      disease may progress to fibrosis and cirrhosis. Obesity is one of the most important risk
      factors for NASH and weight reduction is generally recommended as an initial step in its
      management. However, there has never been a randomized controlled trial evaluating the
      efficacy of weight reduction as a treatment for NASH. Data from uncontrolled trials using
      poorly defined primary outcome measures and patient populations and nonstandardized weight
      loss interventions suggest that modest weight loss may improve liver histology. The objective
      of this project is to conduct a pilot study in preparation for a randomized controlled trial
      of weight reduction in the management of NASH. In this study, 30 overweight or obese
      individuals with biopsy-proven NASH will be enrolled. Twenty patients will be randomized to
      receive 48 weeks of intensive weight management using a combination of diet, exercise and
      behavior modification with a goal of 7-10% weight reduction. This weight loss program is
      similar to programs used successfully in other overweight populations and to the intensive
      lifestyle program of the Diabetes Prevention Program and Look AHEAD. The other 10 patients
      will be randomized to a control group where they will receive standard medical care and
      general counseling on healthy eating and exercise. At the end of the 48-week study, patients
      will have a repeat liver biopsy that will be compared to their baseline biopsy. The pilot
      study will establish the feasibility of recruiting and retaining, producing sustained weight
      loss and performing repeat liver biopsies in this population. Based on the outcomes of this
      preliminary trial, this program will be further refined and readied for a larger-scale
      clinical trial.
    
  