
    
      The bacterial biofilm on the intraoral surfaces is a three-dimensionally structured, firmly
      adhering layer of microorganisms surrounded by a matrix of extracellular polymeric substances
      (EPS). This matrix can take up to 90% of the biofilm mass. Biofilm on oral surfaces can lead
      to diseases such as caries, periodontitis or denture stomatitis. Furthermore, an association
      between denture biofilm, which serves as a reservoir for various bacteria, and general
      diseases is described. Adequate denture hygiene is therefore essential for maintaining the
      health of denture wearers. Nevertheless, adequate oral and denture hygiene is not
      sufficiently available for many, especially institutionalized elderly. The reasons are mostly
      insufficient preventive measures to train denture wearers, nursing staff and family members,
      as well as a lack of training materials such as dentures with artificial biofilm equivalents,
      which have the same cleaning properties as real dentures biofilm.

      The absence of such appropriate substitutes for denture biofilm requires innovations in this
      field. Further, clinical data for validation of innovative artificial biofilm substitutes are
      missing.

      The aim of this pilot study is to carry out preliminary tests for the development of a
      polysaccharide-based artificial biofilm substitute to simulate the real denture biofilm and
      to verify the feasibility of the study protocol, design and methods i.e. recording the
      obligatory manual and mechanical brushing cycles or for adapting the mechanical properties
      and adhesive strength to the clinically recorded data.

      This pilot study includes 2 in vivo and 3 in vitro parts. The in vivo examinations contain 8
      visits for participants. For biofilm formation participants omit cleaning dentures for 12 and
      36 hours. Biofilm formation occurs between the visits and removal within the visits. Digital
      planimetry will be performed to measure the biofilm formation and removal. Within 3 in vitro
      tests, the mechanical properties of the artificial biofilm substitutes will be adjusted and
      the reliability tested. The artificial biofilm contains chitosan and methylcellulose. The
      mechanical brushing cycles needed to remove artificial biofilm substitutes, will be measured
      by a tooth-brushing simulator under standardized conditions. Digital planimetry of artificial
      biofilm after brushing will be performed.

      The collected data will be used for further conceptualization of the main study.
    
  