
    
      This was an open-label, single-centre, parallel-group clinical investigation, to evaluate the
      effectiveness and in-use tolerability of a range of four orthotic insoles on target areas of
      pain in the lower body, associated with musculoskeletal stress, experienced by those who
      spend most of their working day on their feet.

      The investigation design included two periods; 'run-in' period and 'treatment' period. The
      treatment period comprised of two sub-periods; a 'breaking-in' period and the 'full use'
      period. The breaking-in period was intended to allow time for the subjects' feet to accustom
      to wearing the insoles. The full-use period was used to determine effectiveness of the
      insoles. These periods constitute lengths of time defined for the purpose of the
      investigation as "working episodes". Working episodes were defined as at least 3 (up to 6)
      consecutive working days of at least 6 hours each at work, following at least 2 consecutive
      non-working days.

      Eligible subjects at Visit 1 (screening) were enrolled into the run-in period, where subjects
      were assessed prior to treatment with the insoles under investigation. During the run-in
      period, consisting of one working episode, subjects self-reported their pain without using
      insoles on a daily basis (Q3-9 of the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)), in order to provide the
      baseline data to which the insoles were compared. Eligible subjects were enrolled into the
      treatment period at Visit 2 and assigned the insole relevant to the target pain area/pain
      area combination. Insole use was built up gradually during a breaking-in period, which
      constituted one working episode, with at least one nonworking day prior to the start of the
      working episode. Following the breaking-in period, the full-use period commenced. During the
      treatment period, subjects wore the insoles on working days and as much as possible on
      non-working days, self-reporting their pain daily (BPI Questions 3 - 9 inclusive).
    
  