
    
      EGFR tyrosine kinase mutation is frequently seen in our NSCLC, especially adenocarcinoma.1
      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) of receptor tyrosine kinases (TKs) regulate many
      developmental, metabolic and physiological processes. In tumor cells, the TK activity of EGFR
      may be dysregulated by several mechanisms, including EGFR gene mutation, increased gene copy
      number and EGFR protein overexpression.1 Improper activation of EGFR TK results in increased
      malignant cell survival, proliferation, invasion and metastasis. EGFR overexpression is
      observed in tumors from more than 60% of patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) and is correlated with poor prognosis.2 Treatment with the reversible EGFR TK
      inhibitors (TKIs), gefitinib and erlotinib, results in dramatic antitumor activity in a
      subset of patients with NSCLC. Sequencing of the EGFR gene revealed that a majority of tumors
      responding to EGFR TKIs harbored mutations in the TK domain of EGFR. For patients whose
      tumors exhibit EGFR mutations, the response rate to gefitinib and erlotinib is approximately
      75%, suggesting that these mutations, at least in part, drive malignant transformation.

      However, the disease-free time to progression was still less than 1 year in most study.3-5
      More than half of patients acquired resistant by new EGFR T790M resistance mutation. A second
      biopsy at the time of progression is becoming an issue. However, Only around 30% of NSCLC
      patients can receive gene testing to predict target therapy response because of the risk and
      difficulty in obtaining adequate tissues from the primary lung tumors by biopsy. Serial
      monitoring the emergence of resistant mutations is almost not possible. Recently, circulating
      free DNAs (cfDNAs) become a promising topic in cancer research. cfDNA can be used as a liquid
      biopsy, allowing repeated blood samples to be taken and changes in mutation status to be
      tracked throughout a cancer treatment, paving the way for a potential use in following up of
      treatment response, gauging prognosis, or monitoring of recurrence.6 It has been known for
      over a hundred years that disseminated tumor cells can be found in the circulation of
      patients with metastatic cancer and it has been hypothesized that these circulating tumor
      cells (CTCs) may represent cancer stem cells or a high metastatic potential cellular
      population.7 The major challenge since as few as one CTC may be found in the background of
      105-106 peripheral blood mononuclear cells.8 CTCs are an attractive alternative to tumor
      tissue for biomarker analysis including EGFR mutation. CTCs can be obtained from a routine
      blood draw with minimal risk and inconvenience to the patient compared to a fresh biopsy.
      Another appealing facet of CTCs as a surrogate diagnostic tissue is the idea that CTCs could
      also constitute a "liquid biopsy" like cfDNA and provide real-time information about the
      patient's current disease state.9,10 Analysis of biomarker status in CTCs collected prior to
      treatment could potentially be used to select an appropriate targeted therapy, while repeated
      longitudinal sampling during treatment could be used to detect appearance of resistance
      markers and potentially enable switching to a more appropriate therapy.

      A side-by-side comparison of EGFR mutation analysis in DNA extracted from circulating tumour
      cells (CTCs) versus cfDNA from plasma suggested that mutational analysis of CTCs captured on
      the CellSearch platform was low by comparison with the frequency of EGFR mutations identified
      in plasma.11 However, this limitation might be related to the CellSearch platform used,11
      because other CTC platforms (eg, CTC biochip) have greater sensitivity and specificity for
      EGFR mutational analyses.12 New technologies, such as next generation sequencing and digital
      PCR (Figure 1), which can permit more precise quantification of cfDNA and also the CTCs,
      offer opportunities to design more appropriate treatments. Longitudinal analyses of EGFR and
      other mutations in cfDNA and CTCs might well prove to be an ideal non-invasive technique to
      be included in the oncologist's repertoire at the time of assigning or monitoring treatment
      in patients with NSCLC.

      In this study, the investigators will collect blood from NSCLC patients who harbor EGFR
      mutation in biopsy specimens. Buffy coat and serum/plasma will be separated and DNA will be
      extracted. The investigators will check the EGFR mutation by next generation sequencing or
      digital PCR. Blood from volunteers without lung cancer patient will be also collected as
      standard. Serial follow-up the change of EGFR mutation every month in cancer patient will be
      correlated with clinical course. The Investigators hope the detection of EGFR mutation and
      serial change in the patient blood could offer as a marker for early diagnosis and early
      relapse.
    
  