
    
      Family Members:

      Study Interview:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will meet with a research staff member
      (preferably in person, or else by phone) for an interview. During the interview, you will be
      asked questions about your demographic information (such as your age, education level, and
      marital status). You will be asked about your family member's medical history, emotional
      well-being, appearance, and the types of social relations and support in his/her life (such
      as relationships with friends and family).

      You will also be asked if and how these social relations may have been affected by his/her
      cancer experiences after the orbital exenteration. The interview should take about 2 to 2 1/2
      hours. It will be audio-taped, and the interviewer will be taking notes. Your responses in
      the interview will not be shared with the patient.

      Additional Information:

      If your interview responses show that you may be having emotional difficulties or depression,
      you will be provided with names of mental health providers in case you would like to receive
      mental health screening.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After the interview, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 40 people (20 patients and 20 family members) will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.

      Patients:

      Study Interview:

      If you agree to take part in this study, a research staff member will schedule you for an
      interview. During the interview, you will be asked questions about your demographic
      information (such as your age, education level, and marital status) and medical history. You
      will also be asked about your emotional well-being, how you feel about your appearance, how
      you are coping with the cancer, and the types of social relations and support you have in
      your life (such as relationships with friends and family). The interview should take about 2
      to 2 1/2 hours. It will be audio-taped, and the interviewer will be taking notes.

      Additional Information:

      Your responses in the interview will not be shared with your doctor. If you feel you need a
      doctor's opinion about anything that is asked about in the questionnaire (such as mental or
      emotional difficulties), please contact your doctor.

      If your interview responses show that you may be having emotional difficulties or depression,
      you will be provided with names of mental health providers in case you would like to receive
      mental health screening.

      Interview for Family Members:

      For each eligible patient who agrees to take part in this study, one family member must also
      agree to participate. Researchers will ask you for a family member whom researchers can
      contact by phone to ask if he or she would agree to take part in this study. Your family
      member's participation would involve being interviewed about his or her opinions of the same
      questions that you were asked about in your interview. If your family member agrees, his or
      her interview will be scheduled. If that family member does not agree to take part, another
      family member may take part in his or her place. If no family members agree to take part,
      your interview will not be scheduled and you will not be enrolled on the study.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After you complete the interview, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 40 people (20 patients and 20 family members) will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  