
    
      Study Design: A randomized single blinded standard of care controlled clinical trial
      comparing pain management interventions. All patients over age sixteen and scheduled for
      primary or revision anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL) a single fellowship
      trained sports surgeons will be eligible for inclusion. Patients will be excluded if their
      medical history presents known allergies or intolerance to dexamethasone, opioid or
      bupivacaine, substantial alcohol or drug abuse, and pregnancy. Secondary exclusion criterion
      is an intact ACL.

      Liposomal Bupivacaine has a refrigerated shelf life of one month in our facility. Patients
      will be sequentially recruited into the randomization process. Liposomal Bupivacaine will be
      held by the Henry Ford hospital pharmacy up to one month prior to planned anterior cruciate
      ligament reconstruction in anticipation of surgery on eligible patients. The sterile
      solutions will be delivered to and kept by the inpatient clinical pharmacy until the date of
      surgery and delivered to the operating room at the beginning of a surgical case. The current
      dose of Liposomal Bupivacaine has been chosen based on previously published data of local
      infiltrative analgesia with Liposomal Bupivacaine and one published study on Liposomal
      Bupivacaine efficacy.

      The week prior to surgery, patients will be randomized to receive Local infiltration
      anesthesia (LIA) with Liposomal Bupivacaine, or Femoral nerve block (FNB) using a computer
      generated sequence. The results of randomization will be securely delivered to the
      anesthesiologist and the surgeon the week prior. The anesthesiologist will view the assigned
      group to determine if a preoperative FNB will be given. Depending on the randomization group
      either an Liposomal Bupivacaine solution will be delivered to the operating room for local
      infiltration or the anesthesiologist will perform a preoperative FNB.

      Patients in the Liposomal Bupivacaine group will receive LIA with 10cc(133mg) of Liposomal
      Bupivacaine solution dissolved in 20cc of sterile saline after harvest of the hamstring graft
      or patella tendon graft. The solution will be applied to the wound bed, graft site, and
      periosteum. The solution will be left unperturbed for five minutes. Thereafter the solution
      will be suctioned from the wound and the knee joint. Incisions will be closed in typical
      fashion and the wound dressed.The tourniquet will be deflated.

      Patient in the FNB will receive postoperative ultrasound guided FNB. Experienced
      anesthesiologists will apply all FNBs in this study.

      Following the procedure pain will be accessed subjectively through visual analog scale and
      numeric rating scale pain scores, pain diaries given to the patient to record at home, pain
      summary scores at follow up visits and objectively through narcotic pain requirement. A blind
      observer will also access outcomes.

      Planned Data Analysis:

      Means and standard deviations, as well as medians and interquartile ranges will be computed
      for pain scores.These outcomes will be compared by Wilcoxon rank sum tests. The amount of
      pain medication and pain scores will be compared by Wilcoxon rank sum tests.
    
  