
    
      The study is a double blinded parallel randomized multicentre study, with six arms. The study
      will be conducted simultaneously in Denmark, Spain and United Kingdom, at the study sites
      specified on page 3. A total of 300 participants with an initial BMI of 27 to 35 kg/m2 and a
      fat mass of no less than 23% will be enrolled in the study. An initial weight loss of a
      minimum of 8 % will be needed for inclusion in the randomized part of the study. The weight
      loss will be achieved by administration of a low calorie diet (LCD) for 8 weeks managed by
      dietician supervised group sessions. Failure to reach at least 8% weight reduction during the
      LCD will result in exclusion from the intervention.

      Participants reaching the pre-defined weight loss of no less than 8% will enter a 7-10 days
      run-in period for diet stabilization before entering the 12-week randomized part of the
      study. In the randomized part of the study all participants will be advised to follow a
      general healthy weight loss maintenance diet in accordance with national dietary guidelines.
      In addition, participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to one of the following
      intervention groups; 1) including an active satiety enhancing product (active intervention
      group) or 2) including a similar control product without satiety enhancing properties
      (control group).

      For both groups, the participants will be instructed to consume the intervention products
      daily. Primary study visits for the assessment of body weight, waist circumference, hip
      circumference, sagittal diameter and blood pressure will be performed at the beginning, and
      at the end of the intervention period. At least every four weeks during the intervention, the
      participants will be requested to pick up the study products, and during these visits
      bodyweight and waist and hip circumference will be recorded. The participants will
      furthermore meet individually with a dietician three times during the 12 weeks intervention
      period to enhance compliance with the weight loss maintenance diet and to ensure
      incorporation of the study specific products into their diet as instructed. Adverse events
      and concomitant medicine will be registered continuously throughout the study. For each
      participant, the total study duration is 24 weeks, and includes 17 visits at the study site
      in total (14+3 appetite probe days)
    
  