
    
      Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) is a heterogeneous disease with a wide
      range of treatment options from the medical follow-up to early invasive treatment due to
      complete occlusion of the culprit artery. Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction acute
      coronary syndrome (NSTEMI-ACS) is one of the subcomponents of NSTE-ACS, which has an
      increased mortality rate, and for which early intervention can be vital. In the European
      Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines, NSTEMI-ACS is defined as a high-risk condition that
      requires diagnostic angiography within 2 hours at the latest in those with very high-risk
      criteria and within 24 hours at the latest in those who do not have high risk. However, the
      non-invasive approach has come to the fore for the NSTEMI-ACS disease due to the COVID-19
      pandemic conditions. In the recently published national consensus report, during the COVID-19
      pandemic period, medium-high risk NSTEMI-ACS patients are recommended optimal medical therapy
      as an alternative treatment method, even if the diagnosis of COVID-19 was excluded,
      especially in areas where pandemic effects are being experienced intensely. Yet, most of
      these patients require invasive treatment. In fact, some of them are patients who require
      very early invasive treatment and have a complete occlusion in the culprit artery.
      Unfortunately, risk scoring systems are not sufficient enough to differentiate these
      patients. Therefore, the discovery of markers that can be used in the differentiation of
      NSTEMI-ACS patients with an increased need for invasive treatment and/or complete occlusion
      of the culprit's vessels, especially during pandemic periods such as the COVID-19 pandemic,
      has gained importance.

      Inflammation is known to play an important role in the etiopathogenesis of coronary artery
      disease. In recent years, it has been shown that hematological parameters closely associated
      with inflammation in people with coronary artery disease may be useful in distinguishing
      those with increased severity of atherosclerotic involvement and those with high mortality
      risk. The main markers used in studies are Leukocyte count, neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio
      (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte Ratio (PLR), systemic immune inflammation index (SII), red blood
      cell distribution width (RDW), and mean platelet volume (MPV). To the best of our knowledge,
      there is a lack of literature on the relationship between the need for invasive treatment
      strategy and/or complete occlusion of the culprit's vessel, and the hematological markers in
      patients diagnosed with NSTEMI-ACS.
    
  