
    
      All eligible participants will be scheduled for a baseline assessment at the Healthy Eating
      and Activity Laboratory (HEAL) that will last approximately 60 minutes. During this
      assessment, interested participants will sign the consent form. After signing the consent
      from, eligibility will be confirmed by taking height and weight measures and completing
      questionnaires assessing eating disorder risk and unhealthy weight control behaviors.
      Participants will also be given questionnaires assessing self-esteem and mood. Demographic
      information and contact information will be obtained. Next, eligible participants will be
      registered for the Automated Self-Administered 24-Hour Dietary Assessment Tool (ASA24) and
      provided instructions on how to complete 24-hour recalls using ASA24. Throughout the next
      week, participants will be randomly emailed on three days to complete three 24-hour recalls
      (1 weekend day, 2 weekdays). Participants will also be given a SenseWear Armband and provided
      instructions on how to use and care for the Armband. Participants will be instructed to wear
      the Armband for a minimum of 10 hours each day for the next week. At the conclusion of the
      session, participants will be scheduled to return to HEAL lab one week later.

      This session one week later will last approximately 30 minutes. The investigator will confirm
      through ASA24 that the participant successfully completed three 24-hour recalls. To confirm
      that the participant successfully wore the Armband for at least 10 hours on the days the
      24-hour recalls were completed, the investigator will download the Armband data using
      SenseWear software. After it has been confirmed that the participant completed these diet and
      physical activity measures, the participant will be randomized to the daily weighing group,
      weekly weighing group, or no weighing control group based on weight status. Participants in
      all groups will be provided with a handout containing general nutrition information about how
      to build a healthy eating pattern based on the 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.

      Daily Weighing- Participants in the daily weighing group will be given a Yunmai SE Weight
      Scale and instructions for its use. Next, participants will be given instructions to download
      the Yunmai mobile app and create a user profile. Participants will be instructed to weigh
      themselves using the Yunmai SE Scale and app one time each day upon rising from bed (and
      before noon) after urination and in light clothing beginning in one week, every day for four
      weeks. Participants will be instructed to only weigh themselves using the scale provided
      during the duration of the study and to not allow others in their household use the scale. A
      reminder text and email will be sent to the participant to remind them to begin weighing on
      the assigned day. If on any day the participant has not weighed by 11am, the participant will
      receive an email and text reminder. After 2 weights have been collected, participants will
      begin to receive daily feedback on their change in weight and suggestions to maintain energy
      balance. They will receive an email between 12-1pm with this feedback stating, "Your weight
      today is _______. Your weight has (increased/decreased) _____ pounds since yesterday." If
      their weight has increased, the email will also contain a message stating, "If your goal is
      to maintain your weight, you may consider decreasing your energy balance by 150 calories" and
      will include one example of how to decrease their energy balance by 150 calories. If
      participants' weight has decreased, the participants will receive a message in addition to
      their feedback on change in weight stating, "If your goal is to maintain your weight, you may
      consider increasing your energy balance by 150 calories" and will include one example of how
      to increase energy balance by 150 calories.

      Weekly Weighing- Participants in the weekly weighing intervention group will be given a
      Yunmai SE Weight Scale and instructions for its use. Next, participants will be given
      instructions to download the Yunmai mobile app and create a user profile. Participants will
      be instructed to weigh themselves using the Yunmai SE Scale and app one time each week upon
      rising from bed (and before noon) after urination in light clothing beginning the following
      day for four weeks. Participants will be instructed to only weigh themselves using the scale
      provided during the duration of the study and to not allow others in their household use the
      scale. If the participant has not weighed by 11am, the participant will receive an email and
      text reminder. After two weights have been collected, participants will begin to receive
      weekly feedback on their week and suggestions to maintain energy balance. Feedback and
      suggestions will be given as previously described above.

      No Weighing Control- Participants in the non-weighing control group will be asked to refrain
      from weighing themselves for the next four weeks.

      At the conclusion of the session, participants will be scheduled to return to HEAL lab three
      weeks later. This session three weeks later will last approximately 5 minutes. Participants
      will receive the Armband and be instructed to wear the Armband for a minimum of 10 hours each
      day during for the next week and reminded on how to complete 24-hour recalls using ASA24.
      Throughout the next week, participants will be randomly emailed on three days to complete
      three 24-hour recalls (1 weekend day, 2 weekdays). At the end of session, the participants
      will be scheduled to return to HEAL lab one week later. This session one week later will last
      approximately 60 minutes. Participants will be weighed and measured and be asked to complete
      follow-up questionnaires for eating attitudes, binge eating, unhealthy weight control
      behaviors, mood, and self-esteem. Participants will also be asked questions regarding their
      thoughts and feelings about self-regulation. Participants will also return the Armband and
      Yunmai SE Scale (intervention groups only) to the researcher. Handouts generated from ASA24
      and SenseWear software that summarize the participant's dietary intake data from ASA24 and
      physical activity data from the Armband will be provided to the participants.
    
  