
    
      GOALS AND EXPECTED OUTCOMES OF THE PROPOSED RESEARCH The purpose of this proposal is to test
      a novel cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) intervention to increase continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) treatment adherence for PTSD Veterans with a diagnosis of obstructive
      sleep apnea (OSA). PTSD is a common, debilitating psychiatric consequence of exposure to
      trauma and a source of significant disability among U.S. war Veterans. The largest
      epidemiologic study of PTSD in Vietnam Veterans estimates that 15% of Vietnam Veterans suffer
      from PTSD [3]. The investigators' research on OSA in Vietnam era Veterans found that 69% of
      the Veterans in the sample had an Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) 10 [4]. OSA is likely present in
      50% of middle-aged and older VA patients [4, 5]. The recurrent hypoxemia and sleep
      fragmentation associated with OSA can lead to neural injury and functional impairment.
      Efficacious treatments are available for OSA (e.g., CPAP); however, Veterans with OSA
      frequently fail to use them [4, 6, 7], leaving these Veterans at risk for cognitive
      dysfunction [8], deterioration of physical health [9], and negative functional outcomes [10].
      The investigators' long-term goal is to improve Veterans' functional outcomes by improving
      adherence to CPAP. If this intervention proves successful, it may represent an approach that
      could be applied to the rehabilitation of other chronic conditions with similar barriers to
      care.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND STRATEGY The reasons for low CPAP adherence include barriers related to
      discomfort in using CPAP and psychological barriers to behavior change [11]. A CBT treatment
      to improve CPAP adherence, CBT-OSA, has been successfully applied in civilian randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs) [12, 13]. The proposed VA intervention would involve delivery of
      CBT-OSA to PTSD Veterans to foster long-term CPAP adherence. The CBT-OSA treatment would
      build on the VISN 21 MIRECC's expertise in CBT interventions [e.g., VA rollout of
      CBT-Insomnia] as well as on the investigators' current research on PTSD Veterans with OSA. In
      this sample, the vast majority were not diagnosed with OSA prior to study entry; however, 69%
      of the participants had an AHI 10 [4]. Of the Veterans previously diagnosed with OSA, 63%
      were not using their CPAP. Thus, CPAP adherence treatment for PTSD Veterans is the next
      logical step in the investigators' research. Specifically, the investigators propose a 1-year
      parallel-group RCT involving 120 PTSD Veterans with a diagnosis of OSA. All participants will
      receive treatment as usual in VA Pulmonary Service. Participants in the active arm will
      receive CBT-OSA from a trained Clinical Psychologist. The other arm will receive individual
      Education based treatment, but not CBT-OSA. Participants in both arms will receive weekly,
      individual sessions during the first 4 weeks of CPAP treatment and 4 booster sessions during
      the 1-year protocol. These two arms will be referred to hereafter as the CBT-OSA and the
      Education groups.

      *The investigators will add telehealth treatment as an option for participants due to the
      COVID-19 pandemic. Research visits may be conducted either in-person or via telehealth (e.g.,
      via video or telephone). Telehealth sessions are subject to approval by the research team.
      Videoconferencing in particular, requires certain features such as hardware, internet
      accessibility, and telephone capability.

      HYPOTHESES Hypothesis 1. (Primary) Effect of CBT on CPAP usage. The investigators hypothesize
      that the CBT-OSA group will use CPAP more hours per night on average than the Education
      group. ANCOVA will be used to test group differences over time in hours of "mask-on" CPAP
      usage per night. [Primary endpoint: mean of Days 335-365.] Hypothesis 2. (Secondary) Effect
      of CBT on Self-reported Everyday Activities, Mood and Quality of Life. The investigators
      hypothesize that after initiating CPAP treatment, Veterans in the CBT-OSA group will report
      more improvement in the ease of performing everyday activities compared to that reported by
      those in the Education group. ANCOVA will be used to test group differences over time in the
      total score on the Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ; [14], at Days 0, 21, 365
      (endpoint).

      Hypothesis 3. (Secondary) Effect of CBT on Cognitive Outcomes. The investigators hypothesize
      that the CBT-OSA group will have better cognitive outcomes than the Education group over
      time. ANCOVA will be applied to the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, Delayed Recall Score
      with the primary endpoint at Day 365.

      Hypothesis 4. (Secondary) Effect of CBT on PTSD. The investigators hypothesize that the
      CBT-OSA group will have fewer PTSD symptoms than the Education group over time. ANCOVA will
      be used to test group differences over time in the total score on the PTSD Checklist for
      DSM-5 (PCL-5), measured at Days 0, 21, 365. Primary endpoint is Day 365.

      Exploratory and Supplementary Analyses. (Secondary): Individual Differences in Response
      (Moderators). Severity of OSA, initial self-efficacy, and other covariates (measured at the
      pre-treatment Screening Visit) will be examined in exploratory, hypothesis-generating
      analyses to determine "in whom" CBT-OSA works best. Mechanisms of Action (Mediators). Because
      CBT-OSA is designed to increase self-efficacy in CPAP adherence, the investigators aim to
      show that some of the effect of CBT-OSA on CPAP usage is mediated by change in the self-rated
      Self-Efficacy Measure for Sleep Apnea (SEMSA) [15], measured at Days 0, 21, 365.

      HOW THE PROPOSED WORK WILL ADDRESS LONGER-TERM GOALS This research fits the VA's goal to
      reduce functional disabilities in PTSD Veterans with chronic medical conditions. It is
      designed to not only determine the benefit of this intervention overall, but also to
      determine in which Veterans CBT-OSA works best. The dataset collected will enable researchers
      to troubleshoot the intervention and propose improved interventions.
    
  