
    
      Participants: Patients aged more than 18 years old who are scheduled to undergo thoracoscopic
      lobectomy well be enrolled in this trial. Participants will be randomly allocated to one of
      the two groups: (1) GDFT group and (2) restrictive fluid therapy group. Participants will be
      allocated in a 1:1 ratio using random numbers generated by Microsoft Excel.

      Interventions: All participants will start lung function exercise, quit smoking, reinforce
      nutrition after hospitalization. Participants will fast for 6 hours and prohibit of drinking
      water for 2 hours before operation. Antibiotic will be used 1 hour before operation. No
      premedication will be administered to the patients. The electrocardiography (ECG), pulse
      oximetry, invasive arterial blood pressure, nasopharyngeal temperature, and bispectral index
      monitoring will be instituted. Urinary catheter will be inserted after anesthesia and removed
      immediately after operation. Patients will undergo thoracoscopic lobectomy under general
      anesthesia combined with paravertebral block. General anesthesia will be inducted with
      sufentanil, propofol, and rocuronium, and maintained with continuous infusion of propofol and
      remifentanil, intermittent injection of rocuronium. Lung-protective ventilation strategy will
      be used during mechanical ventilation. Recovery from general anesthesia as quickly as
      possible. Paravertebral block will be performed under the guidance of ultrasound after
      general anesthesia induction. Paravertebral block, patient controlled analgesia and oral
      analgesics will be used for postoperative analgesia. Recovering of oral rehydration, eating
      and getting out of bed as early as possible.

      In GDFT group, the arterial catheter will be connected with FloTrac/Vigileo sensor (Edwards
      lifesciences, Irvine, CA, USA), The stroke volume variation (SVV) and cardiac index (CI) will
      be monitored. Fluid maintenance with 2 ml/kg/h of Ringer's solution of sodium acetate, when
      SVV>13%, 4 mL/kg bolus of hydroxyethyl starch will be infused within 5 min. If SVV falls
      below 13%, the bolus will be suspended. If SVV is still more than 13%, 100 μg of
      phenylephrine will be administered when CI is more than 2.5 L/min/m2, 1 mg of dopamine will
      be administered when CI is less than 2.5 L/min/m2. When SVV<13%, but mean arterial pressure
      (MAP)<65 mmHg, 8 μg of norepinephrine will be administered. The hemodynamic status will be
      repeatedly measured every 10 min.

      In restrictive fluid therapy group, fluid maintenance with 2 ml/kg/h of Ringer's solution of
      sodium acetate, hydroxyethyl starch will be infused to supply blood loss, the ratio of
      hydroxyethyl starch to blood loss is 1:1. 0.01-0.1 μg/kg/min of norepinephrine will be
      administered to maintain MAP>65 mmHg.

      Measurements: The primary outcome is the incidence of AKI after operation. The secondary
      outcomes include: (1) Incidence of renal replacement therapy, (2) Length of ICU stay after
      operation, (3) Length of hospital stay after operation, (4) Incidence of other complications
      including: infection, ALI, pneumonia, arrhythmia, heart failure, MINS, cardiac infarction.

      Sample size: The primary outcome of this trial is the incidence of AKI after operation.
      Another study showed that the incidence of AKI was 4% and 2.9% in liberal infusion and GDFT
      respectively, the efficacy of intervention was 27.5%. Investigators hypothesis that
      restrictive fluid therapy combined with ERAS protocol has the same therapeutic effect as
      GDFT. The sample size for this study was calculated to achieve a statistical power of 0.8 and
      alpha error of 0.05 using a two-sided test. Considering a dropout rate of 10%, 138 patients
      are required in each group.

      Statistical analysis: Normally distributed data will be presented as the mean±standard
      deviation. Categorical data will be presented as the number and the percentage of patients.
      The primary outcome (the incidence of AKI after operation) will be compared between the two
      groups with Pearson's chi-square test. The secondary outcomes will be compared between the
      two groups with independent-samples Student's t-tests for normally distributed continuous
      data and Pearson's chi-square test for categorical data. All statistical test are two-sided,
      and a P-value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  