
    
      Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland that
      may restrict the flow of urine from the bladder. BPH is a cellular proliferative process of
      the prostate, also referred as enlarged prostate.

      An estimated 50% of men demonstrate histopathologic BPH by age 60 years. This number
      increases to 90% by age 85 years; thus, increasing gland size is considered a normal part of
      the aging process.

      Approximately half of those diagnosed with histopathologic BPH demonstrate moderate-to-severe
      BPH related symptoms (also known as Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms = LUTS), including urinary
      frequency, urgency, nocturia (getting up at night during sleep to urinate), decreased or
      intermittent force of stream, or a sensation of incomplete emptying. Complications occur less
      commonly but may include acute urinary retention, impaired bladder emptying, or the need for
      surgery.

      In current clinical practice, most patients are initially treated with medical therapy,
      usually with alpha-blockers. A minimally invasive treatment alternative is the use of
      urethral stents to preserve flow of urine from the bladder. Such stents are also associated
      with several problems such as encrustation, stone formation, pain, infection, migration and
      others. Another alternative is the gold standard treatment for managing benign prostatic
      hyperplasia; the trans urethral resection of prostate (TURP) surgery. Complications associate
      with TURP procedure include retrograde ejaculation, urinary incontinence, erectile
      dysfunction, urethral stricture, and others.

      The Butterfly Medical Prostatic Retraction Device is a definitive device intended for
      transurethral insertion into the male prostatic urethra diagnosed with Bladder Outlet
      Obstruction (BOO), caused by an enlarged prostate gland. It is a single use device intended
      to remain permanently in the prostate urethra, to open the occluded urethral passage. The
      Butterfly device has a specific shape adjusted to fit the prostatic urethral lumen, and is
      designed to reside only in the prostate urethra without migration to the urinary bladder or
      the bulbar urethra. Unlike other forms of treatment, the Butterfly device does not inflict
      any damage to the bladder neck, preventing irritation or retrograde ejaculation.
    
  