
    
      Lenalidomide is related to a drug called Thalidomide, which is not widely used because of
      certain side effects. Lenalidomide belongs to a family of drugs that work by acting on the
      body's immune system, so that it makes more "anti-inflammatory" cells. This type of cell is
      normally found in the body and is believed to help reduce the growth of cancer cells and slow
      down the production of new cancer cells.

      DTIC is an anti-cancer drug. It is designed to cause cancer cell death by creating DNA breaks
      in the nucleus of the cells.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will be asked questions about your medical history, and you will have a complete
      physical exam, which will included measurements of your temperature, pulse, blood pressure,
      respiratory (breathing) rate, weight and height. You will be asked about any surgeries you
      have had and any medications you are taking. Your ability to perform daily activities will be
      checked through simple physical tests (such as walking or squeezing a ball). You will also
      have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests and tests to measure your thyroid
      hormones.

      You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures the electrical activity of the
      heart). You will have a chest x-ray and CT scans of the chest, abdomen and pelvis (below the
      waist). You will be required to have a MRI or CT scan of the brain. If your doctor feels it
      is necessary, you may need CT scans of the head and neck or a bone scan. To perform the bone
      scan, a small dose of radioactive technetium is administered intravenously (IV--through a
      needle in your vein). The technetium will collect in the areas of bone involved with
      metastatic cancer to "light up" these areas on the bone scan. The results of these tests will
      show if you are eligible to participate in the study. Women who are able to have children
      must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      If you are still eligible to take part in the study, you will begin study treatment. You will
      take Lenalidomide by mouth every day for 2 weeks, followed by 1 week of "rest." This 21-day
      period is referred to as one "study cycle." You should only take Lenalidomide on an empty
      stomach. You should fast for 1 hour before and after taking Lenalidomide.

      DTIC will be given by IV on Day 1 of every study cycle. Three dose levels of DTIC will be
      tested during this study. The first 3 participants will be given the first (lowest) dose
      level of DTIC. After the safety of this dose of DTIC is confirmed at the starting dose level,
      the next 3 to 6 participants will be given the second dose level of DTIC. After the safety of
      this new dose level is confirmed, the dose of DTIC will be increased to the third (highest)
      dose level tested in this study. When the highest DTIC dose is found that has the fewest side
      effects when given with Lenalidomide, 10 more patients will be treated at this best dose
      level. Patients on the lowest dose level will not have their doses changed once the highest
      well tolerated dose is found. Once a patient starts on a dose, it will not be increased.

      You will receive treatment with Lenalidomide and DTIC on an outpatient basis at UT M.D.
      Anderson Cancer Center. At the start of each 21-day study cycle, you will come in to the
      clinic to receive a 14-day supply of Lenalidomide, and you will receive your dose of DTIC by
      IV. You will be provided with a study drug diary each time you are given your supply of
      Lenalidomide, to write down any side effects you experience.

      During each study visit, you will have a physical exam (including measuring your weight), and
      your medical history will be recorded. Your doctor will ask you about any side effects you
      are experiencing. You should bring your study drug diary, any unused medication, and empty
      packages of medication to each study visit. Women who are able to have children will have a
      pregnancy test performed during the study visit at the beginning of each study cycle. You
      will have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests. You will also repeat the
      performance status tests.

      During your study visit at the beginning of Cycle 3 (about 6 weeks after starting treatment),
      you will be checked to see if the disease is responding to treatment. You will have a chest
      x-ray and CT scans of the chest, abdomen and pelvis. If your doctor feels it is necessary,
      you will also have an EKG for the heart and MRI of the brain. These tests may be done more
      often if your doctor feels it is necessary.

      You will continue to receive treatment as long as the disease is shrinking or does not get
      worse, and the study doctor decides that it is safe to do so. You will be taken off study if
      the disease progresses or intolerable side effects occur.

      If you are taken off study for any reason, you will be scheduled for a final study visit. You
      will have a physical exam and will be checked for side effects related to the study
      treatment. You will have a chest x-ray, CT scans, an ECG, and possibly an MRI as well.

      You will have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests. You will be asked about any
      new symptoms that you may have experienced after the treatment was stopped.

      This is an investigational study. DTIC has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      metastatic melanoma. The FDA has authorized Lenalidomide for use in research only. Up to 28
      participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  