
    
      According to CDC data, as of January 30, 2021, 25,780,144 individuals residing in the United
      States had been infected by COVID-19 and 435,151 had died as a result of the disease. No drug
      has yet been identified that explicitly kills the COVID-19 virus. While various vaccines have
      been developed to prevent infection, the virus continues to mutate, and scientific research
      remains behind the virus trajectory.

      The human immune system, when functioning properly, can prevent the body from succumbing to
      infections from external sources and from internal cell mutations, including the COVID-19
      virus and cancer cells. That is, the defense system comes from nature. This clinical study
      proves that the immune system can respond to those antigens and kill them if the immune
      system is given a chance. However, the human immune system can become compromised through
      inflammation and subsequently unable to successfully prevent infection and cancer.

      When COVID-19 invades humans, it causes an immune-storm (cytokine-storm) that can directly
      damage the organ(s), leading to death. The virus is an antigen - a trigger - but it is not
      the actual reason that causes organ failure and death; instead, it is the body's over-immune
      reaction that is the cause. In attempting to protect the body, the immune system overreacts
      to the antigen, which includes the infected cells, which causes a cytokine-storm, and the
      subsequent and rapid shut down of the infected individual's organ(s)' structure, leaving the
      body without sufficient strength or time to fight back.

      Medical herbs can mediate the immunity disorder caused by infections, and mutated cells,
      including COVID-19 and its mutations. Our pre-clinical study found that the medical herbs
      inhibit the inflammation expression, reduce the chance of cytokine-storm, prevent
      deterioration, and reduce the mortality rate. In addition, the T cells can perform their job
      when the inflammation is under control. The virus and cancer cells belong to antigens that
      should be killed by natural killer (NK) cells and T cells. This clinical study aims not to
      provide drugs to kill the antigens, but rather to create the necessary conditions inside the
      human body to allow the immune system a chance to overcome the antigens. The clinic has used
      this treatment concept to successfully treat infected patients and cancer patients.
    
  