
    
      Childhood obesity is the most serious public health problem of the 21st century, given the
      prevalence, global reach, and widespread health, economic, and social consequences. While
      weight gain at the most basic level is due to a chronic energy surplus, there are a host of
      influences that act on the energy balance system that remain largely unknown. Thus, there is
      a critical need to identify previously unexamined factors that may influence the energy
      balance system in order to develop effective interventions for prevention and treatment. Our
      long-term goal is to quantify the dynamic relationships between various physiological and
      psychological components of the energy balance system. Our short-term goal is to examine
      linkages between physical activity, appetite control, and energy metabolism in adolescents.
      The status quo as it relates to appetite control is that body weight status and related
      peripheral signals are a key regulator of energy intake. In contrast to body weight playing a
      primary role in energy regulation, our working hypothesis is that high levels of regular
      moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) result in a metabolic phenotype consisting of
      enhanced metabolic function and proper regulation of appetite, which prevents the development
      of obesity. We have reported that adults with low levels of MVPA have dysregulated appetite
      control, evidenced by higher levels of energy intake and elevated levels of dietary
      disinhibition. Additionally, we have observed that rats with low fitness possess dysregulated
      control of appetite and reduced hepatic fat oxidation compared to rats with high fitness.
      Based on these findings in adults and rodents, in addition to supportive work by others, we
      hypothesize that low levels of MVPA create a metabolic phenotype, leading to dysregulated
      appetite control which predisposes individuals to weight gain. To test this hypothesis we
      will perform two studies focused on the links between physical activity and appetite. For
      Study 1, we will assess metabolic function and appetite control in male and female
      adolescents stratified by bodyweight (normal vs overweight/obese) and physical activity
      (sedentary vs. active) using a 2 x 2 cross-sectional study design (N=40). For Study 2, we
      will examine the influence of MVPA on the same outcomes by randomly assigning sedentary
      overweight/obese adolescents (N=44) to either a structured-exercise group or no treatment
      control for three months. The specific aims of the proposed studies are: 1) To examine the
      association between physical activity and appetite control in adolescents, with metabolic
      function serving as a mediator; and, 2) To test if increased physical activity through an
      exercise intervention influences metabolic function and appetite control. At the completion
      of the proposed studies, it is our expectation that we will have described the independent
      effects of physical activity and body weight on energy metabolism and appetite in
      adolescents. This study will have a significant positive impact on the understanding of
      energy balance in adolescents, and will inform public health interventions that specifically
      target mechanisms associated with weight gain in youth.
    
  