
    
      This is an open-label multi-center phase Ib study to confirm the recommended phase II/III
      dose of canakinumab and spartalizumab in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine.

      The study will recruit patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated in the
      first line setting. The starting dose level of canakinumab explored will be 250 mg Q4W
      ("starting dose level"). In case of unacceptable toxicity of the starting dose devel of
      canakinumab, the dose of canakinumab will be de-escalated to the "-1 dose level" administered
      as 250 mg Q8W, while other components of the combination stay at the same dose as the
      starting dose level.

      Patients will be observed for DLTs for a minimum duration of 56 days (8 weeks). To achieve
      study objectives and to ensure the adequate number of DLT evaluable patients, the study will
      recruit approximately ten patients to have at least 6 evaluable patients per dose level of
      canakinumab. Additional approximately ten patients (to have at least 6 additional evaluable
      patients) may be enrolled at lower dose level in case a dose de-escalation is necessary.

      Dose confirmation will be guided by an adaptive Bayesian logistic regression model (BLRM)
      based on any DLTs observed for two cycles of treatment (i.e. 56 days, or 8 weeks). The
      adaptive BLRM will be guided by the Escalation with Overdose Control (EWOC) principle to
      control the probability of DLT in future patients on the study. BLRM is a well-established
      and widely used method to estimate the recommended dose for expansion (RDE) or maximal
      tolerable dose (MTD) in clinical trials in patients with cancer with small sample size. The
      use of Bayesian response adaptive models for small datasets has been endorsed by academic
      publications (Babb et al. 1998, Neuenschwander et al. 2008, Neuenschwander et al. 2010,
      Natanegara et al. 2014), by the European Medicines Agency (Guideline on Clinical Trials in
      Small Populations, 2007) and it constitutes an important aspect of the FDA's Critical Path
      Initiative (Clinical Path White Paper, FDA, 2004). The Bayesian analysis incorporates prior
      toxicity data of single agent and drugs combinations together with the currently available
      data to predict the probability of DLT and excessive toxicity of a dose level of interest.

      The Bayesian method is be based on a Meta-Analytical-Combined (MAC) approach (Spiegelhalter
      2004, Neuenschwander 2016) to combine all historical and concurrent data. Prior toxicity
      information included in the BLRM model was obtained from three studies with canakinumab as a
      single agent and combination of canakinumab and spartalizumab (PDR001X2101, ACZ885I2202,
      PRD001X2103) and from a phase I/II study of nab-paclitaxel + gemcitabine (Von Hoff D, et.al.,
      2011). Simulation was used to illustrate the recommendation from BLRM under a set of
      hypothetical scenarios with assumed number of evaulable patients and DLTs.

      The decisions on a recommended dose will be made by the Investigators and the Sponsor in a
      Safety Review meeting when at least 6 DLT evaluable patients per dose level will be observed
      for DLTs for a minimum duration of 56 days (8 weeks). Safety review will be based upon the
      review of all relevant data available including treatment tolerability and safety information
      together with the BLRM summaries of DLT probability, PK, PD, and preliminary activity
      information (if available) at the time of the meeting.

      Patients will be treated until disease progression per RECIST 1.1, unacceptable toxicity, or
      until the patient or treating physician decides to stop treatment.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) and immunogenicity (IG) samples will be collected at specific time
      points throughout treatment. Each treatment cycle is 4 weeks. All patients must be followed
      for safety up to 150 days after the last dose of spartalizumab or canakinumab, or 30 days
      after the last dose of the combination chemotherapy, whichever the later. After the end of
      safety follow-up, patients will be followed for disease progression if discontinuation of
      treatment is due to reason other than progression, and for survival (via telephone call or
      onsite visit if a patient happens to be visiting the site) until the end of study The study
      completion is defined as when the last patient has completed the study treatment, safety
      follow up, and completed survival follow up period up to 1 year from first treatment,
      whichever is later or in the event of an early study termination decision, the date of that
      decision.
    
  