
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of VTX 2337 in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin, 5-FU and
      cetuximab in prolonging the progression-free survival in subjects with recurrent or
      metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the efficacy of VTX 2337 plus SOC to SOC alone in prolonging the PFS of patients
      with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN using irRECIST evaluated by independent radiology review.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To compare the following between the two treatment groups:

        -  Safety of VTX 2337 by adverse events, including clinically significant changes in
           physical examination, peripheral blood hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, and ECG.

        -  Efficacy of VTX 2337 plus SOC in prolonging the OS of patients with recurrent or
           metastatic SCCHN.

        -  Efficacy of VTX-2337 plus SOC on ORR, DOBR, DCR, and DDC by irRECIST and evaluation by
           independent radiology review.

        -  Efficacy of VTX-2337 plus SOC on ORR, DOBR, DCR, and DDC by RECIST v1.1 and evaluation
           by independent radiology review.

        -  Efficacy of VTX 2337 plus SOC to SOC alone in prolonging the PFS by RECIST v1.1 and
           evaluation by independent radiology review.

        -  Efficacy of VTX 2337 plus SOC to SOC alone in prolonging the PFS by irRECIST and
           evaluation by investigators.

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To compare genetic polymorphisms that may impact the response of patients to a TLR8
           agonist or to cetuximab between the two treatment groups.

        -  To compare immune biomarker response to VTX 2337 plus SOC as measured by a multiplexed
           panel of cytokines, chemokines, and inflammatory markers between the two treatment
           groups.

        -  To compare the effect of immune cell subsets within the tumor on response to VTX-2337
           and/or clinical outcome, as measured by immunohistochemistry in primary tumor tissue
           between the two treatment groups.

        -  To assess the PK of VTX-2337.

      OUTLINE:

      Subjects will be screened for eligibility (within 14 days) and qualified subjects will be
      randomized 1:1 to 1 of 2 treatment groups: SOC + VTX 2337 or SOC + placebo.

      Tumor assessments will be by CT or MRI starting at Week 12 (± 3 days), then at Week 18 (± 3
      days) and every 8 weeks (± 7 days) thereafter. Response will be evaluated by immune-related
      RECIST criteria (irRECIST) and confirmed by an independent radiologist.

      Upon independent confirmation of disease progression, active participation in the study is
      complete and subjects will undergo the End of Treatment evaluations.

      Subjects will be followed for survival until ~12 months after the last subject is randomized.
    
  