
    
      Background: The current pandemic of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2
      virus is a public health emergency of international concern. The severity of COVID-19 ranges
      from asymptomatic to severe. Patients with chronic lung disease such as primary ciliary
      dyskinesia (PCD) are thought to be at increased risk, but no data support this. Disease
      course and optimal treatment strategies might differ depending on the underlying disease. The
      lack of knowledge hampers optimal treatment, and it leads to insecurity and fear among
      persons affected by PCD and their family. PCD patient organisations initiated the idea of a
      survey that gathers essential knowledge on effects of COVID-19 on people with PCD and makes
      it available to patients, physicians, and policy makers in real time.

      Aims: To set up an online surveillance system of COVID-19 for people with PCD. For people
      with PCD, the study aims to:

        1. Describe incidence of COVID-19, symptoms, course of disease, duration of illness,
           treatments, and outcomes;

        2. Identify risk factors for prognosis for a severe disease course;

        3. Assess the experiences of patients, and their wishes and needs such as availability of
           preventive measures, medicines, therapies, and official communication and government
           policies in relation to the COVID-19 outbreak.

      Methods: The study population includes all patients with PCD who can be contacted via patient
      organisations. Local organisations invite their contacts using social media and mailing
      lists. People with PCD can participate via a link on the study website
      (www.covid19pcd.ispm.ch), where they can read the study information and give consent. Once
      registered, participants receive a link via e-mail to the baseline questionnaire with
      questions on prior COVID-19, PCD diagnosis and treatment, and environment and living
      conditions. 7 days after completing the baseline questionnaire, and in regular intervals
      thereafter, participants receive a link to a short follow-up questionnaire with questions on
      COVID-19, current symptoms, and contact behaviour. Throughout the study, occasional
      questionnaires are sent out focusing on emerging questions of interest such as official
      information and policy issues, availability of treatments, or anxieties and fears. In case of
      hospitalisation, patients or family members are asked to obtain a hospital report. Results
      are continuously analysed and summaries are published on the study website. Specific analyses
      are possible on request to inform involved persons, physicians, and policymakers.

      This study uses an innovative approach to assess information relevant for risk, disease
      course, treatments, and outcomes of COVID-19 directly from persons with a rare lung disease
      and make the information available in real time. It will inform and empower patients and be a
      resource to relieve anxiety and provide hands-on evidence to physicians and policymakers. It
      adds no burden to health care professionals and will provide people with PCD and their
      families specialised information, which they can pass on to their physicians.
    
  