
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the effect on freedom from disease progression in patients with relapsed
           multiple myeloma treated with re-induction therapy comprising bortezomib, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, and dexamethasone (PAD) followed by a second autologous stem cell
           transplantation (ASCT) with high-dose melphalan vs low-dose cyclophosphamide
           consolidation therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the response rate of PAD in patients following a previous autograft.

        -  To compare the overall response rate of patients following high-dose melphalan
           chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation with low-dose cyclophosphamide
           consolidation therapy.

        -  To assess the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To assess the safety and toxicity of a second ASCT in these patients.

        -  To assess the safety and toxicity of PAD in these patients.

        -  To assess the feasibility of stem cell collection following PAD in these patients.

        -  To determine the impact of this regimen on pain and quality of life in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Re-induction (PAD) therapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously on days 1-4, and oral dexamethasone on days
           1-4 (and days 8-11 and 15-18 of course 1 only). Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
           to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization and harvest: Within 6-12 weeks, some
           patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 0 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC)
           beginning on day 1 and continuing to time of PBSC harvest. PBSCs are then collected.

      Patients who successfully complete re-induction therapy and have adequate PBSC mobilization
      are stratified according to length of first remission or plateau (≤ vs ≥ 24 months) and
      response to PAD re-induction therapy (stable disease vs ≥ partial response). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (high-dose melphalan consolidation therapy): Patients receive high-dose melphalan
           IV on day -1 followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) on day 0.

        -  Arm II (low-dose cyclophosphamide consolidation therapy): Patients receive low-dose
           cyclophosphamide IV or orally once a week for 12-20 weeks for a total of 12 courses.

      Patients complete the EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-MY20, the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form
      (BPI-SF), and the Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (Self Assessment) Pain
      Scale (S-LANSS) questionnaires at baseline and after completion of re-induction therapy.

      Patients are followed monthly for up to 100 days after ASCT or at 30 days after low-dose
      cyclophosphamide and then every 3 months for 5 years.
    
  