
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved nivolumab for this specific
      disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved ipilimumab for this specific
      disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      Researchers hope to study the effects of the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab. Many
      cancers use specific pathways (such as PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4) to evade the body's immune
      system. Nivolumab and ipilimumab work by blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4 pathways and thus
      releasing the brakes on the immune system so it can stop or slow cancer.

      Ipilimumab and Nivolumab are both antibodies. An antibody is a cell that attaches to other
      cells to fight off infection. The antibodies in ipilimumab work by not allowing cancer cell
      growth. The antibodies in nivolumab work by causing programmed cell death of the cancer
      cells. Radiation therapy is believed to increase the likelihood of response of immunotherapy
      (the prevention/treatment of a disease through an immune response).

      In this research study, the investigators are studying the combination of nivolumab,
      ipilimumab and radiation therapy on participants with microsatellite stable colorectal
      cancer, pancreatic cancer, or MSI high colorectal cancer. The combination of these study
      drugs have been tested and optimized for safety and is currently being tested in multiple
      disease types. The study drugs have not been tested and optimized in combination with
      radiation therapy. The investigators believe that through the combination of the study drugs
      and radiation therapy the body may produce an immune response to stop the cancer cells from
      growing.
    
  