
    
      Aortic valve disease amounts to approximately 5% of the total number of cases of congenital
      heart disease, thus being one of the most common congenital malformations of the
      cardiovascular system. This disease requires replacement of the damaged valve, which in
      itself is not a trivial task to complete in children as there is still no available perfect
      option for valve replacement. Today, the following alternative variants for the aortic valve
      reconstruction in children are known: mechanical aortic prosthesis, xenografts, allografts
      and pulmonary autograft (Ross procedure); each of the above-mentioned variants has its
      potential advantages and disadvantages.

      Mechanical aortic prostheses are widely available, including in small sizes (16 and 18 mm)
      appropriate for young children. However, the available sizes still do not allow to perform
      the surgical reconstruction in children of the first year of life. Besides these patients
      need lifelong anticoagulation therapy and necessity for repeated surgeries in order to
      replace mechanical valves with a child's growth.

      Available xenografts have various types but usually, their sizes begin from 19 mm which does
      not fit for the majority of young children. Aortic xenografts are characterized by low risk
      of thromboembolism complications and do not require lifelong antithrombotic therapy. However,
      application of these grafts in children also has suboptimal results not only because of the
      absence of growth potential but also due to the development of degenerative changes in
      biological tissue of the graft leaflets.

      Allografts are characterized by perfect hemodynamic parameters which are similar to the
      native healthy aortic valve. Risk of thromboembolic complications in implantation of
      allografts is very low, so there is no need for anticoagulation therapy. As in xenografts,
      allograft tissues are exposed to rapid biodegradation in the recipient body with the
      following development of obstruction or insufficiency and thus requiring a repeat operation.
      Implantation of allografts is associated with higher difficulty and high risk of hemorrhages
      and injury of the coronary injuries.

      Ross procedure was proposed as theoretically the most justified choice for reconstruction of
      the aortic valve in children. As a conduit for reconstruction of the aortic valve the host's
      intact native pulmonary valve - autograft - is used; and the pulmonary valve is usually
      replaced by xenograft. Even successfully performed Ross operation, according to some authors,
      resolves the problem of the aortic valve only for a while; moreover, it causes another
      problem with the pulmonary valve, thus transforming one-valve disorder into two-valve
      disease.

      The accumulation of knowledge on the anatomy of the aortic root and improvement of surgical
      techniques has led to the development of new methods for reconstruction of the valve
      function. The experience of various options for interventions on the aortic valve leaflet
      gained in adult cardiac surgery allowed to consider such interventions as an alternative
      method to valve reconstruction in children. About ten years ago, Professor Shigeyuki Ozaki
      brought the reconstruction of the aortic valve with the patient's own tissues to a completely
      new technological level. This technique includes the use of glutaraldehyde-treated
      autopericardium for augmentation of the leaflets; the reproducibility of the method was
      significantly increased due to usage of the template sets and special tools for the
      measurement of the native valve. Since no foreign material is used, there is no need for
      anticoagulation therapy after such intervention, which the authors of the method referred to
      as the valve reconstruction, not implantation of the graft. Potentially, reconstruction of
      the aortic valve with autopericardium can be widely used in children. In this population of
      patients, the various variants of the leaflets dysmorphogenesis are much more common, a wide
      range of morphological diversity of structure with inadequate hemodynamics can be found:
      monocuspid, bicuspid and pseudobicuspid valves; which does not allow to perform the valve
      reconstruction by restoring the original anatomy.

      The normal anatomy of the aortic valve assumes three-valve structure, and most augmentation
      techniques suppose formation of tricuspid anatomy. At the same time, there is an alternative
      variant of hemodynamically adequate valve structure in the human body - bicuspid anatomy of
      the venous valves in the vena cava inferior system. Theoretical calculations obtained through
      computer simulation show that the neo-valve formed by three artificial leaflets will retain
      its locking function with increasing the diameter of the fibrous ring only by 8%. At the same
      time, the bicuspid valve with an increased height of the leaflets is able to maintain the
      shut-off function with an increase in the diameter of the fibrous ring by 67%.

      The aim is to study safety, clinical and hemodynamic efficacy of the method of the aortic
      valve reconstruction with autopericardium in children with aortic valve disease. Primary
      endpoints: patient's death due to various causes during the first 30 days after the surgery.
      Secondary endpoints for efficacy assessment: аreedom from repeated surgeries on the aortic
      valve; mean gradient at the aortic valve over 40 mmHg; аortic insufficiency over 2 degree;
      effective area of the neo-aortic valve less than 1.0 cm2/m2 Secondary endpoint for safety
      assessment: acute disorders of cerebral circulation within the first 30 days after the
      surgery; hemorrhage needing revision surgery; acute kidney injury, stages 2 or 3, including
      the necessity for renal replacement therapy; acute coronary syndrome; dysfunction of the
      neo-valve requiring repeated surgery.

      Patients aged from 29 days to 12 years old with dysfunction of the native aortic valve with
      and without manifestations, with indications for the aortic valve reconstruction, and without
      concomitant supravalvular and subvalvular aortic stenosis and major congenital heart
      diseases, will be included into the study. The study design is planned to be prospective,
      cohort, single-center, observational. In total 40 patients will be included into the study.
      The data according to the protocol of the study will be assessed at the stage of inclusion,
      during the surgery, in 30 days after the surgery, and in 1, 2, and 3 years after the surgery.
      Data about all the patients included in the research will be analyzed in order to study the
      endpoints and achieve the research aim.

      The first report on safety of the operation will be published when all the patients included
      in the study are carried out the procedure of augmentation of the aortic valve with
      autopericardium and all of them are examined within 30 days after the surgery. A report about
      the efficacy of the operation within the first year after the performed surgery of
      augmentation of the aortic valve with autopericardium; it will be published after all the
      patients included in the study are examined at the control visit in one year after the
      surgery. Report about clinical and hemodynamic efficacy of the operation within three years
      after the performed reconstruction of the aortic valve with autopericarduim; it will be
      published after all the patients included in the study are examined in three years after the
      surgery. Final report on the study will be published when for all patients included in the
      study all the follow-up periods are completed, or patients are excluded from the study due to
      other causes.

      For compensation for the lost quantitative or qualitative data, statistical methods will not
      be applied. If there is a lack in patient's data due to any causes, such a patient will be
      excluded from this block of analysis. A number of patients included in each analysis will be
      represented in the report, so readers could themselves assess the influence of the lost data
      on the published result.
    
  