
    
      Bariatric surgery is recognized as the only effective therapeutic weapon for morbidly obese
      patients. Gastro-Oesophageal Reflux Disease is very common (30-45% of cases) with serious
      consequences on the oesophageal mucosa. It could be an exacerbation of preoperative GERD
      symptoms or a "de novo" postoperative GERD. Medical treatment is usually effective but
      reoperation may be required to treat refractory GERD.GERD can lead to serious consequences on
      the oesophageal mucosa (esophagitis, Barrett's oesophagus, cancer). The conventional surgical
      treatment of GERD is fundoplication, which can be partial or total. The gastric fundus is
      wrapped around the oesophagus to strengthen the tone of the oesophageal sphincter. We
      hypothesize that the creation of a total anti-reflux fundoplication before performing LSG
      (Nissen + Sleeve = N-sleeve) could significantly reduce the postoperative GERD complication
      as compared with the standard LSG.

      To evaluate the impact of the procedure N-Sleeve vs conventional sleeve gastrectomy technique
      on the rate of patient with GERD at 1, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. To evaluate the
      impact of the procedure (sleeve gastrectomy technique with a Nissen fundoplication (N-Sleeve)
      vs conventional sleeve gastrectomy technique during all the follow-up on the gastric fistula
      on the staple line, on the postoperative morbidity and mortality , on the evolution of weight
      loss, the excess weight loss, the BMI and the excess BMI loss during the follow-up. Evaluate
      the impact of these procedures on the quality of life of patients at baseline and 1, 6 and 12
      months postoperatively. Evaluate the safety during all the follow-up.

      •Methods: Monocentric, randomized, single-blind controlled trial, with 2 parallel arms. 144
      patients. The target population is all adult patients with severe or morbid obesity, who
      underwent multidisciplinary care and having the criteria of 2009 HAS recommendations for
      bariatric surgery.

      Presence of gastro-oesophageal reflux will be assessed by a composite criteria: consumption
      of Proton Pump Inhibitor and gastroscopy at baseline and 12-month.

      The N-SLEEVE technique consists of creating a gastric total fundoplication before to perform
      the removal of 2/3 of the stomach.

      This study may really lead to a change in terms of choice of first intention bariatric
      procedures.
    
  