
    
      FOLLOW UP

      Patients will be followed up at 3, 6, and 12months with:

        -  clinical visit, symptoms questionnaire, electrocardiogram (ECG), ECG Holter (3, 6, and
           12 months);

        -  trans-thoracic echocardiogram (only at 12months);

        -  Three-dimensional late gadolinium enhancement cardiac magnetic resonamce - 3D LGE- CMR
           (if possible, only at 6 months); exercise cardiopulmonary test (only pre-ablation and at
           6 months).

      SAFETY REPORTING RECORDING ADVERSE EVENTS (AES) All Adverse Events will be recorded in the
      hospital notes and Case Report Form (CRF).

      If the Investigator suspects that the disease has progressed faster due to the administration
      of the study treatment/procedure, then he/she will report this as an unexpected adverse event
      to the Sponsor and the REC.

      THE TYPE AND DURATION OF THE FOLLOW-UP OF SUBJECTS AFTER AES The type and duration of
      follow-up care for subjects following an AES will be as follows: 6-12 months following
      pulmonary vein stenosis, phrenic nerve palsy, valve damage, and atrio-oesophageal fistula (if
      operated); 3-6 months following vascular complications or pericardial effusion (usually these
      complications are promptly treated without major long term consequence).

      PREGNANCY Pregnant patients will be excluded from the study. However, if pregnancy occurs
      after inclusion into the study, investigators will record and notify pregnancies occurring
      during the study period to the Sponsor.

      Follow-up of pregnant subject:

        -  No further ablation procedure will be undertaken during the pregnancy period in order to
           avoid radiation exposure and hazards to the foetus.

        -  Medication contraindicated during pregnancy will be withdrawn.

        -  Anticoagulation treatment with Warfarin will be discontinued during the first and the
           third trimester and replaced with subcutaneous injections of low molecular weight
           heparin.

        -  No additional investigations involving radiation exposure such as computed tomography
           (CT), X ray will be performed, unless clinically urgent.

      Follow-up of child born to a pregnant trial subject, including male trial subject who is the
      partner of the pregnant woman:

      Children born to a pregnant subject are unlikely to be affected by the participation of the
      parent in the study. For safety reasons, a specialised paediatric team will follow children
      for 1 year.

      ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORTS (APRS) The Chief Investigator (CI) will prepare the APR for the
      study. It will be reviewed by the Research Office (RO) and sent to the regulatory ethic
      committee (REC) by the CI within 30 days of the anniversary date on which the favorable
      opinion was given by the REC, and annually until the study is declared ended.

      REPORTING URGENT SAFETY MEASURES The Sponsor and/or the Investigator may take appropriate
      urgent safety measures in order to protect the subjects of a clinical study against any
      immediate hazard to their health or safety. If safety measures are taken, REC approval is not
      required before the measure is taken.

      The Investigator will immediately and in any event no later than 3 days from the date the
      measures are taken, give written notice to the REC and the study Sponsor of the measures
      taken and the circumstances giving rise to those measures.

      In order to prevent any delays in the reporting timelines the Sponsor has delegated this
      responsibility to the CI/Principal Investigator (PI). Therefore, the CI/PI must report any
      urgent safety measures to the REC directly, and in parallel to the Sponsor. The REC
      coordinator will acknowledge receipt of urgent safety measures within 30 days.

      DATA MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY ASSURANCE CONFIDENTIALITY All data will be handled in accordance
      with the Data Protection Act 1998, NHS Caldecott Principles, The Research Governance
      Framework for Health and Social Care, 2nd Edition (2005), and the condition of the REC
      approval.

      The Case Report Forms (CRFs) will not bear the subject's name or other personal identifiable
      data. The subject's initials, Date of Birth (DOB) and study Identification Number (ID), will
      be used for identification.

      DATA COLLECTION TOOL Case Report Forms (CRF) will be designed by the CI and the final version
      will be reviewed and discussed with the study Sponsor. All data will be entered legibly in
      black ink with a ball-point pen. If the Investigator makes an error, it will be crossed
      through with a single line in such a way to ensure that the original entry can still be read.
      The correct entry will then be clearly inserted. The amendment will be initialled and dated
      by the person making the correction immediately. Overwriting or use of correction fluid will
      not be permitted.

      It is the Investigator's responsibility to ensure the accuracy of all data entered and
      recorded in the CRFs. The Delegation of Responsibilities Log will identify all trial
      personnel responsible for data collection, entry, handling and managing the database.

      Data will be firstly recorded into source documents (i.e medical notes) (medical history,
      baseline investigations) and then recorded onto the CRF (with the addition of the procedure
      specific data).

      Methods used to maximise completeness of data will include telephoning subjects who have not
      attended the planned follow-up visit.

      DATA HANDLING AND ANALYSIS

        -  Excel software will be used for data entry.

        -  In order to ensure validity and quality of data the study investigators will use cross
           validation

        -  Data will be stored and backed up on 2 additional hard drives on two different sites in
           order to allow recovery of data in case of a disaster such as fire/flooding/ theft. The
           PI and their collaborators/co-workers will be responsible for data entry and quality of
           data collection. Analysis will be performed by the study investigators and reviewed
           independently of data entry by the statistical team.

        -  Every patient will receive a numerical patient identifier and all data that is
           transferred outside the primary hospital will exclusively be identified by this study
           number.

        -  The study database will be held at the Biomedical Research Unit (BRU) server at the
           Royal Brompton Hospital.

      ARCHIVING ARRANGEMENTS The study documents (including the Study Master File (SMF), Case
      Report Forms (CRFs), Informed Consent Forms along with the study database) will be kept for a
      minimum of five years. They will be stored in locked offices within the Royal Brompton and
      Harefield NHS Foundation Trust (RB&HFT). The CI is responsible for the secure archiving of
      study documents. The study database will also be kept electronically on the RB&HFT computer
      network, for a minimum of five years.

      The approved repository for longer retention of local materials for studies that involve
      RB&HFT patients is Box-It Storage UK. The study documentation will be prepared for archiving
      by the research team in line with the Research Office Archiving Standard Operating Procedures
      (SOP) and the transfer will be arranged by the Research Office.

      Patient anonymised data may be exported for the purpose of offline review and to perform the
      image merge as part of the study and also to further develop the technology.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS This is a feasibility pilot study, which will test the feasibility of AF
      mapping with Acutus system and catheter ablation in patients with HCM and paroxysmal or
      persistent AF (time in persistent AF < 12 months duration). Therefore, no power calculation
      has been done and the number of patient recruited will be of 20 which are deemed sufficient
      by the Chief Investigator and Co-PIs on a clinical basis.

      The estimated recruitment period for the trial will be of 6 months. We estimate that this
      sample size is attainable in practice, as the number of AF ablation procedures per year
      performed within each Trust is around 400. The study investigators also included patients
      with previous AF ablation in order to maximise chances of recruitment. This pilot is
      performed with the intention to plan a prospective multi-operator/multicentre trial which is
      adequately powered.

      The study investigators will aim to compare the procedure parameters as well as the outcome
      of this trial to age & gender matched procedures of the same operator from the last 5 years'
      database.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN Descriptive statistic data with regard to baseline and procedural
      variables will be reported; continuous variables will be expressed by mean ± standard
      deviation or median and interquartile range (25th, 75th percentile), depending on the
      normality of distribution; categorical variables will be summarized by frequencies and
      percentages. The outcome of radiofrequency ablation on the entire cohort of patients will be
      presented in the form of percentage of patients free from symptomatic or documented
      arrhythmia or with only mild symptoms related to arrhythmia recurrence. Results will be
      reported separately for 3, 6 and 12month visit.

      Depending on the severity of symptoms and documentation of tachycardia during follow-up,
      patients will be divided into two groups (success/recurrence). Baseline characteristics and
      procedural variables will be compared between these two groups by student t-tests, Mann
      Whitney U tests, or Fisher's exact test where appropriate in order to identify those
      variables associated with better mid/long term outcomes. A two-tailed p value <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. Intra-patient improvement from baseline to 12 months
      follow-up visit will be assessed by McNemar's test. Freedom from AF will be assessed as a
      time dependant variable using Cox proportional hazard models.

      To judge if ablation strategy using Acutus mapping system is as successful in achieving the
      clinical endpoint, the study investigators will compare the procedure parameters as well as
      the outcome of this trial to age & gender matched procedures of the same operator from the
      last 5 years' database.

      To measure the strength of association between the acute successes (SR at the end of the
      ablation), 3, 6 and 12-month outcomes, a McNemar test will be performed. Data will be
      analysed using SPSS version 18 (IBM Corporation).

      RANDOMISATION The subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the two procedures using a
      computer programme that provides a sequence of the procedures randomly permuted in blocks of
      constant or varying size. For this study a constant block size will be used.

      COMMITTEES INVOLVED IN THE STUDY Trial Management Group (TMG) - normally includes those
      individuals responsible for the day-to-day management of the trial, such as the CI,
      statistician, trial manager, research nurse, data manager. The role of the group is to
      monitor all aspects of the conduct and progress of the trial, ensure that the protocol is
      adhered to and take appropriate action to safeguard participants and the quality of the trial
      itself.

      MONITORING AND AUDITING The requirement for study monitoring or audit will be based on the
      internal Research Office (RO) risk assessment procedure and applicable Standard Operating
      Procedures (SOPs). It is the responsibility of the RO to determine the monitoring risk
      assessment and explain the rationale to the study research team. Monitoring support will be
      provided by the Sponsor, Spectrum Dynamics, as required.

      Study monitoring and/or audit will be discussed with the CI before arrangements are made to
      conduct the visit.

      DIRECT ACCESS TO SOURCE DATA The Investigator(s)/institution(s) will permit trial-related
      monitoring, audits, REC review, and regulatory inspection(s), providing direct access to
      source data/documents. Trial participants are informed of this during the informed consent
      discussion. Participants will consent to provide access to their medical notes.

      FINANCE The therapeutic procedure follows the normal clinical pathway for treatment of atrial
      fibrillation. The additional cost incurred due to the participation in the HCM-AF ablation
      with Acutus protocol per patient will be sponsored by Acutus Medical.

      INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY NHS bodies are liable for clinical negligence and other negligent
      harm to individuals covered by their duty of care. NHS Institutions employing researchers are
      liable for negligent harm caused by the design of studies they initiate. The provision of
      such indemnity for negligent harm should be stated to the participant.
    
  