
    
      The aim of the trial is to explore influence of teeth whitening on the perception of
      dentofacial aesthetics. Influence of personality traits on this relationship is also to be
      explored (extraversion, conscientiousness, neuroticism, agreeableness, openness to
      experience, perfectionism, self-esteem, body image). All total of 70 examinees (young adults)
      at baseline (T0) will administrate psychometric instruments Oral Health Impact Profile
      (OHIP), Psychosocial Impact of Dental Aesthetics Questionnaire (PIDAQ), Orofacial Esthetic
      Scale (OES), Smile esthetics related quality of life (SERQoL), Big Five Inventory (BFI),
      Rosenberg's Self-Esteem Scale (RSS), Frost Multidimensional Perfectionism Sale (FMPS), and a
      newly developed short form instruments for body image, perfectionism, self-esteem and
      perception of body appearance. The elements of tooth color (lightness, chroma and
      translucency) will be assessed by spectrophotometer (SpectroShade, MHT, Italy) at baseline
      (T0), after one week (T1) and after one year (T2). The precision and accuracy of the
      instrument will be checked by repeated measurements and by comparison with the gold standard.
      Examinees will be randomly assigned to the active or control group using the "random between"
      function in Microsoft Excell. Teeth of half of subjects will be bleached using a lamp and
      photo-activated bleaching gel (Signal Easy Lamp Plus and Signal Fast Professional plus set,
      Signal, Unilever, Argentina), while the remaining half will be subjected to a placebo, i.e. a
      gel without active substance.

      After one week (T1) the elements of tooth color will be assessed again and color change will
      be calculated (ΔE). Pain induced by whitening procedure will be assessed by using 10mm visual
      analogue scale. Participants will administrate instruments OHIP, PIDAQ, OES, SERQoL and short
      form instruments for body image, perfectionism, self-esteem and perception of body
      appearance. A year after the whitening procedure (T2) the elements of toth color will be
      assessed again and the same instruments as in T1 will be administrated. The short-term
      (T0-T1) and long-term (T0-T2) effect of teeth whitening on the changes in perception of
      dentofacial aesthetics and quality of life is to be analyzed.

      The results will be analysed by using t-test, analysis of variance and covariance, and
      Pearson correlations.
    
  