
    
      Objectives Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is a condition that contributes to falls, dizziness,
      syncope, transient ischemic attack, and impaired functional status. OH is defined
      specifically as a 20mmHg drop in systolic, and/or a 10mmHg drop in diastolic BP within 3 min
      of standing. The objectives of this study are to: (1) Examine the effect of OH treatment on
      functional outcomes, and OH prevalence during a subject's inpatient stay, and (2) Evaluate
      whether OH treatment during a subject's inpatient stay affects fall prevalence, and
      functional outcomes by 12 months after discharge.

      Plan This 4-year project will be a randomized controlled trial of a
      multidisciplinary-multicomponent intervention to improve OH in patients admitted to Nursing
      Home (NH) and rehabilitation settings. During the 37-month enrollment period, the
      investigators expect to consent 350 subjects who will be randomized into intervention and
      control groups (175 subjects each). During their stay, subjects in the intervention group
      will receive a standardized treatment for their OH, or to prevent OH, while those in the
      control group will receive usual care. The investigators expect that 85% will remain in the
      study until they are discharged from the NH/rehabilitation unit. Following discharge, the
      investigators will conduct weekly phone calls to monitor incidence of falls for one month.
      Subsequently, at 12-months post-discharge, the investigators will conduct a chart review, and
      the study will terminate. The investigators expect 85% of the subjects discharged from the
      NH/rehabilitation unit that were enrolled in the study will remain in the study at 12-months
      post discharge. The investigators performed a "pilot" study on up to 10 subjects while
      waiting for adequate staffing to conduct the study with blinded data collectors.

      Methods The investigators will evaluate OH blood pressure responses, symptoms during
      standing, and whether there are any specific adverse outcomes related to treatment. In
      addition, the investigators will evaluate whether treatment of OH improves: motor functional
      independence measure (mFIM) scores, therapy participation, length of stay, transfer to the
      acute care hospital, discharge location, and mortality.

      Clinical Relevance OH is a very common finding in many medically ill adult and elderly
      patients, and is associated with falls, syncope, and hip fractures. More aggressive screening
      (possibly the 6th vital sign) and management of this condition may improve outcomes for
      rehabilitation and long term care patients at the investigators' site as well other high-risk
      patient populations.
    
  