
    
      Bulimia nervosa (BN) is an eating disorder characterized by a pattern of binge eating and
      compensatory behaviors as well as an overemphasis on body weight and shape in
      self-evaluation. BN has a lifetime prevalence rate of 1-3% and is associated with numerous
      psychiatric and medical complications. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is regarded as the
      gold-standard treatment for BN and the treatment approach with the most empirical support to
      date. However, although CBT has accumulated impressive empirical support for its
      effectiveness, CBT produces abstinence from binge eating and purging in only 30-50% of
      treatment completers. Furthermore, relapse is common and many individuals do not maintain
      treatment gains. Innovative treatments that can improve rates of remission among patients
      with BN and related disorders are sorely needed for bulimia nervosa and related eating
      disorders, particularly for individuals for whom existing treatments fail.

      Existing CBT may be enhanced by incorporating acceptance-based behavioral strategies and
      nutritional counseling to help patients eliminate BN symptoms. Acceptance-based behavioral
      treatments (ABBTs) emphasize "changing what you can and accepting what you can't", which
      refers to a focus on learning how to accept and tolerate distressing internal experiences
      (e.g., thoughts, emotions, urges, physical sensations) that might not be directly under the
      patients' control while choosing to engage in adaptive behavioral choices that are within
      their control. Patients may benefit from the provision of more adaptive behavioral strategies
      to maintain weight in a healthy range, which is not a primary goal of existing behavioral
      treatments. Nutritional counseling (NC), which is designed to promote healthy, non-rigid
      dietary restraint and exercise habits, can lead to improvements in weight control that may
      also improve disordered eating behaviors. As described above, a primary maintenance factor
      for BN is the strict and rigid dieting behavior that triggers urges to binge. Several studies
      have indicated that the provision of healthy restraint strategies to patients with BN can
      reduce binge eating and purging behaviors, suggesting that this approach can be an effective
      treatment alone or in combination with other behavioral techniques.

      Study Objectives-

        -  Test the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of Nutritional Counseling
           And Acceptance-based Therapy (N-CAAT) for bulimia nervosa (BN) in a small pilot RCT
           trial

        -  Assess the mechanisms of action to enhance treatment development

        -  Evaluate the feasibility of recruitment, randomization, retention, assessment
           procedures, and implementation of the novel treatment to enhance the probability of
           success in subsequent larger RCTs
    
  