
    
      The study involves a nutritional intervention with a controlled, double-blind, randomized,
      cross design. It includes 44 healthy subjects with a total duration of 20 weeks with a
      "wash-out/stabilization" period for 2-4 weeks before randomization. Subjects are randomized
      in two groups: (1) those who begin drinking 2 alcohol-free beers (33 cl each one) that are
      enriched in a resistant maltodextrin and isomaltulose during 10 weeks and continue drinking 2
      alcohol-free beers (33 cl each one) with regular composition during the next 10 weeks
      following; (2) those who will follow the same previous intervention but in reverse, beginning
      with standard alcohol-free beer for 10 weeks, followed by resistant maltodextrin and
      isomaltulose-enriched beer for the remaining 10 weeks. There is a washout period between both
      phases to facilitate adherence to nutritional intervention, since we consider that a period
      of 20 consecutive weeks could be difficult to assume for the participants. Participants and
      the research team are "blind" to the type of beer that subjects are taking in each phase.
      Only one person of the company that provide beers, which does not directly participate in the
      clinic visits or in the analysis of the data, is aware of this information. Clinical staff
      performed the randomization based on a computerized method.

      Among those subjects included in the study, microbiota sub-study is proposed which require a
      specific authorization within informed consent. Among all subjects that are included in this
      substudy and that have completed the whole nutritional intervention, 10 subjects (5 from each
      randomized group) will be selected to microbiota determination.

        -  Study visits:

             1. Prescreening visit: Inclusion and exclusion criteria assessment and blood
                collection if glucose or glycated hemoglobin is not available in previous 3 months.
                Healthy diet and physical activity counselling is provided by a nutritionist; it
                should be maintained during all study. Baseline visit is scheduled in 2-4 weeks
                after lifestyle stabilization.

             2. Baseline phase 1 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Computer-based randomization is performed.
                Alcohol-free beer (A or B according to randomization procedures) for the next 10
                weeks is delivered to the participant who has to consume two per day. A
                nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle counselling to the participant. A feces
                sample is collected if subjects accept to be included in microbiota sub study.

             3. Intermediate phase 1 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Satiety after alcohol-free beer consumption is
                measured by a validated questionnaire. A nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle
                counselling to the participant.

             4. End of phase 1 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Satiety after alcohol-free beer consumption is
                measured by a validated questionnaire. A nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle
                counselling to the participant. A wash-out period of 4-8 weeks is scheduled before
                the next phase start. A feces sample is collected if subjects accept to be included
                in microbiota sub study.

             5. Baseline phase 2 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Alcohol-free beer (A or B: if subjects consumed
                alcohol-free beer A, he/she change to alcohol-free B and vice versa) for the next
                10 weeks is delivered to the participant who has to consume two per day. A
                nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle counselling to the participant. A feces
                sample is collected if subjects accept to be included in microbiota sub study.

             6. Intermediate phase 2 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Satiety after alcohol-free beer consumption is
                measured by a validated questionnaire. A nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle
                counselling to the participant.

             7. End of phase 2 visit: Clinical, biochemical, dietary, physical activity and
                anthropometric data are assessed. Satiety after alcohol-free beer consumption is
                measured by a validated questionnaire. A nutritionist emphasizes healthy lifestyle
                counselling to the participant. A feces sample is collected if subjects accept to
                be included in microbiota sub study.

        -  Study variables:

             -  Clinical variables: Gender, age, medical records including diseases and medication,
                tobacco consumption and blood pressure.

             -  Anthropometric variables: Weight, height, body mass index, waist circumference,
                body composition analysis.

             -  Biochemical variables: Glucose, lipid and iron metabolism are assessed.
                Inflammatory biomarkers, including C reactive protein, are also determined.

             -  Microbiota: Feces samples are collected to microbiota analysis including
                Bacteroides, Lactobacillus, Enterococcus, Prevotella or Roseburia, among others.

             -  Dietary and physical activity assessment: Diet and physical activity are assessed
                by validated questionnaires.
    
  