
    
      Background The rate of hospital admissions for hyperbilirubinemia (jaundice) has increased
      over the past 10 years. Jaundice is a condition caused by elevated serum levels of bilirubin
      due to an increase in bilirubin production or normal production with problems eliminating it
      from the body. Serum levels of bilirubin in excess of 5 mg/dL signify clinical jaundice; more
      than half of full term infants experience these levels within the first week of life.1 It is
      important for health care providers to distinguish infants experiencing physiologic jaundice
      as part of otherwise healthy development from those experiencing pathologic jaundice which,
      if not treated aggressively, can lead to irreversible damage of the central nervous system.2
      Since 2000 there has been a 160% increase in the number of children readmitted to hospitals
      for jaundice after discharge from the hospital nursery.2 This dramatic increase is believed
      to be associated with the change in birth hospital culture as newborns are now typically
      discharged 48 hours after delivery while bilirubin levels are still on the rise. Bilirubin
      levels typically peak between the third and fifth day of life.3 The change in hospital
      discharge procedures results in circumstances where parents may present for medical care in
      an ED when their newborn starts to show symptoms of jaundice. This trend has been observed
      despite the implementation of routine bilirubin screening in many newborn nurseries. Similar
      to national trends, at Children's there has been a substantial increase in ED evaluations for
      jaundice; in 2012, 274 neonates younger than 7 days old were treated for jaundice in
      Children's EDs. Families may seek care in the ED as they may not have an established
      relationship with a Pediatrician or they may believe that their child requires an
      intervention that was only available in the ED setting. While some of these patients are
      ultimately admitted to the hospital for monitoring and treatment others are sent home for
      phototherapy. At Children's, approximately 61% of the newborns evaluated for jaundice were
      admitted to the hospital for further care.4

      In 2004 the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) implemented evidence-based recommendations
      for the treatment of jaundice, that incorporate not only the infant's serum bilirubin
      concentrations but also gestational age, postnatal age, symptoms and risk factors for
      pathologic hyperbilirubinemia.5, 6 The AAP recommendations are the basis of all current
      jaundice clinical algorithms. The main treatment options according to the AAP guidelines are
      phototherapy, and in rare circumstances, exchange transfusions or pharmacologic treatments.2
      Phototherapy is the most common treatment for jaundice and may be used in either a home-based
      setting or after admission to a hospital.6 Phototherapy reduces serum bilirubin levels by
      changing the shape and structure of bilirubin to one that is water soluble and can more
      simplistically be eliminated from the body through urine and stool.1 For those patients who
      fail phototherapy treatment or in whom the levels are exceedingly high, the use of exchange
      transfusions is an option within the hospital setting. Phototherapy has been successfully and
      safely utilized in the home-based setting to reduce the likelihood of hospital readmissions.6
      Although pediatricians have successfully utilized home-based phototherapy, ED utilization of
      this option has been limited by access to phototherapy equipment vendors and ED provider
      knowledge of the criteria for outpatient management. As a result of this knowledge and access
      gap, the current ED care for infants with jaundice results in variation in care and
      over-hospitalization of infants who may be safely treated at home.

      While the AAP guidelines educate physicians on the importance of evaluating infants who are 3
      - 5 days of age, there is a lack of adherence to these recommendations and follow-up is often
      delayed. As an example, Profit et al. evaluated a large group of urban and suburban
      pediatricians to determine adherence with the AAP recommendations for follow-up of healthy
      newborn infants ≥35 weeks gestational age. Only 37% of infants in the study were seen by a
      pediatrician within the first 6 days of life.7 This finding is consistent with national
      trends that show infants frequently present to EDs when symptoms of jaundice emerge in lieu
      of the recommended screening.1 For example, in 2007, EDs across the United States evaluated
      almost 46,000 patients for neonatal jaundice. In order to reduce time to phototherapy and
      decrease ED length of stay8 when faced with the emergent presentation of jaundice some
      hospitals have implemented clinical pathways. Gomez et al. developed and implemented such a
      pathway through the use of a CDS tool to accurately diagnose and treat jaundice as well as to
      mitigate the costs that are associated with readmissions to hospitals. The authors found that
      the clinical pathway was useful for clarifying the decision process for clinicians by helping
      to educate clinicians about treatment options for jaundice them gain while highlighting
      inconsistencies in their routine protocols.9 Other authors have similarly reported that
      clinical pathways can help to reduce irregularities and discrepancies in neonatal jaundice
      care.10 Thus, the available literature would support that clinical pathways for neonatal
      jaundice can be useful and can lead to meaningful improvements in patient care.

      Key strategies for improving adherence to current jaundice clinical pathways are to increase
      ED clinician knowledge and improve access outpatient phototherapy. An electronic,
      Cerner-based CDS tool, such as the one we propose, would provide clinicians with information
      at the point of care and would be incorporated into the ED workflow. This approach utilizes
      algorithms developed from evidenced based guidelines to standardize the treatment of neonatal
      jaundice and stratify patients into diagnostic risk groups based on particular aspects of the
      history, physical examination and laboratory data. The goal is to standardize the care in
      order to promote safe, cost-effective as well as appropriate care for all infants. This is
      especially important in the ED, where there is a high volume of acutely ill patients for whom
      management decisions must be made both accurately and quickly. This includes the rapid
      recognition of who is at risk of more serious complications and conditions such as
      kernicterus and who can safely be discharged home.3 Finally, the ordering, delivery, and
      set-up of home phototherapy equipment must require minimal effort by the ED clinician. We
      propose to leverage our electronic health record (EHR) system to streamline ordering and our
      well established home nursing organization to conduct home nursing visits to address these
      barriers to adherence with jaundice clinical pathways.

      Research Question Will a clinical decision support tool for jaundice promote appropriate use
      of home photo therapy and reduce hospital admissions for patients at risk for jaundice?

      Design This is a prospective, interrupted time series trial.

      Methods We will measure resource utilization (i.e. laboratory use, hospital admission)
      retrospectively for 48 months pre-intervention in children identified at risk for jaundice
      presenting for care in a Children's Emergency Departments. We will then implement the
      jaundice-CDS over a 2-month period and measure resource utilization for 18 months post
      intervention. Rates of unplanned ED or hospital visits, use of exchange-transfusion and
      mortality will be monitored as safety outcomes.

      Jaundice-CDS is composed of two components. The first, MD Alert, triggered at initial
      provider login will cognitively prime the ED provider toward use of Jaundice-CDS. The second
      consists of a pre-populated order-set which provides targeted recommendations and guidance on
      use of photo-therapy and criteria for hospital admission. Both are based on the currently
      accepted pediatric guideline for management of this condition.

      MD ALERT:

      A provider EHR-based alert will trigger for infants identified by triage who are meet
      eligibility criteria. This alert will serve to remind the clinician of the existence of a
      Jaundice order set, the availability of home nursing and home photo-therapy.

      ORDER SET:

      When the clinician begins the process of ordering any laboratory tests, they will be
      encouraged to utilize the Jaundice order-set. The order-set will contain recommendation on
      the most appropriate laboratory tests to obtain, criteria for admission to the hospital, as
      well as pre-defined orders for obtaining a home nursing referral and delivery of home
      photo-therapy equipment. A link will also be provided to "bilitool.org", an online resource
      for calculating a neonates risk for jaundice.

      Analysis We will use logistic regression to assess, after controlling for relevant clinical
      factors, the odds of ordering a specific laboratory test (e.g., CBC, BMP, Coombs, etc.) in
      the group of patients seen during implementation of the CDS compared to the odds of such an
      order among patients arriving prior to the implementation of the CDS. Similar to the analysis
      of laboratory tests, we will use logistic regression to estimate odds ratios for admission
      and for home-based phototherapy among patients presenting to the ED with jaundice symptoms
      before and after the implementation of the CDS. We will use linear regression to compare
      total cost per encounter for all patients seen in the ED before the implementation of the CDS
      to total costs for patients seen in the ED post-implementation. In addition to ED costs,
      total costs of care will include any inpatient costs for patients admitted, and they will
      include costs for all lab tests. We will also compare costs pre- and post-implementation for
      those admitted to the hospital and for those discharged home.
    
  