
    
      This study is planned with the primary objective of developing a database containing
      patient-reported information that may be used to understand and increase awareness of the
      impact that moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis can have on both daily life and life in
      general from a patient's perspective. This is a multicenter observational (no drug given to
      the patient) patient narrative study. The duration of study is 16 weeks and includes adult
      patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or
      systemic therapy. The study investigators are dermatologists who treat patients with
      moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. The study includes a screening visit 2 weeks before Week
      0 (baseline). Patients will be evaluated at screening for current or peak historical
      physician's global assessment (PGA) response (range 0-5). Patients will provide narratives at
      the Week 0 (baseline) visit and may add additional information at an interval visit or at the
      end of the study on Week 16. Photography will be performed at Week 0 and at the end of study
      at Week 16. Additional photographs will be taken if there is any change in disease status
      (e.g., disease improvement or worsening, change in treatment) occurring prior to the end of
      the study. Between Week 0 and Week 16, patients may return to the study site for 1 interval
      visit at the first clinically significant change in disease status, if applicable. The Week
      16 final assessment may be conducted as a telephone follow-up for patients who have had an
      interval visit between Week 0 and Week 16. If the patient did not return to the study site
      for an interval visit, the patient will return to the study site for a visit at Week 16. All
      assessments specified for the interval visit will be performed at Week 16. All patients will
      have the following data collected: PGA score, area of body involved, body surface area
      percent (BSA%, calculates percent of body surface area affected with psoriasis), Psoriasis
      Area and Severity Index (PASI) de-identified photographs, adverse events, and patient
      narratives. The information will be collected de-identified. Study materials (e.g.,
      demographic and disease characteristic forms, narratives, and photographs) will be coded
      using a unique patient identification (ID) number. Only de-identified information will be
      available to the Sponsor and related study personnel.
    
  