
    
      This is a phase II Simon two-stage single-center study of concurrent fecal microbiota
      transplang (FMT) with pembrolizumab in patients with PD-1 resistant/refractory melanoma. The
      study will be conducted over a 12-week period (and up to 24-weeks in responding patients).

      Patient eligibility is based upon prior exposure to PD-1 inhibitor therapy and response at
      first (or subsequent) restaging scans from week 12 up to week 52. Patients must have received
      a minimum of 2 cycles to be considered eligible. Patients who have received either nivolumab
      or pembrolizumab are eligible. Patients who have received pembrolizumab/nivolumab in
      combination with other investigational agent(s) may be eligible at the discretion of the
      treating investigator. PD-1 refractory disease is defined as progressive disease (PD) at the
      first (or subsequent) radiographic evaluation while receiving PD-1 inhibitor treatment as
      assessed by RECIST v1.1 on a restaging scan. Other eligibility criteria include absence of
      CNS disease, presence of disease amenable to biopsy and lack of contra-indications to FMT
      administration. Patients will be stratified on the presence or absence of liver metastases.

      Suitable patients will be identified following first (or subsequent) restaging study that
      documents progressive disease (RECIST v1.1). Patients will undergo a screening evaluation
      consisting of imaging (including CNS if clinically suspected), tumor biopsy, and
      serological/stool studies to confirm suitability for FMT administration. Eligible patients
      will receive FMT endoscopically (along with intestinal biopsy) (with cycle 1 pembrolizumab
      +/- 3 days) followed by 3 further cycles of pembrolizumab (cycles 2-4) following which
      restaging will be performed. Patients with stable and/or responding disease will continue to
      receive pembrolizumab on study for 4 cycles. Patients with stable and/or responding disease
      after 8 cycles of pembrolizumab will continue to receive therapy off study until disease
      progression or up to two years from FMT administration.
    
  