
    
      Chicken egg consists of three main components, egg white (56%), yolk (33%), and shell (11%).
      The key component of egg white is 88 percent water and 12 percent solids, of which over 90
      percent are protein. Ovalbumin, ovotransferrin, and ovomucoid are considered the main
      proteins, while ovomucin, lysozyme, ovoglobulin, ovomacroglobulin, ovoglycoprotein,
      ovoflavoprotein, thiamin-binding proteins, ficin/papain inhibitors, avidin, and cystatin are
      the minor white proteins of the embryo. These proteins and their peptides have been
      recognized as antioxidants, antimicrobials, metal-chelators, anti-viral, anti-tumor, and
      angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors for their functional significance. Among these
      functional properties, the antioxidant ability is essential to food processing. Generation of
      reactive oxygen species (ROS) and free radicals is an integral part of biological processes
      affecting all living organisms in energy production. Ovotransferrin (OTf), which constitutes
      12% of the total white egg protein, is known as an iron binder and transporter in animals and
      can thus be used as an iron replacement, antimicrobial or antioxidant. Japanese researchers
      find ovotransferrin in a redox-dependent method generates observable self-cleaning.

      OTf is composed of 686 amino acids and has a molecular mass of 77.90 kDa. It is a superoxide
      dismutase (SOD)-mimicking protein with a potent superoxide anion (O2 _-)-scavenging activity
      and showed dramatically higher scavenging activity than some known antioxidants, such as
      serum albumin or ascorbate. Interestingly, metal-bound OTfs such as Fe2+-OTf, Mn2+-OTf,
      Cu2+-OTf exhibited greater O2 _- dismutation capacity than the apoprotein. Conjugation of OTf
      with small molecules such as catechin shows improved antioxidant activity. During in vitro
      experiments, OTf displayed some antioxidant effects and its hydrolysates showed approximately
      3,2 to 13,5 times higher superoxide anion scavenging activity and better copper/calcium
      scavenging activity than OTf. Furthermore, autocleaved OTf showed higher antioxidant activity
      than the natural OTf, and the hydrolysates of autocleaved OTf showed stronger antioxidant
      activity than those of the autocleaved one.

      The peptide IRW, resulting from hydrolysis, exhibited a high-oxygen radical-scavenging that
      could be related to tryptophan. In addition, two high antioxidant activity tetrapeptides
      (WNIP and GWNI) were found in OTf thermolysin digests. WNI's motif seemed to be responsible
      for the high antioxidant potential as amino acid residues coupled with both peptides' N or C
      terminus decreased their antioxidant capacity. Moreover, when tested in endothelial cells,
      the peptide GWNI showed the ability to reduce reactive oxygen species generation. Other
      antioxidant peptides previously reported from OTf using the oxygen radical absorbance
      ability, on the other hand showed no antioxidant activity in cells, showed deficiencies in
      cell-free in vitro methods for antioxidant studies, and highlighted the need to use more
      biological systems such as culture cells to test antioxidant peptides. OTf-derived
      hydrolyzates obtained with HCl at pH 2.5 or other enzymes such as protamex, alkalase,
      trypsin, neutrase, flavorzyme, maxazyme, collupulin, protex, promod 278 and
      alpha-chymotrypsin showing higher superoxide anion scavenging activity and radical oxygen
      absorption ability than intact protein and showing protective effects against oxidative
      stress-induced DNA.

      Due to their anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, otrf-derived peptides, including
      IRW, IQW, and KVREGT, are viable treatment agents for endothelial dysfunction and CVD
      prevention. They de-regulate the expression of the cytokine-induced inflammatory protein in
      the vascular endothelium by modulating the pathway NF-μB. Recent research also revealed that
      KVREGT has a significant role to inhibit ACE and promote vasodilation. IQW impedes ACE,
      promoting antioxidation.

      Ovotransferrin and lactoferrin are iron-binding proteins with natural immunity-related
      antiviral and antibacterial activities, displaying marked sequence and structural homologies.
      Two hen ovotransferrin fragments DQKDEYELL (hOtrf219-227) and KDLLFK (hOtrf269-301 and
      hOtrf633-638) have registered antiviral activity against Marek virus infection of chicken
      embryo fibroblasts. These fragments have sequence homology with two bovine lactoferrin
      fragments with antiviral activity towards herpes simplex virus, indicating that these
      fragments may play a role in exploiting intact protein antiviral activity towards herpes
      viruses. NMR analysis showed that these chemically synthesized peptides had no favorite
      solution conformation, suggesting that both the amino acid sequence and the conformation in
      the intact protein are necessary for antiviral action.

      SARS-CoV-2 virus activates the human cell ACE2 receptor, triggering a series of deleterious
      events. In COVID19, renin-angiotensin is upregulated and the pathway is overexpressed and a
      progressive cytokine storm is always observed. In all these pathogenic processes,
      ovotransferrin could play a modifier function to enhance the condition. Ovotransferrin can be
      beneficial to the antioxidant effects of Angiotensin II by inhibiting NF-kB. Ovotransferrin
      is an immunomodulator that downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines including TNF-α, IL-6,
      and IL-1 that could extinguish the cytokine storm. Ovotransferrin can also serve as a
      protective agent against COVID19 cardiotoxicity due to disruption in the ACE2-mediated
      signaling pathway, cytokine storm, pulmonary dysfunction, and side effects of medications.

      In patients with coronavirus infection, provided ovotransferrin's possible protective
      effects, it is suggested as a supportive and therapeutic alternative.

      Given this background, in the light of the current COVID-19 emergency, it is the intention of
      the investigators to conduct a prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled study in the
      cohort of hospitalized patients with covid-19 pneumonia, administering 200 mg of
      ovotransferrin orally in addition to the standard of care therapy (SOC).

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of ovotransferrin will be associated with an
      earlier improvement of clinical and humoral parameters after 10 days of ovotransferrin
      treatment when compared to the group of patients provided with standard care.
    
  