
    
      Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) is a known vascular entity that may be life threatening and
      requires treatment once it's diameter exceeds 5.5 cm or in any diameter in symptomatic
      patients.

      Known risk factors for developing Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) include tabacco
      consumption, Sex (male predominance), age (above 65 with a history of smoking or age above 75
      without a history of smoking ), hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hyperchlesterolemia1 The
      most common treatment approach nowadays is the endovascular approach, a procedure known as
      endovascular aortic repair (EVAR). The most common procedure related complication is the
      expansion of the aneurysm from a "feeding vessel", usually a lumbar or intercostal artery.
      Another known complication is an endoleak from the stentgraft, through its proximal or distal
      part/.

      Today, accepted EVAR follow up protocol consists of a multiphasic CT angiography (CTA) scan
      .The initial scan is performed without contrast, the second scan is performed in the arterial
      phase and a third scan is performed in the late (portal) phase. CTA is performed at one month
      after the procedure and ultrasound exams there after.

      Ultrasonography is a useful method for detection and evaluation of AAA and is recommended as
      an annual screening tool for patients above 65 with smoking history or above 75 without
      smoking history. Duplex Ultrasonography has no ionizing radiation and is useful for the
      dynamic estimation of the aortic width in patients post EVAR. However, the sensitivity of
      ultrasonography solely for detection of endoleaks in post EVAR patients is not high, mostly
      due to known inborn limitations of ultrasound including decreased penetration in obese
      patients , and suboptimal demonstration of retroperitoneal structures due to gas in the
      intestine.

      In recent years, the development of "fusion" applications allow the dual modality merge
      between ultrasound and CT scans. The dual modality allows the direct comparison of imaging
      findings in real time. Fusion imaging is used as follow up examinations of known imaging
      findings on CT that cannot be optimally demonstrated on ultrasonography. Once these findings
      are followed up by ultrasonography, an substantial amount of radiation can be reduced.

      Another application that had been developed for ultrasound machines nowadays is the ability
      to generate a 3 dimensional (3D) reconstruction which allows more precision. 2D and 3D
      ultrasound imaging as a follow up imaging modality after endovascular aortic repair (EVAR)
      procedures has been described in medical literature3,4.

      In the recent year the usage of intravenous contrast agent for ultrasonography based on
      microbubbles (BRACO SONOVIEW) has been approved by the Israeli ministry of health. This
      intravenous contrast agent has been in usage for several years in Europe and have been
      recently approved officially in our country in the examination of liver, breast, vascular
      cerebral lesions and peripheral blood vessels. This contrast agent is not nephrotoxic and the
      risk for allergic reaction is very low statistically similar to Gadolinium. The contrast
      agent is purely intravascular and does not leak to the the interstitium, therefore can be
      used efficiently for the detection of endoleaks.

      This contrast agent has yet to be approved by ministry of health for the application in aorta
      imaging. Nevertheless, the European federation of societies for ultrasound in medicine and
      biology (EFSUMB) has specific guidelines for the usage of this contrast agent for the
      detection of stent grafts endoleaks (5) .

      A 3D contrast enhanced ultrasonography "fused" together with CTA may be an appropriate
      substitute for the standard CTA follow up in post EVAR patients and thus substantially reduce
      radiation doses as well as iodine contrast reactions and nephrotoxicity .

      The purpose of our research is to evaluate the combined modality (fusion of CTA with CEUS)
      mentioned above in identifing early endoleaks in post EVAR patients and thus enabilng early
      intervention when needed
    
  