
    
      The overall goal of this research is to bring powered devices, with suitable advanced control
      systems, to the clinic and home. The anticipation is that this will be a high-impact
      technological intervention with the potential to restore significant functionality to
      individuals with lower limb amputation and transform the field of lower limb prosthetics.

      The objective of the proposed clinical trial is to fully evaluate the biomechanical and
      energetic effects of using a powered knee-ankle prosthesis, identify task-specific training
      strategies for every-day device use, and quantify functional performance and quality of life
      changes at home and in the community. The hypothesis is that the powered knee-ankle
      prosthesis will demonstrate a significant improvement in function over existing technology.
      Furthermore, the hypothesis is that incorporating neural control information will provide
      enhanced, intuitive control of this device. Thus the approach is to directly compare the
      powered device with current state-of-art passive microprocessor controlled (MP) prostheses
      using a randomized cross-over study to control for subject-specific variation.

      1.1 Aim 1: Perform in-laboratory training and testing to compare gait biomechanics and
      clinical performance over several ambulation modes using either a passive prosthesis or a
      powered prosthesis. The expectation is the PKA prosthesis to enable gait kinetics and
      kinematics that more closely resemble those of individuals with intact limbs, therefore
      lowering the biomechanical and metabolic effects of ambulation.

      1.2 Aim 2: Perform home trials to evaluate community mobility and social interaction when
      using a powered knee-ankle prosthesis or a passive device. The expectation is that
      participants will choose to complete more diverse functional, occupational, and recreational
      activities when using the PKA prosthesis.

      1.3 Aim 3: Quantify performance with the PKA device when using a novel intent recognition
      algorithm that allows for seamless transitioning between activities compared to a standard
      control method. The expectation is that pattern recognition- based control will further
      improve mobility and decrease the physiological costs of ambulation compared to using the
      standard control method.
    
  