
    
      This is a phase II study to investigate the efficacy of biweekly bevacizumab in combination
      with modified-FOLFOXIRI regimen, as first-line chemotherapy in patients with borderline
      resectable colorectal liver metastases. Borderline resectable liver metastases are considered
      to have poor-risk diseases infeasible for upfront resection, but own the potential for
      resection after down-staging. The primary purpose of the study is to determine the resection
      rate of liver metastases in patients receiving this combination regimen. The secondary
      objectives are to determine the response rate, progression free survival, overall survival,
      and safety profiles.

      Eligible patients will receive a triplet chemotherapy consisting of bevacizumab (5 mg/kg)
      plus modified-FOLFOXIRI (irinotecan 150 mg/m2, oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2, leucovorin 200 mg/m2,
      and fluorouracil 2400 mg/m2 as a 46-h continuous infusion) every 14 days as a cycle.
      Resectability of primary tumor and liver metastases will be assessed after five cycles of
      combination treatment with feasible image exams. Patients with progressive disease will be
      discontinued in this study. For patients feasible for tumor resection, the modified triplet
      chemotherapy without bevacizumab combination will be continued for one other cycle for
      patients before surgery. If patients don't reach both the feasibility of tumor resection and
      progressive disease, another four cycles of bevacizumab combined with modified-FOLFOXIRI
      could be continued by investigator's judgement. Reassessment of resectability for primary
      tumor and liver metastases will be conducted using feasible image exams after a total of 9
      cycles of combination treatment in these patients. Similarly, the triplet chemotherapy
      without bevacizumab combination will be continued for the other one cycle before surgery for
      these patients feasible for tumor resection after reassessment. Bevacizumab should be stopped
      at least 4 weeks before the planned day of surgery. Short-course radiotherapy will be allowed
      before surgery for patients with rectal cancer. All patients will be discontinued in this
      study after tumor resection. Treatment will also be discontinued if the patient requests or
      the investigator decides that therapy should be withdrawn. Further tumor treatment after
      treatment discontinuation will be decided based on investigator's judgement with the best
      knowledge.
    
  