
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) kills more than 3 million people worldwide every
      year. COPD is managed mainly by pharmacological therapy during the stable stage. Research
      illustrates many proven beneficial outcomes associated with the use of bronchodilators
      (beta-agonists and anticholinergics), inhaled and oral steroids to decrease the bronchial
      tree inflammation, some antibiotics, such as azithromycin, which have not only antibacterial
      but also some anti-inflammatory properties. However, these remedies have many limitations due
      to the development of adverse effects and resistance. Despite the treatment, symptoms related
      to COPD negatively affect patients' quality of life and limit their essential physical
      abilities, such as walking.

      Although achievements have been made in the management of COPD, exacerbation (worsening or
      flare up) remains a leading cause for hospital admission. COPD exacerbation adversely affects
      patients' quality of and creates a significant financial burden on the healthcare system
      nationally and on a local level. Hospitals with excess readmission ratios for COPD are
      penalized financially by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. In Danbury Hospital,
      about 15% of patients admitted for COPD exacerbation are readmitted within 30 days on
      average.

      Therefore, there is an urgent need for continued development of maintenance drugs for the
      treatment of COPD. Aside from the ordinary accepted pharmacological therapy approved for
      treatment of this chronic respiratory illness, some alternatives have pharmacologic
      properties that may potentially target the pathophysiologic processes involved in COPD.

      Curcumin, a well-known polyphenol, is an active component of a plant Curcuma longa, commonly
      known as turmeric. Turmeric has been used for centuries as a spice and has recently become a
      widely used dietary supplement. Curcumin is reported to have anti-inflammatory properties by
      inhibiting NF-κB activation and IL-8,4,5 which are known to promote white blood cell activity
      and expression of COX-2 (enzyme responsible for production of inflammatory cytokines)
      involved in the pathophysiology of COPD. It has also been associated with the inhibition of
      cigarette smoke-induced NF-κB activation in bronchial epithelium in mice; in addition, it has
      been shown to revitalize steroid response in human cells.

      The data on the effects of curcumin on inflammatory cytokines, as described above, has been
      derived from in vitro cell line and animal studies. While curcumin has been studied in humans
      for other inflammatory conditions (arthritis, gastrointestinal conditions, etc) to our
      knowledge, no human studies to explore its role in the management of COPD are available. As
      bronchial inflammation plays a key role in pathophysiology of COPD and curcumin has been
      shown to exhibit significant anti-inflammatory properties, we hypothesize that use of
      curcumin is associated with improvement in outcomes in patients with COPD.

      Primary objective

      1. To study if daily oral consumption of a curcumin preparation is associated with decreased
      health impairment in patients with COPD.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To study if daily oral consumption of a curcumin preparation is associated with improved
           functional exercise capacity among patients with COPD.

        2. To study if daily oral consumption of a curcumin preparation is associated with
           decreased risk of an acute COPD exacerbation, and related hospital admission, in
           patients with COPD.
    
  