
    
      I. Objectives

      <Primary Endpoint>

      6 months progression-free survival (6m-PFS)

      <Secondary Endpoint>

        1. Overall survival

        2. Safety (adverse events)

        3. Quality of life using EORTC module,

        4. Cognitive function using NOPT module of our institution

      <Explorative Endpoint>

      Genetic biomarker for predicting prognosis

        1. Methylation status of MGMT promoter

        2. IDH mutation

        3. TERT mutation / ATRX status

      II. Hypothesis

      1.Proof of concept

        -  With using of levetiracetam, there will be an improved survival with chemoradiotherapy
           with temozolomide compared to the group without using levetiracetam. (superiority) 2.
           Safety

        -  It will be tolerable in this concept. 3. Genetic biomarker

        -  Methylation status of MGMT, IDH1 mutation, TERT mutation, and ATRX status will prove to
           be valid molecular markers of prognostic significance in newly diagnosed glioblastoma
           treated with the combination of levetiracetam.

      III. Study Design/Clinical Plan

        1. Group I (prospective)

             -  Patients in this group are with newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients who are
                supposed to be treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) and adjuvant
                chemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ). Patients in Group I will be given
                levetiracetam (LEV) from the beginning of treatment till after the adjuvant
                chemotherapy with TMZ is over.

        2. Group II (historical group; using data base from KSNO multicenter study group)

      IV. Treatment

        1. Levetiracetam: started with 250mg bid and is increased up to 500mg bid in perioperative
           period. During the 2 days of peri-operation, it is administered in intravenous form
           mixed in 150ml of normal saline. After immediate postoperative period, 500~1500mg bid is
           administered in per oral form according to patient's clinical condition. During the
           period of adjuvant chemotherapy with temozolomide, the dose not less than 500mg is
           administered unless there are serious side effects of levetiracetam.

        2. Temozolomide based standard treatment: CCRT with temozolomide followed by 6cycles of
           adjuvant temozolomide RT with daily temozolomide (75 mg/m2/day, 7 days/week) from the
           first to the last day of radiotherapy), followed by six cycles of adjuvant temozolomide
           (150 to 200 mg/m2 for 5 days during each 28-day cycle).

      V. Evaluation

      MR scans were performed before the first adjuvant treatment cycle and then every 3 months
      during the first year, and every 4 months during the second year. Radiographic response is
      determined in comparison to the tumor measurement obtained at pretreatment baseline
      measurements as a reference and is categorized into four groups using new criteria proposed
      by the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) working group.

      VI. Statistical Plans

      Total sample size: 73 The size of sample is considered by assessment of PFS. The number of
      event and statistical power was calculated on assumption of exponential distribution of the 7
      months median PFS in the control group and 12 months median PFS in the treatment group.

      The expected sample size provides 80% of test power that can perceive 1.7 of hazard ration
      with 0.05 of type I error in comparative analysis of PFS at the time of 12 months of
      registering period (in equal entry pattern) and at 6 months of follow up period. Basis on
      this assumption, it is expected that 73 patients are needed in the treatment group, and 74
      patients in the control group.
    
  