
    
      The research question we are exploring is whether the To determine if treatment with C-FLEX
      is at least equivalent to conventional CPAP therapy as evidenced by standard sleep and
      breathing variables and To determine if the treatment with C-FLEX has a positive impact as
      determined by patient and technologist assessment of the PSG experience.

      Sleep laboratory rooms will be configured with a RSA device, which can deliver either
      conventional CPAP or Auto CPAP with C-Flex. Each night the subjects eligible for the trial
      will be interviewed, and consented for the study. The subjects will be instrumented for
      polysomnography and PAP titration (with PSG recording of RSA flow, estimated tidal volume,
      pressure, and estimated leak - via the Analog Output Module). Each subject will be instructed
      in PAP therapy (using standard methods), and have an appropriate patient interface selected
      per standard laboratory protocol. Each night, the patients will be randomized to either
      therapy (conventional CPAP therapy without C-Flex, or RSA C-Flex). PSG will be schedules to
      take place on consecutive nights when possible. The patient will not be aware of the therapy
      they will be subjected to, but the night technician will be aware of the therapy choice. On
      the next night, the subject will receive the alternative therapy (cross-over).

      Conventional CPAP without C-Flex CPAP pressure will be set to the therapy pressure determined
      during a previous titration study. Technicians will record all interactions with the subject,
      as well as any equipment used in the study. Study data will be analyzed for standard
      polysomnographic outcome parameters listed below. Patient will complete a visual analog
      satisfaction questionnaire following the study.

      RSA with C-Flex RSA C-Flex will be set with pressure range from 4 to 20 cmH2O. Patients will
      be arbitrarily set to a C-Flex comfort setting of 3 (maximum pressure relief). If the patient
      comments about any sensation of 'breathlessness' due to the pressure relief, comfort setting
      may be adjusted to 2 or 1 by the night technician. The subject is not informed of the therapy
      selected for the study. Technicians will record all interactions with the subject, as well as
      any equipment used in the study. Study data will be analyzed for standard polysomnographic
      outcome parameters listed below. Patient will complete a visual analog satisfaction
      questionnaire following the study.

      Demographic Data: Age, gender composition, body mass index, and baseline (diagnostic) AHI
      will be presented with descriptive statistics. Appropriate statistical analysis will be
      performed to compare the results of the titration night with REMStar Auto to the night on
      conventional CPAP. Laboratory Experience: Number of interactions, types of interactions,
      equipment used and VAS of both patient and technician will be recorded for each subject.
      Polysomnographic Data, Cardiopulmonary and the process data will be collected and analyzed.
    
  