
    
      Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal failure (ESRF), representing
      approximately 40% of people requiring long-term renal replacement therapy and maintenance
      haemodialysis [1]. Mortality and morbidity within this cohort is high, with the predominant
      cause being cardiovascular disease (CVD) [2]. Glycaemic control in many haemodialysis
      dependent patients with diabetes is poor and may lead to additional renal complications,
      including high interdialytic weight gain, electrolyte imbalance, and amputations [3]. Current
      clinical guidance is centred around the prevention of hyperglycaemia and microvascular
      complications of diabetes.

      Glucose self-management is particularly challenging due to cyclical changes in insulin
      sensitivity and circulating insulin concentrations. Hypoglycemia is common due to impaired
      renal gluconeogenesis, malnutrition, and the increased half-life of insulin and hypoglycemic
      agents [4, 5]. Additionally, people with chronic kidney disease and diabetes may have other
      diabetes complications such as retinopathy, neuropathy, and impaired awareness of
      hypoglycaemia, which can make self-management more difficult.

      Overall assessment of glycaemic control is also more complex as classical markers of glycemic
      control (i.e. HbA1c and fructosamine) may be misleading due to the variable underestimation
      of glycaemia resulting from analytical interferences, shortened half-life of red blood cells
      and abnormal albumin level [6-8]. Further limitations of HbA1c is that it is not informative
      regarding glycemic control on the days on and off dialysis, and intra-day glycaemic
      variability.

      Frequent capillary blood glucose tests or self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) is the
      traditional and one of the most effective ways to track an individuals' blood glucose levels.
      Real-time continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has been shown to improve overall glucose
      control, reduce hypoglycaemia in people with an HbA1c <7.0%, and may reduce severe
      hypoglycaemia [9-11]. In addition, they provide alert and alarm features for hypo- and
      hyperglycaemia, and for times of rapid glucose change.

      Flash glucose monitoring does not provide real-time data with alerts and alarms, but allows
      users to retrospectively review the preceding 8 hours of continuous glucose data, along with
      a contemporary estimated blood glucose value and trend line. The system consists of a
      subcutaneous sensor placed on the back of the upper arm, which measures glucose in the
      interstitial fluid every minute. The glucose data are made available when the user chooses to
      swipe the reader over the sensor.

      CGM has the potential to reduce HbA1c and minimize exposure to hypoglycaemia while addressing
      diabetes distress. Flash glucose monitoring may reduce exposure to hypoglycaemia in people
      with insulin-treated diabetes.

      The accuracy of CGM and flash in people with diabetes on haemodialysis has not been
      described. In this clinical study, we will assess the accuracy of the Dexcom G6 CGM system
      and the Abbott FreeStyle Libre flash system compared to YSI (Yellow Spring Instruments)
      glucose in people undergoing haemodialysis.
    
  