
    
      Objectives: Colonoscopy is widely used for identification and treatment of colon polyps and
      intestinal symptoms. High-volume polyethylene glycol (PEG) bowel preparation prior to
      colonoscopy causes significant dysbiosis of gut microbiota. Currently dysbiosis of gut
      microbiota is associated with metabolic syndrome and obesity. However, inconclusive
      conclusions were drawn from clinical trials studying supplementary probiotics and beneficial
      clinical effects on metabolic parameters. However, no study has addressed the effects of
      probiotic supplementation on the labile and dynamic intestinal environment following bowel
      preparation. Aims: Our study aims at studying the short-term and long-term changes on gut
      microbiota following the probiotic supplementation after bowel preparation. We also aim at
      studying the changes in abdominal symptoms and parameters of metabolic syndrome. Methods:
      This study is a prospective, multicentered, randomized double blind three-armed
      placebo-controlled trial. Targeted population will be those undergoing PEG bowel preparation
      before colonoscopy. Each individual will be randomly assigned to one of the active probiotic
      or placebo supplementation. General health parameters and anthropometric measurements, stool,
      serum lab data, abdominal sonography, oral carnitine/choline challenge tests will be
      analyzed. The follow-up timepoints are pre- and post-bowel preparation, receiving
      probiotics/placebo for 8 weeks, 3 months and 6 months thereafter.Outcome measurement: Primary
      end point: Evaluate the chronological change of gut microbiota post-bowel preparation between
      probiotic group and placebo group. Secondary end points:To compare incidence of GI associated
      symptoms after taking probiotics between two groups. Also evaluate the effects of probiotic
      supplementation on parameters of metabolic syndrome, evaluate the effects on fatty liver and
      the interaction between SNP variation and the benefit of probiotic supplementation.
    
  