
    
      First reported in 1967, ureteral stenting evolved fast until the introduction of the double-J
      ureteral stent (DJUS) in 1978. It has since become one of the most common devices used in
      urology. Ureteral stenting has a wide spectrum of indications that can be summarized in two
      words: obstruction and leakage. Common indications in pediatric urology are pyeloplasty,
      ureteral reimplantation, kidney transplantation and stone disease.

      Many modifications have been introduced to Finney's double-J to reduce stent-related
      complications and disadvantages, one of which is its removal technique. Classically, DJUS are
      introduced and removed in the operation room (OR), under general anesthesia (GA), using a
      cystoscope. Efforts have been made to avoid the second procedure under GA. Preventing the
      patient from undergoing a second OR experience is not the only issue. For institutions, DJUS
      removal is time consuming and costly in terms of resources, OR occupancy, and staff. In
      children, the potential neurotoxicity of repeated exposures to GA, is also a major concern.

      Alternatives to surgical removal of DJUS vary from basic solutions such as transurethral
      string, hook, or other tools, to more complex innovations such as the single use flexible
      cystoscope, and biodegradable stents. Moreover, some pediatric teams used the externalized
      pyeloureteral stent as an alternative to DJUS. Using magnet for ureteral stent retrieval was
      introduced in the early 80s. Difficulties related to its insertion, as well as its low
      retrieval success rate, minimized its acceptance. It wasn't until 2002 when Taylor and
      McDougall revisited the concept of magnetic retrieval of the ureteral stent. Since then, few
      teams have published their experience with magnetic-end DJUS.

      The magnetic-end Double-J ureteral stent is a 4.8 French DJUS with a small magnet fixed with
      a string at the distal loop. Explanation of the retrieval method and its potential
      complications are given to the parents, and informed consent obtained prior to surgery. All
      of the stents are inserted under GA in the exact same manner as regular DJUS: antegrade,
      retrograde (cystoscopy insertion) or open surgery. The stent's length varies between 12 and
      24 cm depending on the age and weight of the child. An abdominal plain X-Ray is routinely
      done after pyeloplasty to check the position of the DJUS distal loop (MEDJUS or not) in the
      bladder before waking up the child. A successful stent insertion is defined as having a good
      position of the distal end and its magnet in the bladder

      To remove the magnetic-end Double-J ureteral stent, a 9 French customized catheter-like
      retrieval device with a magnetic Tiemann tip, lubricated with 2% lidocaine jelly, is inserted
      into the urethra by the surgeon with the patient breathing inhaled premixed nitrous oxide and
      oxygen for procedural sedation in the outpatient clinic. Both indwelling magnets connect and
      the catheter can be removed together with the MEDJUS. Success of magnetic retrieval are
      regarded as MEDJUS retrieval in outpatient clinic with no need of general anesthesia.

      The aim is to demonstrate the feasibility and safety of the magnetic-end DJUS in children and
      perform a medico-economic study / cost-effectiveness study to evaluate the impact of the use
      of MEDJUS in children in terms of retrieval time and cost, as well as OR and staff occupancy.
    
  