
    
      Background

      Intervention (performed by specialist palliative care teams): The structured approach
      intervention is based on NCCN Practice Guidelines for Palliative Care, part of Gold Standard
      Framework (GSF) and the WHO definition of Palliative Care. It supports the assessment of
      areas and complexity of concerns from the patient perspective, determining priorities and
      structures the support needed. SENS stands for: Symptom-management, instruction for self
      administration of medication etc. End of life decision-making: explicit definition of own
      goals and priorities; Network organization including anticipatory planning of emergency
      situations

      Support of the carers: implementation of support systems for the caring family members

      The standardized intervention (based on prepared educational tool kit including a patient
      prompt sheet) is performed by a palliative care physician and nurse collaboratively after
      randomization and consent. The intervention is undertaken only once (after baseline
      questionnaire and before first follow-up questionnaire). There is a total of 4 questionnaires
      in the first 6 months. In addition, patients will receive usual oncology care throughout the
      study period (see below).

      Usual Oncology care (performed by oncological out- and inpatient clinics): Usual care
      incorporates a routine assessment according to national protocols, which assesses overall
      symptoms and current complaints from other domains. Participants assigned to usual care may
      meet with the palliative care service on request according to established practice but
      without following the SENS approach (subgroup analysis will be performed).

      Main eligibility criteria

      Patients >/= 18 years of age who signed informed consent with understanding of the study
      procedures and the investigational nature of the study with one of the following cancer
      types:

        -  Diagnosed within the last 16 weeks

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, non- small cell lung
           cancer (NSCLC), or

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, colorectal cancer,
           or

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, prostate cancer, or

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, breast cancer with
           visceral and/or brain metastasis, or

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, bladder/ urothelium
           cancer, or

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced, not amenable to curative treatment, pancreatic cancer

        -  Diagnosis is histologically confirmed

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status of 0, 1 or 2

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Presence of delirium or dementia or other reason for lack of ability to give informed
           consent

        -  Inability to communicate adequately in German

        -  Patient's lack of accountability, inability to appreciate the nature, meaning and
           consequences of the study and to formulate his/her own wishes correspondingly

        -  Patients already receiving care from an inpatient palliative care service

      Outcomes Primary outcomes

        -  Distress over six month as measured with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
           (NCCN) Distress thermometer Secondary outcomes

        -  Quality of life as measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General
           (FACT-G)

        -  Palliative Outcome Scale (POS)

        -  Overall survival

        -  Location of death

        -  Health care utilization

      Objective

      The primary objective of the trial is to determine the effectiveness of early palliative care
      structured by SENS (a systematic, problem-based assessment system) in addition to standard
      oncology care compared with standard oncology care alone to relieve distress in patients with
      advanced cancer at the end of life.

      The secondary objectives are to determine whether the introduction of SENS improves quality
      of life and prolongs overall survival in these patients, reduces health care costs and
      medical resource utilization.

      The primary objective of the nested qualitative study is to identify characteristics and
      reasons for the added value as well as failure of a compulsory problem-based assessment
      system (SENS) in advanced cancer patients.

      Methods

      Design Multicenter, two-arm, parallel-group, randomized-controlled trial with a nested
      qualitative study (content analysis)

      Experimental arm:

      Palliative care with a structured approach (SENS model) based on the
      bio-psycho-social-spiritual model of care. The approach supports the assessment of areas and
      complexity of concerns from the patient perspective, determines the priority and structures
      the support needed. The intervention is performed by palliative care physicians and nurses
      collaboratively.

      Control arm: Patients in the usual care group will receive routine oncology care throughout
      the study.
    
  