
    
      Neurocognitive disorder (NCD) is one of the main causes of disability among older adults and
      its prevalence is increasing due to the ageing of the population. It is estimated that
      globally, neurocognitive disorders affect 44.35 million people and it is expected that by the
      year 2050 the number of those affected worldwide will triple up to 135.46 million.

      The absence of an effective pharmacological treatment that halts or delays the development of
      the disease has aroused interest in non-pharmacological therapies (NPT) as a complement to
      pharmacological treatment that can improve the quality of life of people with neurocognitive
      disorders. One of the most researched NPT and with the greatest tradition in this field is
      Reminiscence Therapy (RT).

      RT implies the discussion of past activities, events and experiences, usually with the help
      of triggers (e.g., photographs, home objects and other familiar items from the past, music,
      any object or stimulus) that serve to stimulate memories. In its application to dementias, RT
      is based on the fact that the memory deficit of people with dementia implies that they are
      able to remember events from their past life, especially from childhood to early adulthood,
      but not newer facts. It focuses on preserved capacities and memories, promotes communication
      and enables the person to connect with his past and recover his sense of personal identity.
      In this way, the RT can be understood as an intervention on the edge of those of cognitive
      orientation and those centred on emotion, with potential interactive effects on
      autobiographical memory and psychological well-being.

      In simplified form, there are at least two approaches to RT. The first approach as a "life
      review" where participants are guided through significant experiences of their biography
      trying to give meaning to their lives. This type of RT is more structured and is usually
      conducted in an individual format. It may involve the production of "life books". This
      approach is considered to have an integrative function aimed at achieving a sense of
      validation, coherence and reconciliation with one's past. Another approach that call general
      or simple reminiscence, implies the stimulation of autobiographical memory during
      conversations on specific themes of the past (e.g, holidays, food and drink, work) using
      stimulus to trigger memories. It has been described as an unstructured autobiographical
      memory narration. This reminiscence format can be conducted both individually and in groups
      and promotes communication between participants who share their memories and stories.

      In either format that RT is applied on, the introduction of triggering stimulus (e.g.,
      photographs, music, old objects) to help memory is considered fundamental. These triggers can
      be generic, reflecting common experiences in the lives of people relevant to their age group
      (e.g., a school manual can serve as a reminder of the experience during their school stage),
      or specific, with stimulus related to the person's own experiences (e.g., photographs of an
      important vital event such as their wedding day or a journey during their youth).

      As for the effectiveness of RT, according to a recent review by Cochrane, there is some
      evidence on its positive effects on cognition, QoL, communication and possibly on the mood of
      people with dementia, even if the benefits are small. Despite the distinction between the two
      different approaches to RT (general reminiscence vs. life history), the therapy modality does
      not seem to be as important to achieve positive effects as the individual or group format of
      the sessions and the context in which the intervention is administered (people living in the
      community or institutionalised).

      In particular, according to the results of the review study, the RT seems to be able to
      generate a small benefit on cognitive function immediately after the intervention, although
      it usually does not continue after a longer follow-up period. Regarding the administration
      format, the individual RT seems slightly superior in its effects on cognition both
      immediately and after a follow-up period. In any case, its effects seem comparable to those
      of other cognitive stimulation modalities.

      As for the effect of RT on quality of life (QoL), an individual RT study based on life
      review, showed an improvement in Qol-AD. The effects with a group modality do not seem
      consistent, showing little or no effect on QoL, although the key factor may be the context of
      application (community vs. institution), with better group RT results in institutionalised
      patients.

      In a multicentre study conducted in Portugal with older adults with neurocognitive disorders,
      in individual format, there was a significant effect on the overall cognition, memory and QoL
      of the participants.

      Group RT was associated with a likely effect on communication both after the intervention and
      in the follow-up. This effect was not replicated in the individual RT, with uncertain
      results.

      Finally, despite the evidence on the effect of RT on the mood of elderly people without
      dementia, in the case of people with dementia only a small effect on mood was found for those
      participating in individual RT. In the portuguese multicentre studies there were no
      significant differences in depressive symptomatology.

      Based on the above, this research proposal aims to evaluate the ability of individual RT
      within a general reminiscence format, to improve overall cognitive function, in particular
      memory, emotional state (depression and anxiety) and QoL of older adults with neurocognitive
      disorders attending social care and support services in the Azores archipelago.

      It is proposed to evaluate the efficacy of the intervention in the endpoint assessment and
      the duration of the effects at three months follow-up. Furthermore, an analysis of results
      based on the diagnosis of the participants is proposed for those diagnoses with sufficient
      representation in the sample (more than 20 cases in each group). Additionally, it is proposed
      to analyze the factors that predict the response to the intervention (responder analysis).
      Finally, the results of this study will be compared and can be analyzed together with those
      of a previous study that used the same individual RT program and the same experimental design
      (clinicaltrials.gov ID: NCT04047238).
    
  