
    
      The fact that access to specialized norwegian health care is characterized by a mismatch
      between system´s capacity and patient´s and refering physician´s demands, leads to delay of
      diagnostic investigations such as for example gastroscopies. Patients referred to
      gastroscopies have to wait 4 to 12 weeks to get an appointment. Consequence might be a delay
      in diagnosing of significant diseases such as ulcers or even malignancies. In addition the
      general practitioner is frequently forced to start a therapy by suspicion, and the patient
      has in numerable cases to stay off work.

      In September 2008, the investigators started an open-access gastroscopy outpatient clinic,
      which allows the family practitioners in a defined area of the Telemark county to refer their
      patients to a gastroscopy without a preceding appointment. Patients from the other parts of
      the county and those, who need special service as i.e. interpreter, endocarditis prophylaxis
      etc. are referred conventionally and need an appointment.

      Aim of the study is to evaluate the acceptance of both forms of outpatient clinics by both
      patients and general practitioners. In addition to that, the investigators will evaluate the
      acceptance of the open access clinic by the staff. Of special concern is the fear, that
      easier access might lead to a number of unnecessary procedures.

      All patients from open access clinic and from the conventional clinic are asked to fill in a
      questionaire without any kind of personal identifying data such as name, age, date of the
      procedure etc., but with questions about their satisfaction with the procedure, the time from
      their first contact with their family practitioner to the procedure, the information prior
      and after the procedure. They will be asked if they did consume drugs against "ulcer-disease"
      or not.

      In addition the referring practitioners are asked to fill in a questionnaire about their
      acceptance of the open access clinic, and to give the investigators some ideas about
      advantages and disadvantages from their point of view.

      The staff is asked to give their experience especially according to the not calculable number
      of patients that attend to the clinic each day.

      If the present study shows high acceptance of the open-access-offer by patients and health
      workers, the plan is to extend it to other patient groups and to perform studies to
      investigate the effects on the grade of diseases at the time of diagnosis and possible
      consequences for treatment and health economy.
    
  