
    
      Ambulatory blood pressure (BP) measurements (ABPM) correlate more closely with target organ
      damage and cardiovascular events than clinical cuff measurements. ABPM reveals the
      significant circadian variation in BP, which in most individuals presents a morning increase,
      small post-prandial decline, and more extensive lowering during nocturnal rest. However,
      under certain pathophysiological conditions, the nocturnal BP decline may be reduced
      (non-dipper pattern) or even reversed (riser pattern). This is clinically relevant since the
      non-dipper and riser circadian BP patterns constitute a risk factor for left ventricular
      hypertrophy, albuminuria, cerebrovascular disease, congestive heart failure, vascular
      dementia, and myocardial infarction. Hence, there is growing interest in how to best tailor
      and individualize the treatment of hypertension according to the specific circadian BP
      pattern of each patient.

      The reduction of the normal 10-20% sleep-time BP decline that is characteristic of the
      non-dipper and riser patterns is indeed associated with elevated risk of target organ damage,
      particularly to the heart (left ventricular hypertrophy, congestive heart failure, and
      myocardial infarction), brain (stroke), and kidney (albuminuria and progression to end-stage
      renal failure). These results suggest that cardiovascular risk could be influenced not by BP
      elevation alone, but also by the magnitude of the circadian BP variability. However, the
      potential dimension of an altered BP profile is still under debate, as there is current
      discrepancy on the actual prevalence of a non-dipper BP profile among groups of interest,
      mainly the elderly, patients with diabetes and patients with resistant hypertension.

      Moreover, several independent prospective studies have suggested that nighttime BP may be a
      better predictor of cardiovascular risk than daytime BP. Common to all previous trials is
      that prognostic significance of ABPM has relied on a single baseline profile from each
      participant, without accounting for possible changes in the BP pattern, mainly associated to
      antihypertensive therapy and aging during follow-up. Moreover, the potential benefit, i.e.,
      reduction in cardiovascular risk, associated with the normalization of the circadian BP
      variability (e.g., conversion from non-dipper to dipper pattern) from appropriately
      envisioned treatment strategy is still a matter of debate.

      The HYGIA study was designed to investigate, first, the comparative prognostic value of
      several BP parameters (including, among many others, BP variability, the diurnal/nocturnal
      ratio, diurnal and nocturnal means, hyperbaric index, slope of morning rise, etc) in the
      prediction of vascular, metabolic, and renal morbidity and mortality; second, whether
      potential changes in the circadian BP pattern after treatment with hypertension medications
      may be associated to changes in the risk of cardiovascular events, stroke, diabetes, and/or
      chronic kidney disease; and third, in keeping with the second major objective above, to
      further assess the potential changes in efficacy, safety profile, and/or capability of
      hypertension medications, used either alone or in combination, to modulate the circadian BP
      pattern and to reduce vascular, metabolic, and renal risks as a function of the circadian
      time of administration.
    
  