
    
      An integrated back pain module (IBPM) will be implemented for ambulance drivers (Respondent)
      in peninsular Malaysia. Pre-intervention assessment and post-intervention assessment will be
      conducted in 18 government hospitals involved. There is nine Hospital in Perak that has been
      selected as an intervention group and nine Hospital in Kelantan will be the Control group.
      Two different regions are selected; the North region will be the intervention group (Perak)
      while East Coast will be the control group (Kelantan). The clinical benefits of the IBPM
      module low back pain and quality of life will be reported at the beginning and the end of the
      intervention and after a period of 6 months follow up.

      The protocol for the intervention group (Perak) included five components of the education
      module (IBPM) such as the structure and function of the spine, causes of LBP, how to avoid
      low back pain at the workplace, Exercise methods, and psychology management. The overall
      objectives are to help ambulance driver manage their LBP and prevent future LBP recurrences.
      The first step of the protocol is subjects are required to attend an introductory course for
      one day and then the intervention will last for 6 months. Research staff will explain how to
      operate and use the module. Subjects must comply with all the care and prevention guidelines
      of the research module so that it achieves the expected results. They also need to complete
      the checklist provided in the Edmodo software via their respective smartphones. Tokens in the
      form of top-ups will be entered automatically after the checklist is received by researchers.

      The exercise will be performed by participants 5 times per week for a total of 24 weeks. Each
      individual session will take around 5 minutes to perform exercises independently and sending
      their report through Edmodo. Light soft tissue exercises techniques such as active muscle
      stretching, and strengthening exercises will be used as needed to facilitate the educational
      module therapy.
    
  