psychology of children's dental treatment .the communication deals with influences involved in the development ofthe child's attitude to dental treatment . they are extrinsic(educational etc.) and intrinsic (constitutional and hereditary) . theirunderstanding helps to determine the correct psychological policy forthe management of the child in the surgery .the aim of psychology applied in dentistry is to discover a mode oftreatment procedure which would ensure that the child will not besubject to any psychic traumatization (psychophylaxis) . its second aimis the management of the so called difficult child and his treatment .to understand better the child's frame of mind during dental treatmentthe situation in the surgery is dealt with step by step as the childexperiences it through his senses and his psyche . beside the basicsenses -dash hearing and seeing -dash others are also affected.. touch(pressure sensation), smell and taste .children during dental treatment are nearly always in a state ofraised emotional tension and are susceptible to anxiety reactions .according to the degree of fear which they manifest children may beclassed into categories of cooperating and difficult patients . thepsychological procedure for the treatment of children of both groups isbased on the principles summarized in the section 'psychophylaxis indentistry' . in difficult children it is often necessary to employ yetother psychological measures-psychotherapy, suggestion etc . inextremely exacting cases premedication helps sometimes to find contactwith the child .the experimental part of the work demonstrates the following findings1. dental treatment consists of a series of interdependenttraumatizing impulses . many of them appear only after a close analysisof the situation . 2. the adverse response similar to that elicited bypain may be due also to sensory impressions with a negative emotionalbackground . 3. psychic traumatization of the child during dentaltreatment can be prevented by relatively simple psychological measures .