
    
      The aim of the study is to compare effects of high 0.8 FiO2 and low 0.4 FiO2 in patients are
      undergoing supratentorial craniotomy surgery primarily on postoperative surgical wound
      infection and secondarily on postoperative pulmonary complications.

      The study will be performed prospectively in patient are undergoing elective supratentorial
      craniotomy with supine position at Istanbul university Cerrahpasa Medical School Department
      of Neurosurgery operating room. ASA class I-III 80 patients will be included the study.
      Exclusion criteria are obstructive or restrictive lung disease, chest wall deformity,
      congestive heart failure, liver or kidney failure, postoperatively non-cooperative and
      unconsciousness, preoperative fever and infection history, serious malnutrition( plasma
      albumin level < 3 g/dl, WBC <2500/mm3 or weight loss more than 20% in 3 months),and diabetes
      mellitus.

      The gender, age, height, weight, BMI, smoking history and systemically illness of patients
      will be recorded. Patients will be randomized with closed envelop technique and divided in 2
      groups. All patients will be monitored ECG, heart rate, invasive blood pressure , FiO2,pulse
      oximetry (SpO2) and end tidal carbon dioxide . Propofol (2 mg kg-1), remifentanyl (0.15 µ
      kg-1), rocuronium (0.6 mg kg-1) will be used for induction in both groups. Anesthesia
      maintenance will be provided with sevoflurane (1 MAC), remifentanyl (0.05-0.1 µ kg-1 dk-1)
      and rocuronium (0.3 mg kg-1 sa-1) . Patients will be intubated orotracheally and ventilated
      with volume control mode ( tidal volume 8 mL/kg, respiratory frequency will be adjusted
      between 9-12/minutes to hold PaCO2 between 33-35 mmHg ,inspiration/expiration ratio ½,PEEP:5
      cmH2O ). Peroperative analgesia will be provided with remifentanyl infusion. Ondansetron 8 mg
      for antiemesis and tramadol 100 mg for postoperative analgesia will be administered
      intravenously 30 minutes before extubation. Duration of surgery and non-invasive cerebral
      oxygen saturation (SctO2) using bilateral frontal electrodes will be recorded. At the end of
      the surgery, sugammadex 2mg kg-1 will be administered for decurarization in all groups.
      Patients will be transferred to the recovery room in postoperative period and 15L/min and
      4L/min oxygen will be given to 0.8 FiO2 group and other group, respectively.

      Wound healing will be evaluated every day in terms of surgical wound infection occurrence for
      postoperative 14 days with ASEPSIS classification. Surgical wound infection will be
      considered in patients who score 20 or more on daily basis. The patients who are discharged
      will be reached by phone. Pneumonia, atelectasis, respiratory failure, hospital and intensive
      care unit stay will be recorded for postoperative 14 days. *CDC criteria will be used to
      diagnose pneumonia. Respiratory insufficiency is diagnosed by SpO2 fall below 90% despite
      oxygen treatment and mechanical ventilation need. If pulmonary complication develops
      ,findings will be recorded with chest radiography or tomography when necessary.

        -  ASA: american society of anaesthesiology

        -  WBC:white blood cell

        -  PEEP: positive end expiratory pressure

        -  CDC: centers for disease control and prevention
    
  