
    
      Subjects will be consented to participate in the study. They will complete a web-based
      baseline questionnaire. Participants will be given a nasal swab kit with instructions for
      obtaining swabs. Baseline blood (10mls) will be drawn for influenza serology and for
      measurement of total IgG and IgG subtypes. An email will be sent to each participant within
      24 hours of their enrolment to welcome them to the study.

      Participants will be asked to complete a weekly diary using web-based data entry. An email
      will be sent to each participant every Monday during the study reminding the participant to
      complete their weekly diary and to report and submit a nasal swab if they have any symptoms
      of an acute respiratory illness. Reminder emails will be sent 48 hours later if the weekly
      form remains incomplete. Participants will be telephoned if forms remain incomplete for three
      weeks. Weekly emails will also be used to update participants about vaccine availability,
      current vaccine recommendations, and any changes in expert recommendations for pregnant
      women.

      Once every four weeks additional questions will be asked on the weekly survey. If any
      participant develops symptoms compatible with an acute viral respiratory illness they will be
      asked to collect and submit a nasal swab as soon as possible after the onset of symptoms and
      to complete an illness starting the day of symptom onset and ending when all symptoms are
      either absent or mild, or for 3 days, whichever is longer. Subjects will be notified if
      results are positive for influenza along with the local Medical Officer of Health. Treatment
      for influenza will be discussed with each infected participant by a physician investigator.

      Repeat serology and blood for total IgG and IgG subtype will be drawn at the time of delivery
      to the six week post partum. Women will notify the study when they are admitted for delivery
      or termination of pregnancy and will be interviewed either in person at the hospital, or over
      the telephone within 3 weeks of delivery. A chart review will be performed to identify any
      complications at delivery or termination, and to record neonatal outcomes. Post-partum,
      mothers will continue their own weekly and illness diaries and weekly diaries for their
      infants will be added.

      Pregnant women requiring hospital admission for influenza in hospitals participating in
      surveillance for the Toronto Invasive Bacterial Diseases Network (TIBDN) and Serious Outcomes
      Surveillance (SOS) for the PHAC/CIHR Influenza Research Network (PCIRN), as well as pregnant
      women with influenza admitted to intensive care units as part of the Canadian Critical Care
      Clinical Trials Group Influenza Surveillance System (ICU-Flu) will be approached. Risk factor
      data from the baseline and weekly questionnaires will be collected retrospectively from these
      women. With consent, women will be followed to delivery/termination, and the same information
      collected regarding neonatal outcomes as was collected for other women in the cohort.

      An email will be sent to all participating women requesting their consideration of three
      additional parts of the study:

        1. A questionnaire of development (the 8 month Ages and Stages® Questionnaire; see
           attached) to be completed by the parent

        2. An assessment with a physical examination at 7-9 months of age by a trained physician or
           a nurse practitioner

        3. Permission for the study to contact parents in the future about further follow-up.

      Mothers will also be asked to book an appointment for the 7-9 month assessment. Mothers who
      do not wish to have a pediatrician assessment will be asked over the telephone if they have
      any questions they wish to have answered about the study or the Ages and Stages®
      questionnaire, and if they consent to contact for future long term follow-up studies. If the
      child's score on the Ages and Stages® questionnaire raises a concern, mothers will be offered
      the chance to discuss this with a study physician, to have the results shared with her
      child's physician and/or to be referred to a pediatrician.

      Participants may choose to withdraw from the study at any time. When they do so, they will be
      asked if the data and blood samples that have been provided can be kept and used for study
      purposes. If a patient withdraws and cannot be contacted data that has been obtained will be
      retained, and blood will be used for the immediate study purpose, but will not be used for
      future studies.
    
  