
    
      Background: During operations conducted under spinal anaesthesia patients are aware of their
      environment, including sounds related to operative instruments and the voices of staff. This
      has the potential to cause anxiety and amplify existing anxiety which can negatively impact
      patient experience and outcomes. Research has shown peri-operative music can reduce anxiety
      but there is no robust evidence for the effect of intraoperative music on intraoperative
      anxiety.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to determine the effects of intraoperative music on
      intraoperative anxiety levels for patients undergoing procedures conducted under spinal
      anaesthesia. The secondary objectives are to investigate whether participants feel that music
      improved/would improve their experience and whether they would choose it in future or
      recommend it for others.

      Methods: This prospective randomised controlled trial will be conducted at the Children's
      Surgical Centre in Phnom Penh. Participants will be 18 years or over, due to undergo a
      procedure that requires spinal anaesthesia and not have a medical history that fulfils any of
      the exclusion criteria. The trial will aim to recruit between 16 and 28 patients
      consecutively once it commences, and participants will be randomised to either the music (M)
      group or the 'control' (C) group. The M group will receive music (pre-selected from 5
      categories) played through headphones for the duration of the operation. The C group will
      receive no music or headphones. Anxiety will be measured in both groups, through a visual
      analogue scale (VAS), at the beginning of the operation and after 30 minutes of the
      procedure. In the recovery room the participants will be asked two questions relating to
      experience and future recommendations.

      Results: The VAS scores and change in VAS scores will be displayed as mean ± Standard Error
      and the results from the two groups will be compared using a student's paired t-test or a
      Mann-Whitney U test depending on the distribution of the data. The results from the
      post-operation questions will be displayed as frequencies and the answers will be compared
      using a χ2 test. All tests will be 2-tailed and P<0.05 will be considered significant
    
  