
    
      This prospective pilot study is designed to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of a wound
      care ultrasound treatment protocol for sub-acute or chronic wounds of the lower extremity and
      of any etiology. The Viana-Pompeo (VIP) ultrasound protocol consists of high intensity, low
      frequency, contact ultrasound therapy (with Sonoca-180) followed by low intensity,
      low-frequency, noncontact ultrasound therapy (with MIST Therapy). Previously published
      healing rates for each of the ultrasonic therapy modalities will be used as a comparison.

      The Physical Therapist will perform the initial assessment and treatment, and devise an
      individualized plan of care that involves contact ultrasound followed by noncontact
      ultrasound. Subjects may remain in the study for up to 12 weeks, or up to when end of study
      criteria is met.

      Transition from contact mode to noncontact mode will happen when:

      - Wound is sufficiently clean with ≤ 20% of necrotic tissue or adherent slough.

      OR

      - >= 80% of soft slough is easily removed from the wound bed with mechanical or selective
      debridement before or after treatment

      OR

      - Wound bed quality has failed to progress after 3 consecutive contact ultrasound treatments

      For the purposes of this study, treatments will be performed 3 times a week. Treatment time
      will be dependent on the wound area, at least 20 sec/cm2, per standard protocol.

      Only the wounds present during Physical Therapy (PT) initial assessment will be included in
      the research. If the patient develops new wounds during the course of the research, the
      patient will receive appropriate treatment, but such wounds will not be part of the study.

      Patients in the wound clinic setting are allowed to perform home dressing changes as ordered
      by the physician in addition to the dressing changes performed by the therapist or wound
      clinic nurse on clinic visit days. Patients and/or caregivers will be trained in dressing
      changes techniques and must understand the procedure prior to performing dressing changes on
      their own.

      In addition to ultrasonic treatment and dressing changes, wound debridement may be performed
      each visit as needed. Digital photography and wound measurements will also be performed
      weekly and as needed.

      End of PT wound therapy may be before, at, or after the end of the study period. The
      beginning of the MIST therapy will depend on the individual characteristics and wound needs.

      A minimum of 4 MIST treatments must be completed for a patient's data to be included the data
      analysis in the acute care setting.

      A minimum of 2 treatments per week (goal of 3 per week) must be reached for the 12 week
      period for a patient's data to be included in the data analysis.

      Study Endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

        -  Wound area reduction

        -  Percent granulation tissue

        -  Length of the study for ambulatory subjects: 12 weeks from Start of Contact Ultrasound
           therapy

        -  Length of the study for acute care subjects: From Start of Contact Ultrasound therapy up
           to 12 weeks or until patient is discharged from the hospital.

      Secondary endpoint:

        -  Wound closure at any point within the length of study

        -  Failure to note improvement in wound area, and/or wound volume, and/or wound bed quality
           after 4 consecutive weeks of treatment.

        -  3 consecutive missed visits, or a total of 7 missed visits
    
  