
    
      Aim The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that a change in the acidity of the blood
      (pH) will affect cardiac function in critically ill patients. It will also explore if the
      presence or absence of underlying cardiac disease and the type of pH abnormality may affect
      the response of the heart to changes in pH.

      Justification for design Blood pH and cardiac function are monitored routinely in critically
      ill patients and so a prospective observational study design would be a feasible and useful
      method to address this question.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria explanation In intensive care practice, if a patient requires
      close cardiac function monitoring clinicians will use a special system for continuously
      monitoring the cardiac output and other heart functions to guide therapy. The system most
      commonly used is called PiCCO (pulse contour cardiac output).

      Adult patients who are on PiCCO as part of their routine care in ICU for more than 24 hours
      will be eligible for inclusion in the study.

      All patients who do not already have PiCCO in situ will be excluded from the study.

      Identification of patients The direct care team will identify all eligible patients in the
      participating Units. The investigators have agreed to conduct the study in 6 different
      intensive care units across 2 Trusts and 4 sites - King's College Hospital Foundation Trust -
      including 3 ICU's at Denmark Hill site and 1 at Princess Royal University Hospital site;
      Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust - including ICU at University Hospital Lewisham and Queen
      Elizabeth Hospital, Woolwich.

      Justification for sample size

      In order to examine the relationship between a change in pH and cardiac contractility with
      power 80% and a 95% confidence interval, it has been calculated that it will be necessary to
      analyse 363 cases. Statistical analysis will be based on a retrospective audit of the numbers
      of a patient who fit the criteria, the investigators have assessed that across the 7 units
      the target sample size will be easily achieved in less than 1 year.

      Data collection Data will be collected from ICU charts, medical notes and electronic patient
      records. This data is routinely collected as part of standard hospital care. The data will be
      collected by the direct care team and anonymised before it is transferred securely to a
      statistician for statistical analysis. The patient will not undergo any additional
      assessments or tests.

      Consent All the data to be analysed is routinely collected as part of standard hospital care.
      There will be no additional tests or assessments in relation to this study. All data will be
      anonymised prior to analysis therefore, the investigators request approval to enrol patients
      without obtaining consent.

      Data handling A case report form will be completed for each participant. Each participant
      will be given a unique study identification number. The patient's hospital number will be
      recorded on the case report form, and data will be collected by the direct care team. When
      data collection is completed at day 30, the direct care team will remove the top section of
      the case report form so that the hospital number is removed.

      An enrolment log will be stored in the Site File securely on-site in a locked cupboard.

      The data will be analysed according to the statistical plan. Results will be published in a
      peer-review journal.
    
  