
    
      Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the most common procedure performed by cardiac
      surgeons. More complicated surgeries were enabled by the development of cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB) in the 1930s; CABG procedures increased to peak at over 500,000 in 2000,
      although numbers have decreased somewhat in the last decade. In 2010 over 150,000 major
      cardiac procedures involved CABG; 18,008 involved both aortic valve replacement and CABG;
      2,378 involved mitral valve replacement and CABG; and 4,635 involved mitral valve repair and
      CABG. This procedure is costly; in 2010 mean hospital charges for CABG and valve procedures
      were $124,404 and $171,270 with a mean length of hospital stay of 9 and 11 days and an
      in-hospital death rate of 1.8% and 3.9%, respectively.

      Post-operative atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common adverse event following CABG,
      experienced in 20-50% of patients; the highest incidence of AF occurs by the third
      post-operative day. Post-operative AF is associated with overall poorer prognosis resulting
      4-fold increase in disabling stroke and cognitive impairment, 3-fold risk of cardiac-related
      death, and increased length of hospital stay. These risks are increased by the changing
      composition of the patient population over the last 10 years: patients are older and sicker,
      and are presenting with more complex disease states and co-morbidities, such as severe
      coronary artery disease (CAD), congestive heart failure (CHF), chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), diabetes, previous cardiac surgeries with mechanical support device
      placements, and complex pharmacological histories. A higher prevalence of AF with increased
      transfusions among CPB patients has also been reported, suggesting a link with increased
      plasma load of inflammatory markers and mediators from transfused red cells. Reduction of AF
      by various drugs is moderately effective, but involves either rate control with beta blockers
      or rate conversion with amiodarone after the myocardial damage processes initiating AF have
      already occurred.

      Decreasing the incidence of post-operative AF, and hence the morbidity and mortality of
      high-risk CABG patients, could be more fruitfully approached by targeting the upstream
      combined processes of inflammation and coagulation activation induced by the surgical insult
      and associated ischemia-reperfusion (I/R). During CPB, the heart is subjected to ischemic
      periods of varying duration. The cardiac tissue at that point is electrically resting and its
      metabolic demands are accordingly low. However, there is also a severely diminished supply of
      oxygen and nutrients. This results in slow but direct myocardium cellular damage, which
      increases as ischemia duration increases. However, after reperfusion with oxygenated blood,
      oxidative stress actually peaks because of accumulated oxidative substrates and cellular
      depletion of reductive compounds. Cardiac damage related to ischemia-reperfusion will be
      exacerbated in the presence of co-morbidities, such as diabetes and CAD, which are
      pathologies with a significant reactive oxygen species (ROS) injury component. High levels of
      ROS in the myocardium contribute to both electrical and structural remodeling of the cardiac
      muscle, resulting in the development of AF.

      I/R-related oxidative stress and ROS activation contribute to cell damage by modifying
      protein DNA and phospholipids, resulting in lipid peroxidation and thiol-group oxidation,
      which in turn are linked to the induction of inflammatory cascades. Lipids are important
      small-molecule metabolites that have roles in a wide variety of physiological processes. The
      lipidome of eukaryotic cells contains thousands of lipid entities that structurally and
      chemically regulate cell membranes, store energy, or are precursors of bioactive metabolites.
      Defects in lipid regulation and metabolism are therefore significant contributors to disease
      pathophysiology. In particular, eicosanoids are lipid mediators linking coagulation and
      inflammatory pathways; intracellular oxidant species are essential mediators in eicosanoids
      synthesis pathways. Thus lipidomic analyses are a potential novel tool for the identification
      of drivers of underlying pathogenesis and new diagnostic biomarkers.

      During CABG, total peroxide (TP) and oxidative stress index approximately double Increased
      post-bypass plasma levels of inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and
      platelets and leukocyte activation have been observed during CPB. Increases in oxidative
      stress associated with CPB are correlated with a reduction in total plasma antioxidant
      capacity. These observations are of interest because an antioxidant is a molecule that
      inhibits the oxidation of other molecules. Oxidation is a chemical reaction that transfers
      electrons or hydrogen from a substance to an oxidizing agent. Oxidation reactions can produce
      free radicals. In turn, these radicals can start chain reactions. When the chain reaction
      occurs in a cell, it can cause damage or death to the cell. Antioxidants terminate these
      chain reactions by removing free radical intermediates, and inhibit other oxidation reactions
      by auto-oxidation; hence antioxidants are often reducing agents. The investigators propose
      that cell damage induced by oxidative stress and I/R injury could be prevented and/or
      inhibited by antioxidant supplementation. Specifically the investigators hypothesize that
      high-dose intravenous (IV) vitamin C supplementation will ameliorate ROS and therefore damp
      down upstream inflammatory processes, leading to a reduction of downstream adverse events
      with demonstrable links to inflammation processes, such as AF. Vitamin C is an viable
      therapeutic candidate because it is a powerful antioxidant with an excellent safety profile,
      and an emerging history of reducing inflammatory markers in both critically ill and
      traumatically injured patients. Scattered trials have indicated possible benefits of vitamin
      C in reducing incidence of post-CABG AF (see Literature search). An antioxidant such as
      vitamin C acts as a scavenger of intracellular oxidant species; as these are essential
      mediators in eicosanoids synthesis pathways, it is expected that vitamin C supplementation
      would decrease the thrombotic potential of eicosanoid-mediated pathways, such as the
      thromboxane (TBX) production pathway. Impaired cardiac blood flow and clot formation
      associated with AF contributes to congestive heart failure and stroke; therefore reduction of
      thrombotic potential is another essential feature for the proposed therapeutic agent.

      The proposed pilot study described below represents a marked advance on previously-reported
      trials in that (a) study design is directed towards minimization of systemic bias, and (b)
      the investigators will perform simultaneous comparisons of multivariate inflammatory and
      coagulation profile changes over the immediate post-operative time period when inflammatory
      changes are expected to be at a maximum. The novelty of this approach is the systems-level
      analysis of lipids and their interacting moieties; new technology allows for rapid
      quantitative analysis of over 150 lipid mediators in a sample, time and cost effective
      manner.
    
  