
    
      Background:

        1. Burden: COVID -19, first reported in Wuhan, China, strikes the world hard as a pandemic
           by spreading up to 213 countries. Bangladesh is also facing its havoc with the death of
           3000 among 229,185 cases at its 141st day. Most are mild cases presenting with
           influenza-like illness with expected recovery. According to World Health Organization,
           the overall global case fatality rate is currently estimated to be 2.9%. However,
           patients having severe or critical illness presenting with severe respiratory distress,
           ARDS or shock suffer most with mortality of 49.0-61.5%. Studies suggest that there are
           mild or severe cytokine storms in severe patients, which is an important cause of death.
           An exaggerated and uncontrolled release of proinflammatory mediators by an overly
           activated immune system is termed as cytokine storm (CS). Studies depicting that there
           might be an important relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and gut microbiota, as a marker to
           predict ARDS, can corroborate with the disease severity and outcomes of COVID-19.

        2. Knowledge gap: Cytokine storm (CS) has an important role in the hemodynamic insults seen
           in very ill COVID-19 patients. In Bangladesh, no study has been conducted to evaluate
           the level of cytokines and the gut microbiota in COVID-19 patients presenting with
           different level of severity and their possible correlation with COVID-19.

        3. Relevance: It will explore the role of CS and gut microbiota in COVID-19 illness
           severity. Thus, the results of the study will improve our knowledge and understanding of
           the problem, and thereby finding their solutions.

      Objectives:

      To estimate the burden of 'Cytokine Storm' and its correlation with the magnitude of the
      severity of COVID-19 illness in Bangladeshi adults.

      Methods:

      This will be a prospective observational study in adults aged ≥18 years old with COVID-19
      having mild /moderate/severe/critical symptoms. The investigators will measure their cytokine
      (IL 6, TNF-Alpha, and IL1 Beta) levels and investigate gut microbiota in addition to regular
      laboratory tests at different time points of illness.
    
  