
    
      InSaKa trial is a therapeutic, controlled, open label, with parallel groups of treatment in a
      1:1:1 ratio, multi-centre, national and randomized clinical trial to compare insulin/dextrose
      intravenous infusion, nebulized salbutamol or combination of salbutamol and insulin/dextrose
      to reduce serum potassium levels at 60 minutes. Eligible patients will be recruited in the
      emergency department and included in the study after testing for inclusion and non-inclusion
      criteria. Patients will be eligible for the randomization if they had a serum potassium
      concentration superior or equal to 6 mmol per liter. Randomization, which will be performed
      centrally, will be stratified 1) according to the serum potassium level at baseline of the
      initial treatment phase (6 to < 6.5 mmol per liter [moderate hyperkalemia] AND superior or
      equal to 6.5 mmol per liter [severe hyperkalemia]), and 2) according to the prescription or
      not of intravenous diuretics during the 6 previous hours. The protocol will be approved by
      the ethical committee (random allocation) of the IRB. All patients will provide written
      informed consent and the study will be performed in accordance with the International
      Conference on Harmonization Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice. All electrocardiograms
      will be read at a core electrocardiographic laboratory. At the time of screening, patients
      who meet all the inclusion and do not have non-inclusion criteria will be assigned to one of
      the 3 groups of treatment. The serum potassium will be then measured at 60 minutes. If the
      patient still has hyperkalemia at 60 minutes, the patient will be re-administered a
      treatment, left at the discretion of the physician in charge. This treatment might include
      insulin/dextrose intravenous infusion, nebulized salbutamol, the combination of nebulized
      salbutamol and insulin/dextrose intravenous infusion, bicarbonate, diuretics or dialysis.
      Especially, bicarbonate should be prescribed in case of metabolic acidosis or hypovolemic
      shock, and diuretics in case of acute heart failure. Importantly, if the patient has a major
      cardiovascular event before 60 minutes, all these treatments might be prescribed at the
      discretion of the physician in charge, if the clinical situation requires one or more of
      these therapeutic options, and based on up-to-date clinical practice guidelines and
      recommendations. Serum potassium levels will be measured at local laboratories at baseline
      and 60, 180 minutes and 24 hours. They will perform a visual inspection and a validated
      semi-quantitative test on each blood sample as an assessment for hemolysis. An independent
      adjudication committee will adjudicate all major cardiovascular events. The trial will be
      monitored by a Data Safety Monitoring Board.
    
  