
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) corresponds to the neurological or the neuropsychological
      symptoms caused by an acute or chronic liver disease and/or porto-systemic shunt. Many
      patients present neurological symptoms even if their liver disease is stabilized.
      Furthermore, HE is associated with an altered quality of life and an increased mortality. Its
      incidence is high with 30 to 80% of cirrhotic patients that will display according to
      retained diagnostic criteria. HE symptoms are going from subtle neuropsychological
      abnormalities detected only on neuropsychological testing, minimal HE, to altered
      consciousness, overt HE. Recently, the therapeutic armamentarium has increased with now
      several drugs (rifaximine, ammonia lowering agents) that are able to prevent new bouts of HE.
      Unfortunately, the diagnosis of minimal HE is difficult and no gold-standard is available.
      None of the proposed test is rapid and easily performed at bedside.

      Recently, different studies suggest the potential interest of the study of the ocular
      movements in HE. Abnormalities in ocular saccads could be an early predictor of cortical
      impairment. In a pilot feasibility study using an eye-tracker, we could show that cirrhotic
      patients with minimal HE had, compared to healthy controls, increased latencies, decreased
      speed of voluntary and reflex saccads, more errors in anti-saccads, more anticipations
      saccads and more difficulties to fix the target.

      Our hypothesis was that the use of the eye-tracker will enable the diagnosis of minimal HE by
      studying the characteristics of saccads and anti-saccads.

      Since no gold-standard is available for the diagnosis of minimal HE, we will use the
      conclusion of an adjudication committee formed by 2 experts. Their clinical judgment will
      take into account the results of medical history, clinical examination, neuropsychological
      testing, PHES, Critical Flicker Frequency test (CFF), ammonemia levels, EEG and brain MRI
      with spectroscopy.

      Gold standard definition: diagnostic of minimal HE as stated by adjudication committee
      composed of 2 experts. Each patient will be classified as : patient without EH (neither
      clinical or minimal) and patient with EHM. The results of medical history, clinical
      examination, EEG results (triphasic waves, decreased frequency), ammonia level (above
      50mcmol/L or not), neuropsychological testing encompassing PHES (below -4 or not) and CFF
      (below 39Hz or not), brain MRI with MR-spectroscopy (HE profile on MRS) will be aggregated to
      obtain their adjudication. All the tests will be performed by trained personal aware of the
      evaluation of cirrhotic patients with possible HE. The eye-tracking evaluation will be
      blinded to the conclusion of the adjudication committee (presence or absence of HE).

      Since the data from the eye-tracker are quantitative, a ROC curve will be used to evaluate
      the diagnostic performance of each parameters measured by the study device (mainly, saccads
      latencies, voluntary and reflexes ones, and the percentage of errors in saccads, anti-saccads
      and voluntary anticipations).

      The ability of each measure to diagnose minimal HE will be evaluated by the area under the
      ROC and its 95% confidence interval. Sensibility, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values will be given for each possible cut-off with their 95% confidence interval.
      In order to optimize the diagnostic performance, the most discriminating values will be used
      to build a multivariate diagnostic model. To prevent overfitting frequently associated with
      "standard" logistic regression, the selection of variables of interest will be performed with
      the LASSO method. This method is valuable when the number of subjects are limited.
    
  