
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the overall objective tumor response rate (complete and partial response
           rates) in patients with previously untreated advanced follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma
           treated with sargramostim (GM-CSF) and R-CHOP.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the time to progression.

        -  To evaluate the overall survival.

        -  To evaluate the duration of response.

        -  To evaluate the time to next treatment.

        -  To evaluate the safety profile of GM-CSF in combination with R-CHOP.

        -  To evaluate the influence of FcγR polymorphisms on clinical response.

        -  To monitor FcγR expressing cells in peripheral blood during treatment.

        -  To monitor the molecular biological marker bcl-2 [t(14;18)] in peripheral blood and bone
           marrow by quantitative PCR assay.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive R-CHOP comprising rituximab IV, cyclophosphamide IV,
           doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on
           days 1-5. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 2-6.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses. Patients then receive rituximab IV
           on day 1 and GM-CSF SC on days 1-5. Treatment with rituximab and GM-CSF repeats every 21
           days for 2 courses. Patients achieving complete or partial response proceed to
           maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and GM-CSF SC on days 1-5.
           Treatment repeats every 2 months for 12 courses.

      Blood and bone marrow samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for
      analysis of FcγR expression by immunophenotyping and bcl-2 rearrangement by quantitative PCR.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  