
    
      This is a research study of healthy subjects who will furnish blood samples for various
      assays over a period of one year.

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be isolated from healthy volunteers and CD19+
      B cells will be selected using CD19 magnetic micro-beads.

      B-cell cultures will be performed in culture medium consisting of Iscove's MDM (IMDM) medium
      (Gibco, Paisley, UK) supplemented with 10% human serum (HNS- GemCell), 0.5 ml Human Insulin
      (Sigma), 200mM L-Glutamine (Sigma) and 0.5% Gentamycin (Gibco).

      Total CD19+B cells will be cultured in the presence of anti-IgM (3μg/ml), anti-CD40
      (100ng/ml), IL-21 (100ng/ml) (BCR/CD40-stimulation) for 6 days in culture plates 96 wells
      round bottom (1.0x105 cells/well), and Thymoglobulin at different concentrations (10 to 100
      μg/ml) with or without calcineurin inhibitor (Tacrolimus, TAC) and mTOR inhibitor (Sirolimus,
      SRL) will be added at day 0.

      A variety of parameters of B cell activity including proliferation, activation,
      differentiation and cytokine production will be monitored by flow cytometry.These experiments
      are further explained in the outcome measures section below.

      The investigators will conduct univariate and bivariate analyses for all variables. The
      investigators will evaluate continuous variables using t-tests or F-tests and categorical
      variables using Chi-square or Fisher Exact tests. The investigators will examine data
      distributions and test all variables for linear relationships or non-linear relationships.
      Descriptive statistics (means, standard deviation, frequency) and correlations (both Pearson
      and Spearman) among variables will be conducted to assess the data. Necessary transformation
      and imputations will be conducted based on the raw data distribution. All data analyses will
      be performed using SAS 9.3 statistical software (SAS Inc., Cary, NC). All tests will be
      two-sided and an error rate of α <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  