
    
      One of the recognized hallmarks of cancer cells is deregulated cellular metabolism,
      characterized by enhanced metabolic autonomy compare with non-transformed cells. Tumor cells
      typically display an overall increase in glucose metabolism, associated with enhanced aerobic
      glycolysis and decreased oxidative phosphorylation, accompanied by a requirement for a high
      rate of protein, nucleotide, and fatty acid synthesis to provide the raw materials for cell
      division. 13C-glucose is a non-radioactive stable isotope tracer that has been widely used in
      vitro, in vivo, and in patients in a variety of disease settings to study glucose, amino
      acid, and lipid metabolism, at steady state and following intervention. [1,2-13C] glucose can
      provide additional information on the activity of the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway
      versus glycolysis. Administration of intravenous 13C-glucose is a convenient and affordable
      approach to analyzing the metabolomics of human cancers in their native microenvironments.

      The metabolic dependencies of the various breast cancer subtypes are poorly understood.
      Importantly, in depth analyses of the in situ metabolic processes utilized by triple-negative
      breast cancers (TNBCs) using state-of-the-art in vivo [1,2-13C]-glucose infusions in patients
      with TNBC has never been done. In TNBC, oncogenic activation of key signaling pathways leads
      to altered metabolic programming resulting in an increased dependence on exogenous nutrients
      such as glucose and glutamine. These data further suggest a hypothesis that TNBCs may employ
      a cellular mechanism called macropinocytosis to ingest and degrade interstitial albumin to
      accumulate glutamine. This process may then be exploited for therapeutic gain through
      enhanced uptake by cells that utilize macropinocytosis to meet their metabolic requirements.

      In this study, administration of [1,2-13C]-glucose to patients with TNBC will be done prior
      to patients undergoing a biopsy of their breast cancer as well as blood sample collection
      which will allow for in depth evaluation of glycolysis as well as lipid and amino acid
      metabolism by Joshua Rabinowitz, PhD, at Princeton University who is an international expert
      in cancer metabolomics. RAS and PI3K pathway and other genomic alterations as well as pathway
      activation status will be determined by next generation sequencing (NGS) and by reverse phase
      protein array (RPPA), and will be correlated with the metabolic findings, and both will be
      assessed in the context of the patients' response to standard preoperative chemotherapy.
    
  