
    
      Various studies have demonstrated that good treatment responses in Obsessive Compulsive
      Disorder (OCD) are often obtained in 60 to 80 % of patients, whether employing serotonin
      reuptake inhibitors or behavior therapy. However, a subgroup of OCD patients are refractory
      to the classical therapeutic options, even after maximum dosage regimens and sufficiently
      long treatment follow-ups are devised. Severe psychosocial and occupational impairments are
      meanwhile observable. These subjects are often referred to stereotactic neurosurgeries. Among
      the various surgical techniques, a radiosurgical modality (double-shot ventral
      capsular/ventral striatal - VC/VS gamma capsulotomy, or simply double-shot gamma ventral
      capsulotomy) has been recently developed. On the other hand, there are no randomized
      controlled trials of Gamma Knife radiosurgeries in Psychiatry.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether double-shot VC/VS gamma capsulotomy is
      efficacious and to describe its adverse events/complications profiles, in a double-blind,
      randomized controlled trial of this radiosurgical technique for the treatment of refractory
      OCD.

      Forty-eight refractory OCD patients will be randomized into two different groups: the first
      one will receive standard radiosurgery; the second group will be submitted to a false
      radiosurgical intervention ("sham operation"). All subjects will be previously assessed by a
      preliminary clinical/psychiatric interview, as well as by extensive specific instruments
      regarding psychiatric diagnosis, OCD evolution and severity, anxiety/depression symptoms,
      tics expression, psychosocial impairment, personality changes, etc. A neuropsychological
      tests battery will also be employed. All patients will be offered a periodical follow-up,
      during which assessment scales and neuroimaging exams (magnetic resonance imaging) will be
      repeated. Patients who had been previously submitted to placebo surgery will be able to
      undergo real operations after the one-year follow-up period, when blinding is broken. Scores
      results will be analyzed among the groups, as well as adverse events profiles,
      cognitive/personality changes, clinical global functioning and neuroimaging findings.
      Improvements in Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) and Clinical Global Impression
      (CGI) scores will be taken as the primary treatment response criteria.
    
  