
    
      Most patients with PAH, except those with congenital heart defects and pulmonary-to-systemic
      shunts, have minor degrees of hypoxemia at rest and during the night.Current recommendations
      including the pneumological guidelines for LTOT are based on evidence in patients with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, as data for patients with PH are lacking: When O2
      partial pressure is repeatedly <8 kPa (<60 mmHg, alternatively, 90% of O2 saturation),
      patients are advised to use O2 to achieve a saturation of >8 kPa. The use of ambulatory O2
      can be considered when there is evidence of a symptomatic response or correction of
      exercise-induced desaturation.

      There are only few studies investigating the effect of oxygen supply in pulmonary
      hypertension, most of which merely investigate acute effects of O2 administration. Short-term
      oxygen administration has been shown to reduce mean pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary
      vascular resistance and to increase cardiac output in PAH patients. In one study, oxygen
      supply also reversed the progression of PH in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD). One recent randomized-controlled trial indicates that O2 given during
      cardiopulmonary exercise significantly improves maximal work rate and endurance. Furthermore,
      nocturnal oxygen supply for one week significantly improved 6-minute walking distance in
      patients with PH, sleep-associated breathing difficulties, exercise performance during the
      day as well as cardiac repolarisation. Patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome gain little
      benefit from nocturnal O2 therapy.

      Whether these positive effects of O2 supplementation during exercise would translate into
      long-term improvements of exercise capacity, quality of life, hemodynamics and disease
      progression is not known to date. Up to now, there are no randomised studies suggesting that
      long-term O2 therapy is indicated or when it should be initiated.
    
  