
    
      Prospective studies affirm that education and advice from providers to dispose of unused
      medications modestly improves medication disposal rates. Two recently published randomized
      controlled trials demonstrate improved disposal rates when a system for medication disposal,
      namely a medication disposal bag (e.g. return envelope or activated charcoal) were supplied
      to patients or caregivers. The impact of education and physical disposal mechanism inferred a
      greater magnitude of effect than education alone.

      Research Design The investigators will use a cluster-randomized stepped-wedge design, using
      clinics as clusters (i.e., all clinics participate in all arms, but not all at the same time)
      to compare two main interventions (education only vs. education + mail-back bag). In
      addition, the investigators will randomize patients in both intervention arms to receive or
      not to receive an added telephone reminder call through interactive voice response (IVR). The
      primary outcome of the study, medication disposal actions taken by the patient, will be
      assessed by a telephone survey.

      Study Population The investigators will enroll patients newly prescribed an opioid medication
      within one of the participating clinics. For patients younger than 18 years old, the
      investigators will follow clinic procedures for the engagement of parents or guardians; the
      investigators anticipate that management of medications in this population is largely handled
      by the guardian or parent and therefore these patients are of key interest when studying
      proper medication storage and disposal.

      Interventions

      (1) baseline; (2) education at the clinic level; (3) educational materials mailed to the
      patient's home; (4) mail back bags mailed to patient's homes and (5) IVR reminder calls

      The study will enroll 13 clinics into the intervention with one clinic serving as an initial
      pilot. Feasibility and troubleshooting of the interventions will be tested within the pilot
      clinic; the pilot clinic will not be included within the final analysis.

      All clinics will initially be assessed at baseline (usual care) followed by education only
      for approximately 3 months until the targeted quota of patients for the clinic is achieved.
      Following this attainment, new patients will begin receiving mail-back bags in addition to
      the education for the remainder of the enrollment period, in order to create the two main
      patient groups. Approximately 50% of patients during both education only and mail back bag
      stages of enrollment will be selected for IVR reminder calls, using a random number generator
      method.

      Evaluation of safe medication disposal at 30-45 days post initial opioid prescription will be
      conducted through a telephone survey.
    
  