
    
      Hawaii's Healthy Start Program (HSP) is a well-respected home visiting program for families
      at risk for abuse of their newborn children. The program incorporates early identification of
      at-risk families. Each family then begins receiving long-term home visitations. The home
      visiting component aims to promote child health and development and to prevent child abuse by
      improving family functioning and parenting. Home visitors are trained paraprofessionals
      working under professional supervision. The program includes both direct services and
      referrals to community resources. Direct services include providing emotional support to
      parents, encouraging them to seek needed professional help, teaching parents about child
      development, and role-modeling parenting skills and problem-solving techniques. In a previous
      study, at-risk families were randomly assigned to either HSP or no intervention. Evaluations
      were conducted at the time of the child's birth and at ages 1, 2, and 3 in order to assess
      the home environment and the development and well-being of the child. This study is a
      continuation study. Participants will include the original families from the previous study,
      as well as a new group of families who are not at risk for child abuse. By interviewing and
      observing these two groups of families, this study will evaluate the effectiveness of HSP in
      promoting children's mental health, cognitive and social-emotional development, and academic
      achievement in the first years of school.

      All families will be evaluated on a yearly basis when the child is in 1st, 2nd, and 3rd
      grade. Interviews will be conducted with the parents, children, and teachers. Parent
      interviews will focus on family functioning, including mental health of the parents,
      parenting attitudes and behaviors, quality of the home environment, and any domestic violence
      or substance abuse that occurred. In addition, the child's health and development, as well as
      use of any community resources will be assessed. Interviews with the children and teachers
      will focus on assessing the child's behavior and emotional well-being. The family's home
      environment, the interaction between the parents and children, and the children's classroom
      behavior will be observed. Each child will also undergo developmental testing. All
      measurements will be collected at each yearly visit.
    
  