
    
      The development of contemporary diabetes care offers new hope for long and satisfying lives
      of those with the disease, but also provides increased challenges for integration across the
      many dimensions of care (varied medications in addition to insulin, specialty services, diet,
      physical activity, stress management, etc.) and across the many who contribute to care
      (specialists, primary care providers, nurses, dietitians and patient educators, family
      members, friends, worksites). The Shanghai Integration Model (SIM) has made great strides to
      integrating specialty/hospital care with primary/community care. The addition of peer support
      can enhance patient engagement within that integrated care. Peer support can also integrate
      care with the daily behaviors and patterns that optimal diabetes management requires and with
      the family members and others in individuals' daily lives who can support diabetes
      management.

      This project will disseminate a community-level intervention that integrates peer support
      from Community Self-Management Groups (CSMGs) and primary care through Community Health
      Centers (CHC). The model and program materials were developed and refined from the first year
      of implementation within community health centers in Shanghai. This project will be
      implemented in 12 communities in 6 districts across Shanghai, representing a diverse cross
      section of the population. A total of 1440 subjects will be recruited from the 12
      intervention communities and 720 control subjects will be recruited from 4 control
      communities.

      The program is a collaboration among the Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong
      University, the Shanghai Diabetes Institute, the National Office for Primary Diabetes Care,
      the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission, the Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Control
      and Prevention, and, at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, Peers for Progress,
      widely recognized for its leadership in promoting peer support in health care and prevention.

      Collaborators:

      Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai Diabetes Institute
      National Office for Primary Diabetes Care Shanghai Municipal Health Commission Shanghai
      Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention University of North Carolina at Chapel
      Hill, Peers for Progress
    
  