
    
      After surgery or radiation to the vaginal area, a common patient risk is that their vaginal
      tissue sticks together and scars. This can cause the vaginal canal to narrow or shorten. This
      can occur in up to 73% of patients and to fix the scarring, more surgery or uncomfortable
      procedures may be needed to widen the canal. To prevent the problem of scarring after surgery
      or radiation, patients should wear a stent to hold open the vaginal canal. Unfortunately, the
      current stents are poorly made and not very advanced. The result can be a poor fit to the
      vagina, movement of the stent, and patients not being able to wear the stent for a long
      enough time to keep the vaginal tissue from scarring.

      The first aim of this trial is for healthy participants to evaluate two newly designed
      stents. Each participant will have a stent placed for 24 hours, removed for 24 hours, and the
      second stent placed for 24 hours. The participants will evaluate the stent on comfort (during
      insertion, wearing, and removal), retention, any impact on daily functions, and chose which
      stent performed better overall. That stent will then be placed in the healthy participants
      for 2 weeks of continuous wear. Participants will answer daily questionnaires on comfort,
      retention, and any adverse effects. Physicians will also be asked to complete questionnaires
      at each appointment related to stent performance.

      The second aim of the trial is for two different patient populations to evaluate the
      preferred stent chosen by the healthy participants. Adolescent girls undergoing vaginal
      reconstructive surgery for vaginal anomalies will have a stent placed following surgery.
      During the two weeks of continuous wear, participants will be asked to answer daily
      questionnaires on comfort, retention, and adverse effects. The stent will be removed at two
      weeks, and participants will be asked to complete a follow-up questionnaire at each of their
      standard of care appointments, 2, 4, and 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months. Adult females
      undergoing vaginal brachytherapy will have a stent placed after their last brachytherapy
      treatment. The participants will wear the stent continuously for 2 weeks and be asked to
      answer daily questionnaires on comfort, retention, and adverse effects. Participants will
      have a 2-week follow-up, during which the stent will be removed, they will be examined, and
      the stent will be replaced for 2 more weeks of continuous wear. At the 4-week follow-up, the
      stent will be removed and subsequent standard of care follow-ups will continue at 3, 6, and
      12 months. Physicians will also be asked to complete questionnaires at each appointment
      related to stent performance.

      During all phases of the trial, the data safety monitoring board will meet at regularly
      scheduled meetings and immediately after any severe or unanticipated adverse event. After our
      12 months of follow up, data collected from both participant and physician questionnaires
      will be analyzed by the study bio-statistician and compared to retrospective data.
    
  