
    
      The primary objective of this pilot project is to evaluate the efficacy of Cymbalta for
      bereavement-associated depression. Participating patients will be treated with Cymbalta in
      doses up to 60mg daily for eight (8) weeks. The primary outcome measure for this study will
      be the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD-17). In pursuit of this objective,
      we will test the following hypothesis: After eight weeks of open-label treatment with
      Cymbalta for bereavement-associated depression, at least half of the participants will
      achieve remission, as measured by a score of 7 or less on the HRSD-17.

      Secondary objectives of this project are:

        -  To determine the tolerability of Cymbalta treatment among patients with
           bereavement-associated depression (as measured by adverse events and the proportion of
           participants who discontinue Cymbalta before completing eight weeks of study treatment);

        -  To determine the effect of Cymbalta treatment on grief in patients with
           bereavement-associated depression (as measured by the Texas Revised Inventory of Grief
           and the Inventory of Complicated Grief after eight weeks of treatment compared to
           baseline); and

        -  To determine the effect of Cymbalta treatment on health status, pain, and other
           co-morbid symptoms in patients with bereavement-associated depression (as measured by
           the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System and the Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form
           Health Survey administered at Weeks 2, 4, and 8 and compared to baseline).

      This pilot study is an eight-week, open-label clinical antidepressant treatment trial using
      Cymbalta (duloxetine hydrochloride) in doses between 20mg and 60mg daily for patients with
      co-morbid depression and bereavement. Twenty (20) patients who have sustained the loss of a
      first-degree relative (spouse, child, parent, or sibling) within the past two years AND meet
      criteria for a major depressive episode at the time of screening will be recruited for
      participation in this study. Patients who tolerate and respond to Cymbalta treatment will be
      offered maintenance therapy with Cymbalta for up to one year at the effective dose. We expect
      that Cymbalta treatment will be associated with substantial remission and response rates, as
      measured by HRSD-17 scores. Similarly, we expect substantial mean reductions in measures of
      grief and bereavement, with improvements in measures of pain, symptom burden, and functional
      status.
    
  