
    
      Adhesive tapes are often used on the patient's face during general anesthesia. They are used
      to fix the tracheal tube, nasopharyngeal temperature probe, nasogastric tube, and nerve
      stimulator electrodes. An adhesive tape used in anesthesia needs to provide fast, secure
      adhesion to prevent dislodgement of critical devices. The tape should be secure over time,
      with changes over temperature, humidity, or exposure to fluids as occurring in the operating
      room. However, the tape should be gentle enough that removal should not cause skin trauma to
      the face. While the skin irritation is generally limited to mild erythema that resolves on
      its own within a day or two of receiving anesthesia, the irritation may affect patient
      satisfaction. Furthermore, serious injury, including full-thickness epidermal loss with
      purpura has occurred at Tufts Medical Center with the use of 3MTM Durapore tape, requiring
      several doctor visits in follow up.

      Medical adhesive related skin injuries are estimated to impact at least 1.5 million patients
      annually in the US with significant costs per incident. (1) At Tufts Medical Center, a
      variety of adhesive tapes are used to secure the endotracheal tube during anesthesia,
      including 3MTM Durapore (acrylate- based tape) and the Hy-Tape® Pink tape (zink-based tape)
      with no preference for one or the other.

      Hy-Tape's zinc oxide-based adhesive is claimed to be soothing to delicate skin, and removes
      with minimum trauma, thereby reducing the chance of skin tears and tape burns. It also has
      the unique quality of providing maximum adhesion when it reaches body temperature, without
      getting more aggressive or breaking down over time as acrylic-based adhesive tapes do.
      However, there is no scientific evidence to support this claim.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the rate of skin erythema after anesthesia with the
      use of DuraporeTM vs. the Hy-Tape®. Our null hypothesis is that the rate of erythema will be
      similar between the two groups given there is no evidence currently to suggest otherwise.
    
  