
    
      There are growing concerns that surgery is a risk factor for chronic opioid use. Existing
      studies suggest that post-surgical opioid prescribing intended for the short-term management
      of acute pain may result in unintended long-term opioid use for a small, but meaningful
      number of patients.

      Increasing numbers of patients are discharged from hospital post-surgery with opioids for the
      management of their acute post-surgical pain. Opioids have proven efficacy for the management
      of acute post-surgical pain, but can cause significant harm when used long-term for
      non-cancer pain. Evidence suggests that post-surgical opioid use continues in some patients
      for years after surgery.

      Identification of patients at risk of prolonged opioid use after surgery may assist in
      reducing the adverse outcomes associated with long-term opioid use. Pre-operative risk
      stratification tools may be of use in identifying surgical patients at risk of long-term
      opioid use. Validated tools are widely used to identify patients at high risk of opioid
      misuse in the chronic pain setting, but currently there is no optimal method to predict
      patients at risk of chronic opioid use after surgery.

      Existing studies have found that a wide range of patient characteristics and psychiatric
      comorbidities are associated with long-term opioid use in a post-surgical setting.

      There are 5 primary study procedures in the investigators research project:

        1. Enrolment in the study: Subjects will be recruited and enrolled at the pre-operative
           admission clinic and day surgery unit at St Vincent's Private Hospital, Sydney. This
           study aims to enrol 1000 patients.

        2. Informed consent: Patients who meet inclusion criteria, and agree to enrol in the study
           will be asked to read and sign an informed consent document.

        3. Initial questionnaire: Trained nursing staff will administer an initial questionnaire to
           all patients participating in the study. This questionnaire will gather data regarding
           potential predictors of delayed opiate cessation including age, sex, operation type,
           pre-operative opioid use, depression traits, anxiety traits, addictive traits, perceived
           susceptibility to addiction, average hours of sleep per night, history of chronic pain,
           and perceived general health.

        4. Follow-up questionnaire: At approximately 90 days post-surgery, a follow-up
           questionnaire will be administered to all enrolled subjects via phone call or email.
           This questionnaire will determine current pain scores and details regarding current pain
           medication usage.

        5. Statistical analysis: Once data collection is complete, identifying details will be
           removed, and data will be entered into a password-protected electronic database. The
           investigators will analyse data from all patients and determine the prevalence of
           delayed opioid cessation, and which questionnaire items independently predict delayed
           opioid cessation.

      The investigators primary study objective is to determine the prevalence of prolonged
      post-surgical opioid use, defined by our study as patients taking opioids >90 days
      post-surgery. The investigators secondary objective is to identify patient-related factors
      that are independently associated with prolonged post-surgical opioid use. These factors may
      be used to develop a pre-operative screening tool for patients undergoing surgery, in order
      to assign a level of risk for chronic post-surgical opioid use.
    
  