
    
      This is a randomised, placebo controlled, cross-over, single-blind study of the effects of
      GSK598809 (175 mg, single dose) on multiple pharmacodynamic measures assessed by fMRI and
      rating scales. In one period subjects will receive GSK598809 and in the other, placebo.

      Investigator, subject and all staff at site involved with the study will remain blinded
      throughout the study. The GSK team will be unblinded to the randomisation code. GSK has
      classed this as a single blind study however as both investigator and subject are blinded it
      is referred to as double blind in the study design.

      Twenty four recently detoxified and not currently on medication, alcohol-dependent subjects
      on a specialised addiction ward will be the study group. These subjects will be recruited
      into this study while participating in a intramural treatment program, outside of the
      protocol. Subjects will remain in the unit for the duration of the study.

      Alcohol-dependent subjects who enter the institutes' treatment program will be screened
      between 28 and 15 days prior to the first dose of the study medication according to the
      eligibility criteria. Subjects who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      entered into the study. Along with the study procedures described within this protocol,
      subjects will participate in the institutes standardized inpatient behavioral addiction
      treatment program outside of the protocol.

      Alcohol-dependent participants have to fulfil diagnostic criteria of alcohol dependence as
      detailed in the eligibility criteria. The severity of alcoholism will be assessed with the
      Alcohol Dependence Scale and the amount of lifetime alcohol intake will be measured with
      Lifetime Drinking History.

      After the final alcoholic drink and prior to the first dose of study medication subjects will
      be treated with detoxification medication (lorazepam) for withdrawal symptoms for up to seven
      days. Following the treatment of withdrawal symptoms, subjects will have a medication free
      period for at least seven days to ensure the detoxification medication has been washed out.
      Liver function tests will be performed again at Day -1 of each dosing day and must be in line
      with criteria.

      Subjects will be randomised to one of two sequence: Placebo received first followed by
      GSK598809, or GKS598809 received first followed by Placebo. Between 8 and 14 days after the
      last dose of withdrawal medication, subjects will have their first dose of study medication
      and first MRI scan. At least 7 days and less than 10 days after the first dose/scanning day
      subjects will receive their second dosing and their second MRI scan.

      All subjects will undergo the following battery of minimal risk procedures during the study;
      filling out questionnaires, performing agreed behavioural tasks, scanning procedures
      including fMRI and structural MRI (baseline). Alcohol abstinence will be confirmed by random
      alcohol-breath tests.

      Craving for alcohol will be measured with the Alcohol Urge Questionnaire (AUQ) and the
      Obsessive Compulsive Drinking Scale (OCDS) before each fMRI scanning session and the Alcohol
      Craving Questionnaire before and after each fMRI scanning session. Nicotine consumption will
      be assessed with the Fagerstrom Test for nicotine dependence both at screening and on the day
      prior to each dosing day.

      As described above subjects will undergo two MRI scanning sessions of about 1h (1.5h maximum)
      each, at intervals of at least one week. The scanning will take place after the
      administration of study medication (GSK598809 or placebo). The single dose of GSK598809 or
      placebo will be administered about 1-2 h prior to the scan.

      The MRI scanning session will start with acquisition of structural MRI brain images to be
      used as an anatomical reference. The acquisition of the structural MRI will last for around 6
      minutes and during this time subjects are able to get familiar with the MRI procedure. Fear
      and arousal will decline slowly after the first minutes and prior to the fMRI paradigms.
      Three fMRI paradigms have been selected to probe reactivity to alcohol-related cues, monetary
      reward, and to measure BOLD signal fluctuations in the brain resting state. Subjects will be
      discharged from the inpatient unit 2 days (48 hours) after the second fMRI scan; they will be
      motivated to remain abstinent and returned to their previous living situation.
    
  