
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of flavopiridol and cisplatin in patients
           with advanced solid tumors. (Part 1)

        -  Determine the MTD of carboplatin when combined with flavopiridol in another group of
           patients with advanced solid tumors. (Part 2)

        -  Determine the toxic effects of these regimens in this patient population.

        -  Determine the objective clinical response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of these regimens in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of flavopiridol and cisplatin (part 1), followed by
      a dose-escalation study of carboplatin (part 2).

        -  Part 1: Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 24 hours. Two weeks later, patients
           receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours immediately followed by flavopiridol IV over 24 hours.
           Treatment with cisplatin/flavopiridol continues every 3 weeks in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Sequential dose escalation of flavopiridol is followed by sequential dose escalation of
      cisplatin. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of flavopiridol and then
      cisplatin until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity.

        -  Part 2: Additional patients are accrued for part 2. Those patients receive carboplatin
           IV over 30 minutes immediately followed by flavopiridol IV over 24 hours. Treatment
           continues every 3 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of carboplatin until the MTD is determined.
      The MTD is defined as in part 1.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 36-48 patients will be accrued for this study within 2
      years.
    
  