
    
      Tourette's Syndrome (TS) is characterized by repetitive movements and vocalizations called
      tics. Due to the suffering caused by TS, children and adolescents often require treatment for
      their tics. Tic severity predicts poor outcomes across physical, psychological, and cognitive
      domains in youth. Current treatments for TS remain limited in scope and efficacy. Atypical
      antipsychotics are often used and for many patients have an unacceptable side effect burden.
      Behavioral treatments, like habit reversal therapy (HRT), show promise and are safe, but are
      predicated on a certain level of brain maturation to execute.

      The investigators' research focuses on developing novel repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) interventions for child and adolescent neuropsychiatric disorders.
      Plasticity, precision, and pairing are key considerations in this process. In this project,
      the investigators will determine the effect of pairing 3 weeks of rTMS and HRT on tic
      severity and plasticity as indexed by supplementary motor area (SMA) y-aminobutyric acid
      (GABA) concentration and functional connectivity of the SMA to the primary motor cortex (M1)
      in children and adolescents with TS. The investigators will use functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) and robot controlled rTMS to precisely target the SMA. The investigators
      believe this pairing will provide improved relief by inducing plasticity to retrain the brain
      to be better at suppressing tics at an earlier age than usually expected.

      Children (N = 50, 6-18 years) with TS will be randomized to either a (1) rTMS+HRT arm, or (2)
      sham rTMS+HRT. Outcome measures will examine tic severity (primary), brain chemistry and
      function (secondary) at baseline and then at week 7. The investigators' proposed aims are:

      (Aim 1) To determine the effect of paired rTMS and HRT on tic severity as measured by the
      Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS) by comparing it to sham rTMS + HRT.

      1-1: The investigators hypothesize that tic severity will decrease from baseline to
      post-treatment.

      1-2: The investigators also hypothesize that the reduction in tic severity will be greater in
      the paired treatment group (rTMS+HRT > Sham rTMS+HRT).

      (Aim 2) To determine the effect of paired rTMS and HRT on brain plasticity compared to sham
      rTMS + HRT.

      2-1: The investigators hypothesize that patients treated with the paired rTMS and HRT will
      have a greater increase in GABA concentration comparted to sham and HRT.

      2-2: The investigators also hypothesize that functional connectivity between the SMA and M1
      will be greater with paired treatment (rTMS+HRT > Sham rTMS+HRT).
    
  