
    
      Changes in the amount of fat and how that fat was distributed were reported after the
      introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV infected patients. Increases in
      diabetes, heart disease, and blood levels of glucose and fats have also been reported.
      However, the cause for these changes is still unclear, in part because clinical measures have
      not been consistent between different trials. The contribution of age, duration of HIV
      infection, duration and types of ART, and body weight on metabolic changes need to be
      defined, and the relationship between metabolic disturbances and body composition changes has
      also not been established. The purpose of this study is to examine HIV infected adults and
      use objective measurements of fat to determine metabolic changes in this population, their
      causes, and possible associations with other observed changes. Data from this study will help
      guide future treatment plans for HIV infected people to help prevent or lessen the risk for
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

      There are 2 parts to this study. Part 1 will examine fat redistribution; there will be 2
      groups in Part 1. Group 1 participants will be HIV infected adults recruited from specific
      HIV clinics. Group 2 participants will be HIV uninfected adults currently enrolled in the
      Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study. Participants will undergo
      hands-over-head-to-toe wide-slice magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA). Imaging measurements will be compared to anthropometric measurements
      to determine whether anthropometric measurements can accurately quantify fat redistribution.
      Participants will be asked to self-report fat distribution abnormalities, and this
      self-reporting will be evaluated for accuracy as compared to the quantitative measures of
      regional fat distribution. Blood collection will also occur to determine the possible
      association of body composition changes with the types of ART a participant may have taken or
      currently be taking.

      Part 2 of this study will examine cardiovascular disease and factors for its development;
      there will be 2 groups in Part 2. Group 1 participants will be HIV infected adults recruited
      from specific HIV clinics. Group 2 participants will be HIV uninfected adults currently
      enrolled in the CARDIA study. All participants will be assessed for blood pressure, family
      history, lifestyle habits, and regional fat volumes by MRI and DEXA. Blood collection will
      occur to test for glucose and lipids (traditional metabolic risk factors) and C-reactive
      protein (CRP) and cytokines (novel inflammatory risk factors). Participants will also undergo
      a carotid intimal medial thickness (IMT) measurement by ultrasound to determine the
      prevalence of atherosclerosis in this population and associated contributing factors.

      For Part 2, there will be a minimum of 2 visits. At both visits, fasting blood collection
      will occur. A physical exam and self-reporting of lifestyle habits, and completion of
      questionnaires about smoking, alcohol use, and medical and family history will occur at the
      first visit.
    
  