
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicity of topotecan
      when combined with ifosfamide in patients with limited or extensive stage small cell lung
      cancer. II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of topotecan and correlate with toxicity or tumor
      response in these patients. III. Determine the effect of topotecan on apoptosis in tumor
      tissues and correlate the apoptosis-inducing effects with antitumor effects of topotecan in
      these patients. IV. Determine the response rate, time to progression, and survival of
      chemotherapy naive limited or extensive stage small cell lung cancer patients treated with
      ifosfamide and topotecan and then crossover consolidation/salvage therapy with carboplatin
      and etoposide. V. Determine the response rate, time to progression, and survival of
      pretreated limited or extensive stage small cell lung cancer patients treated with ifosfamide
      and topotecan as salvage therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of topotecan (phase I). Patients are stratified by
      disease stage (extensive vs limited) and prior chemotherapy (naive vs pretreated) in phase
      II. Induction therapy: Patients receive topotecan IV over 72 hours and ifosfamide IV over 30
      minutes every 3 weeks. Chemotherapy naive patients with complete or partial response after 3
      courses, stable disease after 2 courses, or progressive disease at any time receive
      consolidation/salvage chemotherapy. Pretreated patients continue on induction regimen for a
      minimum of 6 courses unless disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Phase I: Cohorts of
      3-6 patients receive escalating doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 3 of 6 patients experience
      dose limiting toxicity. Salvage chemotherapy: Patients with extensive stage disease receive
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 45 minutes on days 1, 2, and 3.
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 to 6 courses. Patients with limited stage disease
      undergoing chest irradiation receive treatment every 28 days for the first course. Patients
      are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 4 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 15-20 patients will be accrued for phase I and approximately
      35 patients will be accrued for phase II of this study.
    
  