
    
      In normal subjects, the learning of new hand movements initially relies on the automatic
      ability to elaborate a motor plan from the simple observation of movements performed by
      others. The improvement of motor performance during practice also relies on a correct
      visuomotor processing of visual feedback and it has been demonstrated that the repeated
      observation of a gesture, named observational training is sufficient to induce motor
      learning. However, it is not known if stroke patients process visuomotor information in the
      same manner as normal subjects.

      Objectives:

      The purpose of this protocol is to determine the pattern of brain activations related to
      motor learning induced by observational training in stroke patients as compared to normal
      volunteers. We hypothesize that observational motor learning in stroke patients will rely on
      an increased activity in premotor cortex as compared to normal volunteers.

      Study population:

      This protocol will include chronic stroke patients with subcortical lesions and good motor
      recovery from an initial upper-limb paresis, and a control population of age and gender
      matched normal volunteers.

      Design:

      We will conduct a functional MRI (fMRI) experiment assessing observational training of finger
      sequences. Three conditions of finger sequences will be compared: 1) a sequence visually
      trained during the fMRI session, 2) a non-trained sequence (control 1), and 3) a sequence
      visually trained before the fMRI session (control 2). The fMRI session will be split into 3
      separate runs. The first run will assess brain activity related to the motor performance of
      the 3 finger sequences. The second run will explore the brain activity during observational
      training of the sequence. The third run will re-assess the brain activity related to the
      motor performance of the 3 finger sequences.

      Outcome measures:

      The endpoint measure of the experiment will be an increase in the number of activated voxels
      in premotor cortex during the motor learning induced by observational training in the stroke
      patients as compared to normal volunteers.
    
  