
    
      The perioperative period is recognized as an anxiety-provoking period for patients. If for
      some patients, this anxiety is more or less manageable, for others, it is the major concern
      with regard to their intervention, fearing not to wake up, to remain in a coma. Consideration
      of this aspect is very important for patients who require surgery. It is also a concern for
      caregivers involved in the care of these patients, including anesthesiologists, surgeons and
      operating room staff.

      For many years, pharmacological premedication, including benzodiazepines, has been the gold
      standard in the treatment of preoperative anxiety.

      This systematic prescription is controversial in populations most exposed to side effects
      such as the elderly, patients with heart or respiratory diseases.

      Surgery also seems to influence the impact of premedication. For example, abdominal surgery
      and breast surgery are associated with a higher risk of agitation upon awakening.

      Mental preparation, based on simple explanations by the anaesthetist, is not enough to reduce
      patients' anxiety.

      A recent study evaluated the perioperative experience of patients receiving or not receiving
      premedication. It shows that benzodiazepines are associated with cognitive impairment and
      delayed extubation in the elderly. In addition, it seems to have little effect on patient
      anxiety when compared to a placebo.

      In this context of anxiety, an emotional regulation tool appears particularly relevant.
      Cardiac coherence" (CC) is a particular state of cardiac variability. This state is
      correlated with many physiological and psychological variables. It is possible to promote
      this state through different techniques. One of its practices, "fixed frequency guided
      breathing", seems relevant both in its principles and in its simplicity of implementation.

      This specific respiratory mode permits to rebalance the sympathetic - parasympathetic balance
      of the autonomic nervous system and reveals a state of calm vigilance. This simple,
      well-coded respiratory psychophysiological practice is widely used in many applications, such
      as for the most caricatural ones, the management of difficult situations where stress is a
      central element such as decision-making among fighter pilots on mission, in national
      education to improve academic learning (especially among anxious students) and also more
      generally in stress and anxiety management.

      This technique induces a refocusing of emotions by regulating the SNA and therefore a better
      regulation of the hormones involved in the emotional cascade.

      This practice has several advantages:

        -  it is psychophysiological (psychocorporeal) and widely described in the scientific
           literature in several indications

        -  it is completely free of charge and immediately accessible to the patient, regardless of
           time and place

        -  it can be used at other anxiety-inducing times (e.g., imaging or biopsy tests)

        -  it allows total patient autonomy, offering self-management of anxiety and independence
           from the presence of a third party

        -  it can approach a hypnotic model by focusing and absorbing what it can induce on
           breathing, and thus share some of its benefits

        -  It does not have any adverse effects. The major difficulty of this technique is the
           adherence and regularity of the practice. The optimal effect is dependent on regular
           training.

      To improve this adherence, an audio tape will be put online, read in a hypnotic tone, which
      will aim to explain respiratory physiology, the benefits of oxygenation on cells and
      metabolism; this will have the effect of understanding the interest and utility of this
      exercise and will contribute to induce a feeling of relaxation and well-being.

      This study will be a study of feasibility about a program based on the cardiac coherence
      technique in a context of perioperative anxiety.
    
  