
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether 2-10 year hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) survivors with elevated
      depression or cancer-related distress who are randomized to receive access to a tailored
      internet-based program report reduced depression and distress when compared with control
      group survivors who receive access to an internet site with links to transplant and
      cancer-specific online resources and delayed access to the internet site (active control).

      II. Determine whether survivors with low survivorship preventive care adherence (PCA) who are
      randomized to receive access to the tailored internet-based program, including a survivorship
      preventive care plan, report increased PCA when compared with the active control group
      survivors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Secondary outcomes will include process measures of internet study reach and utilization,
      as well as physical function, physical activity level, and knowledge of survivorship needs.
      Further analyses will identify risk factors for disparities in survivorship preventive care
      adherence in HCT survivors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive full access to the INSPIRE internet site comprising an
      individually tailored program with a greeting home page with links to each target area, a 'My
      Health Action Plan' health care guideline for transplant survivors, self-care tips and tool
      pages for each complication and major issues for HCT survivors, a section for each
      complication (mood, energy, heart health, strengthening bones, second cancers), resource
      pages, opportunities to send secure messages with questions or comments on any topic,
      opportunities to request additional assistance or information, mobile texting options, and
      social media links (Twitter/Facebook/Pinterest) maintained and monitored by the Social Media
      Specialist.

      ARM II: Participants receive annotated website links to existing transplant and cancer
      survivor sites, followed by delayed access to the INSPIRE internet program after 1 year.
    
  