
    
      Heart failure, irrespective of its etiology may be viewed as a progressive disorder initiated
      by a different events and sustained by a multifaceted pathophysiological mechanisms.
      Regardless of the nature of the initiating events and optimized therapy used, loss of
      functioning cardiac myocytes developed and the disease progressed. One potential explanation
      for such progression is that not all pathological mechanisms underlying the disease are
      antagonized enough by currently used therapeutic strategy. Accordingly, impaired myocardial
      perfusion secondary to microvascular dysfunction has been postulated to play a major role in
      the progression of heart failure despite standard therapy for heart failure (1). It has been
      hypothesized that diffuse subendocardial ischemia due to altered coronary physiology may
      contribute to the global cardiac dysfunction seen in heart failure patients (2). Accordingly,
      coronary endothelial dysfunction at the microvascular and epicardial level in patients with
      acute-onset idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and chronic congestive heart failure has been
      reported (3,4) Thus, taking all mentioned above into account, the improvement in endothelial
      function and diminishing of subendocardial ischemia with calcium antagonists may be promising
      in terms of using these drugs for therapy of patients with stable chronic heart failure. The
      previous randomized study (5) and our long-term pilot study support this point of view.

        1. Neglia D, Michelassi C, Trivieri MG, et al. Prognostic role of myocardial blood flow
           impairment in idiopathic left ventricular dysfunction. Circulation 2002;105:186-193.

        2. Unverferth DV, Magorien RD, Lewis RP, et al. The role of subendocardial ischemia in
           perpetuating myocardial failure in patients with nonischemic congestive cardiomyopathy.
           Am Heart J 1983;105:176-179.

        3. Mathier MA, Rose GA, Fifer MA, et al. Coronary endothelial dysfunction in patients with
           acute-onset idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. J Am Coll Cardiol 1998;32:216-224.

        4. Chong AY, Blann AD, Patel J, et al. Endothelial dysfunction and damage in congestive
           heart failure. Relation of flow-mediated dilation to circulating endothelial cells,
           plasma indexes of endothelial damage, and brain natriuretic peptide. Circulation
           2004;110:1794-1798.

        5. Figulla HR, Gietzen F, Zeymer U, et al. Diltiazem improves cardiac function and exercise
           capacity in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Results of diltiazem in
           dilated cardiomyopathy trial. Circulation 1996;94:346-352.
    
  