
    
      There are many different types of NHL. A lot of progress has been made over the last years in
      the management of NHL, and while some can be cured with available treatments, for others new
      treatments are necessary. A significant number of patients that cannot be cured with the
      available treatments will eventually relapse.

      Dysregulation of apoptosis via overexpression of the antiapoptotic BCL-2 protein is paramount
      for several subtypes of NHL. On the other hand, PI3K is a central pathway in the pathogenesis
      of lymphoma, and PI3K signaling is critical for the proliferation and survival of malignant
      cells such as follicular lymphoma (FL), marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), and others.

      The combination of copanlisib (PI3K inhibitor) and venetoclax (BLC-2 inhibitor) is
      interesting given their known single agent activity in B-cell NHL and their synergy observed
      in B-cell NHL preclinical models. The pharmacologic inhibition of PI3K by copanlisib has
      translated into significant clinical activity in different lymphoma subtypes. Venetoclax has
      proven successful in CLL and the first results in NHL are encouraging. Both compounds are
      currently in other combination studies in SLL/CLL and NHL but there are currently no clinical
      trials studying this particular combination.

      There is a need to further improve approaches in the relapsed/refractory setting of patients
      with NHL in need of systemic therapy and this combination may provide an opportunity for an
      active and well-tolerated regimen that does not present the short and long-term toxicities of
      chemotherapy.

      The phase Ib study here proposed will evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary
      antitumor activity of the novel combination of copanlisib with venetoclax, two drugs with
      single agent activity across different lymphoma subtypes in the dose escalation and in two
      small cohorts of patients with FL and MZL in the expansion phase.
    
  