
    
      In a variety of thoracic and abdominal surgeries, thoracic epidural placement is associated
      with better pain relief, less opioid consumption, a decrease in adverse perioperative cardiac
      events, and improved intestinal perfusion and motility. Unfortunately, epidural catheter
      placement is challenging and is not always successful. The epidural space in the thoracic
      region is especially difficult to access due to the steep and inferior angulation of most of
      the spinous processes.

      The vast majority of thoracic epidurals are placed using a landmark-based technique (i.e.
      without ultrasound guidance or fluoroscopy). In addition, a "loss of resistance" technique is
      typically used to confirm the needle has entered the epidural space. With a paramedian
      technique, the thoracic spinous processes are palpated (if possible), the needle is advanced
      through the skin just lateral to the spinous processes until lamina is contacted. The needle
      is then redirected medially based on an estimate of the location of the midline at the
      interlaminar space. The needle is then "walked" cephalad or caudad to blindly search for the
      interlaminar space. The depth to the lamina and interlaminar space are not known which
      introduces additional uncertainty in the mind of the operator, who must proceed with caution
      so as to not advance the needle too far and puncture the dural sac. It is not surprising that
      the landmark approach is associated with a significant number of unsuccessful attempts, long
      procedure times, and ineffective catheters, with the percentage of failed thoracic epidurals
      reported as high as 32%. In one study, the failure rate confirmed by both epidural waveform
      analysis and a sensory test after local anesthetic injection, the primary failure rate was
      found to be 23%-24%. A higher number of procedural attempts can also lead to an increased
      risk for complications including paresthesia, epidural hematoma, and dural puncture
      headaches. The high failure rate of this procedure highlights the need for more studies on
      ways to improve the techniques for thoracic epidural access.

      Ultrasound (US) has proven to be useful in the imaging of the spine, and has also helped
      improve our ability to access the lumbar epidural space. Ultrasound measurement of the
      epidural space depth before epidural catheter placement decreased the rate of lumbar epidural
      catheter replacements, and reduced the number of epidural attempts when performed by first
      year residents compared to attempts without ultrasound guidance. In another study the use of
      ultrasound to identify the depth and location of the interlaminar and epidural space improved
      placement of labor epidurals with a lower number of block failures, a higher number of
      complete blockade, a higher rate of subject satisfaction, and lower VAS scores. Ultrasound
      has also been used to image the thoracic spine and epidural space.

      The superior medial border of the thoracic transverse process aligns with the interlaminar
      space. This anatomical fact, combined with the ability to use ultrasound to identify the
      thoracic transverse processes and other bony landmarks forms the basis of this study. In the
      transverse plane, ultrasound can be used to identify the thoracic spinous processes and the
      midline. In the paramedian plane, the lamina, articular process and transverse process can be
      identified. In the lumbar spine, once the articular process is identified, a paramedian
      angulation of the ultrasound beam is used to identify an "acoustic window" between the lamina
      and into the spinal canal, thus identifying the interlaminar space. In the thoracic spine,
      because of the tight space between the lamina and overlapping of the lamina, an acoustic
      window is infrequently visualized and cannot be used as a reliable method to identify the
      interlaminar space. In contrast, both the superior border of the transverse process and the
      step-off between lamina can be readily identified with ultrasound. Both of these landmarks
      align with the interlaminar space.

      In clinical practice, there is significant variability in techniques used to identify the
      correct epidural space. Although the loss of resistance technique is the most commonly used,
      variability exists in methods to confirm presence in the epidural space. Once such technique
      routinely used at this institution is the manometry technique. This involves using a
      three-way stopcock connected to clear plastic tubing IV extension tubing filled with normal
      saline. When the loss of resistance is detected, it can be confirmed by connecting the
      prefilled tubing to the Tuohy needle and opening the stopcock so the fluid inside is freely
      flowing. If the Tuohy needle tip is located in the epidural space, the saline column will
      initially fall, then exhibit pulsatility associated with heartbeat and respiration.

      The identification of the epidural space by respiratory and heartbeat fluctuations in the
      air-fluid level has been previous described. The heart rate variability is believed to be due
      to arteriolar pulsations transmitted within a closed epidural space, while the respiratory
      variation in air fluid level is believed to be due to venous engorgement of the epidural
      veins with changes in thoracic pressure during inspiration. In the past 30 years, a handful
      of studies have been published evaluating epidural pressure measurement. Many of the studies
      using gravity to confirm presence in epidural space also use a pressure transducer to produce
      a visual waveform showing increase in pressure upon entry into the ligamentum flavum, and
      decrease in pressure upon entry into the epidural space. Two of these studies also
      incorporated an audible alarm to indicate change in pressure. One study correlated epidurals
      placed with pressure transducers to confirm the epidural space with presence or absence of
      block post-op and contrast spread on CT cathetergram showing a complete correlation between
      pressure waveform and catheter positioned in epidural space, further establishing the
      validity of pressure measurement to confirm entrance in the epidural space. Epidural pressure
      waveform analysis has not become routine practice, likely due to equipment, cost, and time
      constraints. We hypothesize that the simple, rapid, and inexpensive technique of extension
      tubing manometry will offer similar benefits for confirmation of epidural placement and will
      be applicable to placement at the thoracic levels.
    
  