
    
      The majority of severe exacerbations of asthma and need for hospitalizations are triggered by
      infection with respiratory viruses. Of these, rhinovirus is the most commonly implicated
      virus. Furthermore, there is evidence that viral infections exert synergistic effects with
      other stimuli to provoke asthma symptoms such as exposure to allergens and air pollutants.
      Experimental HRV infection studies have yielded important insights into the underlying
      disease mechanisms of viral-induced asthma exacerbations, and have been integral to
      identifying candidates for the development of new therapies. These studies have been safely
      conducted in both healthy and susceptible populations (those with underlying airway disease
      such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)), for more than 60 years.

      Much of the understanding of the clinical course of HRV infection is derived from
      experimental infections of healthy human volunteers. In these studies, subjects were
      inoculated intranasally with up to 10,000 [tissue culture infectious dose (TCID)] TCID50 of
      HRV, the most commonly used strains being HRV-16 and HRV-39. Experimental HRV infection
      produces the hallmark clinical features of the common cold including rhinorrhea and nasal
      obstruction. Respiratory symptoms typically develop 1-2 days after inoculation. Cold symptom
      scores generally peak 2-4 days post infection and return to baseline within 1 week in most
      infected subjects. HRV infection induces changes in inflammatory cell recruitment, nasal
      cytokine levels, and gene expression, which occur concurrently with clinical symptoms.

      While the symptoms of HRV infection are typically limited to the upper respiratory tract in
      healthy subjects, those with underlying airway disease such asthma and COPD are more likely
      to exhibit an augmented and prolonged response to HRV infection with lower airway
      involvement. HRV is the leading viral cause of exacerbations of asthma and COPD; therefore,
      the response of these populations to HRV infection has been the focus of a number of studies.
      Although most studies in asthmatics have been performed in inhaled corticosteroid-naïve
      subjects, a recent study performed in subjects whose asthma was well controlled with inhaled
      corticosteroids demonstrates the safety of experimental HRV infection in this population.
      This model has also been employed in conjunction with other exposure models such as allergen
      challenge and pollutant exposure. There are several ongoing and recently completed clinical
      trials registered with ClinicalTrials.gov that utilize the HRV infection model. Of these,
      several employ the HRV-16 strain (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifiers: NCT01769573, NCT01466738,
      NCT01823640, NCT03073837, NCT03296917, NCT01704040, NCT02910401) being used in this study.
      Both healthy and asthmatic volunteers are represented in these clinical trials.

      In summary, the experimental HRV infection model has proven to be a safe and valuable tool
      for examining various aspects of HRV biology. Due to the limitations associated with animal
      models of asthma and COPD, and the lack of animal species that are permissive for HRVs,
      experimental infection of humans with HRV has been integral for examining the pathophysiology
      of virus-induced exacerbations of asthma and COPD. Although experimental HRV-infection
      results in a reduction in lung function for some asthmatics and COPD patients, no serious
      adverse events have been reported using this model.

      The goal of this study is to establish the experimental HRV-infection model in this research
      center using a viral inoculum referred to as RG-HRV-16. This strain was used in a
      recently-completed safety and dosing study (NCT01769573). Our study would provide the pilot
      data needed for the design of subsequent studies evaluating innate immune responses to HRV
      infection in asthmatics, modulation of HRV-induced responses by inhaled pollutants, and
      efficacy of novel therapeutic agents.
    
  