
    
      Familial dysautonomia (FD) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the I-B
      kinase complex associated protein (IKBKAP) gene sequence (Anderson et al., 2001; Slaugenhaupt
      et al., 2001). The disorder affects the development of sensory nerves, resulting in impaired
      pain and temperature perception (Riley et al., 1949), lack of visceral sensations
      (Norcliffe-Kaufmann et al., 2010), dysphagia and proprioceptive gait ataxia (Macefield et
      al., 2011). Childhood mortality is increased, with aspiration pneumonia a leading cause of
      death. In early adulthood, renal failure is common (Pearson et al., 1980) and eyesight
      deteriorates due to optic atrophy and gait ataxia worsens making walking impossible without
      assistance. The incidence of seizures, scoliosis, respiratory insufficiency, sleep apnea and
      gastrointestinal bleeds are all increased. Sudden unexpected cardiac deaths are common and
      there is an increased incidence of cancer. Current treatments are supportive and frequently
      ineffective. FD has no known cure and 50% of patients die before age 40.

      A decade ago, we discovered that the disease was caused by point mutations in IKBKAP gene,
      leading to a deficiency of I-B kinase complex associated protein (IKAP) mainly in neuronal
      tissue (Slaugenhaupt et al., 2001; Mezey et al., 2003; Lee et al., 2009). Phosphatidylserine,
      an FDA-approved food supplement, was shown to increase protein levels in FD-derived cell
      lines (Keren et al., 2011) as well as in a mouse model of FD (Bochner et al., 2013). Because
      of the severity of FD, the availability of phosphatidylserine in health food stores and its
      promise as a treatment, many patients with FD are already taking it, although its safety and
      efficacy in this population is unknown. Thus, we propose a controlled study of
      phosphatidylserine to determine its safety profile and whether it has any impact on the
      natural history of FD.

      SPECIFIC AIM 1: It is not known if phosphatidylserine increases the levels of IKBKAP mRNA in
      patients with FD. To determine the optimal dose of phosphatidylserine in patients with FD,
      (i.e., the lowest dosage at which there is maximal improvement in IKBKAP mRNA production
      without significant side effects) we will monitor the safety and efficacy of
      phosphatidylserine in an open-label dose escalation study. Safety parameters and IKBKAP mRNA
      levels in blood will be measured in 40 patients with FD at baseline and repeated at
      increasing doses of phosphatidylserine.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2: In an independent long-term observational study, we will follow patients with
      FD of all ages who opt to take phosphatidylserine as a food supplement in their diet. Safety
      parameters will be measured as part of routine evaluations on an annual basis. The long-term
      efficacy of phosphatidylserine will be determined by evaluating the evolution of standard
      parameters of neurological function overtime in patients who received phosphatidylserine and
      comparing their progression with historical controls from the database archives.
    
  