
    
      Nearly one third of Canadian children and adolescents are overweight or obese. Eating
      disorders are the third most common chronic condition in adolescents. Although both of these
      issues are highly prevalent, parents who have children struggling with either underweight or
      overweight are concerned about how to approach those topics. Even though they are usually
      well-intended, their intervention may have a negative impact. Indeed, research has shown that
      parents who encourage their children to diet or discuss their own diet is associated with
      overweight or eating disorders in their children. Conversely, if parents focus on healthful
      eating behaviors, overweight adolescents are less likely to diet and to use unhealthy
      weight-control behaviors. In that context, in order to help children struggling with
      unhealthy lifestyle behaviours, the development of educational materials to promote healthy
      and helpful conversation about weight for parents is critically needed. While the use of
      educational videos with parents has been studied, this will be the first study examining
      videos to educate parents regarding weight-related communication.

      Available literature also suggests that health care professionals feel ill-equipped to
      address weight-related issues with their patients, particularly obesity. A lack of
      self-efficacy and training are recognized as two significant barriers to discussing weight
      with patients and their families. Other challenges include the fear of damaging their
      relationship with patients and their families and the apprehension of triggering other issues
      such as eating disorders. Thus, educational materials to help health care professionals talk
      about weight-related issues with their patients are warranted. Educational videos have been
      shown to be an effective way to improve knowledge, confidence, and attitudes of health care
      professionals and trainees.

      The investigators have designed two whiteboard videos based on a weight-related communication
      scoping review and on the key messages identified in a focus groups conducted previously by
      our group (McPherson A et al. Talking with children and families about obesity and weight
      related topics: A scoping review of best practices. Obes Rev.). They will evaluate the videos
      using pre and post questionnaires directed on usability, content, quality (acceptability,
      engagement) and measuring the impact on perceived self-efficacy in regards to discussing
      weight. The investigators will also evaluate the impact of the video over time with a third
      questionnaire 4 to 6 months later. The pre questionnaire for parents will include
      socio-demographic questions to enable us to provide sample characteristics. These data will
      be collected as they are known to have impact on the way weight is perceived. The
      investigators hypothesize that health care professionals' perceived self-efficacy on
      discussing weight-related issues with their paediatric patients and parents' perceived
      self-efficacy on raising weight issues with their children and answering their answers on
      that topic will improve after watching the videos, and will persist over time.
    
  