
    
      About a third of cognitively well, community-living older Canadians are at nutrition risk,
      which has been shown to lead to hospitalizations, poor quality of life, and death. Since
      SCREEN was created 20 years ago, there has been considerable growth in the number of
      community-living older adults diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment or dementia (i.e.,
      MCI-D) and/or living in retirement homes. These two groups are nutritionally vulnerable.
      Nutrition risk is specifically associated with the progression of cognitive impairment and
      frailty, as well as caregiver burden. Yet, these groups are under-served with respect to
      nutrition care; dietitian services are not available in retirement homes and limited in many
      primary or memory care clinics. Nutrition screening and subsequent management of identified
      nutrition problems by accessing diverse community services (e.g., meal programs) in Canadian
      older adults is recommended because it can promote independence and delay frailty. However,
      preventative management for those with MCI-D or living in retirement homes is limited by lack
      of systematic nutrition screening with a valid and reliable tool that is feasible for these
      vulnerable seniors.

      SCREEN is the leading nutrition risk tool for community-living seniors and is the logical
      choice for use in those with MCI-D and/or living in retirement residences. However, it has
      not been validated in these groups. It cannot be assumed that the existing validation in
      cognitively well older adults living in their own homes can translate to these two vulnerable
      groups. As well, one question on grocery shopping needs to be changed to accommodate persons
      living in retirement homes. This study is also timely with the recent update of Canada's Food
      Guide and recommendations to increase protein intake to mitigate frailty. Two questions on
      SCREEN need to be modified to adapt the new language on protein foods used in the new Food
      Guide. This study will undertake the validation and reliability testing of SCREEN,
      considering these minor revisions, in 600 older adults (community-dwelling older adults with
      MCI-D and those living in retirement homes with or without MCI-D). Validation of SCREEN for
      these populations will ensure that a single tool can be used in all older adults living in
      community and retirement settings. Specifically, understanding at what point a person with
      MCI-D is no longer a reliable informant for completing SCREEN will help with identification
      when a caregiver should complete the questionnaire. This is why the Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment is used, as it provides discrete scores differentiating mild cognitive impairment
      from dementia. The results of this study will have significant impact on practice by
      allowing, for the first time, confidence in the identification of nutrition risk in these
      under-served groups in Canada. There is an urgent need for this research. Early
      identification of nutrition risk and its subsequent management has the potential to advance
      our health care system by promoting the prevention of frailty and its consequences. This
      study will have a meaningful impact in the 'real world' setting of primary and community care
      for older adults in Canada and worldwide, by providing a feasible, validated and useful
      nutrition risk tool.
    
  