
    
      The overall purpose of this research project is to establish a registry of patients with
      pancreatic diseases. Patients included in the registry may include those with: pancreatic
      cancer, precancerous lesions of the pancreas such as intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms
      (IPMNs) and cystic lesions, inflammatory lesions and inflammation of the pancreas, and
      patients at high-risk of pancreatic cancer such as those with a family history of pancreatic
      cancer or with a family history of a syndrome known to be associated with pancreatic cancer.
      The data contained in this registry will be used to conduct research related to the risk of
      pancreatic cancer and pancreatic diseases. As this is a registry protocol, no specific
      hypotheses are to be tested.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Establish and maintain a registry of individuals and their family members who have
           pancreatic diseases and may be at increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer over
           normal population risk.

        2. Collect data and review existing data on personal and family histories, demographics,
           risk factors, and health behaviors.

        3. Use the data in the registry to conduct studies related to disease risk, prevention, and
           prognosis of pancreatic cancer and other pancreatic diseases.

      Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of death from malignancy in the United States.
      With near equivalent incidence and mortality, cure can only be achieved with surgical
      resection of an early stage lesion. Premalignant disease stages, such as IPMN, may be
      detected with noninvasive and minimally invasive techniques, providing an opportunity for
      screening and surveillance of at-risk populations.

      Knowledge of the etiology of pancreatic cancer is incomplete. Approximately 10% of pancreatic
      ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a hereditary component, and screening this population has
      the potential to have an impact on disease mortality. Certain patient populations, such as
      those with hereditary pancreatitis, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, familial atypical multiple mole
      melanoma (FAMMM syndrome), Lynch syndrome, and the breast ovarian cancer syndrome (BRCA1 and
      BRCA2 mutations) are at the highest risk of PDAC. BRCA2 mutations are the most commonly
      identified germline mutations in families with PDAC. Even a family history of PDAC without
      the above described syndromes has been shown to increase risk, suggesting a unique familial
      pancreatic cancer syndrome which may be related to the partner and localizer of BRCA2 (PALB2)
      gene or other PDAC susceptibility genes. Environmental risk factors, such as cigarette
      smoking, diabetes, obesity and dietary risk factors have been implicated in the development
      of PDAC.

      A sequential model of acquisition of somatic mutations via a Pancreatic Intraepithelial
      Neoplasia (PanIN) has been proposed for the development of PDAC and subsequent metastases.
      However, others have proposed that the metastatic process may be initiated earlier in the
      disease process during the pre-malignant cyst or PanIN phase. This may in part account for
      the fact that the overwhelming majority of patients diagnosed with PDAC are diagnosed when
      the lesion is already metastatic.

      Several groups have instituted PDAC screening for individuals at high-risk of PDAC. These
      groups have demonstrated the feasibility of detection of PDAC and pre-malignant lesions in
      certain high-risk individuals. Given the large gaps in knowledge, recruitment of patients
      with preneoplastic pancreatic diseases to registries is essential in the development of
      effective PDAC screening and prevention programs.

      As an increasing number of patients undergo cross-sectional imaging with the abdomen with cat
      scan (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), an increasing number of patients are found to
      have pancreatic disease and pancreatic cysts. While there is an increased risk of pancreatic
      cancer with these lesions, the studies to date are small and retrospective.
    
  