
    
      1. Introduction and background The standard treatment for non-operative cervical cancer is
           concurrent external radiation therapy and chemotherapy followed by brachytherapy. During
           the period of radiotherapy, organ movement and tumor shrinkage may lead to insufficient
           or excessive radiation dose for the tumor and organs at risk. Adaptive radiotherapy can
           use images information acquired during treatment as feedback to reduce errors.

        2. Hypothesis and purpose Main endpoint: adaptive radiotherapy can reduce level 3 side
           effects or not. Secondary endpoint: 1. The differences of 2-year progression-free
           survival and overall survival between two groups. 2. To analyze Physical dosimetry
           differences between two groups, and the correlation between physical dosimetry
           differences and prognosis also will be evaluated. 3. To analyze the prediction and
           prognostic factors of adaptive radiotherapy for cervical cancer, and to provide
           supporting data for the subsequent optimization of cervical cancer treatment. 4. To
           evaluate the effectiveness of AI and conduct cost-benefit analysis.

        3. Trial methodology and design Total 122 cases of IB2-IVA cervical cancer will be randomly
           enrolled. Concurrent external volumetric rotational intensity modulated radiotherapy and
           chemotherapy followed by image-guided adaptive brachytherapy is the treatment strategies
           of control group patients.

           Concurrent adaptive external volumetric rotational intensity modulated radiotherapy and
           chemotherapy followed by image-guided adaptive brachytherapy is the treatment strategies
           of experimental group patients. CT repositioning will be performed after 15fractions of
           external radiotherapy, then new target volume will be contoured and new radiotherapy
           plan will be formulated with the assistance of artificial intelligence program. New
           radiotherapy plan will be performed from the 17th fraction external radiotherapy.

           Meanwhile, concurrent chemotherapy regimen is cisplatin 40mg/m2/week (the maximum weekly
           dose should less than or equal to 70mg and no more than 6cycles). Information on side
           effects, survival, dosimetry, imaging, clinical features, and cost-effectiveness will be
           collected. The statistical analysis is as follows, First is the difference in grade 3
           side effects between the two groups. Second is 2-year PFS and OS differences between the
           two groups. Third is relationship between dosimetric differences and prognosis. Fourth
           one is to analyze the prognostic and predictive factors of adaptive radiotherapy from
           the patient's clinical characteristics, PET/CT, MRI and other multimodal information.
           Fifth is cost-benefit analysis of AI.

        4. Anticipated result and potential impact Adaptive radiotherapy can reduce side effects
           and obtain prognosis and prognostic factors of adaptive radiotherapy.
    
  