
    
      Stage I/IIA follicular lymphoma (FL) is considered a localized disease that can be adequately
      treated with radiotherapy alone. This strategy is recommended by the guidelines of the
      "Società Italiana di Ematologia" (SIE) and of the "European Society for Medical Oncology"
      (ESMO) The accurate definition of the truly localised forms represents a crucial issue in
      order to ensure an appropriate treatment design for such patients. The characteristic
      t(14;18) translocation, which leads to the over-expression of the Bcl-2 gene, is found in
      approximately 85% of FL; cells bearing this translocation can be detected in the peripheral
      blood (PB) or bone marrow (BM) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      PCR for the t(14;18) translocation provides a sensitive device to identify the presence of
      minimal non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) cell contamination. Previous experiences have demonstrated
      that despite the limited stage, Bcl-2/IgH+ cells can be found at diagnosis in PB and/or BM of
      the majority of the patients. After treatment with local radiotherapy confined to the
      involved lymph node(s) only, disappearance of circulating Bcl-2/IgH+ cells in PB and/or BM
      was demonstrated in approximately 60% of positive patients. Quantitative PCR demonstrated the
      feasibility of clearing PB and BM Bcl-2+ cells after local irradiation of the primary site of
      the disease only when the basal number of lymphoma cells was <1:100 000.

      Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody treatment has clearly demonstrated, both alone and in
      combination with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, a high therapeutic potential in FL. A
      significant impact of treatment with the anti CD20 monoclonal antibody in reducing the
      minimal residual disease in FL has been demonstrated in several studies when used as
      consolidation or during the maintenance phase.

      No data are currently available concerning the ability of anti-CD20 antibody treatment in
      reducing the proportion of Bcl-2 positive residual cells after radiotherapy in localized FL.
      The objective of this study is to take advantage of the therapeutic potential of anti-CD20
      monoclonal antibody to reduce or eliminate minimal residual disease in patients with FL in
      localized stage (I/II) after conventional treatment with local radiotherapy of the involved
      site(s). The effectiveness of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody treatment will be determined by
      the proportion of negativization of residual Bcl-2 positive cells after radiotherapy,
      evaluated by qualitative and quantitative PCR detection of viable Bcl-2/IgH rearranged cells
      in PB and/or BM.
    
  