
    
      The use of a remotely controlled mandibular protrusion (RCMP) device allows for customization
      of treatment by titrating the extent of mandibular protrusion during a polysomnogram. Use of
      the RCMP device has a high degree of positive and negative predictive value in determining
      the effectiveness and degree (effective target protrusive position) of mandibular advancement
      need with oral appliance therapy (Remmers, 2013). Preliminary data from 4 patients (Hoekena
      2006) indicates that patients with a significant response to oral appliance therapy (>50%
      reduction in AHI) may have a better response to MMA. This study will determine the efficacy
      of MMA in patients with moderate to severe OSA, and determine if the RCMP titration can
      predict success or failure with MMA for treatment of OSA.

      Patients will undergo detailed history and physical examination by Oral & Maxillofacial
      Surgery. Those patients found to be potential candidates for jaw advancement (MMA) surgery
      will be recruited to enroll in the study. Once consented and enrolled, study participants
      will undergo a titration study using a remote controlled mandibular positioner (RCMP
      titration study) to evaluate changes in polysomnographic parameters (i.e. Apnea-hypopnea
      index and oxygen saturation) with mandibular protrusion. Patients will then undergo
      maxillomandibular advancement surgery (MMA surgery). During MMA surgery, a standard 10 mm
      advancement of the upper and lower jaw is performed. Slight modifications may be made to the
      degree of advancement in order to achieve acceptable facial esthetics. Data from the RCMP
      titration study will not affect how the MMA surgery is performed. After surgery, participants
      will have a follow-up polysomnogram four to eight months post-operatively to assess for
      treatment response and compared this to the predicted response based on the RCMP titration
      study.
    
  