
    
      Capsule Endoscopy is now the first test to investigate for small bowel disease. Clinical
      conditions in which capsule endoscopy can be useful include gastrointestinal bleeding of
      unclear source, Crohn's disease, celiac disease and suspected small bowel tumors. Optimal
      diagnostic yield of the capsule endoscopy depends not only on adequate small bowel
      visualization, but also on the completion of small bowel examination. In approximately 15-20%
      of capsule studies, the capsule fails to pass through the small bowel into the colon because
      of the limited battery time which is about 8 hours. This means that a lesion or an
      abnormality can be missed in the portion of the small bowel that was not reached by the
      capsule. As a result, the capsule endoscopy test may often need to be repeated.

      Multiple factors have been associated with the prolongation of the time required for the
      capsule to pass through the small bowel including hospitalization, prior small bowel surgery,
      diabetes and advanced age in addition to the prolongation of the time required for the
      capsule to pass through the stomach. Interventions to shorten small bowel transit time are
      required to increase capsule small bowel completion rates. At present there is no drug
      approved to shorten the small bowel transit time.

      Prucalopride is a drug that has been approved for use in patients with chronic constipation.
      Prucalopride works on special receptors in the gut and stimulate the gut movement. There are
      basic and clinical studies suggesting that prucalopride may accelerate the movement of the
      stomach and the small bowel. Therefore, prucalopride may accelerate the passage of the
      capsule through the small bowel and increase the capsule completion rates. The investigators
      of this trial recently presented their experience of prucalopride use prior to capsule
      endoscopy at a medical meeting. Compared to a retrospective control group who did not receive
      prucalopride, prucalopride accelerated the passage of the capsule through the small bowel.
      There was no decrease in the diagnostic yield in the group who received prucalopride.

      In this clinical trial, the investigators aim to investigate the effect of prucalopride on
      the small bowel transit time, by performing a randomized placebo controlled trial. Patients
      undergoing small bowel capsule endoscopy tests will be randomized to a single dose of
      prucalopride ingested at the time of capsule endoscopy ingestion, or a placebo pill. The
      primary objective of this study is to examine if the administration of a single dose of
      prucalopride shortens small bowel transit time compared to placebo. The secondary objectives
      include examining the effect of prucalopride on gastric transit time, small bowel capsule
      endoscopy completion rate and the capsule diagnostic yield. The placebo group is used in this
      clinical trial because there is no drug proven to be effective to shorten the small bowel
      transit time.

      Based on the experience of the investigators, the average small bowel transit time for
      patients who were given prucalopride was 143 minutes. In the retrospective control group, the
      small bowel transit time was 229 minutes with a standard deviation of 90 minutes. Based on a
      presumed 20% minimal clinically important difference in small bowel transit time, the
      investigators determined a total of 122 participants will be required, equally divided
      between the two study arms.
    
  