
    
      We have developed a CRP-guided management algorithm based on recent studies in which the
      accuracy of CRP for identifying patients with pneumonia was confirmed.(10;11) Importantly,
      these 2 studies each confirmed that CRP levels provide additional diagnostic support beyond
      that gained from application of clinical prediction rules. In the proposed study, we will
      recommend that physicians first assess the probability of pneumonia based on clinical
      findings, in accordance with current practice recommendations as follows: 1) Low Clinical
      Suspicion (<5% probability of pneumonia): Absence of fever (T>38C), tachycardia (HR>100), or
      tachypnea (RR>24), and normal chest examination. These patients should receive symptomatic
      therapy, and do not require CXR or antibiotic treatment; 2) High Clinical Suspicion (>30%
      probability of pneumonia): At least 1 abnormal vital sign and abnormal chest examination.
      These patients receive CXR and antibiotics based on CXR findings or high clinical suspicion;
      3) Intermediate Clinical Suspicion (5-30%): All others. Current practice guidelines recommend
      considering CXR in these patients, however no further guidance is provided for the management
      of these patients.

      After assessing the clinical probability of pneumonia, CRP levels will be provided for a
      random subset of patients. A CRP level <10 mg/L corresponds with a very low probability of
      bacterial pneumonia. Thus, for patients with low and intermediate-probability of pneumonia
      based on clinical grounds, a CRP <10 mg/L should confirm that no CXR or antibiotics are
      necessary in routine cases (See attached algorithm). A CRP level > 100 mg/L corresponds with
      a substantially elevated probability of pneumonia. Thus, for patients with low and
      intermediate-probability of pneumonia based on clinical grounds, a CRP >100 mg/L would
      support CXR ordering, and for patients with high clinical suspicion, antibiotic therapy
      should be considered regardless of the CXR result (since studies show that CXR misses about
      10% of community-acquired pneumonia confirmed with follow-up CXR or chest computed
      tomography). Overall, the addition of CRP test results would reduce the need for CXR ordering
      and antibiotic therapy in cases with an intermediate clinical probability of pneumonia and a
      low CRP level; and increase the need for CXR ordering and possibly antibiotic therapy in
      cases with intermediate or high clinical probability of pneumonia and a high CRP level. In
      this way, we hypothesize that the CRP-guided management algorithm will improve the proportion
      of patients with acute cough illness who receive appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic
      interventions in the ED.

      We suspect that most patients with clinically apparent pneumonia will have high CRP levels.
      However, pneumonia can be a difficult diagnosis to make when patients present with atypical
      clinical manifestations (e.g. the elderly or COPD patients), or in practice settings where
      radiography is not readily available. In these settings, the addition of CRP testing may help
      identify a small number of pneumonia cases that might otherwise go undetected and result in
      delays in appropriate care. In the large number of patients with intermediate probability of
      pneumonia, such as adults with acute cough illness who have abnormal vital signs, but normal
      examinations, particularly in RSV and influenza season, a CRP level < 10 mg/L could provide
      clinically significant reassurance to refrain from further testing or empiric antibiotic
      treatment. A normal CRP level may also provide support to clinicians who are receiving
      pressure from patients to prescribe antibiotics when they are not clinically indicated.
      Indirect or future benefits to society are possible if research results show that CRP-guided
      management strategies can decrease the costs of health care.

      Randomization using a random number generator will be conducted by investigators at the data
      coordinating center (Philadelphia, PA), and results placed in sequentially number study
      packets. The study personnel that enroll patients will be blinded to the randomization result
      until after the patient has provided informed consent to participate in the study.

      Interventions

        -  Staff Educational Seminar: Prior to beginning the study, all staff will be informed
           about the performance characteristics of CRP in adults with acute cough illness, and
           current clinical practice recommendations regarding evaluation and treatment of acute
           cough illness, particularly acute bronchitis.

        -  CRP-Guided Algorithm: Study subjects randomized to the CRP-guided management algorithm
           will have a point-of-care CRP test performed shortly after triage using a finger-stick
           specimen. The result, along with a printed management algorithm for interpreting the CRP
           level (see Appendix), will be placed in the chart. The general guidelines for
           interpreting CRP levels will be as described above.

      Human Subjects Procedures

        -  Recruitment and Initial Contact Method. As described above, appropriate patients will be
           referred to study personnel by the triage nurse. Initial contact and informed consent
           will be conducted in a discrete manner, and in a private setting.

        -  Informed consent. Will be obtained from study personnel that have been trained in Human
           Subjects Protection. The time involved for the research subject in obtaining informed
           consent is about 10 minutes.

        -  CRP measurement. A finger-stick blood test will be performed using the NycoCard II
           Reader (Axis-Shield, Norway). See testing instrument description in Appendix. The US FDA
           has approved the diagnostic test kit as one of moderate complexity for these specific
           circumstances. The CRP test will not be billed to the patient. The time involved for the
           research subject in performing the CRP test is about 10 minutes.

        -  Chart abstraction. The Chart Abstraction instrument will resemble that used in the
           baseline periods (11/03-2/04 and 11/04-2/05) of the currently IRB-approved study with
           the following modification, except that we will also abstract findings from the physical
           examination portion of the medical record relating to the chest examination.

        -  Telephone follow-up survey. Study subjects will be contacted by telephone 2-4 weeks
           following their emergency department visit by trained research staff using the same
           telephone survey instrument used in the baseline period (already approved). The time
           involved for the research subject in completing the telephone survey is about 10
           minutes.
    
  