
    
      CAH patients are treated with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. Ideally, the
      glucocorticoid doses should be sufficient to suppress the elevated ACTH secretion, and hence
      attenuate the increase in androgen levels. Because of this, CAH patients use higher steroid
      doses than patients with autoimmune adrenal insufficiency (Addison's disease) and therefore
      are in higher risk of developing glucocorticoid side effects. The natural glucocorticoids,
      hydrocortisone (cortisol) or cortisone acetate, are preferred during childhood because of the
      growth suppressive effects of the longer acting synthetic glucocorticoids, prednisolone and
      dexamethasone. There is no consensus as to which type of glucocorticoid and which doses
      should be used for adult CAH patients. Glucocorticoids display a typical diurnal variation,
      which the current therapy does not restore, leading to both to over- or undertreatment. Some
      CAH patients experience symptoms that may be due to unphysiological glucocorticoid
      replacement therapy.

      For selected CAH patients with poor response to conventional replacement therapy, or with
      problematic side effects such as impaired growth, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, and
      osteoporosis, continuous subcutaneous hydrocortisone infusion (CSHI) might become a treatment
      option. CSHI treatment would also be facilitated by the use of the small disposable pumps now
      developed for insulin treatment.

      CSHI: Pharmacodynamics, Pharmacokinetics, and safety Hydrocortisone is identical to cortisol;
      the pharmacodynamics does not depend on mode of delivery. A hydrocortisone solution can be
      safely applied for three days in the insulin pump without major day-to-day variation. A daily
      dose of 10 mg/m2 body surface area/day restores normal levels of saliva cortisol in most
      patients. Thus, it is possible to mimic the physiological diurnal cortisol variation seen in
      healthy subjects.

      The study will compare two glucocorticoid replacement modalities in randomised order within
      each patient. Prior to Baseline there will be a period of dose adjustment for pump treatment.
      Patients will be educated in groups, and dose adjustments will be co-ordinated with regular
      visits at the outpatient clinic/telephone consultation combined with laboratory analyses.

      The patients will be assigned a participation number and randomised to any of two treatment
      sequences (A-B or B-A). Should the need for an extra glucocorticoid dose occur (intercurrent
      illness) during the study, the patients should administer their previous glucocorticoid
      replacement for safety reasons. Extra doses should be recorded in the patient diary.
      Treatment A is current treatment, i.e. glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement
      according to best clinical judgement. Treatment B is CSHI with the initial standard dose of
      10mg/m2/24hrs. Body surface area will be calculated according to the nomogram from the
      formula of Du Bois and Du Bois.

      After 7 days after initiating pump therapy the patient should be reassessed with blood dots
      (17-hydroxyprogesterone) and saliva cortisol and saliva 17-hydroxyprogesterone measurements
      in the morning (0800-0900) and in the evening (2300-2400). Based on results of this testing
      the dose will be changed at the discretion of the investigator. The further new testing
      should be done within 7-10 days.

      When the final dose is established a 24h urine measurement, blood test in the morning
      (17-hydroxyprogesterone and cortisol) and a salivary sample full profile (full profile Hrs.
      0800, 0930, 1100, 1230, 1700, 2100, 2400, 0300), will be done before entering the study. The
      dose adjustment period will be unlimited but will take minimally 4 weeks (aiming to obtain
      normal range levels of morning serum cortisol (160- 620 nmol/l), and 3-4 times increase in
      morning serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone (0,3-8,6 nmol/l for females, 0,9-6,6 nmo/l for males),
      and midnight (24:00) saliva cortisol (<2,8 nmol/l) and a circadian pattern as indicated in
      figure 1.

      Afterwards it will 4 weeks wash out period before starting, wash out period between
      treatments modalities will take 2 months.
    
  