
    
      The purpose of this study is to conduct a randomized clinical trial to examine the
      effectiveness an initial evaluation by a physical therapist compared to a primary care
      provider for patients with a musculoskeletal (MSK) complaint entering a primary care setting.

      Background & Significance: MSK Conditions in Primary Care are Prevalent: More than 50% of the
      US population reported MSK conditions in 2011. The increase number of people over the age of
      65 years will continue to increase the number of people with MSK conditions and increase
      demands on the health care system. The US healthcare system is already facing numerous
      challenges and care inefficiencies. Care for MSK conditions in primary care is an important
      area for care redesign to reduce inefficiencies. About 85% of people with MSK conditions have
      at least one visit with a primary care provider (PCP) and average six visits a year.
      Although, clinical guidelines recommend physical therapy as front-line care for MSK
      conditions, referrals to physical therapy for evaluation and management are disproportionate
      to the number in need. Uptake of these clinical guidelines is slow; yet advanced imaging and
      prescriptions for opioids for MSK pain is common. There was a 142% increase in the number of
      prescription medications filled by people with MSK conditions from 2009-2011. Overuse of
      opioids and advanced imaging and underuse of physical therapy can be deviated with novel care
      models that include physical therapists (PT) as frontline providers to where downstream
      healthcare utilization and costs are reduced and patients' needs are more directly met.

      Coordinated care models can impact outcomes for prevalent conditions in primary care but data
      on MSK conditions is lacking: The high prevalence of depression among patients seeking
      primary care led to new models of integrated care. Co-location, for example, has proven
      successful for PCP and mental-health services, where it has almost doubled the rate of
      guideline based care, facilitating collaboration and referral due to proximity of specialized
      services. The current standard for primary care and patient-centered medical homes (PCMH) is
      for patients with MSK-related pain or complaints to be seen and evaluated by a PCP and then
      be recommended for advanced diagnostic imaging, opioids, or referral to PT at an offsite
      location (sometimes considered the medical neighborhood). Referral to an offsite location may
      negatively impact care continuity, provider communication and collaboration, and result in
      lower patient satisfaction from de-fragmented care and overuse of unnecessary services and
      prescription medication. Our approach to integrated and co-located PT could significantly
      decrease healthcare costs, improve patient satisfaction with care, decrease "no-show" PT
      rates and decrease physician burnout (by improving collaboration and satisfaction). In turn,
      changing mainstream MSK care.

      Design & Procedures: This is a one-year randomized clinical trial of a novel health system
      redesign to study the immediate effect of a physical therapist first versus a primary care
      provider first for MSK conditions within a single primary care setting, the Duke Outpatient
      Clinic (DOC), at Duke University.

      Randomization: This study will have two levels of randomization. Our biostatistician will
      generate the randomization schedule using a computerized random number generator with equal
      allocation to both groups for both levels of randomization. The investigators will use
      Redcap's Randomization Module to implement randomization scheme after consent to randomize
      appointments via phone. The first level consists of randomization to a Physical Therapist or
      Primary Care Physician as front line provider, both are considered standard of care
      approaches. The research coordinator will coordinate all randomization who will be blinded to
      the primary outcomes data collection. The second level of randomization will occur in the
      Primary Care Physician arm of the study. In this arm, if the Primary Care Physician decides
      physical therapy is medically necessary then the participant will be randomized to either be
      evaluated by an onsite Physical Therapist or receive a referral to be evaluated by an offsite
      Physical Therapist at a location of their choosing which is the current model of care at the
      DOC. This second level of randomization is so that the investigators can determine if
      physical therapy outcomes provided onsite are better when compared to offsite.

      For participants that meet eligibility and following informed consent by the research
      coordinator, measures about demographics and health status will be completed. Patients
      assigned to the physical therapist first group will receive an evaluation by a licensed
      physical therapist onsite at the Duke Outpatient Clinic and be provided with a treatment plan
      of care for their MSK complaint(s). This evaluation and treatment plan of care will follow
      standard care currently implemented in clinical practice. Patients may return to the DOC for
      follow-up treatments if the physical therapist deems this treatment to be medically
      necessary. Patients assigned to the primary care provider group will receive an initial
      evaluation from a licensed primary care provider onsite. The evaluation by the primary care
      provider will follow standard care for evaluating MSK complaints in primary care. During the
      evaluation, the primary care provider may decide to refer to physical therapy or not for the
      patients with a MSK complaint. If the primary care provider refers to physical therapy the
      patient will be randomly assigned to either see the physical therapist onsite at the DOC or
      be assigned a referral to an offsite physical therapy clinic of the patients choosing with
      the assistance of the research coordinator. If the primary care provider decides that
      physical therapy is not medically necessary, the patient will follow the usual plan of care
      and treatment recommendations provided by their primary care provider. Following the visit,
      with either the physical therapist or primary care provider, the research coordinator will
      ask the patient to complete a short patient satisfaction survey about the initial visit. At
      approximately 3-months later the research coordinator will contact all enrolled patients by
      phone to collect health status questions and satisfaction with healthcare. Also, at 3-months
      outcomes related to total and MSK costs/charges will be collected by Duke University Health
      System Finance, outcomes of opioid prescriptions and emergency department visits during the
      3-month period will be collected by electronic health record / administrative data (DEDUCE)
      and appointments to physical therapy that were referred offsite will be collect by
      administrative data from the Department of Physical Therapy / Occupational Therapy. The
      investigators will also collect, by electronic health record, usual care measures of
      functional status. The study will end following the 3-month follow-up phone call and outcomes
      and data are collected.

      Study Interventions: All aspects related to physical therapy care are based on standard care
      provided by physical therapists for MSK complaints. Current practice at the Duke Outpatient
      Clinic consists of an onsite physical therapist to provide examinations, onsite exercise and
      home based exercise programs, and pain control education. Our planned study will consist of
      two interventions, both of which are standard care, however the investigators are modifying
      the order of when a patient may be seen by a physical therapist for a MSK complaint within
      the primary care setting. Our two interventions are physical therapist first or primary care
      provider first. The primary care provider first model may utilize the onsite physical
      therapist to provide physical therapy care by referral, known as the co-located primary care
      provider to physical therapist model, or utilize physical therapy by offsite referral.

      Physical Therapist First. This model builds upon our current clinical model of a physical
      therapist co-located within the Duke Outpatient Clinic. This physical therapist has their own
      assigned treatment room, are known to the front desk scheduling staff for scheduling
      follow-up appointments, attend staff meetings and events and are considered a provider within
      the DOC system. Full support for their co-location is provided by the administration of the
      DOC and the Department of Physical and Occupational Therapy. The utilization of physical
      therapy services is considered standard care; however, the timing of services is unique given
      their co-location. This allows prompt access to not only physical therapy evaluation (billing
      for services occurs) but consultation with primary care provider (contact note for
      consultation in patients' medical records). For the current study, the investigators will
      utilize this already co-located physical therapist to be a front-line provider for
      musculoskeletal complaints of patients seeking care at the DOC. The physical therapist
      evaluation will be standard care for all patients seeking care to a physical therapist. It
      will not be modified in any way for the purposes of the study. If, at any time during
      evaluation the physical therapist determines that the patient would benefit from an
      additional primary care provider assessment, the patient will be scheduled for a primary care
      provider assessment, which may happen immediately following the physical therapist
      evaluation. In our experience these referrals from the physical therapist to primary care
      provider can occur within the same day, which adds considerable value to the efficiency of
      the integrated physical therapy model for those patients in need of additional primary care
      provider assessment.

      Primary Care Provider First. In this model, patients would have an initial assessment from
      the primary care provider, which is considered standard care. If the primary care provider
      deems that the patient should be referred for physical therapy for medically necessary
      treatment, the research coordinator will randomly assign physical therapy referral to the
      onsite physical therapist at the Duke Outpatient Clinic or to an offsite location. The
      research coordinator will assist with scheduling and track referrals and all outcome data for
      patients referred offsite. In some cases, the primary care provider will not refer to
      physical therapy. In this case, the patients will follow the care recommendations provided by
      the primary care provider.

      Data Analysis & Statistical Considerations: The investigators will calculate differences in
      total and MSK specific costs and charges between the physical therapist first group and the
      primary care provider group using standard T-tests or tests of medians depending on the
      distribution of data (parametric vs. non-parametric). The investigators will also calculate
      differences in the number of opioid prescriptions and emergency department visits between the
      two groups using chi-square categorical data analysis. The investigators will calculate
      changes in already routinely collected disease specific measures stored in electronic health
      record. Physical therapy missed appointments, patient and provider satisfaction will be
      reported as descriptive data. The investigators will also explore differences in outcomes of
      cost/charges, opioid prescriptions, emergency department visits and missed appointments
      between onsite provided physical therapy to offsite physical therapy.
    
  