
    
      The primary aim of this study is to determine how prenatal exposure to malaria influences
      development of humoral and cellular immune responses to malaria blood stage antigens from
      birth to 3 years of age. In addition, the study will determine the risk factors and
      mechanisms associated with congenital malaria or exposure of the fetus to malaria blood stage
      antigens, assess how prenatal exposure to malaria affects susceptibility to malaria infection
      during infancy, and evaluate how perinatal exposure to malaria affects growth and development
      during infancy. A primary goal of this research will be to examine a cohort of infants from
      birth to 36 months of age; the predictive value of allele-specific invasion inhibitory
      antibodies to Merozoite Surface Protein 1 (MSP1) and antibody titers to MSP1 will be
      evaluated with respect to type and magnitude of neonatal cellular and humoral immune response
      to MSP1. An understanding of natural immunity to MSP1, and the influence of prenatal
      exposure, may be critical to informed interpretation of immunologic, parasitologic, and
      clinical endpoints of vaccine trials using blood stage antigens that will be ultimately
      directed to infants and children. Healthy adult pregnant women (greater than or equal to 15
      years of age) and their healthy offspring (beginning at birth) will be followed until they
      are 36 months old. Newborns will be examined at birth and at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months
      of age. Enrollment will occur at time of first visit to the antenatal clinic during the
      second trimester when peripheral blood, stool, and urine samples will be obtained from each
      pregnant woman. A finger stick blood sample will be obtained from the mothers at each
      subsequent antenatal visit to assess the presence of malaria during pregnancy. An ultrasound
      examination will be done on the mothers at the initial antenatal visit to assess gestational
      age and at 26-30 weeks to assure proper growth and development of fetus and to screen for any
      potential problems. At delivery venous and finger stick blood, stool, and urine will be
      obtained from the mother. Umbilical cord and placental blood, and a placental biopsy will be
      obtained, and thereafter infants will be followed every 6 months (plus or minus 2 months). A
      physical examination of infants will be done and peripheral blood, stool, and urine will be
      obtained from infants. The study population will also include about 20 healthy adult North
      American control subjects with no malaria exposure or infection and about 40 adult Kenyans
      who either have been exposed to malaria or have asymptomatic malaria infection.
    
  