
    
      Superpotent topical corticosteroids such as clobetasol propionate are highly effective in
      treating plaque psoriasis but are not indicated for long term use due to their side effects.
      Therefore, steroid-sparing combination and sequential regimens, in which the corticosteroid
      gets supplemented with a non-steroid medication, such as calcipotriol or tazarotene, have
      become the standard of care, especially in the management of localized psoriasis lesions. A
      new steroid-free 15% liquor carbonis distillate (LCD) solution (Psorent) was recently found
      to be more successful than 0.005% calcipotriol cream (Dovonex) at improving and delaying
      worsening of psoriasis symptoms in a controlled clinical trial. The goal of this pilot study
      is to evaluate if this LCD solution can be used in combination with acute topical
      corticosteroid therapy as a new steroid-sparing / enhancing regimen. We hope to explore the
      compatibility, patient tolerability, and clinical benefit of using LCD solution during and
      after treatment with clobetasol propionate in adults with moderate to severe plaque
      psoriasis. This is a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, bilateral study. Men and
      women 18 years of age or older, with chronic plaque psoriasis affecting less than or equal to
      10% body surface area (BSA) in areas other than the scalp, face, palms, soles, axillae, and
      groin, are recruited. Those with a Physician Global Assessment (PGA) score greater than 3 and
      are in general good health will qualify as candidates. On one side of the body, LCD solution
      and clobetasol propionate will be administered twice daily for the first 2 weeks of
      treatment, followed by 4 weeks of LCD solution only, followed by 6 weeks of no treatment. On
      the second half of the body, subject will apply a vehicle solution and clobetasol propionate
      twice daily for the first 2 weeks, only the vehicle solution twice daily for the next four
      weeks, and then no treatment for the next 6 weeks. Subjects will be evaluated at weeks 2, 4,
      6, 8, 10 and 12. investigators will use the PGA scale [Clear (0) - Severe (5)] to determine
      treatment effects as well as Target Lesion assessments of Erythema, Scaling, Induration and
      overall severity [None (0) - Very Severe (4)]. patients will also be required to complete
      Self-Assessment questionnaires on their psoriasis [None (0) - Severe (6)]. as well as an
      assessment of the study solution [Excellent (9) - Poor (1)]. . Photographs will be taken at
      each study visit and adverse events will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  