
    
      The efficacy of screening and brief intervention (SBI) for drug use among primary care
      patients is unknown. National organizations do not recommend universal screening. But policy
      is at odds with the evidence: federal efforts to disseminate SBI are underway, and
      reimbursement codes to compensate clinicians have been developed. Thus there is a need to
      study SBI for drug use. The objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of two
      models of brief intervention (BI) for decreasing drug use and consequences in primary care
      patients. In collaboration with a state project implementing SBI as part of a federal
      program, we will screen patients in a large hospital-based primary care practice for drug
      use. We will then enroll screen-positive subjects, randomly assign them to 1 of 3 groups, and
      follow them for 6 months. Subjects in 1 intervention group will be assigned to a standard BI
      model, conducted by trained health advocates implementing a Federal program locally. In
      another group, subjects will be assigned to an enhanced BI model that includes an optional
      booster contact and is conducted by master's-level counselors trained and monitored
      intensively. The control group will receive information (i.e., a written list of local
      resources to help people using drugs) and, at the end of six months, standard BI if they are
      still using drugs.

      All subjects will be assessed regarding substance use and consequences, HIV risk behaviors,
      costs, healthcare utilization and receipt of substance dependence treatment. The primary
      outcome is drug use at 6 months; secondary outcomes are drug use consequences, including HIV
      risk behaviors, and receipt of substance dependence treatment (among those with dependence).
      We hypothesize that the standard BI and the enhanced BI will each have greater efficacy than
      screening and resource information alone for decreasing drug use, decreasing drug use
      consequences and HIV risk behaviors and increasing receipt of treatment for those with
      dependence.

      Additionally, costs will also be compared. Results of this study re: efficacy and costs of
      brief intervention for drug use will be essential for making decisions about disseminating
      drug use SBI in primary care settings.

      This study will enroll two cohorts:

        1. We will enroll 450 subjects with an ASSIST Substance-Specific Involvement (SSI) Score of
           4 or greater in order to test our primary hypotheses. Primary analyses (i.e., effect of
           each BI on unhealthy drug use) will be restricted to subjects with an ASSIST SSI Score
           of 4 or greater.

        2. We will enroll an additional 200 subjects with an ASSIST SSI Score of 2 or 3, indicating
           some, but lower risk drug use. Patients with these scores are included in clinical
           interventions, but because there are no data on effectiveness in the literature, this
           cohort will not be included in primary analyses and instead will be included only in
           secondary and exploratory analyses. We will examine potential preventive effects of BI
           (either) on subjects with lower level drug use.
    
  