
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if daily administration of testosterone gel can prevent the development or
           reduce the severity of muscle weakness in men receiving glucocorticoids for newly
           diagnosed high-grade glioma.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the difference in percent change from baseline timed functional tests (TFT)
           between patients who are treated with testosterone gel and those who are not.

        -  To compare the difference in percent change from baseline activities of daily living as
           assessed by the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI) between
           patients who are treated with testosterone gel and those who are not.

        -  To compare the difference in percent change from baseline leg muscle mass as assessed by
           CT scan imaging between patients who are treated with testosterone gel and those who are
           not.

        -  To estimate the side effects of testosterone gel in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to daily glucocorticoid dose (< 16 mg/day vs ≥ 16
      mg/day), Karnofsky performance status (≤ 80% vs > 80%), and age (≤ 50 years of age vs > 50
      years of age). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive oral whey protein powder once daily for 7 months.

        -  Arm II (treatment): Patients apply topical testosterone gel to the shoulder, upper
           chest, or forearm once daily for 7 months.

      Patients undergo strength testing and functional testing (TFT) and complete an activities of
      daily living questionnaire at baseline and at 1, 3, 5, and 7 months. Patients also undergo CT
      scan of the leg and laboratory testing at baseline and at 3 and 7 months. Testosterone levels
      are obtained at baseline and at 1, 3, and 7 months.

      Patients complete a daily log of their glucocorticoid dose and to affirm compliance with
      therapy. Major clinical events related to underlying tumor (i.e., surgery, radiotherapy,
      initiating chemotherapy, concurrent antiepileptic therapy, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary
      embolism, transfusions, seizures, pneumonia, and other forms of infection) are also recorded.
    
  