
    
      Scientific goals. The primary goal is to determine if simultaneous abstinence from heroin and
      cocaine can be elicited by combining two approaches: flexible methadone dosing and
      voucher-based CM. Secondary goals include: 1) comparing saliva and plasma levels of
      methadone, cortisol, and prolactin as predictors of treatment outcome; and 2) evaluating the
      impact of methadone maintenance on renal function, lipid profile, and cardiac function.

      Methods. During an initial 6-week baseline phase, cocaine-abusing opioid-dependent outpatient
      participants (300 enrolled; 180 evaluable) will be stabilized on methadone 70 mg/day. At the
      end of baseline, participants who continue to use heroin and cocaine will be randomized to
      one of two dosing regimens and one of two CM conditions. In the flexible-dose regimen,
      participants will receive individualized dose increases (15 mg/day) to a maximum of 190 mg
      /day, based on heroin use and withdrawal. In the fixed-dose regimen, participants methadone
      dose will be increased to 100 mg/day and remain fixed there. Dose-group assignment will be
      double-blind: investigators will determine participants individualized dose increases, but
      only the pharmacists will know which participants actually receive them. The two CM
      conditions will be: vouchers contingent on cocaine-negative urine specimens, or noncontingent
      vouchers (i.e., vouchers independent of urine cocaine screen results). The main outcome
      measure will be the percentage of urines simultaneously negative for both cocaine and illicit
      opiates during treatment. For the concurrently run pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic portion,
      saliva and blood samples will be taken at regular intervals to determine levels of methadone,
      cortisol, and prolactin as predictors of treatment outcome. For the concurrently run
      medical-outcomes portion, urine (renal function), blood (lipid profile), and ECGs (cardiac
      function),will be obtained at set intervals.

      Hypothesis. Flexible methadone dosing and voucher-based CM will be safe and result in greater
      simultaneous abstinence from heroin and cocaine, higher treatment retention, and higher
      health-related QOL when compared to fixed methadone dosing and the absence of CM.

      Benefits. Participants will receive methadone, counseling, and some medical care at no
      charge. The methadone and voucher interventions are likely to reduce participants' use of
      heroin and cocaine. Counseling will include management of HIV risk behaviors. The study
      incorporates participant safety monitoring and will provide information relevant to improving
      the health and safety of community methadone-maintenance patients. The
      pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic part of the study does not benefit participants directly, but
      may lead to the development of more useful and less invasive drug-monitoring methods.

      Risks. Participants may experience side effects from methadone, discomfort during methadone
      withdrawal, and discomfort (or, rarely syncope) from blood draws.
    
  