
    
      Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is characterized by excessive and uncontrollable worry and
      anxiety about bad things that may happen in the future. When people with GAD worry, they tend
      to think about the situations they fear in a vague way. Preliminary research suggests that
      writing repeatedly about one's fears in a structured and detailed way may help worry. In the
      present experiment, the investigators are comparing three structured writing interventions
      and testing their immediate and short-term effects on worry, and worry-related features.

      Potential participants will be asked to complete a telephone screen. Those who meet
      eligibility criteria will be invited to the laboratory at Ryerson University. After
      completing pre-intervention outcome measures, participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of three writing interventions: (1) standard written exposure, (2) enhanced written exposure,
      or (3) neutral writing. All participants will write for 30 minutes on each of 4 days. The 4
      sessions of writing will be spaced and will take place within a period of 2 weeks. Excessive
      worry will be assessed at pre-intervention, mid-intervention, post-intervention, 1-week
      follow-up and 1 month follow-up. With the exception of the Modified Behavioural Avoidance
      Test, which will only be assessed at pre-intervention and 1 month follow-up, all other
      outcomes will be assessed at pre-intervention, and at post-intervention, 1-week follow-up and
      1 month follow-up. Additional assessments of Perceived Probability, Cost and Coping Questions
      will occur at each writing session.

      During the 2-week intervention period and the three days following the intervention period,
      all participants will also track their worry and mood twice per day.

      The present experiment will provide answers to important questions about the therapeutic
      potential of writing interventions for excessive worry.
    
  