
    
      Nearly 50% of the U.S. adult population have obesity. Efforts to reduce the burden have been
      hindered by the lack of access to effective therapies and poor understanding of obesity
      phenotypes and how patients would respond to each therapy. Endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty
      (ESG) is one of the most commonly performed endoscopic bariatric and metabolic therapies
      (EBMTs) in the U.S. First performed by Christopher C. Thompson and Robert Hawes in 2012, ESG
      involves the use of a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-cleared endoscopic suturing or
      plication device to reduce the volume of the stomach. At 12 months, patients experience an
      average of 16.5% total weight loss (TWL) with a clinically meaningful reduction in hemoglobin
      A1c (HbA1c), with the durability of up to at least 5 years. In patients who undergo
      traditional bariatric surgery, there are changes in bile acids (BAs), which stimulate
      secretion of gut hormones resulting in alteration of gastric emptying rate. This mechanism is
      thought to contribute to weight loss and early metabolic improvements following bariatric
      surgery. Furthermore, some studies showed a reduction in inflammatory cytokine levels
      including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) following bariatric surgery,
      which may explain its effect on long-term metabolic improvements. Our group previously
      demonstrated that following sleeve gastrectomy (SG), a surgical analogue of ESG, the satiety
      and incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and peptide YY (PYY) increase, while
      the hunger hormone ghrelin decreases9. Despite the known efficacy of ESG on weight loss and
      metabolic comorbidities, its mechanisms of action remain poorly understood.

      The goal of this proposal is to examine the effect of ESG on gut hormones, inflammatory
      cytokines, BAs and gastric emptying. In 2017, we reported a new ESG technique, also known as
      distal Primary Obesity Surgery Endoscopy (POSE), where plications are placed in the gastric
      body to reduce its width and length, which appears to be associated with greater weight loss
      compared to the original technique focusing on reducing the fundic size. In addition to
      assisting with the first-in-human ESG cases in 2012 and its iterations using this new
      technique in 2017, the PI, along with her colleagues, has continued to refine the procedure
      details to optimize safety, efficiency, efficacy and generalizability. Currently, the PI is
      leading an observational study assessing the effect of the new ESG technique on various
      metabolic outcomes. An interim analysis of 25 patients showed mean of 20% TWL at 12 months
      with improvement in insulin resistance (IR) and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). Our overall
      hypothesis is that there are changes in gut hormones, inflammatory cytokines, BAs and gastric
      emptying following ESG in the direction that lead to weight loss and improvement in IR. To
      date, there has been only a single study that assessed the effect of ESG on hormonal profiles
      (ghrelin and PYY) and gastric emptying. However, the study was limited by 1) lack of data on
      the major incretin hormone GLP-1, BAs and inflammatory markers and 2) differences in
      techniques.
    
  