
    
      The management and prognosis of patients with glioma is highly dependent on the tumour grade
      according to the new 2016 classification of the World Health Organization (WHO), which
      incorporates molecular characteristics. Standard magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enhanced by
      contrast is the basis of imaging primary brain tumours including gliomas. Nevertheless MRI
      specificity to type glioma is limited. Recently, positron emission tomography (PET) molecular
      imaging using radiolabeled amino acids or their analogues has been recommended by the
      Neuro-Oncology Response Assessment (RANO) working group for differential diagnosis of brain
      lesions, non-invasive classification of glial tumours, prognostic value, tumour delineation,
      stereotactic biopsy radiotherapy planification and treatments follow-up, to provide
      additional informations beyond MRI on biological processes such as cell proliferation,
      membrane biosynthesis, glucose consumption and absorption of amino acid analogues. Among the
      radiotracers used in PET, radiolabeled amino acids or their analogues are increasingly used
      in clinical routine for glioma imaging. Although most previous PET studies focused on brain
      gliomas used L-[methyl- 11 C] -methionine (11C-MET), the fluorinated amino acid analogue O -
      (2-[ 18 F] fluoroethyl) -L-tyrosine (18F-FET) appeared to be a favorable marker for clinical
      routine due to his longer half-life than Carbone 11. Recent european guidelines attempt to
      provide some guidance on the performance and interpretation of molecular imaging. The authors
      recommend a static (20-40 mn after injection (Pi)) or dynamic PET acquisition (40-50 mn from
      injection). A visual analysis can be completed by a quantitative analysis which consists to
      measure mean and maximal tumour activity uptake values (SUVmean and SUVmax) and their
      respective tumour to background ratios (TBRmean and TBRmax). Although the mean physiological
      brain activity uptake is well defined, the measurement of mean glioma activity uptake is less
      clear. Indeed, TBRmean depends on the delineation of the tumour ROI and/or VOI. Most often
      previously, VOI was determined by a 3D contouring process using a tumour-to-brain ratio of at
      least 1.6 at the beginning of the scan, threshold defined on a brain gliomas
      biopsy-controlled study. Moreover, Albert et al. emphasized the interest of early TBRmax.To
      our knowledge, none study evaluated others parameters as SUVmax, SUVmean and TBRmean in early
      period. In this context, the aim of this study was to compare quantitative and qualitative
      PET parameters between Low Grade Glioma and High Grade Glioma.
    
  