
    
      With the background that there is increasing evidence that breaking up sedentary time with
      physical activity may be potentially associated with improved blood glucose levels (Francois
      et al., (2014) & van Dijk et al., (2013), this study aims to investigate and compare the
      effect of a single 30-minute bout of moderate intensity aerobic exercise to the effect of
      three 10-minute pre-prandial bouts of energy-matched and volume-matched aerobic exercise on
      2-hr post prandial and fasting blood sugar levels in a sample of type 2 diabetes patients.

      Different from previous studies, this research seeks to evaluate these effects in a Black
      Caribbean population, in a type 2 diabetes population on medication including insulin and
      also seeks to evaluate if either exercise regimen is indeed palatable to the target
      population by evaluating treatment acceptability.

      The proposed study will be a crossover randomized controlled study. There will be two
      intervention groups - a single 30-minute bout of moderate intensity aerobic exercise before
      breakfast and three (3) 10-minute bouts of moderate intensity aerobic activity before
      breakfast, lunch and dinner. The primary outcome measure will be 2-hr post prandial blood
      sugar levels and fasting blood sugar levels on the day following the intervention. Neither
      subject nor investigator will be blinded to the intervention.

      Subjects will include patients with a documented diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, that is a
      documented HbA1C ≥ 6.5%. Baseline data will include body mass and body composition and will
      be measured using the bioelectrical impedance technique (Tanita scale). Waist circumference
      will be assessed using a Gulick tape measure. Baseline sedentary behaviour and physical
      activity level will be assessed using the validated International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire.

      All recruited subjects will be asked to complete two exercise interventions separated by a
      one-week washout period: 1) a single 30-minute bout of moderate intensity aerobic exercise
      before breakfast and 2) three (3) 10-minute bouts of moderate intensity aerobic activity
      before breakfast, lunch and dinner. Each subject will be randomized to one of two treatment
      sequences: single bout followed by multiple bouts (S-M) or multiple bouts followed by single
      bout (M-S). The randomization will be done using online statistical computing web programming
      (www.randomization.com) to generate a randomization schedule with balanced permutations.

      Timing between exercise completion and commencement of meal intake will be approximately 15
      minutes. A heart rate reserve range of 40-59% will be used to define moderate intensity.
      Heart rate will be measured using a validated Polar heart rate monitor. Rate of perceived
      exertion will be a secondary measure of exercise intensity.

      Two-hour (2hr) post prandial blood sugar levels and fasting blood sugar levels on the day
      following the exercise intervention will be measured using a validated capillary blood
      glucose meter. Blood pressure will also be measured at the same times that blood glucose
      values are taken using a validated automated blood pressure machine.

      Standardized meals of fixed nutrient content and individualized to the subject's calculated
      estimated daily caloric requirements will be provided to subjects on the day of the exercise
      interventions. Treatment acceptability will be assessed following each exercise intervention
      using an expert-designed questionnaire that will be piloted in this study.
    
  