
    
      N-methyl-D-aspartate(NMDA) receptors are fundamental factors in controlling synaptic
      plasticity and memory function and play an important role in transition of acute pain to
      chronic intractable pain.

      Magnesium is physiologic NMDA receptor antagonist. It will stabilized NMDA receptor and
      prevents influx of calcium and sodium ion. It has been studied that serum magnesium level is
      low in patients with chronic pain. Several studies has been done and shown that Magnesium has
      a significant effect in neuroprotection and membrane stabilization. Blocking the NMDA
      receptor will prevent activation of first order neurons in periphery or second order neurons
      in dorsal horn of spinal cord and then higher pain pathways to third order neurons and
      centers of the pain perception. Topical, oral and more effectively intravenous administration
      of magnesium has been used widely in treatment of chronic pain. There are limitations of
      intravenous administration of magnesium secondary to systemic cardiovascular side effects.

      In several standardized study it has been shown that using magnesium intrathecally,
      epidurally or with interscalene injections can boost up the effect of opioids or local
      anesthetics. At the dose of 100 mg, it has been safe and effective to use.

      Regional anesthesia is a safe, inexpensive technique, with the advantage of prolonged pain
      relief.

      In the pain clinic the investigators perform different injections as the standard treatment
      for chronic pain based on the diagnosis and indications. Local anesthetic like Bupivacaine
      with or without Steroids (Depo-medrol) is used for these injections.

      The investigators' goal is comparing pain control in different groups adding the magnesium
      sulfate 100mg to our compounds as an inexpensive, effective, and safe adjuvant to prolong the
      duration of analgesia and reduce the amount of narcotic dose. The investigators want to
      conduct a prospective, randomized, double-blind placebo controlled study with two major
      injections (2 different studies with the same concept):

        1. Interscalene injection (2 subgroups including A: with Bupivacaine 0.25%(20ml) which is
           the standard injection with 1ml saline as placebo vs B: Bupivacaine 0.25%(20ml)+
           Magnesium sulfate (100mg in 1 ml)

        2. Epidural injection(2 subgroups including A:Bupivacaine 0.125%(8ml)+ Depo medrol(80mg) as
           the standard injection with 1ml saline as placebo vs B: Bupivacaine 0.125%(8ml)+ Depo
           medrol(80mg)+ Magnesium sulfate (100mg in 1 ml)
    
  