
    
      - Summary Background and aims

      The standard anti-tuberculosis drug, rifampicin, has major drug-drug interactions with the
      cornerstone of second-line therapy in resource-limited settings, lopinavir/ritonavir (Aluvia
      tablets). Concomitant administration of rifampicin and lopinavir/ritonavir reduces
      lopinavir/ritonavir levels to such a large degree that HIV control is compromised, and
      resistance may develop. Therefore international and national guidelines recommend that
      rifampicin should not be used with lopinavir/ritonavir, and rather recommend that rifabutin
      be used instead if at all possible.

      The current recommendation of using a reduced dose of 150 mg rifabutin thrice weekly when
      administered with boosted protease inhibitors (bPI) is based on pharmacokinetic studies in
      healthy volunteers that demonstrate substantial drug-drug interactions which lead to
      increased rifabutin levels at standard doses. However, there is also concern that with the
      reduced dose the resulting levels of rifabutin might lead to failure of anti-tuberculosis
      therapy or TB relapse. Further, there is general concern that the entire class of rifamycins
      have been sub-optimally dosed throughout the history of anti-tuberculosis treatment. One
      barrier to using a higher dose of rifabutin with boosted protease inhibitors is the potential
      for substantial increases in toxicity, in particular the risk of uveitis which is a
      well-recognised side effect of high dose rifabutin.

      This pilot randomised open-label pharmacokinetic substudy will therefore compare 150 mg
      rifabutin daily versus thrice weekly, both in combination with lopinavir/ritonavir taken as
      part of second-line ART in the EARNEST trial of second-line antiretroviral therapy, in terms
      of (i)toxicity (ii) pharmacokinetics of rifabutin, lopinavir/ritonavir, raltegravir
      participants enrolled from arm B of main EARNEST trial only) and (iii) PK/PD
      (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) relationships.

      - Trial design

      A parallel two group, open-label, multi-centre, randomised controlled pilot trial, embedded
      within a larger randomised controlled trial (EARNEST).

      - Detailed Background

      Tuberculosis is one of the most common opportunistic infections in HIV-infected people taking
      antiretroviral therapy (ART). Concomitant use of rifampicin and many antiretroviral drugs is
      complicated by drug-drug interactions caused by the potent induction of genes involved in
      drug metabolism and transport by rifampicin, which can result in subtherapeutic
      antiretroviral drug concentrations. Drug-drug interactions between rifampicin and
      ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors (bPI), the cornerstone of second-line therapy following
      the WHO public health approach to ART, are more marked than with the non-nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) commonly used in first-line therapy, and therapeutic
      lopinavir concentrations have only been achieved with substantially increased doses of
      lopinavir/ritonavir or ritonavir ("super-boosting"). However, this has lead to high rates of
      hepatotoxicity in healthy volunteers and HIV-infected adults. The importance of the
      lopinavir/ritonavir "backbone" is such that risks of loss of HIV control and development of
      resistance with concomitant administration of rifampicin are considered too large, and thus
      international and national guidelines recommend that rifampicin should not be used with
      lopinavir/ritonavir, and rather recommend that rifabutin be used instead if at all possible.
      This alternative strategy of replacing rifampicin with rifabutin is followed in resource-rich
      settings. Pharmacokinetic studies in healthy volunteers demonstrated a substantial increase
      in rifabutin levels when given in the standard dose of 300 mg daily together with bPI, and so
      the current dosing recommendations are 150 mg rifabutin thrice weekly when administered with
      bPI. However, there is also concern that with the reduced dose, the resulting levels of
      rifabutin might be inadequate (for example, 9/10 patients had low maximum concentration
      values for rifabutin below the TB minimum inhibitory concentration in a study of Boulanger et
      al), and that this, together with intermittent dosing of the companion antituberculosis
      drugs, could lead to failure of anti-tuberculosis therapy or TB relapse. A recent PK study in
      16 African patients has confirmed that rifabutin levels are low at the standard of care dose
      when coadministered with boosted lopinavir. Further, there is general concern that the entire
      class of rifamycins have been sub-optimally dosed throughout the history of antituberculosis
      treatment. One barrier to using a higher dose of rifabutin with boosted protease inhibitors
      is the potential for substantial increases in toxicity, in particular the risk of uveitis
      (inflammation of the middle layer of the eye) which is a well-recognised side effect of high
      dose rifabutin. A second potential concern is that a higher dose of rifabutin may also
      increase lopinavir levels, albeit to a lesser extent than the interactions in the opposite
      direction. Studies on rifabutin-PI drug-drug interactions in healthy volunteers have been
      hampered by the occurrence of adverse events which are unacceptable in a healthy population,
      whereas in clinical management of patients with TB the need to optimise therapeutic efficacy
      may lead to a higher threshold for discontinuing therapy or reducing dose.

      EARNEST is an open, parallel group, randomised controlled trial in 1277 HIV-infected adults
      and adolescents switching from first- to second-line antiretroviral therapy (ART). The trial
      is being conducted in fourteen centres and five countries (Malawi, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Kenya
      and Zambia). Enrolment started in April 2010, and finished by April 2011. All EARNEST
      participants have a second-line regimen based on a boosted protease inhibitor (bPI), Aluvia,
      following WHO guidelines. The randomisation is to whether this bPI is supported by the
      standard of care 2NRTIs (Arm A), a drug from the new integrase inhibitor class, raltegravir
      (Arm B), or raltegravir for an induction period of 12 weeks only, then moving to bPI
      maintenance monotherapy (Arm C). Each participant will be followed for 144 weeks, and the
      total duration of the trial will be 4 years (trial closure end 2013).

      This substudy will enrol only patients who have initiated second-line bPI-containing ART
      within EARNEST.

        -  Those patients who develop TB during EARNEST follow-up. All patients in EARNEST are
           receiving lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimens and will therefore initiate
           rifabutin-containing TB treatment as per guidelines (rifampicin is contra-indicated).
           These patients will be enrolled into the sub-study as soon as possible after starting TB
           treatment.

        -  Those patients who are already established on rifabutin-based TB treatment at the time
           of sub-study screening and who have at least 10 weeks remaining before completing their
           course of TB treatment.

      It is anticipated that a substantial minority of EARNEST participants will develop TB during
      trial follow-up, or will already be on maintenance anti-TB therapy at substudy entry. The
      fact that patients will be followed long term as part of EARNEST provides a unique
      opportunity to collect both short and longer-term data on incidence of adverse events, as
      well as pharmacokinetic data, within the context of the larger EARNEST trial.

      - Substudy objectives

      Given the concerns about potential under-exposure to rifabutin with the currently recommended
      dose of 150 mg thrice weekly with bPI, this pilot randomised open-label pharmacokinetic
      substudy will therefore compare 150 mg rifabutin daily versus thrice weekly in combination
      with lopinavir/ritonavir taken as part of second-line ART in the EARNEST trial, in terms of:

      (i) toxicity (ii) pharmacokinetics of rifabutin, lopinavir/ritonavir, raltegravir
      (participants enrolled from arm B of main EARNEST trial only) (iii) PK/PD
      (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) relationships.

      - Substudy hypothesis

      The dose of rifabutin currently recommended for concomitant administration with
      lopinavir/ritonavir (150 mg 3 x week) can be increased to 150 mg daily without significantly
      increasing toxicity and whilst providing improved rifabutin exposure.
    
  