
    
      Background:

      Efficient pain management promoting mobilization and convalescence is essential in an ideal
      perioperative course. Regional nerve blocks are a central element in postoperative regimes
      for many patients and it is therefore important that these nerve blocks are both long lasting
      and efficient. This trial will investigate whether it is possible to optimize the
      postoperative pain management when adding dexmedetomidine to the local anaesthetic
      ropivacaine in peripheral nerve blocks.

      The prolonging effect of using dexmedetomidine as adjunct in peripheral nerve blocks have
      been investigated in several studies. However, it remains uncertain whether the effect is
      mediated by a systemic-, a peripheral- or a combined systemic/peripheral mechanism. In this
      trial the adjuvating effect of dexmedetomidine will be investigated using an ulnar nerve
      block.

      Method:

      The participants will attend two trial days.

      On one trial day the volunteers will receive bilateral ulnar nerve blocks. In one arm they
      will receive the local anaesthetic ropivacaine 4ml 5mg/ml and placebo (saline) and in the
      other arm ropivacaine 4ml 5mg/ml and dexmedetomidine 100μg. The dexmedetomidine administered
      perineurally is absorbed and redistributed and will influence the two nerve blocks equally
      systemically. On the other trial day the participants will receive ropivacaine 4ml 5mg/ml and
      placebo (saline) and in the other arm ropivacaine 4ml 7.5mg/ml and placebo (saline). The
      allocation is blinded to volunteer and investigator.

      In this setup we therefore have a perineural- and a systemic dexmedetomidine group and also a
      placebo group , and a group testing if higher doses of local anesthetics will prolong the
      duration of a nerve block.

      The duration of the nerve block will be measured by 3 different tests: pinprick, temperature
      test (alcohol) and Pain during tonic heat stimulation. All tests are validated within pain
      research.
    
  