
    
      Congestive heart failure affects 5 million people in the United States, and over 60,000 are
      diagnosed with end-stage heart failure. Treatment options for these individuals are extremely
      limited. Because of a limited supply of donor organs, fewer than 3,000 people receive heart
      transplants each year. LVADs are battery-operated devices that can act as a temporary
      solution until a donor heart becomes available. Upon being surgically implanted into a
      weakened heart, the LVAD mechanically pumps blood from the heart to the rest of the body.
      There are, however, serious risks associated with LVADs, including infection, blood clots,
      and stroke. Early removal of the LVAD may be possible by injecting stem cells to regenerate
      new heart cells and improve heart function. The purpose of this study is to compare the
      safety and effectiveness of two types of bone marrow cells -- bone marrow mononuclear cells
      (BMCs) and immunoselected CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells -- in improving heart function in
      individuals with end-stage heart failure.

      This study will enroll individuals undergoing surgery to receive an LVAD. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to one of following three groups:

      Group 1 (n=30): participants will undergo intramyocardial injection of bone marrow
      mononuclear cells (BMCs) during LVAD implantation

      Group 2 (n=30): participants will undergo intramyocardial injection of immunoselected CD34+
      hematopoietic stem cells during LVAD implantation

      Group 3 (n=15): participants will undergo LVAD implantation

      Prior to LVAD implantation, participants in Groups 1 and 2 will have a sample of bone marrow
      removed. Following LVAD implantation, study visits will occur at Days 45 and 90, and then
      every 60 days thereafter until participants receive a heart transplant. At each visit,
      participants will undergo a LVAD wean procedure, during which the mechanical pump of the LVAD
      will be gradually turned off, and the LVAD will be operated with a hand pump. The length of
      time that a participant tolerates the wean procedure will be evaluated. Heart size and
      function, blood flow, and nerve function will also be assessed. Some participants will
      undergo a 6-minute walk test. At the time of heart transplant surgery, the LVAD will be
      removed, and heart cell regeneration and heart function will be evaluated.
    
  