
    
      Extensive intraductal carcinoma of the breast refers to a type of breast cancer in which ≥
      25% of ductal carcinoma in situ is present in invasive tumors and there is a scattered
      distribution of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in or around the invasive carcinoma. Studies
      have shown that patients with DCIS positive for extensive intraductal component have more
      residual tumors than patients with DCIS negative for extensive intraductal component. There
      are still many subclinical tumors in the residual mammary gland after removal of the main
      invasive tumor foci. This provides the condition for tumor recurrence after breast-conserving
      surgery, and the risk of tumor recurrence in DCIS positive for extensive intraductal
      component is 2.52 times that in DCIS negative for extensive intraductal component. Compared
      with DCIS negative for extensive intraductal component, DCIS positive for extensive
      intraductal component is not sensitive to radiotherapy.

      Mckissock surgery is originated from a breast reduction surgery developed by American doctors
      in 1970, which can remove glands to the maximum extent. This technique was applied to
      breast-conserving surgery in 2016, which initiated the application of this operation in
      malignant tumors. Jianyi Li and the team members (Shengjing Hospital of China Medical
      University, Shenyang, China) first applied expanded Mckissock surgery in breast-conserving
      surgery with the nipple-areola complex preserved. This surgical technique is suitable for
      low-grade malignant tumors. This surgical technique has been performed in 30 patients and
      results showed that the expanded Mckissock surgery has better prognosis than radical
      mastectomy. Therefore, this prospective cohort study will compare the postoperative
      disease-free survival and quality of life between modified radical mastectomy and expanded
      Mckissock surgery.
    
  