
    
      The study was conducted in the women's health and family medicine departments of one
      community hospital and two medical centers across three states (Georgia, Nevada, and
      Virginia). In this hospital system, women are distributed a spiral notebook at their
      obstetric care intake appointment, which generally is scheduled for 8-10 weeks gestation. The
      spiral notebook is designed for two purposes: 1) patient education of what happens throughout
      pregnancy, and 2) patient record keeping of the patient's own pregnancy experience, including
      space for recording weight, blood pressure, and journaling about what they experience between
      prenatal appointments. The mobile app used in this study was designed for the same two
      purposes and contained identical content, though through a mobile design interface (available
      on both Android and iOS platforms). After the pilot study, patient feedback on the mobile app
      was used to create a beta version. Notable differences were a feature for users to change
      font size, a search function, and weekly reminders. No substantive content changed. This
      randomized controlled study had one intervention (mobile application) and one control
      (standard of care - spiral notebook) group. The study was approved by the first author's
      Institutional Review Board.

      At each medical center, the obstetrics intake nurse serially screened new obstetrics patients
      for inclusion criteria from May to November 2015. If patients met inclusion criteria, the
      nurse invited the patient to talk to a research assistant about the study. Exclusion criteria
      included conditions that would elevate the patient's care to complicated obstetrics care
      (e.g., cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, renal disorder, etc.). This was intended to
      capture a low-risk obstetrics patient population that would follow a standard 4-week pathway
      of care, in which patients attend a prenatal appointment once every four weeks during
      pregnancy.

      The study used pre-assigned block randomization (each block n = 40) to balance the conditions
      throughout recruitment. Following consent and baseline measures, participants were randomized
      to the two conditions. Providers were blinded to patient participation in the study.

      Surveys were completed at four prenatal appointments, 10-12 weeks, 28 weeks, 32 weeks, and 36
      weeks gestation. All data collection was conducted with paper-and-pencil surveys in the
      clinic, immediately before and following each clinical appointment. At each appointment,
      patient weight and blood pressure were also recorded from the patient's electronic medical
      record.

      At baseline, self-reported measures included demographics, health literacy, and patient
      activation. Health literacy was assessed using the self-reported Functional, Communicative,
      Critical Health Literacy Scale (Ishikawa, Takeuchi, & Yano, 2008) Patient activation was
      assessed with the validated, licensed patient activation measure (PAM) (Greene & Hibbard,
      2012; Greene, Hibbard, Sacks, & Overton, 2013; Hibbard, Mahoney, Stockard, & Tusler, 2005;
      Hibbard et al., 2004), which uses 13 Likert-type items to create a continuous patient
      activation measure on a scale of 0 (not activated) to 100 (most activated). PAM was also
      replicated at time 4 (32 week appointment). As a surrogate measure, patient activation was
      also assessed at a behavioral level by asking patients at 36 weeks how many mobile apps they
      had used throughout their pregnancy.

      Use was assessed with three measures. Before each appointment, patients completed two items
      regarding use of the education and engagement tool. First they indicated if they had brought
      the mobile app/notebook to the appointment with them (yes/no). Then, they reported how
      frequently they had used the tool over the past month 1) to look for information and 2) to
      record information (never = 0, once = 1, weekly = 4, or daily = 28).

      Following each appointment, patients completed five subscales of the validated Prenatal
      Interpersonal Processes of Care (PIPC) scale (Wong et al., 2004), including
      elicitation/responsiveness to the patient, explanations of care, empowerment,
      patient-centered decision making, and emotional support. Responses to each item were
      transformed onto a 0 (negative perception) to 100 (positive perception) scale, and items are
      averaged to create subscales. Then subscales are averaged to calculate the overall PIPC
      scale.

      At delivery, outcomes were recorded from the health record: gestational age, birth weight,
      and mode of delivery (vaginal or Caesarean section).
    
  