
    
      This is a multi-centre, open label, multi-arm, randomised, controlled, phase II-III trial;
      evaluating short treatment regimens containing bedaquiline and pretomanid in combination with
      existing and re-purposed anti-TB drugs for the treatment of biologically confirmed pulmonary
      multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB).

      The study will be divided into two stages, with a seamless transition between the stages,
      meaning recruitment into an arm will only stop after a decision has been taken following
      stage 1 primary end point data analysis. All recruited patients will be followed up to 108
      weeks post randomisation unless they die or withdraw consent. The local standard of care
      (SOC) MDR-TB regimen will be used as the internal control for both safety and efficacy.

      The first stage corresponds to a Phase II trial of safety and preliminary efficacy in
      patients with MDR-TB. Patients will be recruited into 3 parallel B and Pa containing regimen
      arms plus a SOC control. The main objective of Stage 1 is to select drug regimens for
      evaluation in Stage 2 based on 8 week safety and efficacy endpoints. All stage 1 patients
      will be hospitalised for 8 weeks for intensive cardiological evaluations to establish the
      QT-specific liability of the regimens.

      Investigational arms that do not meet predefined safety and efficacy criteria (percentage
      culture conversion >40%; percentage discontinuation and death <45%) will not be considered
      for further evaluation. The regimens that do not meet these pre-defined safety and/or
      efficacy criteria will be eligible to be evaluated for long term safety, tolerability and
      efficacy in Stage 2.

      If less than two investigational arms are available for stage two assessment, the SAC will
      make recommendations on whether new arms should be introduced in the study. If more than two
      arms are available for the Stage 2 assessment, two regimens will be chosen. The SAC will make
      recommendations on which arms to take forward to the trial steering committee.

      The second stage corresponds to a phase III trial. Patients in this stage will be recruited
      into the arms chosen from stage 1 plus the SOC. The regimens will primarily be evaluated for
      safety and efficacy in comparison with the SOC arm at 72 weeks post randomisation. The
      primary efficacy outcome will be a composite endpoint of the percentage of unfavourable
      outcomes. The secondary outcomes will include safety outcomes and in particular the
      percentage of Grade 3 or 4 AEs and SAEs in the investigational regimens compared with the
      SOC.
    
  