
    
      First-degree relatives of individuals with CRC are at increased-risk of developing colorectal
      cancer (CRC). For these increased-risk individuals current guidelines recommend initiating
      CRC screening a decade earlier than for those at average-risk for CRC; thus, starting at age
      40, or 10 years younger than the age at which the affected relative was diagnosed with CRC.
      In our prior study of 504 at-risk siblings of patients with a history of CRC, diagnosed at
      age less than 56, we found that approximately 44% of these siblings were not compliant with
      CRC screening guidelines. Guided by the Transtheoretical, Health Belief and Dual Process
      models, our prior study identified key attitudinal and non-attitudinal predictors of
      screening behaviors and intentions.

      This proposed study will use these results to guide the development and evaluation of
      interventions to improve CRC screening acceptance. The proposed study will evaluate the
      impact of three interventions to promote CRC screening among siblings in this increased-risk
      group, who are not currently compliant with CRC screening guidelines: 1) a generic print
      intervention; 2) a tailored print intervention, and; 3) a tailored print plus tailored
      telephone counseling intervention.

      Siblings in the generic print condition will receive a pamphlet about colorectal cancer
      screening published by the Center for Disease Control. Siblings in the tailored print and
      telephone counseling conditions will receive messages tailored specifically to their
      responses on targeted attitudinal and non-attitudinal measures. Five hundred twenty four
      siblings meeting eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned to one of the three
      conditions after a baseline interview assessing CRC screening behaviors and attitudes, and it
      is anticipated that 427 siblings will complete the study. For siblings in the tailored
      conditions, baseline information will be utilized to design the tailored messages. After
      receiving the intervention information, participants will be interviewed again six months
      later regarding CRC screening behaviors and attitudes to assess the impact of the
      intervention.
    
  