
    
      Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been widespread worldwide since December 2019. It is
      highly contagious, and severe cases can lead to acute respiratory distress or multiple organ
      failure and ultimately death. The disease can be confirmed by using the reverse-transcription
      polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. ECGs, Chest x-rays and CT scans are rich sources of
      data that provide insight to disease that otherwise would not be available.

      Knowing who to admit to the hospital or intensive care saves lives as it helps to mitigate
      resource shortages. Novel Artificial Intelligence tools such as Deep learning will allow a
      complex assessment of the Imaging and clinical data that could potentially help clinicians to
      make a faster and more accurate diagnosis, better triage patients and assess treatment
      response and ultimately better prediction of outcome. Our group has significant experience
      implementing machine learning algorithms on vast quantities of ECGs, such as from the UK
      Biobank, and propose to extend our techniques to data from patients with Covid-19.

      This is a retrospective data study on patients with suspicious and confirmed COVID-19.

      The study aims to recruit up to 2000 patients who will be referred to have ECGs, chest X-rays
      or CT scans at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Imperial College
      Healthcare NHS Trust and London North West London University Healthcare NHS Trust.

      To be included in this study, the patient must:

        -  have ECGs, Chest x-ray and/or chest CT imaging (with or without contrast)

        -  laboratory Covid-19 virus nucleic acid test (RTPCR assay with throat swab samples) or
           clinical suspicion for Covid19 infection

        -  be aged >18 years Patients with suboptimal ECGs, chest radiograph and CT studies due to
           artefacts will be excluded. Patients will also be excluded if the time-interval between
           ECGs, chest CT and the RT-PCR assay was longer than 7 days.

      This study received HRA and Health and Care Research Wales (HCRW) approval on 18 May 2020
      following review by Research Ethics Committee at a meeting held on 13 May 2020(Protocol
      number: 20HH5967; REC reference: 20/HRA/2467).
    
  