
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability around the world; it is the most
      common chronic condition in primary care in the UK. By 2030 it is predicted to be the
      greatest cause of disability in the general population. An effective end-stage treatment for
      knee OA is knee-replacement surgery, which was first done in the 1970s and 1980s.

      In England and Wales, the number of knee-replacement procedures recorded by the National
      Joint Registry in 2013 was 91,703, which represents an increase of 0.9 % over 2012. The data
      analysis by the National Joint Registry and the Office of National Statistics suggests that,
      by 2030, primary TKAs will increase by 117% from the 2012 level. Subsequently, TKA revision
      surgeries are expected to increase incrementally by 332%. There is a similar estimation of
      demand for revision TKA surgeries in the United States; by 2030, they are expected to rise by
      601% from the 2005 level. The United States estimation of primary TKA is for growth of 673%
      from the 2005 level, which is similar to England and Wales's upper-limit projections.

      Post-TKA, 75-85% of patients report satisfaction with surgery outcomes, while the remaining
      15-25% are dissatisfied . Total knee arthroplasty's success has traditionally been evaluated
      from the surgeon's perspective, e.g. the presence of surgical complications or implant
      survival. This is gradually changing to involve the patient in measuring health outcomes and
      decision-making processes. Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) have evolved to explore
      patient perspectives by monitoring the quality of care in health organizations and conducting
      clinical trial outcomes.

      Worldwide National Joint Registry summarise the common indication for TKA revision are; 29.8%
      due to aseptic loosening, 14.8% infection and 9.5% due to pain. Most prediction studies show
      that pain and psychology pre-operation may predict poor outcomes post-TKA. A systematic
      review by concludes that pain catastrophizing predicts chronic pain post-TKA. Pain
      catastrophizing is defined as a construct that reflects anxious preoccupation with pain, an
      inability to inhibit pain-related fears, amplification of the significance of pain vis-à-vis
      health implications, and a sense of helplessness regarding pain.

      Chronic post-surgery pain is significantly associated with preoperational central
      sensitisation as in post-shoulder subacrominal decompression and hernia repair. Regarding
      post-TKA, a study by Lundblad et al. (2008) concluded that the preoperational hand electrical
      pain threshold significantly predicts pain outcomes one year post-TKA. The study explored the
      association between chronic pain post-TKA and preoperation widespread pain sensitisation
      using pressure algometry. Both study association without control the psychological confiding
      factor. The correlation with Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index
      pain score (WOMAC) is questionable due to weakness of WOMAC with post TKA population such as
      low sensitivity of WOMAC's stiffness subscale reduces the overall standardized response mean
      and high ceiling effect Psychological pain thinking is assessed using the most widely used
      measuring scale: Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS). PCS assesses pain thinking in three
      dimensions: rumination ("I can't stop thinking about how much it hurts"), magnification ("I
      worry that something serious may happen") and helplessness ("It's awful and I feel that it
      overwhelms me").

      The current study will investigate preoperational central sensitisation using pressure
      algometry, in addition to the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), to explore psychological
      factors. There may be some correlation between preoperational central sensitisation and
      post-TKA outcomes such as pain and functional improvements.

      To the best of our knowledge, no previous study has explored central sensitisation using
      pressure algometry and the Pain Catastrophizing Scale and possible correlation with its
      effects on pain and function recovery post-TKA. Pain and function can be accurately assessed
      before and after TKA using visual analogue scale, Oxford Knee Score, balance and performance
      functional tests. No previous study has correlated preoperational central sensitisation and
      pain psychology post-TKA on the Oxford Knee Scale as commonly used patients' self-reported
      outcome measures.

      Thus, the study may explore accurate and objective prediction factors of post-total-knee
      arthroplasty progression. Potentially, reliable outcome prediction could, however, improve
      patient selection for surgery, as appropriate timing for surgery depends on patient symptoms
      and efficient patient preparation for surgery if it is to be cost-effective. Accurate
      preoperative prediction is crucial to minimize the potential for unrealistic expectations.
    
  