
    
      Mathematica Policy Research, Inc. (MPR) evaluated 16 independent demonstration sites that
      provide coordinated care interventions to Medicare beneficiaries with chronic illnesses. The
      rationale for the demonstration is the lack of coordination among the multiple providers
      typically serving Medicare beneficiaries with chronic illnesses, as well as the adverse
      consequences of the lack of coordination for the beneficiaries and for Medicare costs. The
      demonstration sites, selected in early 2001, offered programs designed to improve both the
      care that patients receive and patients' knowledge of, and adherence with, recommended
      self-care and behavior. The study estimated the effects of each site on patients' well-being
      and satisfaction, in addition to the site's effects on the use and cost of Medicare covered
      services. This analysis relied on a patient survey conducted 6 to 12 months after enrollment,
      and on Medicare claims data and any data available from the demonstration sites that could
      enhance the study. The study included two rounds of physician surveys. In each site, eligible
      applicants were randomly assigned to treatment and control groups. An extensive process
      analysis was conducted to describe the interventions in detail, with the key goal being an
      assessment of those factors that account for program success and failure. The study included
      case studies of each site, program profiles, interim site-specific memos, two interim summary
      reports, two reports to Congress (based on the interim summary reports), and a final summary
      report. This original study enrolled 18,277 beneficiaries.

      In 2008 Congress extended the study for 2 of the sites, Mercy Medical Center - North Iowa and
      Health Quality Partners in Pennsylvania, and they will recruit beneficiaries and provide
      demonstration intervention services through the spring of 2010. Mathematica Policy Research
      will evaluate the results of this extended demonstration using Medicare claims data and
      qualitative site visits to the two programs.
    
  