
    
      Background: One of the greatest challenges that may affect the integrity of teeth is dental
      caries. If left untreated, pulpal involvement may occur leading to irreversible damage and
      eventually necrosis. This risk is greatly increased in the presence of developmental defects
      affecting tooth enamel such as molar-incisor hypomineralization (MIH). Despite having high
      success rate, root canal treatment will lead to loss of proprioceptive function, loss of
      stress-reducing damping property and tooth sensitivity in developed teeth and will also
      inhibit complete root formation in immature permanent teeth. Vital pulp therapy (VPT) is a
      general term for multiple procedures (indirect pulp cap, direct pulp cap and pulpotomy) all
      directed toward preserving pulp vitality and enable complete root development in immature
      teeth. So, it has been advocated as a better alternative for pulpectomy/root canal treatment
      in deep carious vital permanent teeth.

      Aim: To evaluate the clinical, radiographic and histologic (if any teeth later are doomed for
      extraction for orthodontic or other reasons) success rate of VPT on treating cariously
      exposed permanent teeth with developmental defects of enamel.

      Materials and methods: The study will be a prospective case series study including children
      between 6-16 years old. Inclusion criteria include patients having tooth with enamel
      hypomineralization defect with deep caries. Teeth should be restorable tooth. No soft tissue
      swellings, mobility or tenderness to percussion should be present. In cases of pulpotomy,
      bleeding from all canals should be present after opening the access. Tooth should be
      diagnosed with reversible / irreversible pulpitis (as indicated by positive response to cold
      testing).

      Medically compromised patients will be excluded from the study. Also any tooth that is
      non-restorable, having sinus tract or periodontally compromised will be excluded. The
      procedure involves taking preoperative compete records (radiograph, vitality tests,
      percussion, mobility and photographs). After administration of anesthetic agent, rubber dam
      will be placed, caries is removed and appropriate dressing pulp material will be placed and
      then the final restoration is placed. A post-operative x-ray will be taken. The teeth will be
      followed up both clinically and radiographically for 1 year after treatment.

      Expected Results: It is expected that the teeth will maintain vitality with resolution of
      symptoms (if present) and completion of root development in immature teeth after vital pulp
      therapy.
    
  