
    
      Dry eye disease remains one of the most common complaints seen in ophthalmic clinics, with
      one in four patients reporting symptoms of the condition (including soreness, foreign body
      sensation or temporary blurring of vision). Causes of dry eye are multifactorial, with the
      most common cause of evaporative dry eye disease being meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD).

      A chronic, abnormality of the glands lining the eyelid. MGD results in alteration of the tear
      film, symptoms of eye irritation, inflammation and ocular surface disease. In those with
      moderate or severe disease (as defined by symptoms, clinical signs and corneal staining),
      anti-inflammatory therapy is recommended, with topical steroids or oral tetracyclines.
      However, both these treatments are accompanied by side effects; topical steroids cause
      increased intraocular pressure, and predispose to eye infection and cataracts, whilst
      tetracyclines cause skin phototoxicity.

      Autologous serum drops are used as a treatment for severe dry eyes by providing growth
      factors and anti-inflammatory mediators to the ocular surface. It is derived from the liquid
      component of blood, after clotting factors and blood cells have been extracted. Obtaining
      this carries its own problems: numerous venesections from the patient, fridge storage to
      prevent bacterial contamination, and individual funding request as it is expensive.

      The growth factors and anti-inflammatory mediators in serum are also present in whole blood;
      which can be obtained using a finger prick technique as in diabetics, thus bypassing the cost
      and storage problems associated with autologous serum.

      Finger prick autologous blood (FAB) has shown efficacy and safety in the treatment of severe
      dry eye syndrome patients and persistent corneal epithelial defects. In this study, the
      investigators aim to find out whether FAB is an effective alternative to long-term
      anti-inflammatories in the treatment of MGD. Patient's with MGD will be recruited from
      Moorfields Eye clinic at Bedford Hospital. The study will be conducted over 2 years.
    
  