
    
      Patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) under spinal anesthesia often request
      sedation to alleviate anxiety. Dexmedetomidine may be ideally suited to provide sedation
      during surgery as it offers sedation and analgesia without causing significant respiratory
      depression. Furthermore, dexmedetomidine has beneficial synergistic interactions with opioids
      and sedative drugs.

      Altogether 80 patients scheduled for elective unilateral TKA under spinal anesthesia will be
      included in the prospective, randomized and controlled parallel-group study. Patients will be
      randomized into two groups, forty patients in each group. All patients will receive
      preoperatively 1000 mg of oral paracetamol as premedication. One group receives a single
      bolus dose of intranasal 1 ug/kg dexmedetomidine (DEX group) and the other group receives
      euvolemic dose (10 µL/kg) of saline (PLACEBO-group).

      Spinal anesthesia will be performed using bupivacaine (5 mg/mL) using 2.0-2.5 mL dose, the
      amount depending on the clinical judgement of the anesthesiologist responsible for the
      patient. If patient needs additional analgesic after spinal anesthesia, 50 µg dose of
      intravenous fentanyl or 3-5 mg of intravenous midazolam may be administered intraoperatively.

      Postoperative pain management in the surgical ward includes oral paracetamol 1000 mg every 8
      hours, and from the first postoperative day onwards patients receive oral
      naproxen/esomeprazole 500/20 mg twice a day. Oral oxycodone (5-10 mg) will be used, if the
      pain (measured with visual rating scale, VAS, min 0, max 100, higher scores mean worse
      outcome) is moderate or intense (VAS>30) after paracetamol and naproxen.

      Postoperative pain (VAS) and opioid consumption (mg) will be measured and analysed together
      with intraoperative sedative used (mg, midazolam and/or fentanyl allowed).
    
  