
    
      Implantation failure seems to be inevitable in some couples undergoing IVF-ET treatment,
      despite transferred with high-quality embryos. There are several factors, including
      coagulation, are supposed to contribute to the implantation failure. Several groups reported
      that inherited and acquired coagulation is highly prevalent in women with recurrent
      implantation failure (RIF). Besides, women undergoing assisted reproduction are more likely
      to expose to thrombotic risks because high-dose exogenous gonadotrophins are given to harvest
      more oocytes for the fertilization. Given the risk of thrombosis, patients are often
      recommended to receive thromboprophylaxis with unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low molecular
      weight heparin (LMWH) in many clinics empirically.

      LMWH is generated by depolymerization from UFH. Compared with UFH, LWMH exerts its
      anticoagulant effect mainly by inhibiting factor Xa rather than factor IIa. LMWH has a more
      predictable antithrombotic response and allows the administration to patients themselves
      without the laboratory monitoring. Also, it substantially reduces the risk of heparin-induced
      thrombocytopenia (HIT).

      Beyond its anticoagulant effects, heparin is supposed to improve pregnancy outcomes by
      modulating blastocyst supposition, adhesion and implantation and as well as trophoblast
      differentiation and invasion through interactions with several adhesion molecules, growth
      factors, cytokines, and enzymes. Also, complement activation induced by aPL antibodies in
      mice is inhibited, and pregnancy complications are attenuated when treated with heparin.

      Unfortunately, the use of LMWH in IVF/ET seems based on biological plausibility rather than
      evidence of efficacy. The high-quality studies (randomized controlled trials or prospective
      controlled trials) are limited, and the results are controversial. A meta-analysis (including
      2 RCT and 1 quasi-RCT) reported that there is no difference in implantation rate in women
      with ≥3 recurrent implantation failure when treated with LMWH. Although live birth rate (LBR)
      and miscarriage rates are improved, investigators are still concerned because limited studies
      and patients were included in this analysis. Even in the non-RIF patients with or without
      thrombophilia defects, no consensus results could be achieved.

      Given the burden of daily injection, skin irritation at injection site and other potential
      side-effects, the effectivity of LMWH in IVF/ET should be carefully examined even though LMWH
      is regarded as safe thromboprophylaxis. Hence, investigators propose a multi-center
      randomized study to evaluate the efficacy of Heparin in IVF-ET.
    
  