
    
      1.0 Introduction and Background

      Tuberculosis remains an enormous public health problem and a major cause of morbidity and
      mortality throughout the world. The WHO estimates that 8.8 million new cases of tuberculosis
      occurred worldwide in 2005, along with 1.6 million TB related deaths. New challenges in TB
      control include the HIV epidemic, as well as the emergence of multidrug resistant (MDR) and
      extremely drug resistant (XDR) strains of tuberculosis which are associated with high
      morbidity and mortality. While cure rates for drug susceptible TB can reach the >90% range
      given the appropriate infrastructure to diagnose and treat patients, cure rates for MDR-TB
      are much lower and, at best, approach 60% according to the latest estimates by WHO. In many
      parts of the world, second line drugs to treat MDR-TB are not available. Not only is there an
      urgent need for novel TB treatment regimens, but adjunctive therapeutic modalities need to be
      explored with the goal of maximizing clinical response for both patients with drug
      susceptible and drug resistant disease.

      The use of vitamin D as primary or adjunctive TB therapy has a long history. Therapeutic
      doses of oral vitamin D supplementation for TB treatment were first pioneered in the 1950's
      by Jacques Charpy, who noted excellent results in cutaneous TB disease. Subsequently, vitamin
      D has been used as both primary and adjunctive therapy in pulmonary tuberculosis, but this
      practice fell out of favor as effective antimycobacterial chemotherapy became widely
      available in the latter half of the twentieth century.

      More recently, however, there has been a resurgence of interest in vitamin D as an effective
      adjunctive therapy in tuberculosis. Recent reports indicate that vitamin D may have a
      pronounced immunomodulatory role in the pathogenesis of tuberculosis within the human host.
      It is well known that areas of granulomatous inflammation in TB are sites of increased
      vitamin D production stemming from activated macrophages and Th1 lymphocytes within the
      granuloma Recently, the immunomodulatory function of increased vitamin D levels at sites of
      TB involvement has been demonstrated, in that 1,25(OH)2D, the active metabolite form of
      vitamin D, has been found to induce antimycobacterial activity in vitro in both monocytes and
      macrophages.

      One proposed pathway for this observed immunomodulatory effect of vitamin D in TB infection
      involves the toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathways of the innate immune system. Liu et
      al demonstrated that macrophage TLR binding of M. tuberculosis antigen upregulates the
      expression of cellular 1 hydroxylase, resulting in higher levels of active 1, 25(OH)2D. It
      was also shown that 1, 25(OH)2D in turn binds the nuclear vitamin D receptor (VDR), which
      activates a downstream signaling cascade resulting in the upregulation of several aspects of
      the innate immune response, including the induction of a newly described anti-microbial
      peptide LL-37, a cathelicidin. Cathelicidins, in addition to their broad spectrum
      antimicrobial activity, also possess chemotactic properties for neutrophils, monocytes and T
      cells, among other functions within the immune system.

      While this mechanism of action for vitamin D was demonstrated in vitro, little clinical work
      has been done to validate this piece of knowledge in clinical practice and in the care of TB
      patients. As proxy for in vivo studies, subsequent experiments by Liu et al evaluated
      induction of cathelicidin by TLR activation of macrophages in sera from African American and
      Caucasian subjects. These experiments demonstrated failure to induce detectable levels of
      cathelicidin mRNA in samples from African American patients, who are known to be
      significantly more vitamin D deficient than Caucasians due to difference in vitamin D
      production in the skin. The difference in cathelicidin mRNA levels was corrected upon
      supplementation of deficient sera to therapeutic levels of 25(OH)D3 prior to TLR stimulation.

      Given the preliminary results of these in vitro studies, we propose a clinical pilot
      investigation of the relationship between vitamin D levels and cathelicidin production in TB
      patients. It is well known that the majority of TB patients are deficient in vitamin D, but
      it is unknown whether the deficiency has functional consequences for treatment response and
      relapse rates. While recent in vitro data suggests that vitamin D supplementation of recent
      TB contacts does improve their immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis as measured in
      whole blood assays, clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation in latent or active TB
      disease have not been undertaken. In preparation for larger trials that would be needed to
      address this clinical question, we propose that the clinical relationship between physiologic
      levels of vitamin D supplementation and effect on cathelicidin production within the host
      needs to be studied, given recent suggestions from in vitro studies that ability to generate
      adequate cathelicidin levels may have an impact on quality and effectiveness of host immune
      defense against M. tuberculosis.

      2.0 Objectives

      2.1 Overall Objective

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to assess the relationship of 25-hydroxy vitamin
      D levels in patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis to levels of LL-37/cathelicidin in
      sputum, saliva, and whole blood.
    
  