
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining
      this study imaging agent in patients who have breast cancer.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved [11C]Martinostat as an
      investigational tracer (a type of dye used to for radiographic imaging) in a select few
      research studies. The FDA has not approved this tracer for any use outside of research.

      In this research study, the investigators are investigating the use of a PET tracer called
      [11C]Martinostat in patients with breast cancer.

      The purpose of the study is to take images that can measure the amount of a protein called
      histone deacetylase, or 'HDAC' in breast tumors. Proteins are molecules made from amino acids
      that perform activities in the cell for the body to function in a healthy way. Prior research
      suggests that HDAC levels or amounts can be altered in some breast tumors. The investigators
      are trying to develop a method of imaging the HDAC protein in breast tumors. This could help
      them to study protein changes that occur in some breast tumors, and potentially help guide
      treatment of breast tumors in the future.

      In this study, the investigators will take the pictures of the participant's chest, including
      the breasts, using a PET/MRI scanner. The investigators will the study tracer, or dye, called
      [11C]Martinostat to make these detailed pictures.

      [11C]Martinostat was initially developed to image the HDAC protein within the brain, because
      amounts or levels of HDAC can be altered in some diseases of the brain. In these previous
      studies of [11C]Martinostat conducted in humans, there were no adverse events (there have
      been no problems). While this is not the first time [11C]Martinostat has been used in humans,
      it is the first study in which the investigators are using this tracer to study breast
      cancer.
    
  