
    
      Phase II Clinical Trial

      Prospective randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind, phase II, clinical trial, estimated
      enrolment: 80 subjects Parallel groups Intervention: HBO2: 240 kPa for 90 min, maximum 10
      treatments within a 30 day interval

      Control: Placebo treatment with 'sham' air breathing at a moderately higher pressure (134
      kPa) to simulate hyperbaric chamber treatment, maximum 10 treatments within a 30 day interval

      The population will comprise of previously healthy patients (American Society of
      Anaesthesiologists (ASA) class 1-2 assessed for Long COVID by a multidisciplinary team at the
      post COVID out-patients clinic at the Karolinska University Hospital. All patients are
      assessed with a battery of questionnaires, physical tests, laboratory tests and radiology.
      After their first assessment, individuals will be discussed at a multidisciplinary conference
      and may have further organ specific work up for diagnosis.

      Once the patient has been diagnosed with Long COVID, they will be informed and asked to
      participate in the trial. No study specific procedures will take place before an informed
      consent form (ICF) has been signed. The patients will be included once they fulfil the
      inclusion criteria and exhibit none of the exclusion criteria. Some study specific procedures
      will be performed before inclusion. Randomization will take part within two weeks of the
      planned first treatment. Subjects will be randomized to HBO2 or placebo (sham treatment).
      Timing of the HBO2 treatment (HBOT) will depend on available resources but the first
      treatment should be given within two weeks of randomization, and a maximum 10 treatments
      should be given within an interval of one month.

      Clinical equipoise: The rationale for 1:1 randomization is that this is a new disease. 1:1
      allocation will maximise the statistical power.

      Main efficacy and safety endpoints will be evaluated at three months but the trial will
      continue for one year after inclusion or until withdrawal. There will also be a four year
      post-trial follow up of health-economy.

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP), the Declaration
      of Helsinki and national regulatory requirements.
    
  