
    
      The Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA) is a specific instrument for evaluation of post-stroke
      patients. Introduced for the first time by Axl Fugl-Meyer and collaborators as a standardized
      assessment for hemiparetic patient and originally published in both English and Swedish. It
      represented the first quantitative assessment tool for the hemiplegic patient.

      The FMA is a valid, reliable, responsive and most widely used standardized clinical scale for
      evaluation of the degree of sensory and motor impairment of the hemiplegic patient, and is
      considered to date one of the most used tools worldwide. Extensive research has shown that
      FMA is easy to use, does not require special equipment and has excellent validity,
      reliability and responsiveness, which makes this scale particularly suitable for different
      types of clinical settings around the world.

      There are many currently translation and cultural validation studies in several languages
      (Danish, Norwegian, Spanish, French), but an official version validated in Italian is not
      available to date.

      This study aims to perform and develop a transcultural validation of the FMA both for the
      upper and lower limbs in Italian, following a methodological approach already validated for
      the process of translation and cultural adaptation, including formal involvement with the
      University of Gothenburg, which holds the rights on the original scale.

      The process of translation and cultural validation follows a standardized translation
      protocol, approved by the University of Goteborg which holds the rights on the official
      version of the scale in Swedish and in English. A phase of forward translation, revision and
      backward translation and final revision is planned to determine the conceptual, semantic and
      operational equivalence of the FMA scale.

      A multistep structure is used for the revision and cultural and linguistic adaptation of the
      drafting.

      The use of mother tongue translators, both English and Italian, and a interdisciplinary team
      of fiosterapists, physicians, speech therapists and neuropsychologists, with experience of
      Stroke rehabilitation in clinical and research fields, all employees or collaborators of
      IRCCS Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation, which will review the translations.

      The translated version in Italian is subsequently tested, through a pilot study, by three
      physiotherapists at SOR Neurological Foundation don Gnocchi ONLUS IRCCS, in order to identify
      lingual and conceptual inconsistencies that could influence the score, the understanding, the
      interpretation and the cultural equivalence of the scale.
    
  