
    
      This study includes controller development and feasibility testing for a hybrid neuromuscular
      gait assist (NMGA) system to enhance walking after stroke. The study consists of baseline
      testing, fitting the device on participants, tuning assistance parameters to enhance walking,
      collecting movement data with and without the device, modifying controller designs to
      optimize walking, sit-to-stand transitions, and stair climbing, gait training, and evaluating
      movement capability with and without device assistance. Heart rate and blood pressure will be
      monitored during each session.

      Device Description The NMGA is comprised of a motorized knee brace and surface electrical
      stimulation applied to muscles acting across the hip, knee, and ankle. The device is worn on
      the impaired side of the body with an orthotic interface attaching it to the leg. The goal of
      combining the powered knee with stimulation is to improve leg movement and coordination for
      safer walking at reduced user effort. The powered exoskeletal knee ensures adequate toe
      clearance during the swing phase of gait by generating knee flexion and then prevents knee
      buckling during the stance phase of gait by maintaining extension for support. Surface muscle
      stimulation assists with user volitional effort. Stimulation applied to ankle dorsiflexors
      assists with toe clearance during swing while quadriceps stimulation assists with stance.
      Gastrocnemius and rectus femoris stimulation assist with push-off and swing to improve
      walking speed.

      This study focuses on developing and testing control methods that integrate assistance of
      stimulation and the powered knee with volitional activity in a manner that maximizes the
      user's own muscle contribution. Orthosis mounted sensors measure motion, joint angles,
      interaction forces and foot-floor contact to determine the current phase of gait and
      assistance required. A Gait Event Detector (GED) determines the phase of gait and appropriate
      control state based on sensor data and then a Finite State Controller (FSC) optimizes
      stimulation and motor assistance in coordination with volitional effort. The controller
      design incorporates feedforward control of stimulation with stimulation triggered by
      detection of different gait events. Feedback control is applied for motor assistance only as
      needed. This study will evaluate different algorithms to detect different phases of gait.
      Controller refinement is an iterative process of testing different algorithms, adjusting
      detection parameters, and adjusting assistance parameters.

      In addition to detecting phases of gait during walking, this study will also develop
      algorithms to detect user intent for mobility task transitions. Beyond overground walking,
      mobility includes transitions between sitting and standing as well as stair climbing.
      Depending on command signal robustness, these transitions could be achieved through separate
      inputs (e.g. a smart phone app or orthosis mounted buttons) to inform the device when to
      change task states or may be detectable based on the user's motions. As part of this study
      the investigators will test different approaches to determine the safest effective option and
      user preferences.

      The following describes the participation involved in this development process.

      Screening After signing the informed consent form the subject will undergo screening to
      determine if an individual is eligible to participate in the study based on the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. During screening the investigators will also collect
      information about stroke demographics (e.g. date of stroke, type of stroke, lesion location,
      side of impairment), medications, and leg and foot size to ensure the investigators have
      appropriately sized orthotic components during subsequent sessions.

      Baseline testing After meeting all inclusion/exclusion criteria and agreeing to participate,
      initial testing will determine participants' impairment level and walking ability prior to
      controller development and training with the device. Walking tests will be completed in the
      laboratory, hospital hallways, and the environment surrounding the hospital. Outcomes will
      measure impairment in the legs, walking ability, and participants perceptions of the device
      and the effect on walking.

      NMGA Fitting and Tuning The study team will work with the participant to fit the device and
      determine appropriate stimulation patterns to assist walking. Fitting includes choosing
      orthotic components that fit well on the wearer's leg and allow comfortable walking.
      Stimulation patterns will be generated for each individual. Electrodes will target movement
      at the hip, knee, and ankle on the affected side. During stimulation tuning the investigators
      will adjust surface stimulation electrode locations as well as stimulus timing and intensity
      during the gait cycle. Orthotic fitting and stimulation pattern creation are expected to take
      about two sessions. Assessments may be repeated with surface stimulation assistance.

      Controller Development During several sessions, the participant will complete mobility tasks
      (i.e. walking, stair climbing, and sit-to-stand transitions) while walking with the NMGA and
      recording data to characterize walking (Quantitative Motion Analysis data and orthosis
      mounted sensor data). These data will be used to create and optimize the controller to
      estimate phases of gaits (e.g. initial contact, pre-swing, mid-swing) based on exoskeleton
      mounted sensors to coordinate NMGA assistance with walking ability. Participants will
      complete tasks while different algorithms control transitions between tasks (e.g. walking to
      stair climbing) and assistance during task completion. Controller parameters will be adjusted
      during this process to optimize assistance and determine which task transitions the sensors
      successfully detect and which transitions should be controlled by a separate user input.
      Contact guard assistance will be provided to prevent falls during controller development.
      During this process participants will be interviewed in an open discussion format to get
      feedback about aspects of the device that could be improved. Up to 16 sessions will be used
      for controller development.

      Gait Training After determining a control algorithm, there will be six sessions of training
      to use the device for walking, stair climbing, and sit-to-stand transitions as appropriate.
      Gait training will be conducted by the study physical therapist in the gait laboratory,
      hospital hallways, and surrounding outdoor spaces. The physical therapist will provide
      standby assistance, monitor subjects' vital signs, record their progress and solicit feedback
      on the use of the NMGA. Training will focus on increasing walking speed while maintaining
      safety, specifically toe clearance in swing, stability in stance, and situational awareness
      to the surrounding environment. Participants will provide feedback about when during the
      process they feel comfortable donning, doffing, and using the device without study staff
      assistance. The study physical therapist will also provide input about when participants are
      capable of using the system independently.

      Post-Training Assessment Following training with the NMGA, the previously described
      assessments (see Baseline Testing) will be repeated both with and without the device to test
      the hypothesis that walking with the NMGA compared to without enhances walking speed,
      endurance, metabolic consumption, and gait symmetry. In addition to the tests at baseline,
      participants will complete the Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with Assistive
      Technology (QUEST), a survey to assess user satisfaction with a device. Additionally, each
      participant will fill out a worksheet prioritizing different design requirements (e.g. size,
      weight, ease of use). Up to six sessions will be used for final testing.
    
  