
    
      Background: Approximately 150 million children, or roughly one-quarter of children worldwide,
      experience stunting (low height-for-age), while 20% are underweight.1 World-wide,
      undernutrition is estimated to be responsible for 2.2 million deaths and 21% of
      Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) in children less than 5 years of age. 1 The recent
      United Nations Sustainable Development Goals call for reducing stunting and wasting in
      children <5 years by 40%, which would affect 90 million children worldwide 1.

      The global attention to stunting is based on the premise that any intervention aimed at
      improving linear growth may subsequently lead to improvements in the correlates of stunting
      2. In children, stunting is consistently associated with poor developmental outcomes3.
      However, optimal interventions to concurrently address stunting and child development still
      need to be identified3-9.

      In Guatemala, stunting is a serious public health problem10,11. The overall prevalence of
      stunting in children under 5 years of age in Guatemala is close to 50% and is even higher
      (close to 70%) for indigenous children12. The majority of indigenous families in Guatemala
      live on less than $2 (USD) per day and have inadequate access to health and nutrition
      services.

      Wuqu' Kawoq-Maya Health Alliance (MHA) (http://www.wuqukawoq.org) is a non-governmental
      organization, located in Tecpán, Guatemala, working with vulnerable indigenous communities to
      provide culturally and linguistically appropriate healthcare services. MHA is currently
      collaborating with the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics/UNM on projects to address
      malnutrition in rural Guatemala.

      This study will specifically focus on evaluating the impact of regular egg consumption from
      about 6-12 months of age, in addition to the local standard of nutrition care, as an
      intervention to improve development, growth and diet quality in Mayan children. Eggs are a
      rich source of nutrients important to child growth and development: essential fatty acids,
      choline, vitamins A, and B12, and bioavailable iron, zinc and iodine13. Individual components
      of eggs may be associated with improved cognitive development in healthy populations, as
      recently reviewed by Wallace14. Eggs are culturally acceptable as part of the typical Mayan
      diet, are generally more affordable than other animal-source foods and are relatively simple
      to store and prepare15. A recent study found that egg consumption (1 egg/d for 6 months)
      reduced stunting in mixed-indigenous rural Andean children in Ecuador by 47% (HR: 0.53; 95%
      CI: 0.38-0.88);16 however, child cognitive development was not assessed in this small
      intervention study. This study will address a gap in understanding the impact of egg
      consumption, combined with other common interventions to address undernutrition in low- and
      middle-income settings, on both child development and growth.

      Study Design: This is a randomized controlled trial involving children ages ~6 to 12 months
      from communities in central Guatemala within Wuqu' Kawoq's catchment area (departments of
      Chimaltenango, Sololá, Sacatepéquez, Suchitepéquez) individually randomized to either the
      intervention or control group.

        -  The control group will receive the local standard of nutrition care only. The standard
           of nutrition care in Guatemala includes the following clinical care, as determined to be
           necessary by the MHA medical and nutrition teams: frequent growth monitoring, general
           nutrition education, parasite treatment, and multiple micronutrient supplementation.

        -  The intervention group will receive an intervention to promote daily egg consumption for
           a six month period, in addition to the local standard of nutrition care. Specifically,
           intervention group participants will be provided with enough eggs for the infant to
           consume one egg, daily, for six months, and also with education on preparation and
           consumption of eggs.

      Subjects and Timeline: The study will enroll 1200 infants into two study groups: intervention
      (n=600 children) and control (n=600 children). The study is powered to detect a difference in
      effect size of 0.15 for growth, assuming a 20% attrition rate over the course of the six
      month study. The investigators used a smaller effect size than found in previous relevant
      literature, because the control group in those studies did not also receive the clinical care
      that is part of standard of nutrition care in Guatemala, as will be the case in this study.

      This study will use a rolling recruitment approach. Approximately 40 infants per month will
      be enrolled into each study group. The investigators anticipate 15 months of rolling
      recruitment, with final subjects finishing the study at ~21 months after beginning
      recruitment. The expected total duration of the study, including data analysis and
      dissemination, is approximately 3 years from the date of IRB approval.

      Individual participants and their caregivers will have approximately 10-12 hours of contact
      with the research team over about 6 months:

        -  Study enrollment (visits to recruit, assess eligibility, and complete the informed
           consent process) is anticipated to take ~total 2 hours.

        -  The primary study data collection time points will be at 0 months (baseline) and 6
           months (end of standard of care/egg intervention). It is anticipated that each of these
           study data collection visits will last approximately 1-2 hours (~total 2-4 hours).

        -  All participants will have six ~60 minute visits with MHA field staff (~total 6 hours).
           At those visits, all participants will receive the nutrition standard of care and be
           screened for development of an egg allergy. The intervention group will also receive
           eggs and egg related education, and answer brief questions about adherence.

      Research Setting: The study will be conducted with communities in Wuqu' Kawoq's catchment
      area (departments of Chimaltenango, Sololá, Sacatepéquez, Suchitepéquez) in central
      Guatemala. The primary language spoken in this area is Kaqchikel. MHA has been providing
      primary care and nutrition services in this area for over a decade and collaborates closely
      with Ministry of Health staff and multiple other non-governmental organizations in the
      region.

      All recruitment, enrollment and study-related procedures will be conducted in the homes of
      the subjects. All study procedures will be conducted by MHA staff. The study will be locally
      overseen and approved by MHA's IRB.
    
  