
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a frequent chronic musculoskeletal pathology that usually causes great
      disability and significant healthcare costs. Substantial scientific evidence indicates a role
      for central sensitization in OA pain. Pathophysiological mechanisms underlying central
      sensitisation are complex and numerous, but the net effect is an amplification of neural
      signaling within the CNS than elicits pain hypersensitivity. Central sensitization management
      is an area of great interest at least in a subgroup of patients with OA pain.

      Reconceptualization of pain through Neuroscience Education (NE) is an intervention that has
      already been used successfully in some chronic musculoskeletal pain conditions characterized
      by alteration on CNS pain processing or central sensitization (i.e. chronic low back pain,
      chronic fatigue syndrome, widespread pain and chronic whiplash associate disorders).
      Moreover, some clinical guides to help clinicians to identify and explain central
      sensitization through NE, have been recently published. However, this kind of intervention
      has never been tested specifically for chronic pain related to OA.

      Preoperative education centered on a biomedical model of anatomy and pathoanatomy as well as
      procedural information has limited effect in reducing postoperative pain after total hip
      arthroplasty and total hip arthroplasty surgeries. Preoperative educational sessions that aim
      to increase patient knowledge of pain science (i.e. NE) may be more effective in managing
      postoperative pain. NE is a cognitive-based educational intervention that aims to reduce pain
      and disability by helping patients gain an increased understanding of the biological
      processes underpinning their pain state. There is compelling evidence that NE have a positive
      effect on pain, disability, catastrophization and physical performance for chronic
      musculoskeletal pain disorders, yet studies examining the value of NE for OA patients are
      essentially lacking.

      Joint mobilization has been shown to be a useful modality to reduce pain related to
      osteoarthritis. Regarding the knee joint, two recent systematic reviews demonstrated the
      usefulness of manual therapy and exercise for the management of knee OA. Moreover, Deyle et
      al reported a preliminary clinical prediction rule which may help to identify the minority of
      knee OA patients who are unlikely to respond to this management approach.

      The primary aim of this study is therefore to assess the effect of NE on pain, disability and
      physical performance in subjects with chronic OA knee pain waiting for replacement surgery.
      This will be the first time NE will be addressed specifically to OA pain. To investigate the
      benefits of NE on pain related to knee OA, the effect of a manual therapy intervention
      combined with NE (MT+NE) will be compared with this same manual intervention plus an
      educational program based on a traditional patho-anatomical or biomedical model (MT+E). The
      following secondary aims will be addressed as well:

        -  Examining the effects of the two interventions on the mechanism of central sensitization
           in patients with knee OA;

        -  Examining the effects of the two interventions on pain catastrophizing, illness
           perceptions and kinesiophobia in patients with knee OA;

        -  Finally, it is aimed at identifying effect moderators for NE in patients with knee OA.
    
  