
    
      The standard method based on diffusion on agar medium on conventional CBM allows antibiotic
      susceptibility results the test to be rendered within 24 hours. Many so-called rapid methods
      (Accelerate PhenoTM system, VITEK 2 Rapid Identification and Susceptibility Testing
      System,...) have been developed to improve antibiotic susceptibility testing speed from
      positive blood cultures. However, these approaches are costly and not exhaustive in terms of
      antibiotic panels tested.

      The Mueller-Hinton Rapid-SIR (MHR-SIR) i2a medium has been developed. It is an agar medium
      allowing an early reading of antibiotic susceptibility test due to contrasting agents
      presence in culture medium which facilitates antibiotic susceptibility test results reading
      in less than 8 hours on a majority of fast-growing bacteria, in particular Enterobacteriaceae
      and golden staphylococci.

      A prospective evaluation of the Mueller-Hinton Rapid-SIR (MHR-SIR) medium's performance
      directly from blood cultures was conducted in GHPSJ laboratory and published in 2018 with
      very satisfactory results obtained in less than 8 hours with a correlation > 97% compared to
      the standard MH method (Results published in DMID ref.5) at a very moderate cost of 5 euros
      for 16 antibiotics in free choice; The additional cost compared to the traditional MH is 20%
      or 0.4 euros per agar. In view of excellent results of the study, this technique has replaced
      the traditional MH technique in GHPSJ laboratory since January 2017, allowing UMMC to propose
      more quickly adaptations of probabilistic antibiotic therapy.

      The use of the MHR-SIR medium has never been evaluated in a clinical context. The objective
      of this pioneering study is to routinely evaluate the rendering clinical impact of the rapid
      antibiotic susceptibility test MHR-SIR (i2a) after 8 hours of incubation directly from the
      blood cultures.
    
  