
    
      1. Research Background and Basis for Project Establishment* Trauma is a major medical and
           public health problem facing all countries in the world today. Trauma is the leading
           cause of death worldwide for people under 45 years of age, and more than 5 million
           people die each year from severe trauma. According to the "China Injury Prevention
           Report" issued by the Ministry of Health in August 2007, about 200 million injuries
           occur annually in China, with 700,000 to 750,000 deaths, accounting for about 9% of the
           total number of deaths. Serious trauma has the characteristics of high mortality and
           disability rate, and often affects the main groups of young and middle-aged people of
           social labor force. It has a tremendous impact on social and economic development, and
           has brought a heavy burden to society and families. The treatment of severe trauma is
           extremely important, and its treatment process needs a standardized model. In many links
           of trauma treatment, accurate assessment of injury is the precondition of classification
           and grading of diagnosis and treatment, and also provides a good basis for the follow-up
           standardized treatment of patients. The accuracy and consistency of injury assessment
           are also the reflection of diagnosis and treatment ability. ISS score is an evaluation
           method for severe trauma and multiple trauma patients. It has been used by emergency
           personnel for a long time. It also plays a very good auxiliary role in the evaluation
           and treatment of patients'injuries. However, there are still many problems in the
           assessment of severe trauma in various parts of China. It is difficult to adapt to the
           needs of the current medical and health system reform and to meet the needs of the
           society for the assessment of severe trauma. In the clinical use of ISS scoring, the
           main problems are as follows: 1. Some hospitals do not attach importance to the
           application of ISS scoring, and do not fully understand the scoring method; 2. The use
           of low frequency, inaccurate grasp of the method; 3. Three-level physicians have
           different evaluation of ISS scoring for the same kind of trauma; 4. Applying AIS scoring
           table to calculate ISS scoring. It takes a long time to share the time, which affects
           the normal first aid efficiency.

        2. Research purposes * By assessing and registering the severity of multiple trauma
           patients, we can understand and improve the ability of different hospitals and doctors
           at different levels in different regions to assess the severity of multiple trauma
           patients, and promote the use of ISS scoring system in national trauma centers. In order
           to improve the level of understanding of multiple trauma patients and lay a foundation
           for the establishment of scientific classification and sorting and treatment system.
    
  