
    
      Treatment of advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) requires aggressive
      therapy often combining surgical interventions with radiation therapy. Besides surveillance
      for persistent or recurrent cancer, clinicians seek to help minimize the side effects
      resulting from these aggressive treatments. Xerostomia, or "dry mouth", impacts each
      patient's long term health and quality of life due to the significant and diverse health
      consequences of having too little saliva. Normal swallowing, speaking, resistance to
      infection, and taste acuity are health domains that are affected by dry mouth. Psycho-social
      functioning decreases for many of these patients due to the extra effort to communicate and
      socialize (Locker D 2004).

      Xerostomia is often a consequence of radiation treatment (XRT), especially when the XRT
      fields encompass the parotid glands and submandibular glands bilaterally. The disability and
      consequences of xerostomia extend beyond dysphagia, poor appetite secondary to difficulty of
      mastication, and loss of taste (Chambers et al. Xerostomia 2004). Since saliva is essential
      to normal oral flora and healthy teeth, the lack of saliva in these patients can dramatically
      and rapidly result in a decline of the patient's oral health. Dental complications can occur
      and present significant ongoing medical and surgical problems.

      Our study proposes to use the Oral Health Impact Profile, OHIP-49, to measure
      disease-specific quality of life and functional outcomes due to radiation related xerostomia
      in head and neck cancer patients. The evaluation of patient QOL concomitantly with patient
      functioning as proposed in the SMILE protocol is an "evidence study to evaluate treatment
      effectiveness". The use of patient-oriented outcome measures are increasingly important to
      health insurers and government, but these measures are also aligned with the World Health
      Organization's mandate that health is a resource to manage which must be utilized and
      preserved so that individuals experience and gain satisfaction from living (Epstein J.1986).
      The OHIP-49 is patient reported outcome measure which is publicly available, validated in
      adult populations world-wide, and can be used an effectiveness measure. The questions are
      easy to answer and are based upon a 5 level likert type scale reflecting frequency of
      "bother" within individual psychosocial domains.
    
  