
    
      Problem to be addressed Knee osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease that is very
      prevalent in the general population and can cause significant functional impairment. Total
      knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the definitive treatment of choice, but rarely accomplishes
      complete restoration of natural knee biomechanics. Various factors may influence
      post-operative function: pre-operative state of the knee, patient age, implant position, and
      design. The natural lower limb anatomy presents a femoral joint surface that is slightly
      valgus according to its mechanical axis (1-5 degrees) and a tibial joint surface that is
      slightly varus (1-4 degrees). This combination results in an oblique joint line orientation
      (1-3 degrees) and a mechanical axis passing near the centre of the knee joint (line between
      the centre of the femoral head and the centre of the ankle). Natural lower limb alignment
      helps balancing load between the internal and external knee compartments at heel strike.
      Current practice in orthopedics is to recommend TKA implantation with the femoral and tibial
      components perpendicular to their mechanical axis (0 degrees). In addition, in order to
      maintain ligament balance (a rectangular space) in flexion, external rotation of the femoral
      implant is suggested (2-5 degrees according to posterior femoral condyle surfaces).
      Therefore, current surgical technique does not replicate natural knee anatomy and
      biomechanics. An alternative alignment method that attempts to replicate the kinematics of
      the knee is " kinematic alignment ". The principle behind kinematic alignment is placement of
      the TKA components so that the orthogonal 3-D orientation of the 3 axes that describe normal
      knee kinematics is restored to that of the prearthritic knee. Theoretical benefits of
      kinematic alignment include less ligamentous release to balance the knee intra-operatively,
      more rapid recovery, better range of motion (ROM), less post-operative pain, better knee
      biomechanics, and improved patient satisfaction. However, a major concern is that there are
      no mid- or long-term data on implant survivorship (absence of loosening) in TKA based on
      "anatomical" implantation. Because the anatomical alignment differs from the classic
      mechanical alignment, some authors raised concerns regarding mid-term implant stability with
      the anatomical implantation technique.

      We propose to compare the clinical results of TKA implanted with mechanical alignment
      (standard practice) to kinematic alignment, in a double-blind, randomized trial. To
      standardize surgical technique and minimize potential bias, both procedures will be
      undertaken with personalized instruments built by Medacta, based on each patient's CT-scan.

      There are 2 primary objectives of this research. First, implant stability with respect to
      bone will be measured over time by RSA, and long-term survivorship will be estimated. Second,
      we will determine if anatomical implantation provides clinical advantages, with respect to
      knee kinematic analysis, functional performance tests and validated self-reported
      questionnaires on pain, function and stiffness.

      Radiostereometric analysis (RSA) RSA, first developed in Lund, Sweden, is a radiographic
      technique for accurately assessing implant position relative to host bone. RSA is the gold
      standard for measuring implant stability in the short-term and predicting implant
      survivorship in the long-term. It has been implemented for several decades and its safety is
      well documented. RSA is 10 times more accurate than conventional radiography in analyzing
      implant migration patterns. Patterns of micromigration exhibited by various prostheses and
      fixation techniques within the first post-operative year has been shown to predict long-term
      component fixation to bone.

      Knee biomechanical evaluation Estimating the therapeutic efficacy of knee TKA is subjective
      in current clinical practice because methods of functional biomechanics assessment are
      complex and difficult to apply. It was suggested that gait measurements should be monitored
      after surgery for patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA) to evaluate treatment outcome and
      recovery. KneeKGTM (Emovi Inc., Laval, Quebec, Canada), a simple and minimally-invasive
      method of measuring 3D knee kinematics, has been developed and is now available commercially.
      In this system, motion sensors are quasi-rigidly attached to the leg with a non-invasive
      ancillary system, which reduces errors in skin movement in relation to bone. This measurement
      tool has been validated by satisfactory assessment of its accuracy and the reproducibility of
      femoro-tibial 3D kinematics during gait.

      Principal research questions

        -  Compare the migration between anatomically- and mechanically-aligned implants at 2 years
           and predict the long-term survivorship of total knee prostheses inserted with these two
           techniques.

        -  Compare the clinical results of anatomical and mechanical total knee alignment with self
           reported pain, function and stiffness questionnaire scores.

        -  Compare knee kinematics between the 2 groups and identify biomechanical markers that
           explain subjective differences (if found with clinical scores).

        -  Compare kinematics measured with the 2 techniques to those of asymptomatic knees.

        -  Determine if anatomical alignment offers some technical benefits (reduced
           intra-operative ligament balance and ligaments releases) compared to a mechanical
           alignment technique.

        -  Compare post-operative rehabilitation in both groups (flexion, extension, straight leg
           raising, walking without assistance, etc.).

      Hypothesis TKA implanted with with anatomical alignment will provide better clinical outcomes
      and knee kinematics closer to normal than TKA implanted with a mechanical alignment
      technique, Implant longevity will show similar micro migration patterns between the two
      groups as measured by RSA up to 2 years after implantation thereby predicting that long-term
      implant survivorship will be similar in both groups.

      Why is this trial needed now? Current technological advances in knee arthroplasty surgery
      have allowed surgeons to implant TKA with considerable accuracy. We however are not sure if
      the position we are placing the knee in is the "correct" position for most patients. It is
      thought that the relatively high percentage of patients that are not completely satisfied
      with the outcome of their knee replacement may have the implants in a suboptimal position for
      that individual patient. The traditional mechanical alignment may not be the optimal position
      for these patients. The anatomical alignment technique may reduce the percentage of
      dissatisfied patients. Implant companies with this technology are currently marketing this to
      surgeons and patients without clinical data to support this claim. There is also the
      possibility that placing an artificial knee joint in an anatomic position may impart a
      negative impact on longevity of the implant, thus increasing early revision rates and the
      significant health costs associated with this. Thus it becomes mandatory to evaluate this new
      technology before its widespread adoption in clinical practice to determine the real benefits
      or disadvantages of changing from a successful clinical practice (mechanical alignment) used
      over the last 40 years.

      Trial results This proposed clinical trial will have a direct impact on patient care if it
      demonstrates that anatomical alignment TKA provides better clinical results than mechanical
      alignment TKA and similar migration patterns measured by RSA. Then the use of anatomic
      alignment may become the gold standard for TKA procedures. Lacking accurate investigation and
      surgical tools, anatomical alignment was abandoned in the early TKA era. Mechanical alignment
      was selected to minimize errors and secondary failures. With novel technologies (personalized
      instruments built on MRI), anatomical alignment might be the best way to replicate knee
      biomechanics and improve patient outcomes after TKA. The proposed study will allow us to
      establish the real value of anatomical alignment and its safety.
    
  