
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To conduct a phase 1 dose escalation trial in patients with brain metastases to determine
      the recommended phase -2 dose of ropidoxuridine (5-iodo-2-pyrimidinone-2'-deoxyribose [IPdR])
      when administered alone orally once daily for 7 consecutive days and then concurrently with
      conventionally fractionated whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) for additional 21 days.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity to IPdR-mediated radiosensitization.

      II. To estimate 6 month intracranial progression-free survival (PFS) in brain metastasis
      cancer patients who receive daily oral IPdR x 28 days and WBRT.

      III. To establish the pharmacokinetics of daily oral dosing of IPdR times 8 days.

      IV. To evaluate safety and tolerability of oral IPdR x 28 days and WBRT.

      V. To estimate the incidence of delayed neurological toxicity at 2, 4, and 6 months (+/-1
      week) post-completion of WBRT (for patients without intracranial progression) including:

      Va. Delayed-recall through Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Revised (HVLT-R). Vb. Quality of life
      as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-BR).

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess for biochemical evidence of IPdR effect in normal tissues (circulating
      granulocytes) by measuring %IUdR-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) cellular incorporation by flow
      cytometry and high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses as an exploratory biomarker
      for the following:

      Ia. %IUdR-DNA tumor cell incorporation from day 8 extracranial tumor biopsies in brain
      metastasis cancer patients receiving RP2D doses of IPdR as an exploratory biomarker of tumor
      radiosensitization using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

      Ib. %IUdR-DNA cellular incorporation in patients' circulating granulocytes taken weekly
      during the 28-day IPdR RP2D dose, on day 29, and week 8 as an exploratory biomarker of IPdR
      systemic toxicities to bone marrow as measured by serial complete blood count
      (CBC)/differential values.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of ropidoxuridine.

      Patients receive ropidoxuridine orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and undergo WBRT
      daily for not more than 5 days per week beginning on day 8 for a total of 15 fractions in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 6 months,
      every 3-4 months for 6 months, and every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  