
    
      Vocal folds irregular mucosal changes often manifest as mucosal surface changes of
      leukoplakia, erythroplakia and keratosis associated with tissue irregularities. Lesions that
      go beyond the outermost layer of the vocal fold and invade the intermediate and deep layers.
      These gross mucosal changes may represent benign, premalignant, or malignant entities as they
      correspond to large spectrum of lesions ranging from simple totally benign keratosis with or
      without atypia up to invasive carcinoma, it is commonly encountered in phoniatrics clinic and
      presents diagnostic and therapeutic challenge as there is no unified surgical indication or
      guidelines.

      Laryngostroboscopy is very important and primary tool for assessment of morphological
      features and vibratory functions of the vocal folds. Stroboscopic evaluation allows early
      detection of infiltrative processes of the vocal folds. However, the laryngoscope examination
      may not always be sufficient to assess premalignant lesions and their exact delineation.

      Gugatschka et al., 2008 reported that videostroboscopic evaluation allows early detection of
      infiltrative processes of the vocal folds, as they achieved a sensitivity of more than 97 %,
      when used a combination of cytology and videostroboscopy, in contrast to 74 % as found by
      cytology alone.

      Zhang et al., 2018 proposed to classify VF leukoplakia into three types according to the
      morphological appearance. The evaluated features included texture, color, and thickness. They
      proved that type III-bulge and rough-with irregular, nonhomogeneous leukoplakia higher than
      mucosa surface was more often associated with cancerization or severe dysplasia in 29.3% and
      21.5% cases, respectively, comparing to the respective percentages of 4.0% and 3.7% for type
      I-flat and smooth leukoplakia. Anna Rzepakowska et al submitted a protocol for evaluation of
      the morphological characteristics of leukoplakia which involved the following features of the
      lesion: color, texture, size, thickness, symmetry and vibratory function. Each character was
      assigned with the score of zero or one (score zero was considered to be a clinical indicator
      of benign lesions, while, score one was a clinical indicator of malignancy).

      Recent advances in basic research have improved understanding of underlying mechanisms of
      molecular processes in early stages of laryngeal cancer development. The SOX2 gene located at
      3q26 is frequently amplified and overexpressed in multiple cancers, including head and neck
      squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). The tumor-promoting activity and involvement of SOX2 in
      tumor progression has been extensively demonstrated, thereby emerging as a promising
      therapeutic target. However, the role of SOX2 in early stages of tumorigenesis and its
      possible contribution to malignant transformation remain unexplored. Granda-Diaz etal., 2019
      investigated for the first time SOX2 gene in precancerous lesion using real-time PCR and
      demonstrated that SOX2 protein expression and gene amplification are frequent events in early
      stages of laryngeal tumorigenesis
    
  