
    
      All patients in the study group and their relatives/attendants will be informed about the
      drugs, Pecs block and research methodology by the principal investigator during the
      pre-anaesthetic check up, in the evening before surgery. Informed and written consent will be
      obtained from the patient and/or his/her relatives. In order to assess pain, patient will be
      familiarized about the use of Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), in a language they can
      understand. (0 "as no pain at all" to 10 as "worst pain in life"). All of the patients will
      be premedicated with Tab diazepam 0.2mg/kg (not exceeding 10mg ) given orally night before
      surgery and in the morning of surgery.

      On the day of surgery, after the patient arrives in the patient holding area in the operation
      theater, peripheral venous assess will be secured with 18G I.V cannula. In the operating room
      standard monitoring device will be attached to monitor Electrocardiograph ( ECG) , Pulse-
      oxymetry ( SpO2) , Non-invasive blood pressure ( NIBP), heart rate (HR) and End-tidal CO2
      (Capnograph).

      All patients will receive a standardized general anesthetic with multimodal analgesia.
      Preoxygenation will be done with 100% oxygen for three minutes. Induction will be done with
      loading dose of intravenous Fentanyl 1.5 mcg/kg and Propofol 1- 2 mg/kg and vecuronium
      100mcg/kg. Airway will be secured by endotracheal intubation.

      After induction of general anesthesia and before the start of surgery,ultrasound guided Pecs
      block will be performed by using 20-G Tuohy needle under all asceptic precautions. Images
      will be obtained using a Sonosite ultrasound machine. The probe will be placed at the mid
      clavicular level and angled inferolaterally,and then the axillary artery and vein will be
      located. The probe will then be moved laterally until pectoralis minor and serratus anterior
      are identified. The needle will be advanced in the tissue plane between Pectoralis major
      muscle (PMm) and Pectoralis minor muscle (Pmm) at the vicinity of pectoral branch of
      acromiothoracic artery and 10 ml of 0.25 % Ropivacine will be deposited. Similarly, 20ml of
      0.25% Ropivacaine will be infiltrated in between Pmm and serratus anterior muscle at the
      level of third rib. (Blanco, R., Fajardo, M., Parras, M.T. 2006) Anesthesia will be
      maintained with isoflurane, oxygen, additional vecuronium and fentanyl. We will monitor Blood
      pressure, heart rate, SpO2, EtCO2, and ECG intraoperatively. During intraoperative period,
      1gm of intravenous paracetomol will be given 15 minutes before the completion of surgery,
      over 15 minutes. Ondensatron (4mg IV) will be administered 15 minutes before the end of
      surgery as a prophylaxis for postoperative nausea and vomiting. Any episode of intraoperative
      hypotension (MAP lower than 65 mmHg) and bradycardia (heart rate < 50 bpm) will be treated
      with ephedrine 5 mg and atropine 0.4 mg IV respectively. On the completion of
      surgery,neuromuscular blockade will be reversed with 0.05 mg/kg of Neostigmine and 10mcg/kg
      of glycopyrrolate. The patient will then be extubated and transferred to postoperative
      recovery room.

      In the postoperative recovery unit, blood pressure, pulse rate and oxygen saturation will be
      monitored for two hours. Assesment of pain scores at rest, coughing and on shoulder abuction
      along with postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be done in the postoperative
      recovery unit mmediately after patient will be transferred. If the patient has NRS of >3/10
      at rest, intravenous morphine 2mg will be administered. If the pain is still not controlled,
      additional morphine of 2 mg can be given at 10 minute interval. PONV will be assessed by a
      categorical scale from 0 to 2. Intravenous ondensatron 4mg will be given if PONV scale is ≥1.
      If this proves to be ineffective, metoclopramide 10 mg will be administered. This rescue
      analgesia and antiemetic regimen will be followed for next 24 hours of surgery.

      The patient will be transferred to ward on intravenous Ketorolac 30 mg every 8 hour and
      Ondensatron 4mg 8 hourly for 24 hours.

      NRS for pain will be assessed immediately in postoperative recovery room and then at 2,4,8,12
      and 24 hours of initial assessment.(on transfer to recovery). NRS will be calculated as 0
      being "no pain" and 10 being "worst pain". NRS will also be assessed during coughing and
      abduction of ipsilateral shoulder in the at 0,2,8,12 and 24 hours of surgery. Similarly
      sedation score is also assessed at 0.2.4,8,12,and 24 hours after surgery ( 0 indicates the
      time of transfer to recovery and 2,4,8,12, and 24 meaning the time interval after 0 hour)
    
  