
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the effectiveness of Virtual Learning Collaborative (VLC) versus (vs.) Technical
      Assistance (TA) on Educate, Nurture, Advise, Before Life Ends (ENABLE) program uptake, as
      measured by the proportion of patients who complete the ENABLE program, defined as having a
      palliative care assessment and completing the 6 ENABLE sessions. (Implementation Outcome,
      Patient Level)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the effectiveness of VLC vs. TA on National Cancer Institute Oncology Research
      Program (NCORP) practices' overall ENABLE program implementation, as measured by the General
      Organizational Index (GOI) (Service Outcome, Practice Level)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare NCORP practices randomized to VLC or TA on patient and caregiver quality of life
      (QOL) and mood outcomes. (Patient & Caregiver Outcomes) II. Determine the relationship among
      ENABLE program uptake, overall ENABLE program implementation, and patients' QOL and mood
      across the two strategies.

      OUTLINE: Health care practice sites are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients undergo a palliative care assessment, participate in 6 ENABLE phone-based
      sessions with a nurse coach over 20-40 minutes, and monthly follow-up calls for 6 months.
      Caregivers participate in 3 ENABLE sessions with a nurse coach and monthly follow-up calls
      for 6 months. The practice sites participate in a Virtual Learning Collaborative (VLC)
      consisting of group-based learning sessions, coaching, and applied quality improvement data
      collection, analysis and feedback opportunities monthly for 15 months.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo a palliative care assessment, participate in 6 ENABLE phone-based
      sessions with a nurse coach over 20-40 minutes, and monthly follow-up calls for 6 months.
      Caregivers participate in 3 ENABLE sessions with a nurse coach and monthly follow-up calls
      for 6 months. The practice sites undergo practice-based consultation calls with an
      ENABLE/Technical Assistance (TA) expert monthly for 15 months.

      After completion of the study, participants are followed up at 12 and 24 weeks.
    
  