
    
      The following points represent, in summary, the rationale for studying the use of
      thromboprophylaxis in ambulatory patients with COVID-19:

        1. The risk of thromboembolic events in patients with COVID-19 during anticoagulant
           prophylaxis exceeds that observed in medical patients, usually <3%, even in the presence
           of seasonal viral infections

        2. The cumulative risk of VTE in hospitalized COVID-19 patients is at least 20%, but
           possibly higher, as described in several publications

        3. The absolute VTE risk in COVID-19 patients requiring intensive care is 69% if screening
           strategies are implemented

        4. Half of the VTE events, mostly PE, were diagnosed at hospital admission, suggesting that
           these events developed during the quarantine period.

      Our hypothesis is that early thromboprophylaxis may prevent or limit coagulopathy, and reduce
      thromboembolic complications leading to hospitalization or death, in the presence of a mild
      COVID disease among outpatients.

      The study will be conducted as a multicentre randomized open-label controlled trial. In the
      study, a total of 1,000 adult patients aged 50 or older with COVID-19 and candidates to
      ambulatory treatment will be randomized to receive enoxaparin 40 mg sc qD or no treatment for
      a total of 14 days. The primary outcome will be assessed within 30 days of enrolment.

      We implemented two logistical solutions to integrate the process of SARS-CoV2 testing,
      pre-screening, screening (hot-line and flyers), in-hospital recruitment, enrolment and
      randomization/allocation. A nationwide OVID Hot-Line telephone number will be made available
      in 3 languages (German, French, Italian) for interested patients or test centers to contact
      the Hot-Line. Standard hygiene precautions will be met at the study centers to avoid
      spreading of SARS-CoV2 among other patients or health care workers. Principles of patient and
      investigator safety will be applied. Standard procedures concerning privacy, discussion with
      patients on details of the study, collection of informed consent, and instruction on how to
      administer the study medication will be maintained in conformity with GCP recommendations.
      This will also include outcome measurements to be conducted by telephone with standardized
      questionnaire.

      Enoxaparin (Clexane®) will be given at the recommended dose of 4,000 IU antiXa activity (40
      mg/0.4 ml) once daily by SC injection for 14 days.
    
  