
    
      Eligible patients have an advanced malignancy already treated with standard treatment,
      acceptable performance status and organ function, with no other suitable clinical trial
      available in Norway. A molecular test performed at a study specific reference laboratory has
      identified a potentially targetable molecular profile. Next, a suitable drug should be
      available from the trial drug armamentarium. Finally, if the patient fulfils the inclusion
      criteria and is accepted for the trial, a second tumour biopsy (snap-frozen)/ tumour material
      for WGS will be sampled. Patients enrolled in the study will enter an existing cohort, or, in
      case a suitable cohort does not exist, a new cohort can be opened. One cohort will consist of
      one diagnostic subgroup, one drug (or one drug-combination) and one molecular marker. The
      choice of drug(s) will be supported by a list of potential profiles. In addition, available
      knowledge from the literature will be used to prepare discussion in a national molecular
      tumour board, which will provide a treatment recommendation to the treating physician and the
      study doctors . The protocol-specified treatment may be administered to the patient once
      drug-specific eligibility criteria are confirmed and a fresh pre-treatment biopsy is
      performed for future biomarker studies and research on responders versus non-responders.

      All patients who receive treatment with a drug available in the protocol will be monitored
      for standard efficacy outcomes including tumour response, progression-free and overall
      survival as well as study specific measures as duration of treatment. Patients that are
      screened, but not included into any cohorts will be followed for 16 weeks for survival and
      clinical course of disease. Treatment-related toxicities (CTCAE grade 3-5) will be evaluated.
      Study-specific treatment and outcome data including results from the molecular screening will
      be reported to the Cancer Registry of Norway. Long-term follow up data using the Cancer
      Registry of Norway and information from The Norwegian Patient Registry, The Norwegian
      Prescription Database and Primary patient- and user Register (KPR) will be collected on all
      patients screened.
    
  