
    
      Subtle neurological signs (synkinesis and mirror movements) are present in normal children up
      until 9 or 10 years of age. In addition, speed of repetitive and sequential movements
      increases from 5 to 8 years of age at which time children perform these movements at close to
      adult speeds. Based on clinical studies of both normal children and of children with
      corticospinal tract lesions, it has been postulated that these subtle motor signs reflect
      neurodevelopmental immaturity of the intracortical and interhemispheric inhibitory systems
      and that their disappearance occurs as a result of maturation.

      The presence of subtle neurological signs can accurately distinguish children with
      attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) from healthy controls. The increased
      intensity of these neurological signs in younger age groups and their persistence beyond the
      age of 9 years suggest that children with ADHD may have delayed or abnormal neuromaturational
      development; in particular, development of the inhibitory systems of the motor cortex. This
      is in concert with the theories of cognitive abnormalities seen in these children where
      behavioral studies indicate that children with ADHD have most difficulty in executive
      function tests that look specifically at motor inhibition.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive tool which gives information about
      cortical function. It is particularly useful in the study of the motor cortex and its
      connections via the corticospinal tract and the corpus callosum. A single suprathreshold
      stimulus to the motor cortex produces a motor evoked potential (MEP) and inhibition of
      ongoing muscle activity in ipsilateral and contralateral target muscles. TMS studies have
      demonstrated differences in both the velocity of central motor conduction, and the ability to
      evoke motor inhibition when comparing adults with children under 10 years of age. These
      differences suggest that cortical inhibitory and facilitatory systems undergo normal
      developmental changes during the first decade of life, and that they may form the neural
      substrate for the clinical developmental changes that occur in children during this same
      period of time.

      We propose to study children with ADHD with single and paired pulse TMS to determine if the
      clinical abnormalities present in these children reflect an underlying delay or abnormality
      in maturation of the inhibitory and facilitatory systems of the cortex and corticospinal
      tracts. If present, these findings would give objective evidence of abnormal inhibitory
      systems in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; their presence (or absence) may
      differentiate between the different subtypes of ADHD. Since stimulants have an ameliorative
      effect on the neuropsychological functioning in these children, future studies would be able
      to determine whether they have a similar effect on the motor system.

      TMS is associated with a click which can have a 120 dB peak sound level at maximum stimulator
      output. Studies in adults and children have shown no long-lasting or permanent hearing loss
      after TMS, but there is no information regarding transient decrease in hearing thresholds
      immediately after TMS as can occur after listening to music through headphones using personal
      cassette recorders. As part of the main study, we will be conducting a safety study to
      determine the risk for temporary hearing loss after TMS in children.
    
  