
    
      In recent years, with advances in methods of neonatal resuscitation and caring methods, the
      survival rate of preterm infants has gradually increased. Sucking, swallow and respiratory
      dysfunction are widespread complications in the preterm infants that reason oral feeding
      difficulties. Safe and successful oral feeding requires proper maturation of sucking,
      swallowing, and respiration. The development of behaviors necessary for safe and successful
      nutrition begins long before birth. Jaw movements begin to be seen in the intrauterine 11th
      week. But sucking-swallowing-respiratory coordination is not sufficiently developed before 34
      weeks of gestation. For this reason, preterm babies at the greater gestational week usually
      show more developed and consistent feeding skills. Maternal breast milk is best for
      neurodevelopment in preterm infants. Achieve oral feeding and maternal breast milk as early
      as possible is beneficial for preterm infants.

      Oral motor stimulation (OMS) is defined as the sensorial stimulation of cheek, lip, jaw,
      upper-lower gum, internal cheek, tongue and soft palate that affects the physiology of
      oropharyngeal mechanisms and develops feeding functions. OMS used as an alternative or
      supplementary early intervention strategy to develop oral feeding skills in preterm infants.
      Previous studies have indicated that the use of OMS during or before the transition to oral
      feeding may not only have positive effects on the preterm infants' feeding behaviors but also
      enhance their general clinical course. Preterm infants who suffer from oral feeding problems
      often experience longterm health problems and delayed discharge from the hospital. A more
      effective feeding decreases adverse outcomes by decreasing hospital stays.

      Preterm infants are required to prolonged NICU stay in order to stabilized, feeding, and gain
      optimal weight. Increasing prematurity and reduced birth weight lead to extensive resource
      utilization. In addition all nutritional options except breast milk increase the cost. OMS
      can develop sucking success and provide early oral feeding. Thus nurse labor and hospital
      costs may decrease and OMS can be a cost-effective application.

      ,
    
  