
    
      This multicenter study will be conducted in 2 parts (Part 1 and 2). This is an ascending
      multiple oral dose, open-label study assessing the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics
      of SEP-363856 in male and female subjects with schizophrenia. In part 1, subjects will have
      up to two visits, including a screening visit, and a 17-day in-clinic period. Eligible
      subjects will be admitted to the clinic on Day -4 to start or complete a taper/washout of
      their prior antipsychotic medication(s) under the supervision of the Investigator. On Day 1,
      after subjects have successfully completed the taper/washout of prior medication, subjects
      will be administered SEP 363856, and dosing with SEP 363856 will continue once-daily for 10
      days in-clinic dosing. From Day 11 through Day 13, inclusive, subjects will be restabilized
      on their adequate antipsychotic medication(s) before clinic discharge on Day 14. Some
      subjects may require a longer restabilization process based on Investigator judgment.
      Subjects who discontinue the study prior to Day 13 will require an in-clinic stay for 3 days
      (or longer based on Investigator judgment) for restabilization on prior medications. In Part
      2, Subjects will have up to two visits, including a screening visit, and a 21-day in-clinic
      period. Eligible subjects will be admitted to the clinic on Day -4 to start or complete a
      taper/washout of their prior antipsychotic medication(s) under the supervision of the
      Investigator. On Day 1, after subjects have successfully completed the taper/washout of prior
      medication, subjects will be administered SEP 363856, and dosing with SEP 363856 will
      continue once-daily for 14 days in-clinic dosing. From Day 15 through Day 17, inclusive,
      subjects will be restabilized on their adequate antipsychotic medication(s) before clinic
      discharge on Day 18. Some subjects may require a longer restabilization process based on
      Investigator judgment. Subjects who discontinue the study by Day 17 will require an in-clinic
      stay for 3 days (or longer based on Investigator judgment) for restabilization on prior
      medications.
    
  