
    
      The measurements will take place at University of Primorska (Koper, Slovenia) and the
      subjects will be recruited in close collaboration with Rowing Club Piran. Crossover study
      design will be used. Each participant will be asked to come for three visits that will be
      scheduled 7-10 days apart. Prior to measurements onset, the whole protocol will be explained
      to the participant.

      Measurement procedure:

        -  15-min warm-up

        -  20-s maximal (all-out) rowing

        -  5-minute break

        -  2000-m simulated race

      After both trials, blood lactate will be measured. Blood sample will be taken at the the
      earlobe by a qualified medical personnel.

      Maximal performance test: The participant will perform a 20-s interval with maximal effort.
      The main aim of the measurement is to record the maximal exerted force and power. The custom
      adapted device (Concept 2 Rowing Simulator) records the positions (seat and handle) and force
      (legs push and handle pull), which enables for further calculations of segmental and common
      kinematics and dynamics parameters.

      Race simulation: the participant will complete the 2000-m simulated race and will be
      instructed to aim for the best results. The same measurements as in the maximal performance
      test will be performed. Wireless heart rate monitor will be used to record the heart
      frequency throughout the trial.

      Equipment:

      The custom adapted rowing simulator (Concept 2) allows for the measurements of stoke forces
      and consequently power outputs, seat and handle velocity, and seat and handle amplitudes.
      Signals will be transferred to central unit, amplified and converted, and stored on a
      personal computer.

      The interventions (i.e. the studied rowing conditions) will be as follows:

        -  a standard stable/fixed rowing simulator,

        -  a slides based rowing simulator, i.e. horizontal plane unstable, and

        -  a tilt board based rowing simulator; i.e. frontal plane unstable.
    
  