
    
      It is a blinded randomized clinical trial, with the sample size calculated of 29 subjects,
      already considering 10% of possible losses and refusals. For this number was considered 80%
      power and significance level of 5%.

      Selected patients will be invited to participate and informed about the characteristics of
      the study. If they do, they must sign a free and informed consent form.

      At the first visit, some demographic data will be collected, including sex, age, phototype,
      history of smoking and / or alcohol consumption, family history of periocular
      hyperpigmentation, personal or family history of allergies and hours of sleep, for
      instance.Photographic registration will be done in a standardized way. After completion of
      the study, the photographs will be evaluated blindly by two evaluators, and they will not
      know before what therapeutic modality was adopted in each periorbital region. Clinical
      evaluation will be obtained through the application of the Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale
      (with the following grades: much better, better, better, no change, worse) and visual
      analogue scale for clinical improvement from 0 (no improvement) to 10 (complete improvement),
      both with monthly evaluations. Each patient will be submitted to the two proposed therapies,
      being a therapeutic procedure in the right periocular region and another in the left
      periocular region. Each periocular region will be randomized using the random.org program for
      treatment with 10% thioglycolic acid peeling or IPL. Both therapies will be performed at the
      same time in the monthly visits, totaling 3 months of treatment (3 sessions of IPL and 3
      sessions of thioglycolic acid). The first visit will be for collection of demographic data,
      physical examination record, colorimetry and questionnaire completion. Visits 2, 3 and 4 will
      be for the treatments and the visit in month 5 will be for evaluation of the results.
    
  