
    
      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the main reperfusion therapy in patients
      with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Ancillary pharmacological therapy includes
      dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and an inhibitor of P2Y12 receptor, responsible of
      adenosine diphosphate(ADP)-mediated platelet activation.Prasugrel and ticagrelor are the most
      recent and efficient oral P2Y12 inhibitors available to date. However, in STEMI even
      prasugrel and ticagrelor could have a significant delay of onset of action. Early
      in-ambulance administration can increase the inhibition of P2Y12 receptor, however, the
      benefits versus risks balance remain uncertain. Recently, small-scale independent studies
      suggested that chewed or crushed loading dose of ticagrelor or prasugrel can achieve more
      pronounced platelet inhibition compared with standard whole tablets soon after drug
      administration. Yet, the delay in platelet inhibition remains considerable even after chewed
      or crushed loading dose of newer oral P2Y12 inhibitors and suboptimal modulation of platelet
      reactivity at the time of primary intervention may persist. Tirofiban and cangrelor are
      intravenous drugs with a more rapid onset and offset of action compared with oral agents.
      Both agents have been extensively tested in clinical trials including patients with STEMI.
      However, the comparative speed of action of cangrelor as opposed to tirofiban and to chewed
      or integer loading dose of prasugrel is unknown. The proposed investigation will have a
      prospective, randomized, design in which STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI will be
      randomized to receive Cangrelor or Tirofiban or Prasugrel (these patients will be further
      randomized to receive chewed or integer tablets). Pharmacodynamic testing will be performed
      at several time points to test the investigators' study hypotheses: 1) Cangrelor will have
      similar inhibitory effect to Tirofiban (non-inferiority of Cangrelor compared with
      Tirofiban); 2) Compared with Prasugrel, Cangrelor and Tirofiban will achieve more prompt and
      enhanced platelet inhibitory effects (superiority of both Tirofiban and Cangrelor to integer
      Prasugrel); 3) Compared with integer loading dose of Prasugrel, chewed Prasugrel regimen will
      achieve more prompt and enhanced platelet inhibitory effects (superiority of chewed Prasugrel
      to integer Prasugrel). This study will provide insights on the pharmacodynamic effects of
      these drugs and will help clinicians choose the most appropriate treatment to avoid
      complications related to inadequate platelet inhibition in the early phase of patients with
      STEMI undergoing primary PCI.
    
  