
    
      This study proposes a research design that compare the analgesic properties of two commonly
      used agents for induction and maintenance of the hypnotic component of anesthesia: propofol
      versus sevoflurane. Using the NOL index to quantitatively monitor nociception, it is expected
      to see a difference in response to a standardized electrical and tetanic stimulus during
      general anesthesia maintained with either agents.

      Hypothesis is that magnitude of the variation and/or the value of the NOL Index following a
      standardized nociceptive stimulus is lower when general anesthesia is based on propofol
      rather than on sevoflurane.

      Induction of general anesthesia will differ depending in which group the patient belongs.

      In the propofol group, general anesthesia will be induced using target-controlled infusion
      (TCI) of propofol and remifentanil.

      In the sevoflurane group, induction of general anesthesia will be carried out by spontaneous
      breathing through a mask while progressively opening up the dial of the sevoflurane vaporizer
      up to 8%. Like in the propofol group, target-controlled infusion of remifentanil is
      simultaneously started to reach an initial target predicted effect-site concentration of 3
      ng/mL. Vaporizer is adjusted when gas equilibration reaches the patient-specific
      concentration 1.0 MAC of sevoflurane.

      At this point, noxious stimulation will be delayed at least 10 minutes after TCI remifentanil
      is paused to allow for the remifentanil to be cleared out and to ensure brain-alveolar
      equilibration of sevoflurane (sevoflurane group).

      Measurements of the NOL Index, BIS, HR and MAP start 1 minute before applying noxious
      stimulus (prestimulation period). Means of the data collected during that period will
      constitute the basal values for NOL and HR before stimulation. After this stand-by period,
      electric stimulation is applied. This will consist in a standardized tetanic stimulation to
      the ulnar nerve of the non-dominant forearm delivered by a routine nerve stimulator at a
      frequency of 100 Hz and a current of 70 mA for a duration of 30 seconds. Measurements of the
      NOL Index, BIS, HR and MAP will continue during 3 minutes after (poststimulation period).
      This window of recording has to be free of any other external stimulation as it could produce
      noise disturbance on recorded values.

      After the stimulation, all the monitors will be used to guide intraoperative administration
      of hypnotic agents and analgesics. Total consumption of hypnotics and opioids will be
      recorded for the duration of surgery. Postoperative assessment of pain and opioid consumption
      will be done in post anesthesia care unit as exploratory outcomes.
    
  