
    
      This study is an open interventional study based at two paediatric tertiary centres in
      Melbourne, Australia. It is specifically looking at the long term immunogenic response to the
      4 valent HPV vaccine (4vHPV) Gardasil in paediatric rheumatology disease (PRD) and Irritable
      bowel disease (IBD) in participants who complete the primary HPV immunological study.

      The study participant's response to the vaccine will be compared to Merck historical
      age-matched controls as there is currently no serological correlate of protection for the HPV
      vaccine.

      The participants have already received the vaccine as part of the Australian federally funded
      catch up program which will run until mid-2009. All participants are part of 'Special risk
      groups'; which as defined by the Australian Immunisation Handbook, as patients who may have:

        1. special vaccination needs (e.g. children/ adolescents with a chronic medical condition)
           ; or

        2. a suboptimal response to vaccination (e.g. due to impaired immunity); or

        3. an increased risk of adverse events following immunization (AEFI)

      The 'special risk groups' currently included in the study are:

        1. PRD- Paediatric Rheumatological Diseases

        2. IBD- Inflammatory Bowel Disease

      Number of participants

      Total number of patients to be recruited is N = 60

      The aim is to recruit n= 45 patients from PRD and n=15 patients from IBD.

      Immunisation history will be correlated with the HPV register.

      Main outcome measures

      The primary immunogenicity endpoint will be serum antibody by month 60 (i.e. 5 years post 3rd
      and final dose of 4vHPV vaccine).

      Antibody titres are determined by using type-specific competitive neutralising antibody to
      epitopes on virus like particles (VLP). This will be for each of the 4 serotypes in the
      vaccine [6,11,16,18], with geometric mean titre (GMT) will be measured in mMU; and will be
      compared with GMT from historical age-matched controls.

      Frequency of assessment

      There will only be one immunogenicity assessment point, 60 month post the third and final
      dose of 4vHPV vaccine.

      Primary Objective:

      • Long term immunogenicity of the quadrivalent 4/6/11/18 HPV vaccine Gardasil® by following
      up a cohort of adolescent females aged 16-30 years with PRD or IBD, 5 years post HPV
      vaccination at the Royal Children's Hospital (RCH) Melbourne. Antibody titres are determined
      by using type specific neutralizing antibody.The geometric mean titre (GMT) will be measured
      in mMU; with a type specific cutoff for the assay (> 20mMU/ml for the HPV6; > 16mMU/ml for
      the HPV11; > 20mMU/ml for the HPV16 and >24mMU/ml for the HPV18). [13,15] HPV serology will
      be performed using competitive Luminex based immunoassays.

      Secondary Objective:

      • The safety of the HPV vaccine in the 2 (PRD, IBD) study groups, measured by the number of
      adverse events reported by study participants.
    
  