
    
      This study is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial of ketotifen in children
      ages 8 through 17 inclusive that have a diagnosis of functional dyspepsia and have had
      continued abdominal pain despite acid reduction therapy in combination with montelukast. The
      primary aim is to assess the symptomatic response to ketotifen as compared to placebo in
      children with functional dyspepsia in association with duodenal eosinophilia who have
      previously had worsening, no clinical change, or only a partial response to acid-reduction
      therapy in combination with montelukast.

      The study lasts 147 days for subjects responsive to ketotifen and 63 days for those who are
      not. For those who respond to ketotifen, there are 4 clinic visits and 3 phone interviews.
      Clinic visits include a physical, blood draws, questionnaires, review of medical history and
      medications; phone interviews involve answering a few questions. For those who do not respond
      to ketotifen, there are 3 clinic and 2 phone visits. Subjects who enroll in the study are
      randomly assigned to Group A or Group B. The subject, subject's parents, and study staff will
      not know to which group the subject is assigned. Group A will be given a placebo, an inactive
      pill with no medication in it, for days 1-28, and switched to ketotifen for days 36-63. Group
      B will be given ketotifen for days 1-28 and switched to placebo for days 36-63. The group
      assignment will be unblinded at day 63, at which point initial ketotifen responders will
      undergo an open-label twelve week trial of ketotifen to assess sustainability.

      Secondary aims of this study include assessing the impact of ketotifen on quality of life,
      state and trait anxiety, and whether baseline trait anxiety is predictive of clinical
      response to ketotifen. The study will also assess whether functional dyspepsia subtype is
      predictive of response to ketotifen, the sustainability of response to ketotifen in initial
      responders, and the pharmacokinetics of ketotifen in this patient population.
    
  