
    
      Elasticity in the aorta buffers the body from damage due to pulsatile blood flow. Data from
      humans and mice show that with increasing age, vessels lose elasticity and become stiff.
      Vascular stiffness is associated with progressive cognitive impairment and dementia in aging
      adults, but little is known about the effects of early-onset/congenital vascular stiffness.
      Similarly, elastin-mediated arteriopathy in the form of stenosis has the potential to impact
      additional end organs such as the heart, lungs, gut, skeletal muscle and kidney causing
      feeding and exercise intolerance, as well hypertension. This study evaluates the impact of
      elastin arteriopathy and vascular stiffness on end organs.

      Following consent, the investigators will work with the subjects and their caregivers to
      determine which tests are most appropriate for the patient based on their age/capabilities
      and preferences and may include:

        -  testing of cognitive and neurobehavioral abilities as well as measures of general health
           and well being

        -  undergo non-invasive measurements of vascular stiffness

        -  undergo brain imaging by MRI

        -  undergo echocardiogram

        -  undergo ECG

        -  undergo 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiogram monitor

        -  undergo ultrasound imaging and flow studies of various vascular beds and tissues

        -  undergo CT angiogram of relevant vessels

        -  undergo non-invasive tissue oxygenation and endothelial functional assessment with near
           infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) of the limbs and/or head/brain (fNIRS)

        -  perform a 6 minute walk test

        -  perform pulmonary function tests

        -  receive an eye exam and Optical coherence tomography (OCT)

        -  give blood/urine for relevant laboratories

        -  evaluate biomechanical properties of skin

        -  evaluate baseline fitness information using a fitness tracker

        -  complete medica photography evaluating relevant features of the condition

        -  receive a dental examination and dental photography

      Visits may be conducted in person at the Clinical Center, by telehealth, or with a
      combination of in person and telehealth, at the discretion of the study team. When telehealth
      is used, only testing that can be performed at home (e.g. clinical consultations,
      neurobehavioral testing, fitness tracking, ambulatory ecg monitoring, and photography) will
      be selected. The other tests require the individual to be on site at the CC.

      Consequently, some participants may have certain consultations at home and other testing on
      site to limit time in the CC

      Additionally, the study will request permission to review the participant's medical records
      to obtain additional information about general and cardiovascular health. For individuals
      with supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) or Williams syndrome (WS), the clinical report
      confirming the individuals diagnosis will be reviewed when available.
    
  