
    
      The relevance of early continuous or intermittent enteral feeding of critically ill patients
      has been discussed controversially in the last years. Today, continuous feeding is still the
      standard for enteral nutrition in the ICU. The continuous nutrition can prevent abdominal
      intolerance like vomiting, diarrhoea and aspiration. Pulmonary aspiration is the most
      dramatic consequence of enteral nutrition and can be limited by a continuous feeding as shown
      by a study in 2003. However, nutrition was started with a bolus of 125ml as baseline by force
      of gravity over 15 minutes. Compared to the continuous nutrition, this is considered much
      volume in a short time. Naturally, risk of gastric intolerance in this scenario is very high.

      In other studies, a similar amount of nutrition was given over a longer period of time (30 -
      60 minutes) every 4 hours. In each cohort (continuous and bolus), only one case of pulmonary
      aspiration or tube obstruction was detected. After this study, other trials with a similar
      result followed. In 2007 a trial of Georgia et al. showed no statistical differences in
      complications regarding tube feeding, no differences of diarrhoea, emesis or pneumonias
      between continuous and bolus nutrition. The feeding time for bolus nutrition is also a
      critical influential factor. When an intermittent feeding is given over a longer period of
      time (20-40 minutes), the incidence of nausea and vomiting has not increased.

      Intermittent feeding is not only a good alternative to continuous feeding, but also more
      natural, as long-term intake of nutrition over 20 hours is not common in any mammal. The
      alimentary tract and metabolic pathways of humans seem designed for intermittent ingestion of
      essential nutrients reduced to a few times a day. Different hormones of the endocrine cells
      affect complex roles of gastrointestinal motility, gall bladder contraction and nutrient
      absorption. The level of these hormones depends on the amount of nutrient ingestion. This
      response of the hormones is almost completely abolished in continuous feeding. But in
      intermittent nutrition, hormones like incretin, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide
      (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) boost the level of insulin and
      the resulting carbohydrate load and therefore influence the muscle protein synthesis and
      breakdown.

      In healthy individuals, the anabolic effects of feeding occur due to an increase on the
      synthetic rate of muscle protein synthesis of approximately 300% with a simultaneous 50%
      decrease in the rate of protein breakdown. Two studies of 2009 and 2011 compared the
      intermittent bolus and continuous feeding and the effect of protein synthesis in skeletal
      muscle in neonatal pigs. They analysed the fractional rates of protein synthesis in muscle
      samples of continuous and intermittent bolus feeding groups. They could show that although
      both groups, continuous and intermittent bolus feeding, stimulate muscle protein synthesis,
      but in the bolus-fed, in the fractional rates of protein synthesis called K's was greater
      after a meal.

      An ongoing study wants to show the effect of bolus vs. continuous feeding in ICU patients
      related to muscle wasting by measurements of ultrasound and blood samples. In this trial, the
      investigators would like to have a similar approach but with different measurements. Using
      ultrasound and muscle biopsies, the investigators aim to determine whether intermittent
      enteral feeding could preserve muscle mass better or more than standard continuous enteral
      feeding in the critically ill patients. In addition, the investigators would like to assess
      if intermittent bolus feeding optimizes protein intake in the first 7 days of critical
      illness since the intermittent route is less affected by interruptions following treatment
      and diagnostic procedures.
    
  