
    
      BACKGROUND: Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) is the commonest type of acute
      coronary syndrome (ACS) and has a poor long-term prognosis. Guidewire-based coronary pressure
      measurement of the myocardial fractional flow reserve (FFR) is a prognostically-validated
      invasive method for measuring coronary lesion severity in patients with stable coronary
      artery disease. FFR measurement in patients with unstable coronary disease has theoretical
      limitations and is not fully validated in NSTEMI.

      AIM: To prospectively evaluate ischaemia and infarction with adenosine stress perfusion
      cardiac MRI in medically-stabilised NSTEMI patients in whom FFR has been measured.

      METHODS: In the FAMOUS-NSTEMI clinical trial (NCT registration 01764334),
      medically-stabilised patients with recent NSTEMI will have lesion-level ischaemia measured
      with FFR in all coronary artery stenoses amenable to revascularisation, as clinically
      appropriate.

      Consecutive study participants will be invited to have an adenosine (140 µg/kg/min) stress
      3.0 Tesla cardiac MRI scan to assess myocardial perfusion on up to three occasions: 1) before
      coronary angiography, 2) within 10 days post coronary angiography and finally, 3) 6 months
      after hospital admission. MRI will also assess myocardial pathophysiology including
      ischaemia, oedema, haemorrhage and infarct scar. MRI will provide the reference dataset.
      Guidewire-derived parameters were obtained and assessed blind to the MRI results.

      The primary outcome is the correspondence between the presence or absence of an
      inducible-myocardial perfusion defect and FFR ≤ or > 0.80 in the MRI scans at baseline or
      post-angiography. Secondary outcomes include the correlation between measures of infarct
      severity as revealed by MRI (infarct size, myocardial salvage, microvascular obstruction,
      myocardial haemorrhage, myocardial strain) and invasive measures of coronary function (1)
      coronary collateral supply (fractional coronary collateral supply), (2) microcirculatory
      resistance (index of microvascular resistance), and (3) vasodilator capacity (resistive
      reserve ratio).

      The project was funded by the British Heart Foundation and Chief Scientist Office. The
      pressure wires were provided through a restricted grant from St Jude Medical. The funders of
      the study have no involvement in the study design, analysis, interpretation, or presentation
      of the results.

      VALUE: This study will provide clinically important information on the relationships between
      coronary artery and microcirculatory function measured invasively and ischaemia and MI
      pathologies, as revealed by non-invasively by MRI.
    
  