
    
      Approximately 20% of all foot and ankle fractures are open. Excellent operative field without
      measurable bleeding remain prerequisite of most orthopedic procedures. Increase blood loss
      can increase the risk of infection, hematoma formation and wound complications. Presence of
      blood in synovium not only has direct corrosive effects but also causes increased intra
      capsular pressure leading to capsular fibrosis culminating as ankyloses.

      Tourniquets are employed to optimize surgical field visualization thereby limiting operative
      duration and improving technical precision. There are several unwanted effects that can arise
      from use of tourniquet like neurapraxia, vascular injury, post operative swelling etc. Hence
      there is a growing interest in achieving the same operative goals without the use of
      tourniquet.

      Antifibrinolytics come to one's rescue to achieve a blood sparing effect. Its efficacy in
      reducing intra operative and post operative blood loss is well documented in cardiac surgery,
      hip and knee replacement surgery and spinal surgery. Tranexamic acid is a synthetic
      antifibrinolytic drug that competitively blocks the lysine-binding sites of plasminogen,
      plasmin and tissue plasminogen activator, thereby delaying fibrinolysis and blood clot
      degradation. It has been effectively used as IV, oral, topical as well as intra articular
      dosing. The effects of IV administration lasts 8-17 hours after the initial dose. Orthopedic
      surgeons have incorporated TXA into multiple elective surgeries as a means of reducing blood
      loss and transfusion requirements. Reduced bleeding translates to decreased incidence of
      wound hematoma and other complications.

      Effectiveness of Tranexamic acid(TXA) is unknown in foot and ankle surgeries. The aim of this
      study is to not only evaluate effectiveness of intravenous TXA in reducing post operative
      blood loss during foot and ankle surgeries but also if it modulates to reduced wound
      complications and reduced narcotic consumption.
    
  