
    
      Consenting patients will have the LYMPHA procedure at the time of planned axillary or groin
      dissection surgery for the prevention of upper and lower extremity lymphedema, respectively.
      The node dissection will be performed by Dr. Nessim, while the LYMPHA technique will be
      performed by the plastic surgeon, Dr. Momtazi, trained in microsurgical technique. The LYMPHA
      procedure consists of performing lymphatic-venous anastomoses (LVA) at the time of the node
      dissection. Patent blue dye will be injected into the patient approximately 10 minutes before
      skin incision. This will allow mapping of the lymphatic channels for identification for
      bypass. The node dissection will then be performed with preservation of the saphenous vein in
      the leg and the anterior branch of the axillary vein in the axilla. Afferent lymphatic
      vessels will be sutured into the saphenous vein or a branch of the axillary vein distal to a
      competent valve, respectively. The total duration of the surgery is approximately 3 hours.
      The LYMPHA technique accounts for an additional 30 minutes to the standard 2-2.5 hours
      allocated to the node dissection.

      Pre-surgery, patients will have baseline limb circumference measurements of both the
      surgery-affected and unaffected limbs (arms or legs). Patients will be followed up clinically
      at every 3 months up to a year, and then again at the end of the second year (at the 24
      month-mark only). At each follow-up visit, patients will have a physical examination and
      their circumferential limb measurements will be taken with measuring tape at three specific
      intervals up the limb. For example, patients undergoing an axillary dissection will have the
      circumference of their wrist taken, and then again 4 cm proximal to the wrist, then 8 cm
      proximal to the wrist, and so forth. The method will be used for the legs but starting at the
      ankle. Volume will be calculated indirectly, using Dr. Brorson's truncated cone method (13).
      Patients will also fill out a limb lymphedema-specific quality of life questionnaire (LYMQOL)
      administered by the Clinical Research Coordinator pre- and post-surgery. Each patient will
      have a total of 2 years of participation time.

      Pre-surgery, patients will have baseline limb circumference measurements of both the
      surgery-affected and unaffected limbs (arms or legs). Patients will be followed up clinically
      at every 3 months up to a year, and then again at the second year. At each follow-up visit,
      patients will have a physical examination and their circumferential limb measurements will be
      taken with measuring tape at three specific intervals up the limb. Patients will also fill
      out a limb lymphedema-specific quality of life questionnaire (LYMQOL) administered pre- and
      post-surgery.

        1. Primary Objective: To evaluate the success rate of performing the LYMPHA procedure.
           Success is defined as a completed LYMPHA procedure i.e. successful LVA.

        2. Secondary Objective: To evaluate the feasibility of follow-up assessments i. establish
           the ability to obtain pre- and post- limb measurements ii. obtain limb-specific quality
           of life information iii. design a protocol for a randomized controlled trial comparing
           lymphedema rates in patients receiving a lymphadenectomy + lymphatic-venous bypass
           versus lymphadenectomy alone.
    
  