
    
      Study setting and financial support: data for the present investigation were obtained from an
      ongoing epidemiological and three-year longitudinal intervention program of first-episode
      psychosis (PAFIP) conducted at the outpatient clinic and the inpatient unit at the University
      Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Spain. Conforming to international standards for research
      ethics, this program was approved by the local institutional review board. Patients meeting
      inclusion criteria and their families provided written informed consent to be included in the
      PAFIP. The Mental Health Services of Cantabria provided funding for implementing the program.
      No pharmaceutical company supplied any financial support.

      Study design: this is a flexible-dose study of two neuroleptics (Aripiprazole and
      Risperidone) assigned at aleatory ratio 1:1. Rapid titration schedule (5-day), until optimal
      dose is reached, is a rule used unless severe side effects occur. At the treating physician's
      discretion, the dose and type of antipsychotic medication could be changed based on clinical
      efficacy and the profile of side effects during the follow-up period. Antimuscarinic
      medication, Lormetazepam and Clonazepam are allowed for clinical reasons. No antimuscarinic
      agents are administered prophylactically. Antidepressants (Sertraline) and mood stabilizers
      (lithium) are permitted if clinically needed.

      Clinical assessment: the severity scale of the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale, the
      Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Scale for the Assessment of Positive symptoms
      (SAPS), the Scale for the Assessment of Negative symptoms (SANS), the Calgary Depression
      Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS) and the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) were used to evaluate
      symptomatology. To assess general adverse event experiences, the Scale of the Udvalg for
      Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU), the Simpson-Angus Rating Scale (SARS) and the Barnes Akathisia
      Scale (BAS) were used. The same trained psychiatrist (BC-F) completed all clinical
      assessments. These clinical data are described at AZQ2005 study.

      Neuropsychological assessment. Cognitive functioning was assessed in patients at 2 points:
      baseline and 3 years after the initialization of antipsychotic treatment. The cognitive
      assessment at baseline was carried out at 12 weeks after recruitment because this time is
      considered optimal for patients' stabilization. The evaluation required approximately 2 h and
      was carried out in the same day by the same neuropsychologist (R.A.-A and E.G.-R). The
      neuropsychological battery comprises 9 cognitive domains: information processing speed, motor
      dexterity, working memory, verbal learning, visuospatial abilities, delayed memory,
      attention, executive function and theory of mind.
    
  