
    
      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a noninvasive technology that uses infrared light to
      measure Oxygen levels in tissue or organs. However, the use of this monitoring tool has not
      been the standard of care in the immediate post-natal life. The investigator wish to study
      this way of monitoring Oxygen, which consists of using a sticker on the skin of the forehead
      and the skin of the abdomen to continuously monitor the Oxygen content of the brain and the
      kidneys and compare NIRS values in the CHD population to echocardiographic measures of blood
      flow and heart function to see if/how this simple, non-invasive tool could help us to closely
      monitor Oxygen in babies with CHD.

      The NIRS probe (sticker) will be put on the side of the abdomen (the flank to monitor the
      kidney saturation of oxygen) and on the forehead (to monitor the brain saturation of oxygen)
      for 7 days or until the baby is discharged home, has a procedure in cath-lab or has surgery.
      An echocardiography will take place daily (for up to 7 days, or up to discharge, or up to
      cardiac intervention) during the day and should last about 15- 20 minutes. Newborns will be
      recruited during the fetal consultation with the cardiologist or neonatologist; or will be
      recruited during their neonatal admission. Only newborns admitted to the NICU will be
      eligible to the study.

      The investigator would like to better understand the way babies with cardiac conditions
      transition once they are born and into their first week of life. During that important time,
      there are a lot of changes that can impact the cardiac adaptation: vessels in the lungs that
      relax, vessels in the body that contract. Echocardiography and NIRS may help us better
      appreciate these changes by evaluating the delivery of oxygen to organs. Echocardiography may
      reveal some information about this adaptation by looking at the cardiac performance by
      ultrasound and blood flow patterns.

      Approximately 100 participants from this hospital will take part in this study.
    
  