
    
      The investigators conducted a multicentre, retrospective, observational study from April 2013
      to February 2019 in the surgical ICUs of 5 level 1 Trauma centers in France. The
      investigators collected data from the "regional intensive care network of the great west of
      france" (AtlanRéa) database. The AtlanRéa database registers prospectively and consecutively
      numerous informations about brain injury and trauma patients hospitalized in ICUs, in order
      to provide epidemiologic informations for this population. Data were collected by clinical
      research assistants in each participating ICU, using an electronic case report form. The
      investigators assessed data regarding outcomes after discharge from ICUs through phone
      interview led by dedicated clinical research assistants.

      The following data were entered in the database: Age, gender and body mass index, previous
      medical history, and more specifically the presence of cardiac insufficiency, chronic renal
      failure defined as an estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 ml/min.1.73 m-1,
      chronic respiratory illness, neurologic background, diabetes, neoplasia history, previous
      TBI, active smoking and chronic alcoholism. Mechanism of injury (domestic accident, road
      traffic crash, fall from heights or others). The Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) score determinates
      in the prehospital setting or at admission at hospital before intubation and/or sedation, and
      the presence of at least one nonreactive and dilated pupil at the initial management.
      Severity of illness according to the Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) the
      Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, and the Injury Severity Score (ISS). The
      investigators also specified the severity of TBI by the abbreviated Injury Score (AIS) and
      reported the associated injuries from 5 territories (face, chest, abdomen, extremity
      (including pelvis) and external). Initial CT-scan was classified according to the Marshall
      classification in six categories (Diffuse injury I, II, III, IV, evacuated mass (V) and
      non-evacuated mass lesion (VI)).

      The following data during the patients' hospitalization are also entered in the database: use
      of an intracranial pressure (ICP) catheter, occurrence of intracranial hypertension (defined
      as an ICP above 20 mmHg in absence of confounding factors), and use of barbiturates and/or
      osmotherapy, decompressive craniectomy, and other neurosurgical procedure. The occurrence of
      intercurrent events occurring during ICU stay, including infections, Acute Respiratory
      Distress Syndrome (ARDS), need of vasopressor drugs, acute renal failure, thrombophlebitis,
      pulmonary embolism, hemorrhage, infection and tracheostomy. The investigators specified the
      need for intubation and durations of mechanical ventilation, central venous catheterism and
      vasopressor. The investigators also recorded the decision in ICU to withdraw or withhold life
      support.

      The length of stay in ICU, ICU and 3-month mortalities and patient outcome were assessed
      using the Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended (GOSE) score at 3 months. The investigators
      dichotomized the GOSE score between the four lower values (corresponding to unfavorable
      outcome- GOSE 1 to 4) and the four upper values (corresponding to favorable outcome- GOSE 5
      to 8).

      Statistical Analysis All statistical analysis will be performed using R software 3.3.1
      (package pROC) and SAS 9.1 Statistical Software (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA). For
      quantitative continuous variables, position and dispersion parameters (mean, standard
      deviation, median, interquartile range) will be calculated. For qualitative variables,
      proportion rates will be calculated. For groups' comparison, we used independent-samples
      t-tests for normally distributed continuous variables, and Mann-Whitney U-tests for
      non-normally distributed continuous variables. Χ² tests will be performed for categorical
      variables. To build the model for multivariate analysis, the investigators selected among the
      variables with a p ≤ 0.20 according to the univariate analysis. The investigators performed
      logistic regression model to identify factors associated with in-ICU mortality and
      dichotomized GOSE score at 3 months. The Odds Ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI)
      will be calculated. For continuous variables, diagnosis of log linear behavior was
      established, and if not confirmed, the variable will be divided into categories and treated
      as categorical variables. Model's fit will be assessed by checking residual plots and Cook's
      distance. The calibration of the model will be tested by Goodness of Fit Hosmer-Lemeshow
      test. A p ≤0.05 will be considered statistically significant for all the comparisons.
    
  