
    
      the following acute, randomized crossover study will be completed in 12 healthy adults (age
      18-35y; BMI: 18-29.9 kg/m2) to compare 135 kcal protein beverages consumed at breakfast
      containing 30 g of protein from whey isolate (WY), casein (CS), egg white isolate (EWI), egg
      white protein concentrate (EWP), or a 0 kcal water beverage - which serves as the control
      (CON). Note: the W beverage will be consumed on 2 different days; these days only differ by
      the postprandial outcomes completed (see below).

      The participants will report to the research facility between 7 - 9 am to complete each 4-h
      testing day. Prior to testing, the participants will be provided with a standardized dinner
      to consume, at home, between 5-7 pm the night before each testing day. Upon arrival to the
      facility, each participant will become familiarized with the testing day procedures. At time
      -15 min, a baseline set of computerized questionnaires will be completed. At time 0 min, one
      of the breakfast beverages will be provided. Immediately following the first swallow of the
      breakfast shakes, the participants will be given a questionnaire assessing the palatability
      of each shake. The participants will consume the beverage within 20 min. For 5 of the 6 days,
      a set of questionnaires will be completed every 30 min throughout the 4-h postprandial
      period. For one of the W days, no questionnaires will be completed. After the 4-h, the
      participants will be given an ad libitum pasta meal to assess energy intake. For the lunch
      meal, the participants will be given 30 min to "consume as much or as little as possible
      until comfortably full." Following these procedures, the participants will be allowed to
      leave the facility. The next day, a dietary recall will be performed to assess daily energy
      intake following the consumption of the previous day's breakfast beverage.
    
  