
    
      The primary aim of this study is:

      Aim 1. Determine the impact of knowing personal genotyping results for nicotine dependence
      risk on the smoking cessation (primary) outcomes at weeks 2, 6, and 10.

      The working hypotheses for the cessation-related behaviors are:

        1. When compared to the control group, the experimental group will have greater: (1)
           smoking abstinence; (2) use of formal smoking cessation programs; (3) contact with
           health-care provider for cessation; (4) use of pharmacotherapy, and (5) use of
           self-management strategies for cessation.

        2. There will be no difference in the number of quit attempts between the experimental and
           control groups.

      The working hypotheses for the cessation-related cognitions are:

        1. When compared to the control group, the experimental group will have higher
           self-efficacy for smoking cessation.

        2. When compared to the control group, the experimental group will have higher abstainer
           and lower smoker self-schemas.

      The secondary aims are:

      Aim 2. Determine the impact of knowing personal genotyping results for nicotine dependence
      risk on the secondary genetic literacy (secondary) outcomes at weeks 2, 6, and 10.

      The working hypotheses for the genetic literacy-related cognitions and emotions are:

        1. When compared to the control group, the experimental group will have greater: (1)
           knowledge of genetic contributions to smoking, (2) mental representations indicating
           endorsement of genetic risk for nicotine dependence, (3) accurate perceptions of genetic
           risk for nicotine dependence, and (4) self-efficacy for use of genotyping results.

        2. There will be no difference in psychological distress between the experimental and
           control groups.

      Aim 3. Explore smokers' perceptions and experiences that contextualize participation in
      genetic education and genotyping for nicotine dependence risk. We will conduct focus groups
      with both the intervention and control group participants at weeks 2 and 6 after intervention
      group participants receive their genotyping results.

      Aim 4. Determine the feasibility of an intervention that informs people of their personal
      genotype results for nicotine dependence risk for a larger clinical trial, including
      evaluation of enrollment (recruitment efficiency, attrition, problems and solutions),
      intervention fidelity (delivery, receipt, enactment), data collection, subject acceptability
      of the intervention, and estimation of effect sizes for sample size determination in future,
      larger clinical trials.
    
  