
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common heart rhythm disorder in the US and it is
      associated with shortness of breath, palpitations, stroke occurrence and increased mortality.
      Traditional treatment for AF includes anticoagulation, drugs that slow the heart rate and
      antiarrhythmic agents. More recently, catheter based treatments to address atrial
      fibrillation have been developed, which involves using radiofrequency energy to isolate the
      arrhythmogenic foci localized in the pulmonary veins.

      During the first weeks following pulmonary vein isolation (PVI), it is not unusual for
      patients to experience early recurrences of atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia due to
      irritability from the ablation. While these arrhythmias tend to resolve over time, it is
      nevertheless standard practice to prescribe antiarrhythmic drugs for the first 2-3 months
      after the intervention to prevent these early recurrences. However, the efficacy of this
      practice has never been formally evaluated. In addition, we have identified a small group of
      patients whose atrial tachycardias have terminated after cessation of antiarrhythmic therapy,
      suggesting that proarrhythmia from these agents may promote reentrant tachycardias in some
      patients. We therefore designed a study protocol that will evaluate the usefulness of short
      term antiarrhythmic drug therapy in order to prevent atrial fibrillation and atrial
      tachycardia episodes during the first 6 weeks following PVI.

      The target population of the study includes all patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
      referred for PVI. After the ablation procedure, patients will be randomized to receive or not
      receive antiarrhythmic drugs for a period of 6 weeks. Arrhythmia occurrence during this
      period will be monitored via twice daily transtelephonic monitoring. Clinical visits
      including a physical exam and 12 lead ECG recording will be scheduled at 6 weeks. The primary
      endpoint of the study will be a composite endpoint including 1) atrial arrhythmias persisting
      > 24 hours or requiring initiation of antiarrhythmic therapy 2) need for
      cardioversion/hospital admission 3) need for repeat ablation or 4) adverse
      outcome/intolerance of antiarrhythmic agent requiring drug cessation or change during the 6
      week follow up period.
    
  