
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer worldwide. Incidence and mortality have reached a
      plateau and appear to be dropping in both United States and parts of Western Europe. This
      decline has been attributed to several factors such as early detection through the use of
      screening mammography and appropriate use of systemic adjuvant therapy. Breast cancer is a
      disease and that is predominantly influenced by risk factors which can be allocated to one of
      four groups: first, family history / genetic which accounts for 15% of all breast cancer
      cases. The second group which is the most known risk factor for breast cancer can be linked
      to hazardous effects of hormonal exposures such as early age at menarche, late age at
      menopause, small number of children and nulliparity, late age at first birth and little or no
      breast feeding. Long term use of hormone replacement therapy but apparently not long term use
      of oral contraceptives is also important. The third group is high mammographic breast density
      which has been shown to be one of the most significant markers of breast cancer risk and the
      fourth group is having a history proliferative benign breast disease.

      Recently, there is a belief that overall caloric intake and obesity in particular with weight
      gain are related to increased breast cancer risk with different effects between pre and post
      menopausal women. Also physical activity appears to be important, above and beyond its effect
      on weight.

      There are scattered studies about breast cancer risk factors in the Arab region. One study
      was published on March 2002 which investigates risk factors associated with breast cancer in
      Jordanian women while some studies associate diet with breast cancer. The known /
      well-established risk factors in the Western countries have not bee systematically validated
      or proven to play a role in Arab women with breast cancer. Therefore, there is no known risk
      assessment tool that is applicable to our patient population. No model has not been created
      yet synthesizing the breast cancer risk factors in Arab women.

      Research Impact:

      This study will have great impact and influence in the medical setting as the targeted model
      that will be derived from this study will be the pioneer in our region. This model will be
      beneficial in identifying risk factors and its association with the Arab women population.
      Furthermore, it will bring chemotherapy prevention once the risk factors and the model are
      established. Risk factors maybe different from those identified in western women by Gail and
      IBIS Models
    
  