
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare stable disease and objective response in patients with metastatic or
           unresectable renal cell carcinoma treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride with or without
           imatinib mesylate.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the median survival, progression-free survival, and response rate in patients
           treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride and imatinib mesylate.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the expression of c-KIT and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha
           protein expression in both tumor cells and associated endothelial cells using
           immunohistochemistry staining of paraffin-embedded tissue.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by histology (clear
      cell vs nonclear cell) and prior therapy (immunotherapy/chemotherapy vs targeted agents).

      Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 3 and 10 and oral imatinib mesylate on
      days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving partial or complete response
      after 2 courses of treatment continue treatment with gemcitabine hydrochloride and imatinib
      mesylate in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable
      disease after 2 courses of treatment are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 3 and 10.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 3 and 10 and oral imatinib
           mesylate on days 1-5 and 8-12.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Available archived tumor tissue samples are obtained for immunohistochemical analysis to
      quantify the expression of c-KIT and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha protein
      expression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  