
    
      Polycystic Ovary Syndrome(PCOS) is a genetically complex endocrine disorder of uncertain
      etiology and a common cause of hyperandrogenism, anovulatory infertility, menstrual
      dysfunction, hirsutism, alopecia and acne. It was first reported by Stein and Leventhal in
      1935. It affects 6-8% of women of reproductive age. Accordingly PCOS might be viewed as a
      gender specific form of metabolic syndrome.

      According to Androgen Excess Society(AES) /2006 criteria PCOS was defined by the presence of
      hyperandrogenism (clinical and/or biochemical),Oligo or anovulation, Polycystic ovarian
      morphology(PCOM)- at least one ovary with 1)12 or more follicles (2-9 mm in diameter) or 2)
      Ovarian volume >10 ml. Patients with PCOS are at higher risk of developing cardiovascular
      risk factors that is diabetes, insulin resistance, visceral obesity and a state of low grade
      inflammation.Therefore, PCOS may represent a model for studying the complex interaction among
      these Cardiovascular risk factors,especially chronic inflammation and insulin resistance.

      Visceral obesity,insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are prevalent co-morbidities of PCOS
      which promotes androgen excess.Insulin resistance in PCOS is due to a post-receptor defect in
      insulin receptor mediated cells which leads to induce a decrease in glucose transporters.
      Therefore, reduction of insulin secretion and/or improvement of its action at target tissues
      offer the possibility of improving the effects of androgen excess by correction of the
      reproductive dysfunction and preventing metabolic derangements from becoming entrenched.

      For this purpose many insulin-sensitizing agents like metformin have been tried as a
      treatment modality of metabolic as well as reproductive dysfunction in PCOS.Myo-inositol (MI)
      is a naturally occurring substance produced in the human body that belongs to the vitamin B
      complex group.PCOS has been linked to a deficiency in myo-inositol. MI can be synthesized by
      the body from food, but when the investigators are already deficient, the lack of MI can
      impact the ability of the body to be sensitive to insulin. MI plays an important role as the
      structural basis for a number of secondary messengers including synthesis of
      phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase), a key messenger to improve insulin sensitivity
      and thereby reducing insulin resistance Supplying extra MI appears to temporarily correct the
      impaired insulin pathways and reduce the signs and symptoms of insulin resistance.

      Periodontal diseases, including gingivitis are common chronic infectious diseases
      characterized by a gingival inflammatory response against predominantly pathogenic
      microorganisms that colonize the subgingival area and cause local and systemic elevations of
      proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-a and interleukin-6 resulting in
      loss of connective tissue attachment, alveolar bone resorption which can result in tooth
      loss. It is well established that patients suffering from periodontitis present with a low
      grade systemic inflammatory state when compared with healthy subjects.Increased
      concentrations of inflammatory biomarkers in both gingival tissues and serum such as
      C-reactive protein and interleukin have been reported.

      Periodontal disease has been implicated as risk factor in the onset and development of
      various cardiovascular diseases like diabetes mellitus cerebrovascular and coronary artery
      diseases.9,10,13 Chronic stimulation and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines associated
      with periodontal infection contribute to the insulin resistance in these patients.

      Insulin resistance syndromes such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and PCOS have been linked to
      slightly elevated serum C-reactive protein. As already being discussed,Periodontitis has also
      been linked to elevated CRP levels, therefore it is postulated that CRP might be a possible
      mediator of the association between periodontitis and systemic diseases1 Because of the fact
      that both periodontal disease and metabolic syndrome are associated with systemic
      inflammation and insulin resistance,these two disorders may be linked through a common
      pathophysiologic pathway.

      Earlier there have been many cross-sectional studies describing a possible relationship
      between PCOS and periodontitis and the impact of PCOS on gingival inflammation However, they
      have not taken into account the medical treatment status, duration or the type of treatment
      modality employed for the medical treatment of the syndrome. They also have not evaluated the
      effect of periodontal therapy on the periodontium, systemic inflammation and insulin
      resistance in PCOS women suffering with inflammatory periodontal disease.

      Therefore through this study, the investigators aim to assess the correlation between the
      inflammatory periodontal status and the medical treatment status in PCOS patients with
      systemic inflammation and to evaluate the effect of non surgical periodontal therapy along
      with medical treatment on the level of serological marker of inflammation(High
      sensitivity-CRP) and insulin resistance.

      MATERIALS AND METHOD: This study will be conducted in department of Periodontics and Oral
      Implantology, Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences (PGIDS), Rohtak in collaboration
      with department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences
      (PGIMS), Rohtak

      STUDY POPULATION AND DESIGN:

      The study will be conducted as following:

      Patients (n=25 per group) for interventional study will be recruited from regular OPD(Out
      Patient Department) of the Dept. of Periodontology,Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and
      dept. of Oral Medicine.

      GROUP A: Systemically and periodontally healthy females (Age and BMI matched) also recruited
      from the department of oral medicine.

      INTERVENTIONAL STUDY

      An Randomized clinical trial will be done to evaluate the effect of Non-surgical periodontal
      therapy along with myoinositol on systemic inflammatory marker, insulin resistance,
      anthropometric and periodontal parameters in newly diagnosed patients of PCOS having
      periodontal disease. They are divided into following groups:

      Women having Polycystic ovarian syndrome(PCOS) and chronic periodontitis will be randomly
      divided into two groups:

      Test Group: Polycystic ovarian syndrome(PCOS) women who have periodontitis and treated with
      scaling and root planing along with Myo-inositol supplementation(1 gm twice a day) Control
      Group: Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) women who have periodontitis treated with
      Myo-inositol (1 gm twice a day)along with oral hygiene instructions

      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        -  Females of reproductive age group (15-35 yrs)

        -  Subjects diagnosed with PCOS according to Androgen Excess Society(AES)/2006 criteria:

        -  Presence of hyperandrogenism (clinical and/or biochemical)

        -  Oligo or anovulation

        -  PCOM (Polycystic ovarian morphology)- at least one ovary with 1)12 or more follicles
           (2-9 mm in diameter) or 2) Ovarian volume >10 ml

        -  Presence of ≥20 natural teeth

        -  Patients having Chronic Periodontitis will be defined according to division of Oral
           Health at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in collaboration with
           American Academy of Periodontology (AAP) Moderate periodontitis: ≥ 2 interproximal sites
           with AL, ≥4 mm (not on same tooth), or ≥2 interproximal sites with PD ≥5 mm (not on same
           tooth) (Page and Eke 2007)

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Any history of thyroid dysfunction, hyperprolactinemia, androgen -secreting tumour,
           nephrotic syndrome, chronic renal failure.

        -  Significant cardiovascular disease.

        -  Established type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus.

        -  Active cancer within the last past 5 yrs.

        -  Smokers and alcoholic subjects.

        -  History of systemic antibiotics or oral contraceptives usage within last 3 months.

        -  Periodontal treatment within 6 months prior to study Prior informed consent will be
           taken from each patient after explaining the procedure along with the risks and benefits
           in their own language.

      All the subjects in the study will undergo the examination of the various anthropometric,
      metabolic and periodontal parameters and ultrasonography.

      Anthropometric and Metabolic parameters will be re-evaluated at a recall period of 6 months.

      ANTHROPOMETRIC PARAMETERS

        -  Waist circumference

        -  Waist and hip ratio

        -  Body mass index METABOLIC PARAMETERS

        -  Serum (Follicle Stimulating Harmone)FSH/(Leutinising Harmone)LH

        -  Fasting Blood sugar

        -  Serum testosterone

        -  Serum Prolactin

        -  Lipid profile

        -  Serum hsCRP

        -  Fasting Insulin Parameter for insulin resistance

        -  Homeostatic Model Assessment(HOMA) for insulin resistance(IR)

      It is the product of the fasting values of glucose(expressed as mg/dl) and insulin expressed
      as µU/ml (micron unit/millilitre) is divided by a constant:

      Insulin×Glucose/405 The constant 405 should be replaced by 22.5 if glucose is expressed in
      Standard International(SI) units(mmol/l) Sample for the metabolic parameters will be
      collected on the second or third day of the menstrual cycle.

      PERIODONTAL PARAMETERS

        -  Plaque index (PI)(Silness & Loe)

        -  Gingival index (GI)(Loe & Silness)

        -  Bleeding on probing (BOP)

        -  Pocket depth (PD)

        -  Clinical attachment level (CAL) Each of the tooth will be assessed at six sites(
           mesio-buccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual/palatal, mid-lingual/palatal and
           disto-lingual/palatal) for Bleeding on probing, Pocket depth and Clinical attachment
           level and at four sites(mesio-buccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal and mid-lingual/palatal)
           for plaque index and gingival index during full mouth complete periodontal
           examination.Periodontal parameters will be evaluated at 3 and 6 months.

      Processing Of Data: Data recorded will be processed by standard statistical analysis.
    
  