
    
      1. Mastectomy technique. The breast removal will be performed using a mastectomy adapted to
           the breast and optimizing the preservation of the breast's original elements
           (inframammary fold, skin envelope, fat transitions, nipple-areolar complex) according to
           each patient's anatomical and oncologic possibilities.

        2. Reconstruction technique. The reconstruction will be performed by placing a silicone
           implant coated with polyurethane foam in the prepectoral position.

        3. Preoperative assessment. All patients will be assessed by a surgeon of the breast unit.
           The decision for the mastectomy will be made in consensus with the multidisciplinary
           committee. Before the surgery, the patients will undergo a mammography and magnetic
           resonance imaging to confirm the tumor size and rule out multifocality/multicentricity,
           as well as an evaluation of the distribution of glandular tissue and transitions between
           the breast and chest wall.

        4. Breast magnetic resonance imaging. This study will employ the first magnetic resonance
           imaging during the postoperative period (between 12 and 18 months) to assess the
           residual glandular tissue following the mastectomy.

        5. BreastQ questionnaire. The BreastQ questionnaire is aimed at evaluating patient-reported
           satisfaction and quality of life through the use of breast reconstruction modules. The
           preoperative format, which is delivered to patients before the surgery, and the
           postoperative format, which is delivered to them 12-18 months after the surgery.
           Likewise, we will conduct a second postoperative assessment at 5 years of the surgery.

      d. Images. The evaluation of the cosmetic sequelae requires taking photographs of the
      patient's chest (from the suprasternal notch to navel). Photographs will be taken prior to
      the surgery (frontal, right and left lateral), then again at 12-18 months and finally at 5
      years of the surgery.
    
  