
    
      Pre-phase (2 weeks in duration):

      Initial Interview: Following informed consent and enrollment, participants will complete a
      45-60 minute interview with research investigators using video web conferencing (e.g., Zoom).
      If the participant agrees, this interview will be recorded. During this interview,
      investigators will gather descriptive data to characterize the sample including information
      regarding: 1) the child (age, disease severity for DMD, weight/ height, race/ethnicity,
      location (rural/suburban/urban), grade in school, medication use); 2) the parent
      (race/ethnicity, marital status, work status, education level, income); 3) the child's sleep
      environment (technology/telephone access, darkness, temperature, bed/bedroom sharing); 4) the
      child's daily activities and routines (current wake-up time & routines; activities in the
      home; activities at school and after school); and 5) the child's nighttime routines
      (activities prior to bedtime; current bedtime routine; technology use prior to bedtime).

      ActiGraph: Each parent-child dyad will be mailed a package containing the Actigraph GT9x with
      wristband, charging device, a manual of operating procedures (MOP) providing all technical
      and protocol instructions, and phone numbers for research team support. Throughout the 2-week
      pre-phase data collection period, parents will be required to log and push data from their
      child's Actigraph to a secure cloud service, CentrePoint, via Wi-Fi each day. This will be
      accomplished through an app and all data will be de-identified.

      Intervention Implementation Phase (10-week duration):

      Training Modules: During the intervention phase, weekly video-conference meetings will be
      held where trained clinicians will guide parents through approximately 60-minute web-based
      modules using a video-conferencing platform (e.g., Zoom). These sessions will focus on
      education, dynamic parent training (child-related goal-setting and problem-solving),
      assessment of sleep health dimensions, and development of a weekly sleep and activity diary.
      Parents will be provided with a personalized TranS-CY Parent Workbook, which contains
      information regarding each of the 10 weekly modules. Each weekly session will be agenda
      driven with the option to revise the agenda based on family needs. Children/youth with DMD
      will be invited to attend the sessions and provide as much feedback as possible. Data will be
      collected on parent attendance to assess intervention adoption. Each week, clinicians will
      request feedback on the previous week's session and provide additional educational support
      for the previous content should it be required.

      Intervention Questionnaires: During the 10-week intervention phase, parents will be asked to
      complete knowledge checks every 2-3 weeks in order to confirm understanding of the module
      information (primary outcome). These questionnaires will either be asked verbally during the
      session or questions will be sent to the parent's email through Qualtrics, a HIPAA compliant
      survey software platform. Hard copies of the knowledge checks will be sent if the parent
      prefers.

      Sleep and Activity Log: Throughout the intervention phase, parents will be asked to complete
      a daily sleep and activity log covering their child's day. This log will be sent to their
      emails using Qualtrics. Each log will take approximately 3-5 minutes to complete.

      Post-Intervention Phase (2 weeks):

      ActiGraph: At the end of the 10-week intervention, each participant (parent-child dyad) will
      again be mailed an Actigraph GT9x, all accessories and protocols. Throughout the 2-week
      post-phase data collection period, parents will again use their personal smart-phone app to
      log and push data from the Actigraph to CentrePoint, via Wi-Fi each day. Data from the
      Actigraph GT9x will be provide the secondary outcome of percent sleep efficiency.
      Investigators will explore change in percent sleep efficiency at pre-post 10 week TranS-CY
      intervention.
    
  