
    
      This is a prospective, longitudinal, pilot study of non-invasive diagnostic tests to explore
      recurrent or de novo NAFLD/NASH in liver transplant recipients. The study will be conducted
      at the Royal Victoria Hospital, McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) Solid Organ Transplant
      Unit, which carries out 60 liver transplants per year. A dedicated liver transplant database
      is in place since 1990 and prospectively collects demographic and clinical characteristics of
      all patients. In November 2013, two fully equipped Fibroscan machines have been acquired by
      the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology of the MUHC. The MUHC is the first center in
      Quebec to have access to the latest modules of Fibroscan (CAP and XL probe) that are
      essential to diagnose hepatic steatosis. In preparation for the current project, the
      Investigators performed an analysis of frequencies of hepatitis C, alcoholic liver disease,
      NASH, hepatitis B as indications for liver transplantation MUHC Center Solid Organ Transplant
      in 2000 and 2013. NASH was the only indication that significantly increased (8% in 2000 vs
      20% in 2013; p<0.0001) and currently represents the third indication.

      Enrolled participants will be followed every 3 months for one year, in conjunction with their
      regular care visit.

      Blood samples obtained during the screening and the study visits will be processed by the
      research technician of the MUHC Solid Organ Transplant Unit. The plasma will be stored at
      -80C until used for quantitative measurement of CK-18 levels by the Human cytokeratin ELISA
      kit.

      The fibroscan examination will be performed on a 4-hour fasting participants. The standard M
      probe will be used in all participants. The XL probe will be used in obese patients (BMI>30
      Kg/m2) and in case of failure of Fibroscan by the M probe. CAP examination will be performed
      at the same time to diagnose hepatic steatosis. A valid Fibroscan result will be defined by
      10 validated measures and IQR < 30% of the median. Validated cut-off values will be applied
      to diagnose hepatic steatosis and fibrosis by Fibroscan/CAP. Grading of steatosis will be as
      following: mild steatosis (<30% of the hepatocytes); moderate steatosis (30-60%); severe
      steatosis (>60%).
    
  