
    
      This is a randomized open-label phase II trial comparing paclitaxel/margetuximab/pertuzumab
      (TMP) to paclitaxel/trastuzumab/pertuzumab (THP) in patients with anatomic stage II-III HER2
      positive breast cancer.

        -  The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment
           including laboratory evaluations, two mandatory research biopsies and follow up visits.

        -  Participants will be randomized, which means randomly assigned, to one of two treatment
           arms. The treatment arms in this study and the names of the study drugs in each arm are:

             -  Arm A: Paclitaxel, Pertzumab and Margetuximab

             -  Arm B: Paclitaxel, Pertzumab and Trastuzumab

      Participants will receive study treatment for 12 weeks prior to surgery and will be followed
      for 10 years after surgery. After surgery, some participants will continue to receive the
      study drug margetuximab for a year in total, if they respond very well to the first 12 weeks
      of treatment with margetuximab.

      It is expected that about 171 people will take part in this research study.

      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug combination to learn whether the drug
      combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug
      combination is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved paclitaxel, trastuzumab
      (Herceptin), and pertuzumab as part of a pre-operative treatment option for stage II-III
      HER2-positive breast cancer.

      The use of margetuximab has not been approved by the FDA, for treatment of HER2-positive
      breast cancer, or any other type of cancer. In other clinical studies, this drug has
      prevented or slowed the growth of breast cancer.

      Previous studies also suggest that margetuximab could be more or equally as effective as
      trastuzumab for patients with certain immune system features and stage II-III HER2-positive
      breast cancer.
    
  