
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of trauma-focused group
      therapy for reducing HIV risk behavior and revictimization among adult women survivors of
      childhood sexual abuse (CSA). Research indicates that childhood sexual abuse is a major risk
      factor for becoming HIV-infected. Individuals with CSA may be less able to benefit from
      HIV/AIDS prevention intervention if they are continuing to be traumatized by their earlier
      CSA experiences that interfere with their learning safer patterns of interpersonal and
      personal functioning. This study will examine whether or not it is helpful to focus on
      survivors' memories of CSA in order to reduce HIV risk behavior, revictimization, and
      distress. It will also examine potential mediators of treatment effectiveness for CSA
      survivors. This randomized clinical intervention trial will compare trauma-focused group
      therapy against a present-focused group therapy comparison condition and a case-management
      only control condition. All three groups will be provided with case management. We will
      recruit a total of 192 adult women survivors of childhood sexual abuse through newspaper
      advertisements and through local community organizations (e.g., community health clinics,
      rape crisis centers). All 192 research participants will meet criteria for posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) for CSA as well as have engaged in HIV risk behavior and/or
      experienced sexual revictimization within the past 3 months. These research participants will
      be recruited for a randomized clinical intervention trial to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the trauma-focused and present-focused treatment conditions and to identify mediators of
      treatment effects. Women for the randomized clinical intervention trial will be recruited in
      eight cohorts of 24 subjects each for randomization to treatment condition (trauma-focused or
      present-focused or case management only). Intervention subjects will be assessed on
      behavioral and other psychosocial measures at baseline and at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month
      follow-up assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of trauma-focused treatment against the
      present-focused treatment and the case management only control condition in reducing HIV risk
      behavior, sexual revictimization, and trauma symptoms, and improving interpersonal
      functioning. We will examine three mediators of treatment effectiveness, including: 1) trauma
      reactive and resilient beliefs about self and the world; 2) differentiation and integration
      of self; and 3) interpersonal relations.
    
  