
    
      There is a high prevalence of type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) in the
      older population. Aging is associated with insulin resistance and impaired insulin secretion,
      with greater defects in older people with IGT. Beta-cell dysfunction is critical in the
      progression from normal glucose to tolerance to IGT and to diabetes.

      In the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), lifestyle intervention with diet and exercise
      training significantly lowered the rate of progression from IGT to diabetes, and was
      particularly effective in older people. The mechanisms of lifestyle changes to prevent
      diabetes and the effects on beta-cell function remain unclear. Exercise is well-known to
      increase insulin sensitivity, although exercise effects on beta-cell function have not been
      specifically assessed. In a pilot study supported by local VA funds, one week of aerobic
      exercise training improved insulin sensitivity as expected, but also improved beta-cell
      function in sedentary older people with IGT, with no change in body weight/composition,
      fasting glucose or lipid/inflammatory parameters.

      Based on my current VA RCDA project and the pilot study results, this VA CDA-2 proposal will
      test in detail the novel overall hypothesis that lifestyle intervention with aerobic exercise
      training leads to improved beta-cell function in human age-related glucose intolerance. The
      potential mechanisms of the age-associated decline in beta-cell function and whereby exercise
      training may improve beta-cell function will also be explored. Beta-cell function will be
      examined in relation to expected improvements in insulin sensitivity, and the effects of
      exercise will be isolated with weight maintenance and nutritional balance. The time course of
      exercise effects over three months, the acute and chronic effects of exercise training on
      beta-cell function, the effects of high vs. low intensity exercise training, and different
      important components of beta-cell function will be examined. The interaction between exercise
      training effects on beta-cell function in older people with IGT and potential mediators
      including free fatty acids (FFA)/FFA composition, intraabdominal fat, adipocytokines, and
      incretin hormones will be examined.

      In light of the striking effectiveness of the DPP lifestyle intervention to prevent diabetes
      in older people with IGT, the decline in beta-cell function with even normal human aging, and
      the importance of beta-cell dysfunction in the progression to diabetes, it is of great
      interest to further define the potential, novel metabolic effects of exercise training on
      beta-cell function, particularly in the aging population. This project may provide initial
      steps to further determine the mechanisms whereby lifestyle changes prevent diabetes. This
      would provide critical information needed to translate research findings into clinical
      practice in order to prevent diabetes in the aging veteran population.
    
  