
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a pathophysiologic condition and is a final common pathway of most
      forms of cardiovascular disease. Patients with HF experience poor quality of life, recurrent
      emergency hospitalizations and premature mortality.

      Recent publications highlight the multiple challenges of dealing with an increasing burden of
      heart disease within an urban African community. The predominance of women and novel
      underlying causes contrast with the demographic of HF in high income countries. More than 50%
      of 5328 de novo cases of heart disease captured at a tertiary clinic in Soweto presented with
      some form of heart failure, mainly due to poorly treated hypertension, idiopathic dilated
      cardiomyopathy, peripartum cardiomyopathy and HIV-related cardiomyopathy. The most prevalent
      form of heart disease was hypertensive heart failure (> 1100 cases).

      Programs have been developed in high income countries that cost-effectively prevent
      progressive cardiac dysfunction in high risk individuals and apply evidence-based treatments
      to optimize the overall management of HF. There is, however, a paucity of data describing the
      etiology and underlying cardiac structure and function, as well as contemporary management of
      HF in low to middle income countries.

      In 2005 a number of leading clinicians from Africa and the US published a "call for action"
      highlighting the need for an African study documenting the aetiology of acute heart failure
      and the management practices applied to these patients. As a result, The Sub-Saharan Africa
      Survey of Heart Failure (THESUS HF) study, was initiated in 9 countries in Africa to
      determine aetiology, treatment, morbidity and mortality of acute heart failure (HF) in the
      African sub-continent. The data reported in this study are unique as they are the first
      larger outcome study in acute heart failure from this continent. This first multinational
      study of over 1000 patients with acute decompensated heart failure conducted in all regions
      of sub-Saharan Africa shows, for the first time, that the treatment of heart failure is
      sub-optimal in the region, with relatively low proven medical treatments (such as
      beta-blockers, hydralazine and nitrates) and inappropriately high use of aspirin in a cohort
      of patients with non-ischaemic heart failure. This study also had the clear purpose of
      enhancing research capacity in Africa via collaborative research as outlined in our
      publication.

      The use of Ace inhibitors (ACEi) and hydralazine/nitrates has never been examined in patients
      admitted with acute heart failure. All studies demonstrating the beneficial effects of these
      drugs were performed in patients with chronic heart failure. Previous studies have shown that
      the administration of ACEi in African Americans with chronic heart failure is less effective
      and not superior to combined treatment with hydralazine/isosorbide dinitrate. The African
      American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT) established the benefit of adjunctive administration of
      isosorbide dinitrate/hydralazine (ISDN/HYD) in addition to standard therapy for African
      American patients with symptomatic heart failure. The risk of death was reduced by 33% and
      markers of quality of life were improved.

      The THESUS registry has shown a high prevalence of hypertension with left ventricular
      systolic dysfunction (hypertensive heart failure) and dilated cardiomyopathy as a cause of
      acute heart failure in all participating African countries. Patients in Africa are rarely
      treated with this combination therapy as the fixed combination (Bidil) is unavailable in
      Africa. There is uncertainty if the combination of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate,
      available as generic agents, is beneficial in Africans and many physicians in Africa are not
      aware of the outcome of those studies published in high impact factor journals, often not
      available to local doctors.

      Performing a multicentre study in Africa could confirm data obtained in African Americans,
      create awareness for this promising combination treatment and extend the use of the
      medication to patients with acute heart failure.

      This BAHEF protocol has an approved 'Amendment # 1' dated 29 April 2013. Amendments were
      changes to the Eligibility criteria and have been changed on this site.

      To date, 22 Sept 2014, the BAHEF study has enrolled 110 study subjects. To date, 13 Aug 2015,
      the BAHEF study has enrolled 145 eligible subjects.
    
  