
    
      Background and Project Justification: Neck pain is now the fourth leading cause of years lost
      to disability, shortly after back pain, depression, and arthralgia. Cervical radiculopathy, a
      common cause of neck and radiating arm pain, is estimated to afflict 83:100,000 individuals
      yearly. Age-related cervical spondylosis and disc herniation are the most common causes, with
      the C6 and C7 nerve roots most frequently affected. In general, patients who experience new
      onset radicular pain tend to improve within 4-6 months, with complete recovery in over 80% of
      patients by 24-36 months. However, a significant proportion of patients experience severe
      pain and associated functional impairment despite conservative care, which often prompts
      physician directed interventions.

      Cervical transforaminal epidural steroid injection (TFESI) is a target-specific treatment for
      refractory radicular pain. Analgesic mechanisms for epidural steroid administration include
      reducing inflammation at the nerve root, reducing nociceptive input from somatic nerves,
      stabilization of neural membranes, and blockade of C fiber activity in the dorsal root
      ganglion . Previously, this procedure was associated with rare but catastrophic neurologic
      injury, though to be related to inadvertent deposit of particulate steroid into the vertebral
      artery or radiculomedullary arteries, both of which traverse through or close to the cervical
      neuroforamina . Since the physician community has adopted new guidelines that include the use
      of only non-particulate steroid during cervical TFESI , neurologic infarction has not been
      reported in the literature. When the Spine Intervention Society (SIS) clinical practice
      guidelines are employed, large cohort study demonstrates zero prevalence of serious
      complications associated with this procedure .

      While high-quality outcome literature demonstrates both efficacy and effectiveness for
      analogous use of this intervention in the lumbar spine, far fewer studies have addressed
      clinical outcomes associated with cervical TFESI in which appropriate procedure technique ,
      outcome measurement, data analysis, and results interpretation have been reported . Outcome
      literature reporting on the use of cervical TFESI is limited by small sample size,
      retrospective design with loss of follow-up, lack of categorical data analysis, and a failure
      to stratify results by demographic and clinical variables that potentially influence pain and
      functional outcomes. Further, outcome literature reports on the effect of particulate steroid
      injectate during cervical TFESI is no longer relevant to appropriate clinical practice in the
      context of unequivocal guidelines. Pragmatic studies with a cervical TFESI arm in which
      dexamethasone was use do allow for some insight regarding success rates associated with this
      procedure; calculates of success rates in these studies arms demonstrate responder rates of
      60% achieving >50% pain relief (CI95 35-85%) at 4 weeks, 55% achieving >50% (CI95 43-67%) at
      8 weeks, and 65% achieving >50% at 12 weeks (CI95 48-81%). These responder rates are
      encouraging, but limited by wide 95% confidence intervals due to small sample size. Prior
      systematic review has concluded that the evidence for treatment benefit of radicular pain by
      cervical TFESI is of very low quality due to multiple limitations in study design introducing
      risk of bias, but does overall suggest approximately 50% patients experience 50% relief of
      radicular pain for at least 4 weeks after cervical TFESI.

      Additional clinical outcome literature is needed, particularly given recent policy decisions,
      such as that of Oregon State in relation to ending coverage of epidural steroid injections at
      any spinal level. Without expansion of the evidence-basis for this important procedure, there
      is a risk that this treatment option may be taken away from patients suffering from cervical
      radicular pain by further policy change. A sham-controlled trial, similar to the Ghahreman
      study, would be ideal; however, due to cost considerations germane to a study designed and
      conducted in a manner that would prevent any possible criticism from the larger medical
      community, we instead propose a high-quality, large prospective cohort study as a significant
      contribution to the literature. Even the best designed trials, such as Dreyfuss' 2006 study,
      have been underpowered to definitively demonstrate effectiveness; notably, the lower bound of
      the 95% confidence interval of the proportion of treatment responders in this study was 35%.
      The investigators aim to conduct a large enough cohort study narrow the 95% confidence
      interval of the proportion of responders substantially. Preliminary data from our center
      demonstrates a responder rate of 55% at 4-week follow-up (n=22), based on a definition of
      ≥50% improvement in index pain (Appendix A). These data represent analysis of consecutive
      patients who underwent cervical TFESI for unilateral radicular pain as a part of a different
      prospective outcome study at our center, nearing completion. This responder rate represents a
      conservative estimate of what might be expected in the proposed work, as the current study
      includes less stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Further, the investigators intend to use the results of this study as foundational data from
      which to propose a randomized controlled study through a large federal funding mechanism. It
      is imperative that such a trial be conducted by investigators who are experienced with this
      procedure and understand the appropriate standards for the design and interpretation of the
      results of a study of a treatment intervention for pain. Our spine research group is
      well-positioned for this, and we absolutely welcome the input and mentorship of the Spine
      Intervention Society Research Division, Board of Directors, and other leadership towards this
      mutual goal.
    
  