
    
      Migraine is a highly prevalent, debilitating and costly disorder. Eighteen percent of women
      and 6% of men are affected by migraine; a neurovascular disorder characterized by severe
      recurrent headache pain episodes involving nausea, photophobia, phonophobia and aversion to
      physical activity.

      There is increasing evidence that obesity exacerbates migraine. Obesity is associated with
      more frequent headaches in episodic migraineurs, and is a risk factor for progression to
      chronic migraine. Several plausible mechanisms have been proposed to underlie the
      migraine-obesity link including common pro-inflammatory processes, psychological conditions
      that are comorbid to both disorders (e.g., depression), and similar behavioral risk factors
      (e.g., low physical activity and high fat intake).

      No research to date has examined the impact of standard behavioral weight loss programs on
      migraine in obese adults. Behavioral weight loss programs focused on improving diet and
      physical activity consistently produce weight losses of 8-10 kg at 6 months which reduces the
      risk of diabetes and improves cardiovascular disease risk factors. Weight loss may also
      improve each of the physiological, psychological, and behavioral pathways that purportedly
      link migraine and obesity. Thus, behavioral weight loss programs may serve as an innovative
      approach to treating migraine headaches.

      This study involves a randomized controlled trial to examine the efficacy of behavioral
      weight loss as a treatment for migraine. One hundred and forty obese females who meet
      research criteria for migraine, as confirmed by a study neurologist and completion of an
      electronic headache diary will be assigned to 16 weekly group sessions of either: (1)
      Behavioral weight loss (BWL) treatment (n=70) or (2) Healthy Living for Migraine Relief
      (HLMR) education (n=70). BWL will provide a combination of empirically validated diet and
      exercise prescriptions and behavior change strategies such as self-monitoring, goal-setting
      and stimulus control. HLMR will provide education on migraine and pharmacological and
      behavioral (e.g., stress management) treatments. Both groups will use smartphones to record
      their headaches for 4 weeks at a time during pre-treatment, post-treatment, and the end of a
      16-week weight maintenance period. Weight and other potential physiological (inflammation),
      psychological (depression), and behavioral (diet and physical activity) mediators of the
      treatment effect will be assessed at the end of treatment for tests of prospective effects on
      migraine days at post-treatment. The primary hypothesis is that BWL participants will report
      greater pre- to post-treatment reductions in number of migraine days than HLMR participants.
    
  