
    
      Over the last decade, there has been an increasing demand to overcome the disadvantages
      associated with conventional implant materials, by developing new, alternative materials and
      material production approaches for use in trauma care.

      In recent years there has been a growing interest in the orthopaedic application of
      resorbable implants. Their use in children may be particularly beneficial.
      Poly(L-lactide)-co-glycolide acid (PLGA) is a well-known, reliable biodegradable material
      that has been used in bone surgery for more than 20 years. Several publications have already
      reported the successful use of intra-medullar PLGA implants in the treatment of paediatric
      diaphyseal forearm fractures.

      To gather further evidence about the clinical value of the new method with PLGA - based
      bioresorbable implant in regard to patients benefit, a multicenter prospective trial is
      needed. This trial will be conducted on the distal forearm, which is one of the most common
      fracture locations that requires surgical intervention in children. Severely displaced distal
      paediatric forearm fractures will be addressed.

      Distal paediatric forearm injuries

      Distal radius fractures are among the most common injuries of childhood. Optimal treatment
      for distal radius fractures is still controversial. Treatment of severely displaced and
      shortened fractures usually require general narcosis and closed reduction. Most authors
      recommend osteosynthesis if the fracture remains unstable after reduction. The gold standard
      operative method for these fractures is closed reduction, percutaneous pinning with
      Kirschner-wires.

      Kirschner-wire related minor complications are relatively frequent. Migration of the pins,
      superficial infections, skin irritation are well manageable but significantly impair the
      child's sense of comfort. Deep infections, tendon or nerve injuries may occur less often.
      There is a controversy as to whether it is preferable to leave the wires outside the skin.
      While wires left out of the skin increase the risk of infection, wires buried under the skin
      can be removed with a second intervention. Removing the implants can also cause
      complications.

      K-wires are not capable of providing sufficient stabilization in this indication, so
      additional casting treatment is also required. The duration and the type of postoperative
      immobilization varies greatly according to the practice of the surgeons. There is no evidence
      about the most optimal immobilization procedure. 4-6 weeks of cast wearing is recommended by
      most authors. This causes stiffness in the affected joints and delays the recovery of full
      function. Fractures with intramedullary elastic nails require a reduced time of
      immobilization because they provide a more stable synthesis, but nails can be removed only
      under general anaesthesia. The use of bioabsorbable intramedullary nails in distal paediatric
      forearm fractures may eliminate all of the above-mentioned disadvantages.

      The study is designed as a multicenter trial for the treatment of distal pediatric forearm
      fractures (=severely displaced distal metaphyseal forearm fractures) with a PLGA-based
      biodegradable intramedullary implant in children. The primary objective of the trial is to
      evaluate clinical outcome between Activa IM-Nail™ and K-wire in this indication. The
      secondary objective is to evaluate potential differences of potential complications in the
      operative method with either a biodegradable intramedullary PLGA-implant or with conventional
      K-wires. K-wire osteosynthesis will be made according to the conventional surgical technique
      by two paediatric trauma centers. Intramedullary PLGA implantation will be made by the
      Péterfy Hospital. The surgical indication will be the same in all groups, and follow-up will
      follow standard protocols. In the further clinical course, the patients in the study group
      treated with PLGA implants spare a subsequent operation for implant removal after 4-8 weeks.
      The results of different surgeries will be compared based on several criteria.
    
  