
    
      -  Investigator consecutively included patients with known persistent airflow obstruction,
           hospitalized in Pneumology Department at the CHU Gabriel Montpied in Clermont-Ferrand.

        -  Investigator offered to participate to an observational study involving nutritional
           evaluation (recommended by national and international authorities) complementary to
           their usual respiratory care, and a 6 months' follow-up consultation: examination and
           surveys, mid-arm muscle circumference, body composition, spirometry.

        -  This enables to assess sarcopenia as a low mid-arm muscle area, by measuring the mid-arm
           muscle circumference of the dominant side and the triceps skinfold thickness.

        -  The primary endpoint is to determine the prevalence of sarcopenia, via the brachial
           muscular circumference, of chronic obstructive patients hospitalized in Pneumology
           department.

        -  The data entry (clinical, biological and radiological) is carried out on site, during
           the initial consultation and follow-up, directly on the computerized patient file. These
           data will then be retrieved and entered in an Excel spreadsheet, anonymously (anonymous
           identification number, gender and age).

        -  Management of censored data (lost to follow-up, cessation or withdrawal of study): each
           patient has a "computerized patient record" with phone numbers, checked during the first
           consultation and updated if necessary. The patient is called back one month before the
           follow-up consultation to confirm the appointment. If it is impossible to come, the
           patient will be offered another appointment, within one month of his initial
           appointment.

        -  Lost participants will not be excluded from statistical analyses.

        -  The expected number of subjects is 50.

        -  Oral and written consent is asked at the beginning of the consultation proposing
           participation in the study and follow-up at 6 months.
    
  