
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the freedom from local and regional failure in women with early stage
           breast cancer treated with accelerated, hypofractionated radiotherapy.

        -  To determine the acute and late toxicity of accelerated, hypofractionated radiotherapy
           using previously published toxicity scales.

      Secondary

        -  To measure cosmesis using the Harvard cosmesis scale in patients who have undergone
           lumpectomy.

        -  To identify co-variates responsible for poor cosmetic outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients who have undergone lumpectomy undergo either intracavitary balloon
      brachytherapy boost and hypofractionated, accelerated whole breast irradiation (AWBI) OR
      3D-conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT)/intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) boost and AWBI.
      Patients who have undergone mastectomy undergo hypofractionated, accelerated chest wall
      irradiation.

        -  Intracavitary balloon brachytherapy boost and AWBI (post-lumpectomy): Patients undergo
           intracavitary balloon brachytherapy boost twice daily for 2 days (total of 4 fractions).
           Beginning 5-21 days after completion of brachytherapy, patients undergo AWBI once daily
           5 days a week for approximately 2 weeks (total of 11 fractions).

        -  3D-CRT/IMRT boost and AWBI (post-lumpectomy): Patients undergo 3D-CRT/IMRT boost twice
           daily for 2 days (total of 4 fractions). Patients also undergo AWBI as above before or
           after boost radiotherapy.

        -  Accelerated chest wall irradiation (post-mastectomy): Patients undergo accelerated chest
           wall irradiation once daily 5 days a week for approximately 2 weeks (total of 11
           fractions).

      Patients who have undergone lumpectomy undergo frontal digital photography of the breasts at
      baseline, immediately before the initiation of radiotherapy, and then annually for 3 years
      after completion of radiotherapy. These patients also complete the Breast Cancer Treatment
      Outcome Scale at baseline and at 3 years after completion of radiotherapy. Physicians
      complete the Harvard Cosmesis scale at baseline and at 1 and 3 years after completion of
      radiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at weeks 1, 4, and 8 and then
      every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and annually thereafter.
    
  