
    
      ----------------------- OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of the SPIN-SELF feasibility trial with progression to full-scale RCT
      is to evaluate the disease management self-efficacy of participants who use SPIN's online
      self-management program (SPIN-SELF), compared to usual care. Secondary objectives are to
      assess the effect of SPIN-SELF on functional health outcomes, as well as usage of the
      SPIN-SELF program and patient satisfaction with the format and delivery.

      ----------------------- RECRUITMENT

      The SPIN Cohort currently includes over 2000 SSc patients from 47 sites in Canada, the United
      States, Mexico, Australia, and France, Spain, and the United Kingdom. SPIN Cohort
      participants complete outcome measures via the Internet upon enrolment and subsequently every
      three months. Eligible patients, based on questionnaire responses (Self-Efficacy for Managing
      Chronic Disease (SEMCD) Scale ≤ 7), will be invited to participate in the SPIN-SELF
      feasibility trial with progression to full-scale trial. Additionally, recruitment
      announcements for the SPIN-SELF feasibility and full-scale trials will be posted on SPIN's
      Facebook page and Twitter account and distributed for posting via SPIN's patient organization
      partners in countries with large English and French-speaking populations. The non-SPIN Cohort
      participants' eligibility will be assessed with the SEMCD Scale. In the feasibility portion,
      only English-speaking participants will be included. In the full-scale trial, English and
      French-speaking participants will be included. An anticipated 40 eligible participants will
      be recruited into the feasibility portion, and an anticipated 518 eligible participants will
      be recruited into the SPIN-SELF full-scale RCT.

      ----------------------- PROGRESSION FROM SPIN-SELF FEASIBILITY TRIAL TO FULL-SCALE TRIAL

      The investigators will launch the SPIN-SELF trial as a feasibility trial with possible
      progression to full-scale trial. Thus, in the feasibility portion of the proposed study, the
      trial team will collect data to improve several aspects of the trial's processes. At the
      completion of the feasibility portion, the trial team plans to proceed directly to the
      full-scale trial, including results from the feasibility stage in the full-scale trial,
      unless one or more of the stoppage criteria occur. In that case, the trial team will address
      issues that are identified and begin the full-scale trial anew, separate from the feasibility
      trial. The stoppage criteria are the following:

        1. Recruitment and enrolment of trial participants: If participants who are eligible based
           on their self-efficacy scores (SEMCD ≤ 7) are not recorded as eligible in the
           eligibility report on the new SPIN Cohort platform (gen2) and not recruited, then the
           programming errors in the new platform will need to be addressed and procedures will
           need to be re-set before the full-scale trial can commence. If more than 6 non-eligible
           participants (15% of 40 enrolled in feasibility trial) are erroneously identified as
           eligible and assigned to the intervention or waitlist control, the trial team would
           address programming errors, modify procedures and conduct the full-scale trial as a new
           trial.

        2. Fidelity of the delivery of the intervention (i.e., group sessions): If by the end of
           the feasibility trial > 20% of the components of the 8 sessions were not delivered
           according to the pre-specified program, the trial team will investigate to identify
           barriers to the delivery of the intervention and will modify the intervention procedures
           accordingly, before proceeding to the full-scale trial. The full-scale trial would need
           to commence as a new trial.

        3. Group format of the SPIN-SELF sessions: If participants across groups consistently
           suggest similar changes to the format of the SPIN-SELF program, then the trial team
           would modify the format of the intervention sessions according to this consensus
           feedback. These modifications would be made before commencing the full-scale trial as a
           new trial.

           At the end of the SPIN-SELF feasibility trial, the investigators will use the collected
           information and evaluation of the stoppage criteria to decide whether to: (1) Continue
           to the full-scale RCT without modifications to the trial procedures, (2) Modify trial
           procedures based on participant feedback before continuing to the full-scale trial, or
           (3) Modify the trial procedures before re-setting them and conducting the full-scale RCT
           as a new trial (in this case, outcome data collected during the feasibility phase will
           not be included in the analyses of the full-scale trial).

           ----------------------- RANDOMISATION

           Monthly, consented participants will be entered into pools based on language and
           scheduling availability. De-identified codes for participants in each pool will be
           provided to an external randomisation service. Starting with the largest pool, the
           service will randomly select the largest possible even number of participants (12 to 20
           participants) then randomly allocate half to intervention and half to control via single
           block randomisation using R version 3.6.3. This will be repeated to form as many groups
           of 6-10 participants and paired waitlist participants as possible each month until the
           enrolment target is met.

           ----------------------- INTERVENTION

           The SPIN-SELF Program is an 8-session group videoconference intervention that is
           delivered over the course of 12 weeks. Each videoconference-based intervention group
           will be led by a facilitator who has been trained in the SPIN- Scleroderma Support Group
           Leader Education (SSLED) Program.

           ----------------------- STATISTICAL ANALYSES

           For continuous outcomes, we will use an intent-to-treat analysis to estimate score
           differences between intervention and waitlist participants with a linear mixed-effects
           model fit using the lmer function in lme4. Score differences and Hedges' g SMD effect
           size will be presented with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). To estimate odds ratios for
           the dichotomous MCID, intent-to-treat analysis will be done with a binomial generalized
           linear mixed-effects models with a log link function fit using the glmer function in
           lme4.

           For all models, to account for clustering in the blocked PN-RCT design, we will fit a
           random intercept and slope for treatment effect by randomisation block and an additional
           random slope for treatment by intervention group cluster. In main analyses, in addition
           to a fixed effect for assignment to the intervention arm, we will include a fixed effect
           for baseline score. In adjusted analyses, we will also control for age (years), sex
           (male vs. female), SSc disease subtype (diffuse vs. limited), disease duration (years
           since diagnosis), and country (Canada, France, USA, other) as fixed effects.

           In the event of missing outcome data, to minimize the possibility of bias, we will use
           multiple imputation by chained equations using the mice package to generate 20 imputed
           datasets, using 15 cycles per imputed dataset. Variables in the mice procedure will
           include randomisation block, intervention arm, number of intervention sessions attended,
           measures of all primary and secondary outcomes at baseline and post-intervention, age,
           sex, SSc disease subtype, years since diagnosis, country, and race/ethnicity. Pooled
           standard errors and associated 95% CIs will be estimated using Rubin's rules.

           To estimate average intervention effects among compliers, which will be defined based on
           the number of sessions completed, we will use an instrumental variable approach to
           inflate intent-to-treat effects from main models by the inverse probability of
           compliance among intervention arm participants; 95% CIs will be constructed via a
           cluster bootstrap approach, resampling at study randomisation block and participant
           levels.
    
  