
    
      The investigators are proposing a study that will specifically and innovatively focus on the
      development of a novel positive psychology intervention that is adapted for patients with
      T2D. The MGH Diabetes Center and MGH primary care clinics will serve as the source of
      subjects for the study, with patients who have a diagnosis of T2D serving as potential
      subjects. The investigators will enroll 12 T2D patients, who will take part in an 16-week
      PP-MI health behavior intervention.

      In this project, the investigators plan to do the following:

        1. Test a 16-week, telephone-delivered health behavior intervention utilizing PP exercises
           and systematic goal-setting in a brief, non-randomized, proof-of concept trial (N=12).

        2. Determine whether this initial intervention is feasible in a small cohort of T2D
           patients.

        3. Explore potential benefits of the intervention on outcomes of interest (e.g., optimism,
           positive affect).

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of the
      population. This information will include data regarding medical history (type 2 diabetes
      mellitus), current medical variables (conditions affecting physical activity), medications,
      and sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

      Participants will undergo an initial screening visit during which they will meet with study
      staff in person. At this visit, study eligibility will be confirmed, and eligible and willing
      participants will be enrolled. Following enrollment, participants will complete self-report
      measures, and nurses in the Translational and Clinical Research Center will collect vital
      signs and draw blood for A1c. To ensure that participants have low baseline physical
      activity, they will then take home and wear accelerometers for 1 week.

      Participants will undergo a second in-person visit to confirm that participants are eligible
      to complete the program and--if so--to initiate the program. During this session, A1c and
      accelerometer data will be reviewed. Participants will be required to have an A1c value
      between 6.5% and 9%, unless they have had an eligible A1c level in the past 6 months, in
      which case their current A1c may be between 6% and 9.5%. Furthermore, participants must have
      low physical activity (< 75 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity over the past
      week, measured by accelerometer) to continue in the program. Upon confirmation of
      eligibility, participants will begin the study intervention.

      During this second in-person visit, participants will receive a PP-MI treatment manual. For
      each session, a PP exercise will be described in the manual, with instructions and space to
      write about the exercise and its effects. Next, an MI section will outline specific MI-based
      topics (e.g., pros/cons, managing slips) and facilitate physical activity goal-setting.
      Interventionists will complete PP exercise 1 and MI session 1 together with participants to
      aid engagement. Interventionists will also explain/assign PP exercise 2 and discuss an
      MI-based activity goal matched to participants' stage of change and medical recommendations
      (and assign activity tracking).

      Participants will complete the remaining sessions (14 in total) by phone over the next 16
      weeks. Phone sessions will last for approximately 30 minutes, with PP and physical activity
      assignments completed between phone sessions. PP and MI components will be delivered stepwise
      within sessions (rather than intertwined) based on our experience, participant feedback, and
      pilot work. If a week is missed, the session will not be skipped, but rather the intervention
      will be completed sequentially (with participants who miss weeks then missing the final
      sessions), with the exception of the final visit, which skip to Planning for the Future in
      all cases.

      Participants will undergo an in-person follow-up assessment at 16 weeks. At this session,
      participants will repeat self-report assessments that were administered at baseline. Vital
      signs and a blood sample will again be collected at this final in-person visit. Finally,
      prior to this assessment, participants will wear an accelerometer for an additional 7 days to
      measure moderate or vigorous physical activity. The investigators will allow a window of 3
      weeks, to allow flexibility of scheduling such in-person appointments in Boston (and to allow
      coordination with other medical visits at MGH) while maintaining integrity of study findings.
    
  