
    
      Clear cell carcinoma (CCC) is an uncommon histotype of ovarian and a rare histotype of
      endometrial cancer. The prognosis for recurrent disease is poor with response rates to
      standard chemotherapy of <10% so there is an urgent need for novel therapies. Ovarian CCC
      (OCCC) is biologically different from other ovarian cancer histotypes but shares features
      with renal CCC, including upregulation of angiogenesis pathways. Hence inhibition of
      angiogenesis, which has been a successful strategy in renal CCC, may also be of benefit in
      OCCC and endometrial CCC (ECCC).

      Nintedanib is a well-tolerated, potent, orally-available, kinase inhibitor targeting Vascular
      Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGFR) 1-3, Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor (PDGFR)α/β,
      and Firbroblas Gworth Factor Receptors (FGFR) 1-3. It is licensed in Europe in combination
      with docetaxel after first line chemotherapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC).
      Importantly it also has significant activity as a single agent in renal CCC with an Overall
      Response Rate (ORR) of 20.3%, disease control rate of 76.% and 43% 9 month progression free
      survival.

      Response rates (RR) of ovarian CCC to standard chemotherapy with or without platinum are poor
      whatever line of treatment. A number of different agents are used in recurrent CCC and,
      although isolated instances of response to a variety of agents have been reported, no regimen
      seems to offer a particular advantage. As a result the investigators do not expect to see
      significant differences in response rates within the chemotherapy arms of the study. Hence it
      is feasible to allow physicians a choice of chemotherapy from a pre-specified selection and
      to include patients with multiple previous relapses. Since overall and progression free
      survival may be shorter with successive lines of treatment, the number of previous lines of
      treatment will be a stratification factor. These measures should maximise recruitment of this
      rare tumour sub-type across different countries.
    
  