
    
      Background:

      Shoulder is a highly mobile joint with the most directional range of movement compared to
      other joints in the body. Thus, the surrounding supporting structures of the shoulder joint
      compromise on the stability of the joint, in order to accomplish this wide range of motion.

      Anterior dislocations, the most common type of shoulder dislocation, are often complicated by
      instability, and repeated dislocations. Shoulder instability results in pain and negatively
      impacts quality of life. Several long-term studies have demonstrated a relationship between
      the repeated dislocations and the risk of arthritis.

      Surgical stabilization of the shoulder improves function and may reduce the risk of
      developing degenerative arthritis. Two procedures are commonly performed in patients with
      repeated dislocations: a bony transfer procedure (Latarjet) or a soft tissue procedure
      (Bankart + Remplissage). The Latarjet procedure involves transferring bone to the front of
      the shoulder. The Bankart + Remplissage procedure involves tightening the soft tissues at the
      front of the shoulder joint.

      Although retrospective clinical studies have suggested a reduced recurrence rate with the
      Latarjet procedure, there is a higher reported complication rate and potential morbidity
      associated with the open procedure. Several case series from high-volume surgeons in Europe
      have suggested the Latarjet repair to be an acceptable and potentially favorable surgical
      approach for all cases of recurrent anterior shoulder dislocation, even in the primary
      setting and in the absence of significant glenoid cup bone loss. Retrospective analysis of
      soft tissue repair in comparison to open coracoid (Latarjet) procedure found at 10-year
      follow up, redislocation rates were 13% (36) of 271 shoulders with a Bankart repair and 1%
      (1) of the 93 shoulders with a Latarjet repair.

      Need for a Pilot Study Prior to a Large Trial:

      No comparative randomized control trial has been completed evaluating Bankart repair in
      comparison to Latarjet procedure in the setting of mild to moderate bone loss. Thus, surgeons
      face uncertainty regarding which procedure to perform. The Latarjet is more invasive (larger
      incision) and some research suggests it may be more effective at treating instability. The
      Bankart procedure, while minimally invasive (smaller incision), may result in higher rates of
      instability after surgery.

      Prior to a large trial, the investigators will conduct a pilot trial comparing arthroscopic
      capsuloligamentous repair (Bankart Procedure) vs. coracoid transfer (Latarjet procedure) on
      recurrent dislocation rates and functional outcomes over a 24-month period. This research
      will provide surgeons with new information regarding the best treatment for recurrent
      shoulder dislocation.

      Study Aims and Objectives:

      A pilot study is needed prior to a large trial to determine the feasibility of a larger trial
      in terms of:

        1. Ability to recruit across clinical sites

        2. Adherence to study protocol and,

        3. Ability to follow participants for 24 months

      The trial will also compare arthroscopic capsuloligamentous repair (Bankart + Remplissage
      Procedure) vs. coracoid transfer (Latarjet procedure) on:

        1. Rates of recurrent shoulder dislocations and symptoms of instability up to 24 months'
           post- surgery;

        2. Clinical outcomes measured by Western Ontario Shoulder Instability (WOSI) Index,
           American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES) score;

        3. Physical examination: range of motion, strength, stability;

        4. Return to previous level of activity;

        5. Rate of shoulder-related complications and serious adverse events.

      Study Design:

      The investigators propose a multi-center pilot Randomized Clinical Trial of 82 patients
      across Canada, United States and Europe to compare the effect of capsuloligamentous repair
      (Bankart + Remplissage procedure) and coracoid transfer (Latarjet procedure) in patients with
      post-traumatic recurrent anterior dislocation. Eligible and consenting participants will be
      followed-up by the site for 24 months. Outcomes will be assessed at 2 weeks, 3 months, 6
      months, 12 months, and 24 months post-surgery. Eligible participants will be randomized to
      one of two treatment groups:

        1. Arthroscopic capsuloligamentous repair (Bankart + Remplissage Procedure)

        2. Open or Arthroscopic coracoid transfer (Latarjet Procedure)

      Once participants have provided informed consent, baseline demographics, relevant medical
      history, and details regarding their diagnosis will be collected from the participant, the
      attending surgeon, their medical record and through physical examination. Participants will
      also complete The Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index (WOSI) and he American Shoulder
      and Elbow Surgeons questionnaire (ASES) at the time of enrolment.

      After surgery, surgical and peri-operative details will be collected from the attending
      surgeon and the participant's medical records. Adverse events occurring during the surgical
      procedure or perioperative period will also be documented.
    
  