
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) lung disease is caused by dehydration of airway secretions that leads to
      mucus adhesion, infection and airways inflammation. A simple means to restore hydration to CF
      airway surfaces is to inhale hypertonic (3-7% NaCl) saline, which osmotically draws water
      onto the airway surface. Rehydration of the lubricant layer of the airway surface liquid
      facilitates mucociliary clearance (MCC) and therefore the removal of inhaled infectious
      agents. Recent studies have described (1) the short term (two weeks) beneficial effects of
      inhaled hypertonic saline (HS) four times daily on pulmonary function, MCC, and quality of
      life and (2) the long term (one year) benefits of inhaled HS twice daily on lung function and
      pulmonary exacerbation frequency. Consequently, inhaled HS is now used by ~55% of patients
      with CF nationwide. Due to the large number of medications that CF patients use on a daily
      basis in conjunction with airway clearance techniques, there is a high treatment burden that
      results in decreased quality of life.

      Both the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and leading CF clinicians support the idea that the use
      of hypertonic saline is now a standard of care. The investigators believe the use of a
      specialized transnasal Pulmonary Aerosol Delivery (tPAD) device for administration of HS will
      improve on that standard of care by reducing the treatment burden during CF patients' waking
      hours, ensuring greater compliance and potentially improving the efficacy and tolerability of
      inhaled HS.

      A previous deposition study with the tPAD, in six healthy adult subjects, demonstrated ~38%
      of the 7% HS aerosol emitted from the nasal cannula is deposited in the adult lungs, with no
      acute safety or tolerability issues (Parion Sciences Protocol PS-D100-102; Scott Donaldson,
      PI). This deposition efficiency matched that of the Pari LC Star used via the oral route,
      which was used as a standard of practice comparator. However, 7% HS nebulization by the tPAD
      resulted in a more peripheral deposition of the aerosol than the Pari LC Star comparator.

      Previously, it has been shown that administration of 5 mL of 7% HS QID by the Pari LC Star
      leads to a significant improvement in the lung function in CF patients. The investigators
      estimate that this dosing regimen deposits ~400 mg of NaCl per day but requires four ~18
      minute administrations (deposition rate = 5.8 mg/min). Although HS is generally well
      tolerated in the CF population, intolerance does occur and is largely related to the rate of
      NaCl delivery to the oropharynx and airway surfaces. As nebulizer devices capable of
      administering aerosols through a nasal cannula are not currently available, Parion Sciences
      has designed a customized nebulizer spacer that entrains the aerosol from an approved and
      marketed Aerogen Aeroneb Pro vibrating mesh nebulizer into a nasal cannula without
      significant "rain out" or dripping from the cannula. The tPAD system being utilized has an
      output rate of ~50 ul/min, and so emits ~3.5 mg/min of NaCl and deposits ~1.3 mg/min in the
      lung (38% deposition efficiency). If used overnight for 8 hours, the investigators estimate
      that 640 mg NaCl will be deposited in the lung. Therefore, the investigators project that
      this novel administration system has the capacity to deliver approximately 50% greater mass
      of NaCl to the lung when used overnight, compared to 4 times a day treatment with a standard
      oral nebulizer, thereby potentially increasing efficacy. However, because the lung deposition
      rate is less than 25% that of the standard oral nebulizer, the investigators anticipate that
      the tPAD will also be better tolerated and will eliminate the need for daytime HS treatments.
      In this study, the investigators will explore the safety, tolerability and effect on
      mucociliary and absorptive clearance rates of a 7% HS solution administered continuously
      overnight via the transnasal route.

      The tPAD is a non-significant risk device which is composed of a 510K approved Aerogen
      Aeroneb Pro vibrating mesh nebulizer with a custom nebulization chamber that allows for
      connection of a standard nasal cannula. Protocol PS-D201 is funded by NIH Grant
      2R44HL110502-02 "Hypertonic Saline for Cystic Fibrosis".
    
  