
    
      Mobile health applications (MHA) are increasingly being explored as tools to assist in
      management of chronic diseases. Little is known regarding which characteristics of MHAs are
      effective and there is limited data suggesting a real-world impact on health outcomes. Asthma
      is one of the most common and costly of the chronic diseases, impacting a broad range of the
      population including both children and adults. It is a variable disease necessitating regular
      medication use, monitoring of symptoms, and avoidance of specific triggers. These
      characteristics of asthma make it a chronic disease that is particularly amenable to having
      an MHA facilitate active monitoring outside of periodic traditional medical visits. The study
      team has designed a MHA focused on asthma subjects to test the feasibility of an asthma
      mobile health application (AMHA). The AMHA 2.0 study is the result of a collaboration between
      MHA developers and Mount Sinai faculty with expertise in the fields of asthma, research
      design, data storage, and data analysis. AMHA 2.0 incorporated elements of usual clinical
      care (that may take place during typical office visits), such as medication reminders, a
      daily asthma diary to track asthma control (AC) and medication use, patient education and
      assessments of quality of life (QoL), and health care utilization (HCU).

      During the AMHA 2.0 study, the aims are to evaluate the feasibility of:

        1. Consenting and enrolling a small cohort of subjects with asthma recruited from Mount
           Sinai pulmonary clinics remotely via downloading the app

        2. Feasibility of use of an asthma e-diary and automated e-reminders for medications in
           this small cohort for one month

        3. Exploring if a small cohort of participants will share data from wearable health and
           fitness monitoring devices if they own and use such devices.

      The primary enrollment period for AMHA 2.0 was met in September 2015. More than 7,000
      individuals e-consented for the AMHA 2.0 study, providing more than 80,000 survey responses
      with many participants granting AMHA 2.0 investigators access to geo-location and wellness
      data. Data collected during the first six months of the AMHA 2.0 study has provided evidence
      to answer all primary outcome measures.

      Continuation of the AMHA 2.0 protocol was approved in December 2015, expanding the study to a
      larger population who will be followed for a more extended period of time and will be
      recruited via availability of the AMHA in the Apple App Store in the US, UK, and Ireland. The
      latest modification submitted in January, adds an entirely new aim, OM6 and SA6, to the
      project to include a genetics module. The objectives for the continuation study are:

        1. To determine the feasibility of recruiting, consenting and enrolling a larger number of
           subjects remotely via the Apple App Store without direct participant contact during any
           phase of the study

        2. Assess the impact of continued use of an asthma e-diary and automated medication
           e-reminders for up to 2 years

        3. Explore the feasibility of sharing of data from wearable health and fitness monitoring
           devices (if applicable) from a larger cohort of patients for up to 2 years

        4. To test the medical accuracy of algorithms that may be used in future app versions to
           give specific feedback to participants based on information they input into the AMHA

        5. To investigate the association between DNA variants and asthma phenotypes including:
           asthma severity, symptom patterns, and medication use/response

      This second phase of research is designed to continue the process of developing an AMHA that
      facilitates asthma self-monitoring, promotes positive behavioral changes, and reinforces
      adherence to treatment plans according to current asthma guidelines, all in a user-friendly
      fashion conducive to long term use.
    
  