
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer and the third most frequent
      cause of cancer death worldwide. Hepatic resection (HR) is the conventional "curative"
      treatment for HCC. In both the European and the Unit States Proposed Guidelines for HCC, HR
      is recommended only for patients with preserved liver function and with a single HCC lesion.
      Unfortunately, because of tumor multifocality, portal vein invasion, and underlying advanced
      cirrhosis, only 10%-30% of HCCs are amenable to such a "curative" treatment at the time of
      diagnosis. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) has become the most popular palliative
      treatment for patients with unresectable HCC, and it is no longer considered as a
      contraindication to HCC with portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT). Unfortunately, the long term
      outcomes are generally poor for HCC treated with TACE, especially for HCC with PVTT.

      To improve on the results of treatment of HCC with PVTT, attempts have been made to perform
      HR for these patients . HCC with PVTT remains a contraindication to liver transplantation
      because of the high rate of tumor recurrence, and because of the severe shortage of donor
      organs. HR remains the only therapeutic option that may still offer a chance of cure. With
      advances in surgical techniques, it has become feasible to remove all gross tumors, including
      PVTT which has extended to the main portal vein, safely by surgery. More HCC with PVTT, which
      previously were considered as unresectable, have become resectable. Recent studies have even
      shown favorable long-term survival outcomes of HR in well-selected cases of HCC with PVTT.
      However, the survival outcomes of patients with HCC with PVTT treated with HR or with TACE
      have not been properly compared.

      This study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of HR as compared with TACE to treat
      patients with HCC with PVTT. The investigators also aimed to identify patient groups that
      might benefit more from either treatment with HR or TACE.
    
  