
    
      This study compares treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children in Guinea-Bissau as
      recommended by the national malaria programme (chloroquine in a total dose of 25 mg/kg),
      either with a total dose of 50 mg/kg chloroquine or with a total dose of 15 or 30 mg of
      amodiaquine. As both annual in vitro studies (from 1992 to 2004 except 1998, 1999) and
      several in-vivo studies from Guinea-Bissau indicate a fairly stable chloroquine resistance
      prevalence, another aim of this study is to evaluate the genetic basis of chloroquine
      resistance in Guinea-Bissau by analyzing specific single nucleotide polymorphisms in pfcrt
      and pfmdr1 in blood samples from this in vivo trial.

      Following consent to participate, children visiting the Bandim Health Centre on the outskirts
      of Bissau with mono-infection with Plasmodium falciparum are by block-randomization allocated
      to one of the four different treatment groups. The treatment is given supervised by one of
      the health workers. The children are visited and malaria films obtained on day 2 and day 7
      and then once weekly until day 35. On day seven, 100 microliters of capillary blood are drawn
      for analyses of chloroquine or amodiaquine concentrations in whole blood. Whenever a child
      has recurrent parasitaemia, a filter-paper blood-sample is collected for later PCR analysis.

      If parasites reappear in 50% or more of at least 40 children in one of the treatment groups
      this treatment arm should be terminated. During the study parents are recommended to bring
      the child to Bandim Health Centre in case of any illness. Participating children will be
      examined and treated free of charge. Following the recommendations of the national Malaria
      Programme sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine will be used for re-treatment of children in case of
      recrudescence.

      The results from this study could be used when giving the needed new recommendations for
      treatment of malaria in Guinea-Bissau. If still effective mono-therapy with a higher dose of
      chloroquine could be used until the introduction of a better treatment is possible. When
      artemisinine combination therapy is going to be introduced in Guinea-Bissau the results could
      be helpful in deciding if amodiaquine should be considered as the partner drug - and in which
      dose.
    
  