
    
      The prognosis for patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia is poor ;
      median survival is less than 1 year. High-dose cytarabine monotherapy or cytarabine-based
      combination regimens are often used as salvage therapy with limited efficacy. A recent
      retrospective study has shown that the addition of dexamethasone to intensive chemotherapy
      was significantly associated with better disease-free and overall survival in hyperleukocytic
      acute myeloid leukemia patients. The gene signatures of some molecular subgroups of acute
      myeloid leukemia were highly enriched in genes responsive to dexamethasone, including acute
      myeloid leukemia with NPM1 mutations which were particularly sensitive to the antileukemic
      activity of dexamethasone both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, three recent preclinical
      studies have shown that cytarabine-resistant or RUNX1-mutated acute myeloid leukemia cells
      acquired sensitivity to glucocorticoids. Therefore, dexamethasone might sensitize leukemic
      stem cells to chemotherapy-induced cell death and thus limit the risk of relapse.

      This study consists of a screening period, a treatment period, and a post-treatment follow-up
      period. Adult patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia are randomly assigned
      in a 1:1 ratio to receive either standard salvage therapy in combination with dexamethasone
      or standard salvage therapy alone. Standard salvage therapy is intensive chemotherapy
      (amsacrine-cytarabine) or azacitidine according to the investigator's willingness. For those
      patients with intensive chemotherapy amsacrine-cytarabine, the study treatment period
      includes 1 induction cycle and up to 3 consolidation cycles. For those patients with
      azacitidine, the study treatment period includes 3 cycles prior to the evaluation of the
      complete remission and thereafter lasts until progression. Of note, any patients in the study
      can undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation providing his/her disease is
      controlled. After discontinuing the study treatment all patients must further carry out
      post-treatment follow-up visits every 3 months during the first and second year, and every 6
      months thereafter until death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or the end of the
      study, whichever occurs first. The end of the study is planned 5 years after the
      randomization of the first patient. The primary endpoint is the overall survival.
    
  