
    
      Cortisol (CORT) is a glucocorticoid hormone, often associated with response to stress and
      playing a key role in alcohol use and problems. First, acute alcohol administration increases
      CORT, which in turn amplifies the mesolimbic dopamine reward signal. Second, alcohol
      withdrawal elevates CORT levels in AUD compared with healthy control subjects, and CORT
      levels in early abstinence predict subsequent relapse to drinking. Finally, the magnitude of
      CORT response to external stressors predicts motivation to work for and consumption of
      alcohol in the human laboratory and in the natural environment. Importantly, recent studies
      in rodents and humans have demonstrated that blocking CORT activity using a glucocorticoid
      receptor (GR) antagonist reduces these effects of CORT on alcohol behaviors, indicating a
      causal role for glucocorticoids in these relationships. In alcohol use disorder (AUD) and
      matched healthy control (HC) men and women, the proposed research examines the effects of
      MIFE, with demonstrated preclinical effects on drinking-related behaviors, compared to
      placebo on a breadth of alcohol-related measures. All subjects will be randomized to daily
      MIFE or placebo. Before and during medication, AUD and HC subjects undergo fMRI scanning
      measuring resting-state functional connectivity and alcohol cue-induced brain activation
      focused on brain reward and stress pathways. All subjects are admitted to the Clinical
      Research Unit; AUD subjects undergo supervised alcohol withdrawal with daily measurements of
      alcohol craving and symptom severity. Using validated human laboratory procedures in AUD
      subjects, this study will examine the effects of stress on motivation to drink and alcohol
      sensitivity/reward as a function of GR antagonism. This work will help pave the way for
      improved pharmacotherapies that target stress and reward pathways in the brain involved in
      initiating and maintaining drinking.
    
  