
    
      Settings:

        -  The sample size has been calculated according to population of dentists recorded in the
           Egyptian Dental Syndicate.

        -  Keeping in mind the difficulty in obtaining registered dentists' names and postal
           addresses, unreliable postal system and anticipated low response rate to a postal
           survey, it was decided to deliver and collect the questionnaires by hand.

        -  To prepare the questionnaire, a review of the literature was performed and the variables
           were determined.

        -  Questionnaires have been created in two forms according to the Type of Image receptor

        -  Form A will be for Dentists who use Film Packets

        -  Form B will be for Dentists who use Digital receptors

        -  The questionnaire includes a covering letter with an informed consent

        -  The cover letter provided in both English and Arabic, explaining the MSc research
           project and details of the project supervisor. The cover letter stated that by
           completing the questionnaire the participating dentists would be giving their voluntary
           consent to participate in the study.

      Data Sources / Measurements:

        -  Some of the questions will be answered with either yes, no or an open alternative. For
           some of the questions several answers will be given; others were designed as an array of
           claims using a rating scale

        -  Questionnaires will be distributed randomly and manually on multiple refresher courses
           and congresses throughout the country.

        -  If necessary by a personal interview. The interview involved the author asking the
           dentists questions directly and noting down the replies without any elaboration or
           further explanation of the questionnaire.

        -  Forms of Questionnaires will be distributed according to dentist's choice in the first
           question which will be asked orally about the type of receptor is used during routine
           practice

        -  Paper based questionnaire will be distributed in envelope and returned to the researcher
           closed non marked to ensure confidentiality

        -  Prospective Data Analysis will be performed after the Questionnaires being collected

        -  The study will be conducted in department of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, Faculty
           of Dentistry, Cairo University.

        -  The guidelines were derived from the American Dental Association 2006 recommendations

      Addressing potential sources of bias

        -  Bias of selection: Questionnaires will be distributed randomly and manually on multiple
           refresher courses and congresses throughout the country.

        -  Bias of Performance: Paper based questionnaire will be distributed in envelope and
           returned to the researcher closed non marked
    
  