
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Fatty diets are a likely cause of atherosclerosis, and lipoproteins appearing in blood after
      a fatty meal may be particularly atherogenic. Yet nearly all published research up to 1990 on
      the relationship of blood lipids to atherosclerosis in humans measured lipids only in fasting
      or casual samples.

      The atherogenicity of postprandial lipoproteins, particularly remnants of triglyceride-rich
      particles, was suggested by in vitro studies of foam cell induction, feeding experiments in
      animals, and observations of Type III hyperlipoproteinemia in humans. Indirect evidence for
      the hypothesis arose from research on conditions characterized by high fasting triglycerides
      and low HDL-cholesterol, denser LDL particles, and elevations of apolipoprotein B or
      intermediate-density lipoproteins. The hypothesis received direct support from two small
      studies by Krauss in 1987 and Simons in 1987 which showed higher postprandial chylomicron
      remnant concentrations in coronary patients than controls. However, neither study had the
      statistical power to evaluate the relative associations of fasting and postprandial
      measurements with disease. Such an evaluation, because of close correlations between fasting
      and postprandial lipoproteins, required studies with large sample sizes.

      The initiative originated in the Division of Epidemiology and Clinical Applications with
      input from the Division of Heart and Vascular Diseases and the two Divisions' Advisory Groups
      and was approved in May 1989 by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. The
      Request for Applications was released in September 1989. Awards were made in July 1990.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Columbia University: Cases and controls were recruited from individuals undergoing
      electrocardiographic examination or thallium stress testing. Blood was taken before and
      during an eight hour period after ingestion of a fat-formula meal. Plasma levels of lipids,
      lipoproteins, apoproteins, lipolytic enzyme activities, glucose, and insulin were measured.
      Apo E phenotype and LDL size were also determined. These factors, along with sex, age, blood
      pressure, smoking status, and waist-hip ratio were used as covariates in the analysis.
      Postprandial remnant lipoproteins were also characterized.

      University of North Carolina: Participants were administered an established and standardized
      fat challenge test containing vitamin A. Food frequency history was also taken. Blood
      specimens were drawn after fasting and at 3.5 and 9 hours after the test meal. Various
      parameters of fasting and postprandial lipemia, as well as markers for intestinal and hepatic
      triglyceride-rich lipoproteins were measured. There were five consortia associated with the
      study: the University of Minnesota, Johns Hopkins University, the University of Mississippi,
      Bowman Gray School of Medicine, and Baylor College of Medicine.
    
  