
    
      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) offers the hope of cure for a wide variety of
      hematologic malignancies. Mature donor T-cells play a critical role in the success or failure
      of this procedure. A subset of donor T-cells mediates graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). Other
      subsets provide the foundation for immune recovery. Pan-depletion of mature donor T-cells is
      an obligate step in haploidentical allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Without this step,
      the recipient would succumb to lethal acute GVHD. We have had extensive experience with
      in-vivo donor (and recipient) T-cell depletion using alemtuzumab as part of the bone marrow
      conditioning regimen. We and others have also used anti-thymocyte globulin for the same
      purpose. Pan-depletion of T-cells eliminates GvHD but significantly increases the risks of
      tumor relapse and opportunistic infections. A delayed donor lymphocyte infusion augments
      immune recovery and the graft versus tumor response, but it comes at the risk of inducing
      lethal GvHD. This is particularly problematic when the donor and recipient are
      HLA-discordant. Thus the major challenge in allogeneic stem cell transplantation is
      determining how to maximally exploit the beneficial effects mediated by T-cells without
      causing GvHD. This challenge could be overcome by selectively depleting the population of
      donor T-cells responsible for eliciting the GvHD response. We have been interested in
      selecting T-cells based on their naïve or memory phenotype to understand the contribution of
      each of these cells to the pathogenesis of GvHD. Naïve T-cells (CD62L+ or CD45RA+) are
      T-cells that have not encountered antigens specific for their T-cell receptor. Memory T-cells
      (CD62L- or CD62L+ or CD45RA-) are T-cells that have previously been exposed to their
      corresponding cognate antigens. If a donor has not encountered host alloantigens,
      GvHD-inducing host-reactive T-cells should be contained in the naïve T-cell compartment. In
      contrast, all the memory phenotype cells should not recognize host alloantigens. If this
      hypothesis is correct as suggested by several published studies, CD62L- T-cells, which are
      devoid of naïve T-cells and represent a subset of memory T-cells, should not be able to
      induce GvHD. The study hypothesis is depletion of naïve T-cells from the donor lymphocyte
      inoculum will abrogate GVHD while providing immunocompetent memory T-cells to affect an
      anti-infection and a graft versus tumor response. In this study, we will determine the
      maximum tolerated dose of a naïve T-cell depleted donor lymphocyte infusion given to patients
      following HLA-matched allogeneic stem cell transplantation. We will assess the GVHD-inducing
      potential of this donor lymphocyte infusion and further monitor the impact that this DLI will
      have on post-transplant immune recovery.
    
  