
    
      Today, there are about 80,000 people with ostomies in France and 19,000 ostomies are created
      each year.

      An ostomy is defined by a viscera reaching the skin, outside its natural location, by
      diversion of the digestive (enterostomy) or urinary (ureterostomy) tract. Digestive ostomies
      are temporary or permanent palliative surgeries that consist of connecting a segment of the
      healthy digestive tract to the surface of the skin, either downstream or upstream of a
      lesion. There are several reasons for this type of stoma: following colorectal cancer or IBD
      (chronic inflammatory bowel disease), or to decompress and drain the digestive tract in
      occlusion, or to protect a digestive anastomosis by temporarily diverting the intestinal
      flow. Urinary ostomies are usually performed following bladder cancer or neurogenic bladder
      that has resulted in the removal of the bladderr. The urinary tract is then diverted to allow
      the evacuation of urine into an artificial pouch.

      The bodily injury, the creation of a stoma, can have serious familiar, social and
      professional repercussions. An early follow-up from the preoperative phase and long-term
      technical and psychological support promote an adaptation of quality. Helping the patient to
      live well with his disability is a complex task that mobilizes the skills of a
      multidisciplinary team of caregivers. Mastery of surgical techniques for the creation of
      ostomies and close collaboration between the surgeon and the stoma therapist are essential
      for the personalized care of ostomy patients.

      Advances in various devices, bag systems and irrigation systems are concrete means that
      contribute greatly to improving the patient's quality of life. In this context of
      technological advances, COLOPLAST has developed a range of devices for incontinent digestive
      and urinary stomas, SenSura Mio Technology BodyFit®. This range of pouches adapts to
      peristomal morphology and body movements due to an elastic adhesive for a secure fit to
      individual body shapes. In addition, the pouches are designed to remain discreet and maximize
      wearing comfort due to a neutral-grey color water-repellent textile material, invisible even
      under white clothing, and a full-circle prefilter to differ filter saturation for proven
      reduction of ballooning.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the use of SenSura Mio products in real-life
      conditions in patients with recent ostomies. For this purpose, we will use the Stoma-QoL
      specific quality of life scale, as well as the Peristomal Skin Condition Rating Scale (DET
      Score).

      The Stoma-QoL tool was developed and validated specifically for ostomy patients in 2005 at
      the initiative of COLOPLAST and in close collaboration with international experts, with the
      aim of evaluating the impact of ostomy related concerns on the quality of life of ostomy
      patients on the one hand, and improving and facilitating their follow-up on the other hand.
      Potential items were formulated based on the results of a series of semi-structured
      interviews conducted with 169 adult subjects who had ostomies for a long time. The process
      resulted in a preliminary version of 37 items, administered repeatedly to 182 subjects with
      an ileostomy or colostomy. A psychometric selection of the items was performed using a Rasch
      model. The Stoma-QOL questionnaire has in its most refined version 20 questions covering 4
      domains, not scored independently: sleep, intimate relationships, relationships with family
      and close friends, and social relationships with other people. This 20-item version has been
      validated internationally in ileo- or colostomized patients. On average, the value of the
      overall Stoma-QoL score was 58.5 with the lowest mean value (53.8) observed in France and the
      highest mean value (62.6) in Denmark. Stoma-QoL can be offered to ostomy patients who have
      already lived at least 1 month with their stoma and appliance.

      The DET Score -also known as the Ostomy Skin Tool- is a measurement tool for assessing the
      extent and severity of peristomal skin problems. It was developed by Martins et al in 2008,
      at the initiative of COLOPLAST and in close collaboration with international experts, with
      the intention of improving the monitoring of peristomal skin conditions in ostomy patients
      and optimizing communication between healthcare professionals. The DET Score is divided into
      three areas: Discoloration (D), Erosion (E) and Tissue Proliferation (T). For each area, a
      maximum of 5 points can be awarded, 3 for the affected area and 2 for severity. The scores
      for each domain should be based solely on observations of each subject's skin, not on past
      experience. Photographs of problem skin are included in this rating scale and can be used as
      a guide for scoring severity. Once the score for each domain has been assessed, a total score
      is calculated by adding the numbers. A score of 0 represents normal skin while a score of 15
      represents maximum skin severity around the stoma. The DET Score was validated in 2011 18: it
      is now widely used and has been translated into several languages. Skin problems are
      considered mild if DET Score ≤ 4; moderate if DET Score < 7; severe if DET Score ≥ 7. The
      mean value observed in an international study of more than 3,000 ostomy patients was 2.5 (±
      2.8).

      The objectives of the present study are multiple: to evaluate the quality of life of patients
      with recent ostomies using SenSura Mio appliances during the first three months following
      hospital discharge, to evaluate the condition of the peristomal skin during this same period
      and to look for factors predictive of a better quality of life. The data collected in this
      study will help to better document the factors influencing the quality of life of French
      patients with recent ostomies and the value of using the new SenSura Mio appliances. This
      study will also provide a better understanding of the incidence of skin problems in the early
      follow-up phase (first three months) and the main corrective actions taken by the ostomy
      nurses.

      The QoL Mio study population will be composed of adults with recent ostomies (stoma
      preparation < 1 month), with liquid effluent (right colostomy, ileostomy, jejunostomy or
      urostomy), for whom healthcare professionals have recommended the use of SenSura Mio devices
      for ostomy care as part of the routine care. Because liquid effluents can seep under the
      adhesive on the skin, this population (ostomy with liquid effluents) has a higher risk of
      peristomal skin damage with irritant dermatitis by contact with corrosive effluents. The
      BodyFit technology (conforms to folds and irregularities of the skin) of SenSura Mio devices
      appears to be particularly suitable in this population to preserve the integrity of the
      peristomal skin.
    
  