
    
      This was an early stopping design, Phase II, open label, exploratory proof of concept study
      to evaluate the activity of tasquinimod in four independent cohorts of patients with
      different tumour types (patients with hepatocellular, ovarian, renal cell or gastric
      carcinoma, each with progressive disease after standard therapies). Patients initially
      received 0.5 mg/day tasquinimod dose, increasing to 1 mg/day after at least 2 weeks, unless
      there were any individual patient safety and tolerability concerns. The treatment period
      continued until patient disease progression, lost to follow-up, withdrawal or death. During
      the treatment period, initial study visits were at Week 2, 4 and 8 (± 2 days) for the
      hepatocellular carcinoma, the ovarian carcinoma and the renal cell carcinoma cohorts and at
      Week 2, 4 and 6 (± 2 days) for the gastric carcinoma cohort, to allow careful safety
      monitoring and to facilitate the identification of the individually tolerated dose. After
      Week 8, when most patients should have reached their tolerable dose, visit frequency was
      decreased as follows: at Week 16 and 24 (± 2 days) for the hepatocellular carcinoma, the
      ovarian carcinoma and the renal cell carcinoma cohorts; and at Week 12, 18 and 24 (± 2 days)
      for the gastric carcinoma cohort. Thereafter visits were once every 8 weeks (± 2 days) for
      all cohorts. An end of study treatment/withdrawal (EoST/WD) Visit was to be performed at
      least 14 days after the last dose of study treatment, and/or before treatment with any
      alternative antitumour therapy was started. Patients who stopped study treatment before
      disease progression were to be followed up with tumour imaging every 8 weeks until disease
      progression. Each patient was subsequently followed up for survival (by visit or telephone
      call) every 3 months after the EoST/WD Visit until death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of
      consent, or until all surviving patients had been followed-up for at least 9 months after
      their last administration of study treatment.

      The clinical activity of tasquinimod was evaluated independently in each cohort of patients
      of the four different tumour types. Data were presented as of the following study cut-off
      dates:

        -  Hepatocellular carcinoma cohort: 03 December 2014 (efficacy data); 11 April 2016 (safety
           data).

        -  Ovarian carcinoma cohort: 27 November 2013 (efficacy data); 05 October 2015 (safety
           data).

        -  Renal cell carcinoma cohort: 04 December 2013.

        -  Gastric carcinoma cohort: 27 September 2013.
    
  