
    
      Primary Hypothesis: A variety of clinical questions of major importance can be addressed
      using clinical data routinely obtained in the VA Hypertension Screening and Treatment
      Program. For example, treatment of mild hypertension reduces the risk of strokes and heart
      attacks.

      Secondary Hypothesis: Target organ damage occurs despite blood pressure control.

      Intervention: Chlorthalidone, furosemide, hydrochlorothiazide, metolazone, indapamide,
      amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene, atenolol, metoprolol, nadolol, pindolol, propranolol,
      timolol, acebutolol, penbutolol, clonidine, guanethidine, methydopa, prazosin, guanadrel,
      labetalol, reserpine, guanfacine, hydralazine, minoxidil, captopril, enalapril, lisinopril,
      diltiazem, nifedipine, verapamil, nicardipine, dyazide, maxzide, pargyline, terazosin, other
      anti-hypertensives.

      Primary Outcomes: Blood Pressure and Target Organ Damage

      Study Abstract: Hypertension is one of the most common medical problems in the United States
      and in the VA health care system. It has been well-documented that hypertension can be
      effectively treated. However, there remain important unresolved clinical questions in the
      area of antihypertensive treatment. For example, how much is mortality affected by visit
      compliance, blood pressure control and type of antihypertensive agent? Or, are some regimens
      associated with more morbidity than others? Or, are there inexpensive regimens that are as
      effective as more expensive regimens? The amount of data that is available from this
      demonstration project (currently 6,100 patients) will help address these questions. The
      answers to these questions should result in better care for veterans with hypertension.

      This demonstration project provides for central collection of a standard set of clinical data
      for patients at some of the Hypertension Screening and Treatment Program clinics, thereby
      setting up a national data base on the treatment of hypertension. The primary objective of
      this project is to demonstrate the value of establishing this type of database. The database
      is being used to estimate the average annual cost of different antihypertensive regimens, to
      determine the cost-efficacy of different therapies and the least expensive effective therapy
      and to address some major unanswered clinical questions that require large populations and
      long-term patient care data. There are currently 13 medical centers participating.
    
  