
    
      This proposed project will investigate whether a variable or a stable sleep schedule will be
      more effective in minimizing neurobehavioural and metabolic deficits when total sleep
      opportunity across two weeks is below the recommended sleep duration. This project involves
      young adults aged 21 - 35. For the two weeks leading up to the stay-in study, participants'
      sleep-wake patterns will be assessed via actigraphy and sleep diary. For the first week,
      participants will be asked to follow their habitual sleep schedule, while in the following
      week, the participants will be instructed to follow a specific sleep schedule with an 8-h
      sleep opportunity each night during the 7-night period with no napping allowed.

      After the two weeks of actigraphy, participants will begin the 16-day in-lab protocol.
      Participants will be randomised into 1 of 3 groups. All the participants will have an 8-h
      sleep opportunity during the first two nights (baseline nights) that simulate longer sleep
      opportunities typical of weekends. During the next 5 'weeknights', the participant's sleep
      opportunities will be manipulated depending on their assigned group. The stable short sleep
      group will have a 6-h TIB in each of the following 5 'weeknights' (8866666). The variable
      short sleep group (8884846) will also have a total TIB of 30h during the 'weeknights',
      although TIB varies across the 'weeknights'. The nightly TIB of the well-rested control group
      will be 8h (8888888). The same sleep schedules will be implemented in the second week. The
      protocol will end with an 8-h sleep opportunity on night 15. For each participant, wake times
      will remain the same (i.e., participant's own habitual wake time derived from self-report and
      actigraphy) for all the TIBs. Thus, bedtimes will be delayed progressively with decreasing
      TIBs for the short sleep groups.

      A battery of cognitive tests and psychological scales (approximately 30 minutes) will be
      administered 5 times a day at 3-hourly intervals, starting from 1.5 hours since awakening.

      A memory encoding task will be administered on Day 8 to determine whether a variable/stable
      short sleep schedule is less disruptive to the acquisition of long-term memory. During the
      task, participants will be presented with 160 images containing a stimulus (e.g. landscapes)
      or no stimulus on a computer screen. Each image will be displayed for 2500ms followed by a
      response screen to prompt participants to indicate if a stimulus was previously presented. On
      Day 10, a randomized set of 240 images consisting of the 160 images previously shown (i.e.
      "old" images) and 80 "new" images will be presented to participants. Participants are tested
      on their recognition of the "old images" by selecting on a 5-point scale: (1) definitely did
      not see, (2) probably did not see), (3) unsure, (4) probably saw, (5) definitely saw. The two
      tasks will take approximately 25 minutes each.

      An OGTT and fMRI brain scan will be performed after the second baseline night 2 (Day 3) and
      the last 'weeknight' each week (Day 8 and 15). Participants will be asked to perform 8 hours
      of overnight fasting before each OGTT. On the morning of the OGTT, an intravenous catheter
      will be inserted into the forearm of participants. Thereafter, 6 mL of blood samples will be
      drawn in a lying/sitting position. Participants will then be given a 75-g glucose solution to
      finish drinking within 7-10mins. 6 mL of blood samples will be collected again at time 15,
      30, 60, and 120 minutes to measure for changes in glucose and insulin levels.

      In addition to OGTT, the investigators will be using continuous glucose monitoring to measure
      glucose responses to the various sleep schedule throughout the 16-day study via a glucose
      sensor applied to the back of the participants' upper arms. To ensure the validity of the
      continuous glucose data, the investigators will provide three main meals each day to the
      participants, except on the OGTT days when only lunch and dinner will be provided. The
      portion of the food provided each day will ensure that each participant will consume the
      daily calorie and macronutrient requirement, and thus, the participant will not gain or lose
      weight during the study. Participants will be required to finish all the food provided.

      During the fMRI brain scans, resting-state and task-related brain activity will be recorded.
      During part of the scan, participants will be required to perform the gradual onset
      continuous performance task (Esterman et al., 2013) wherein participants will be presented
      with grayscale photographs of different scenes (e.g. mountain and city scenes) in a random
      manner. Each scene is presented for 1600ms with a 800ms overlap with an interpolated
      transitions. Participants will then be instructed to press a button if a particular scene is
      identified (e.g. city scene), and withhold their responses to other scenes. Before the task,
      participants will be given the opportunity to get familiarised with the images and have a
      1-minute practice session.

      Sleep macro-structure (i.e., the duration of various sleep stages) and micro-structure (such
      as SWA) will be measured with polysomnography (PSG) every night. Electrodes will also be
      affixed to the participant's scalp for electroencephalographic (EEG) recording, around the
      eyes for electrooculographic (EOG) recording, under the chin for electromyographic (EMG)
      recording, and on the chest for electrocardiogram (ECG) recording. Pulse oximetry, a
      non-invasive method that employs a light sensor on a finger cuff, is used in the first
      baseline night for oxygen saturation measurement to verify that the participants do not
      suffer from sleep apnea.

      Throughout the 16-day in-lab protocol, participants will not be allowed to leave the lab
      premises or engage in any strenuous exercise. When there are no research procedures being
      carried out, participants are free to spend their spare time on any activity, with the
      exception of napping, exercising, or activities that requires the participants to leave the
      lab premises. Participants will be under constant supervision by the research staff.
    
  