
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study analyzes data from the INTERMAP study, an international, cooperative, 17-sample
      population study of 4,706 men and women ages 40-59 in the United States, the United Kingdom,
      China, and Japan. It will provide the largest amount of data available on the patterns of
      urinary amino acid excretion. It will also make it possible to determine if the excretion of
      specific amino acids are related to the intake of dietary protein from specific food sources.
      Furthermore, it will provide the ability to test the hypotheses that intake of dietary
      protein is related to levels of both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. These hypotheses
      are strongly held in Japan, one of the countries participating in the INTERMAP study, and
      have only been investigated to a limited degree in the United States and Europe.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The purpose of the study was to analyze data from the INTERMAP Study, an international,
      cooperative, 17-sample population study of 4,706 men and women ages 40-59 in four countries
      including the United States, the United Kingdom, China, and Japan. Analyses assessed the
      following: whether, independent of multiple possible confounding variables, there were
      significant relationships of dietary protein (total, animal, vegetable) and of dietary
      specific amino acids (AA) to 24-hour urinary excretion of total and individual AA and related
      compounds; systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) of individuals were related to their
      24-hour urinary excretion of taurine -- a possible marker of fish protein intake;
      1-methylhistidine, 3-methylhistidine, histidine, lysine, anserine
      (1-methylhistidine-B-alanine dipeptide) -- reflecting meat protein intake; arginine -- source
      in cells for nitric oxide (NO), implicated in vasodilation; other urinary amino acids.

      INTERMAP has already collected standardized comprehensive dietary and blood pressure data on
      all individuals in its 17 samples (four 24-hour dietary recalls/person yielding data on 60+
      nutrients, including 19 amino acids, two 24-hour urine specimens/person with data on Na, K,
      urea N, creatinine, volume; eight standardized systolic blood pressure/diastolic blood
      pressure measurements/person; other data). Urinary concentrations of amino acids were
      analyzed chromatographically by high performance automatic amino acid analyzers in the
      INTEPMAP Central Laboratory in Leuven, Belgium. Regression coefficients for amino acid-blood
      pressure relationships were computed without and with correction for reliability
      (regression-dilution bias); sample-by-sample with pooling by country, region, and then
      overall; also by gender; for persons not on antihypertensive treatment; nonhypertensives;
      those free of a history of recent diet change; by education; to evaluate comprehensively
      whether urinary amino acid excretion could add meaningfully to dietary data to give a better
      total understanding of relationships of dietary protein-amino acids to blood pressure.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  