
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) accounts for approximately 50% of all cardiac death, representing
      an estimated annual incidence ranging from 250,000 to 350,000 cases in the United States. The
      pathophysiologic mechanism for sudden death in the majority of these patients is thought to
      be ventricular tachycardia (VT) related to coronary artery disease (CAD), which can then
      degenerate to ventricular fibrillation (VF). Patients who survive an initial episode of VT/VF
      are prone to an extremely high incidence of recurrent life-threatening events (~25% at one
      year). Even in patients without a history of VT/VF, the presence of CAD and left ventricular
      (LV) dysfunction confers a two-year mortality rate of 22%. If VT is inducible at
      electrophysiological testing, the two-year mortality is ~30%.

      The pathogenesis of VT in the setting of CAD is reentry in the area of the scarred
      myocardium. After an MI, the tissue can be broadly divided into three zones: the dense scar,
      the surrounding live myocardial tissue, and the intervening border zone. After a myocardial
      infarction (MI), the "border zone" between dense scar and live tissue contains
      electrically-active live myocardial fibrils interspersed in areas of infarcted, fibrotic
      tissue-setting the stage for local reentrant circuits that result in VT.

      The use of antiarrhythmic medications (AADs) to suppress the occurrence/recurrence of VT/VF
      in these high-risk patients has been mostly disappointing. In large clinical trials, most
      AADs have not only proved to be inefficacious, but to actually increase mortality. The one
      potential exception appears to be Amiodarone: one study suggests some mortality benefit
      (GESICA), while others suggest that Amiodarone provides significant antiarrhythmic benefits
      without a change in mortality (EMIAT, CAMIAT, SCD-HeFT). However, even the use of Amiodarone
      is plagued with multiple organ toxicities, ranging from pulmonary fibrosis to hepatitis, and
      thyroid dysfunction.

      An important alternative to such questionably efficacious antiarrhythmics is the implantable
      cardio-defibrillator (ICD), which can accurately and effectively detect and terminate VT/VF,
      resulting in a significant mortality benefit in both the primary and secondary prevention of
      sudden cardiac death. Yet, despite these beneficial results, ICD implantation cannot be
      considered a cure for VT. In addition, it is common for patients to experience painful
      high-voltage shocks secondary to recurrent ventricular arrhythmias, or to lose consciousness
      prior to the delivery of therapy. Moreover, the considerable cost of ICDs severely limits
      their availability in the developing world-where public and/or private health insurance
      systems are rudimentary at best, and where the incidence of coronary artery disease is four
      times higher than that of the developed world-highlighting the urgency of establishing an
      alternative therapy for post-MI patients with ventricular arrhythmias that is both accessibly
      and effective.

      One such option may be catheter ablation of ventricular arrhythmias. It has been well
      described that for hemodynamically-stable VT circuits, careful ventricular mapping to
      identify sites critical to the maintenance of a given circuit, followed by discrete
      applications of catheter-based radiofrequency (RF) energy, can effectively eliminate VT.

      This strategy mocks surgical approaches that have been used extensively since the late 1970s
      for modification of the arrhythmogenic substrate in patients with chronic myocardial
      infarction. Since the location of the reentrant circuit is most often located at the junction
      of the normal and scarred myocardium, two effective general strategies were developed over
      time: a) subendocardial resection-involving surgical removal of the subendocardial layer
      containing the arrhythmogenic substrate in this border zone, and b) encircling endocardial
      ventriculotomy-consisting of the placement of a circumferential surgical lesion through the
      border zone and, presumably, interrupting potential VT circuits. When performed at
      experienced centers, the long-term freedom from malignant VT/VF after surgery is >90%.
      However, the significant mortality (3-14%) and morbidity associated with this invasive
      procedure has curtailed its use in general practice.

      The less invasive, catheter approach to substrate modification relies on electroanatomical
      mapping systems that create a high fidelity representation of the endocardium, allowing for
      the reconstruction and electronic manipulation of an endocardial cast of the ventricular
      chamber that carefully delineates the normal and abnormal tissues. This is based on the
      observation that during normal sinus rhythm, there are distinguishing characteristics of the
      endocardial electrogram (EGM) of normal and abnormal tissue: abnormal tissue manifests lower
      voltage amplitude, prolonged EGM duration, and the presence of late and fractionated
      potentials. Marchlinski and colleagues reported in a seminal study that by using a
      substrate-mapping strategy, catheter-based RF ablation lesions directed in a linear fashion
      were effective in controlling scar-related drug-refractory unstable VT. Furthermore, using
      this high-density electroanatomical mapping 1) this strategy can be utilized to localize the
      arrhythmogenic substrate in the majority of patients with a history of myocardial infarction
      and sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia's, and 2) RF ablation using an irrigated-tip
      ablation catheter can be effectively and safely used to modify the arrhythmogenic substrate
      to render VT non-inducible even in the presence of multiple VT morphologies.

      The favorable results in these non-randomized reports prompted the initiation of SMASH-VT
      (Substrate Mapping & Ablation in Sinus Rhythm to Halt Ventricular Tachycardia Trial); a
      prospective randomized clinical trial to objectively assess the clinical utility of substrate
      ablation of scar-related VT. This trial was a randomized-controlled trial examining the role
      of substrate mapping and RF ablation in the primary prevention of ICD shocks in patients
      presenting with clinically life-threatening VT/VF. That is, patients with a history of MI,
      and who survive an episode of VT/VF are at high-risk for recurrent VT and thus treated with
      ICDs (in essence, these patients meet AVID/CIDS/CASH criteria). In normal clinical practice,
      these patients are not routinely treated with adjuvant medications because of their
      proarrhythmic potential and side effects. In addition to an ICD and routine clinical care,
      these patients were additionally randomized in SMASH-VT to substrate-based catheter ablation.
      This catheter ablation group underwent electroanatomic mapping to delineate the endocardial
      infarct margins (CARTO, Biosense-Webster, Inc.). Substrate modification was then performed
      targeting the exit sites of induced VTs and/or late potentials within the scar using standard
      or irrigated radiofrequency ablation catheters.

      As published in late 2007 (Reddy et al, NEJM, 357:2657), the 30-day post-ablation mortality
      was zero, and there was no significant change in ventricular function or functional class
      during follow up. During an average follow-up of 22.5±5.5 months, appropriate defibrillator
      therapy (anti-tachycardia pacing and shocks) occurred in 21 control (33%) and 8 ablation
      (12%) patients (p=0.007 by the log rank test). Of these, appropriate defibrillator shocks
      alone occurred in 20 control (31%) and 6 ablation (9%) patients (p=0.003). Mortality was not
      increased in the ablation arm (control 17%, ablation 9%; p=0.29); indeed, there was a trend
      to decreased mortality in the ablation arm. Thus, the SMASH-VT study revealed several
      important points: 1) adjuvant substrate based catheter ablation is feasible in this patient
      population, 2) use of a saline-irrigated RF ablation catheter for this ablation strategy is
      safe, and 3) this strategy decreases subsequent ICD therapies in post-myocardial infarction
      patients receiving defibrillators for the secondary prevention of sudden death.

      The favorable results of SMASH-VT, combined with considerable technical and scientific
      improvements in catheter ablation of scar-related VT, also raise the possibility that the
      therapeutic benefit of ablation may be extrapolated to similar patients in the developing
      world, who have had an MI and have survived a ventricular arrhythmic event, but are unable to
      afford an ICD. This is of particular importance because such patients are typically treated
      with chronic Amiodarone therapy-a strategy with an unestablished mortality benefit and
      significant side effects.

      The investigators therefore propose a randomized clinical trial, in which India-a nation with
      a population of 1.2 billion-will serve as a representative model for the developing world.
      The study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of adjunctive catheter ablation in
      post-myocardial infarction patients who have additionally survived a ventricular arrhythmic
      event, and would be initiated on chronic Amiodarone therapy because of an inability to afford
      ICD therapy. Patients will therefore be randomized in an even proportion to either a) the
      control group, receiving chronic Amiodarone therapy, or the study group, undergoing catheter
      ablation of VT in addition to chronic Amiodarone therapy.
    
  