
    
      MAIN OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effectiveness of a motivational intervention for the treatment
      of childhood obesity, coordinated between primary care and specialized services,
      multicomponent, integrating techniques of fast and healthy cooking and eHealth tools
      (wearable), compared to the usual intervention performed in paediatrics.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of a multicomponent motivational intervention compared to
           usual intervention performed in regular paediatrics clinical practice

             1. On BMI control of obese children between 8 and 13 years old

             2. On metabolic control of obese children between 8 and 13 years old,

             3. On increasing physical activity of obese children between 8 and 13 years old,

             4. On acquiring a healthy eating pattern in obese children between 8 and 13 years old.

        2. To establish methodological background for implantation of a motivational intervention
           coordinated between primary care services and specialized services.

        3. To validate the use of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) and dual X-ray
           absorptiometry (DXA) in the follow up and treatment of childhood obesity compared to
           four-compartment model of body composition.

      5. METHODOLOGY

      5.1 Design Randomized controlled clinical trial cluster, with an intervention group (IG)
      which will receive 12 months of motivational counselling, together with workshops focused on
      family nutrition education and techniques of fast and healthy cooking and physical activity;
      and with eHealth tools (wearable) to support; and a control group (CG) that will follow the
      usual recommendations.

      5.2 STUDY POPULATION The Health Region of Tarragona includes a population of 600,000 people
      (36,000 children from 8 to 13 years). With regard to the 6.6% of childhood obesity prevalence
      in our country (Schroder 2014), we estimate an eligible population of 2376 obese children
      aged 8-13 years old.

      5.3 SAMPLE SIZE The number of individuals of a simple random design, multiplied by the design
      effect has been considered to calculate the sample size of each stratum (Basic Care Unit).
      Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.2 in a bilateral contrast, 98 subjects
      were needed in each group to detect a difference equal to or greater than 0.36 units of BMI
      z-score. It is assumed that common standard deviation is 0.75. A 30% lost to follow up rate
      (GRANMO 7.12) has been estimated. To calculate the design effect, estimates of intracluster
      correlation coefficient in cluster randomized trials in primary care are generally lower than
      0.05. The effect of the design corresponds to 1.7. Assuming these values, the final size of
      the study sample would be of 167 subjects in each group (12 individuals for each primary care
      centre, in 15 basic care units (BCUs)).

      5.4 RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDING Basic Care Units (BCU) doctor-nurse are the unit of
      randomization. Randomization will be 1: 1 and will be made with EPIDAT 3.0 statistical
      program. Given the nature of the intervention participants or researchers cannot be blinded.
      Professional in charge of statistical analysis will be blinded as well.
    
  