
    
      OVERVIEW This is a Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation study of JS-001, a humanized
      monoclonal IgG4 antibody targeting the Programmed Death -1 (PD-1). It is estimated that 18-36
      subjects with advanced or recurrent solid tumors or lymphomas will be enrolled in the
      dose-escalation study.

      A 3+3 design will be utilized for this Phase 1 study. Three dose levels are planned and
      include: 1, 3, 10 mg/kg/dose. Each of the 3 dose levels will use 2 dose schedules: single
      dose, and repeated doses every 2 weeks. Subjects will be assigned to a dose schedule in the
      order of study entry.

      The study will be the traditional 3 + 3 design with 3 or 6 subjects treated at this dose
      level and at all subsequent dose levels depending upon the incidence of DLTs. If no DLTs
      occur in a cohort of 3 subjects, a new cohort of 3 subjects will be treated at the next
      higher dose level. If 1 of 3 subjects in a cohort experiences a DLT, that cohort will be
      expanded to 6 subjects. If only 1 of the 6 subjects has a DLT, then the next cohort of 3
      subjects will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 2 or more DLTs occur within a
      cohort, then that dose level will be above the MTD (the highest dose where no more than 1 of
      6 subjects has experienced a DLT), and the previous lower (tolerated) dose level will be
      considered the MTD.

      A DLT is defined as a Grade 3 drug-related adverse event occurring within 28 days after
      previous dose (excluding tumor flare defined as local pain, irritation, or rash localized at
      sites of known or suspected tumor or a transient Grade 3 infusion adverse event) using
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 4.0 in a single dose cohort.

      Tumor response will be evaluated using immune-related response criteria (irRC), , Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), , and International Workshop to Standardize
      Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (for lymphomas only).

      In the absence of confirmed disease progression and intolerable toxicities, subjects in the
      single dose cohorts and multiple dose cohorts will be allowed to continue JS-001
      administration with the consent of the subject.

      If there is an effective case in a given dose level and the safety is good (There is no more
      than Grade 2 adverse event (not included Grade 2), 6-14 subjects with soft tissue sarcoma
      will be enrolled in the dose level as expanded cohort. The subjects of expanded cohort will
      use repeated doses every 2 weeks like multiple dose cohorts to further evaluate safety and
      efficacy of JS-001 with soft tissue sarcoma. At the same time, 9-12 subjects with hodgkin
      lymphoma will be enrolled in 3 mg/kg/dose level as expanded cohort. The subjects of expanded
      cohort will use repeated doses every 2 weeks like multiple dose cohorts to further evaluate
      safety and efficacy of JS-001 with hodgkin lymphoma.

      DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION JS-001 will be administered as a 60-minute i.v. infusion. Cohorts
      will include escalating dose levels of 1, 3, 10mg/kg/dose.

      SAFETY EVALUATIONS Assessment of safety will be determined by vital sign measurements,
      clinical laboratory tests, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status
      evaluations, diagnostic imaging, physical examinations, electrocardiograms, and the incidence
      and severity of adverse events.

      Safety will also include evaluations of immune safety and immunogenicity. Particular
      attention will be given to adverse events that may follow enhanced T-cell activation such as
      dermatitis and colitis, uveitis, or other immune-related adverse events (irAEs).

      An irAE is a clinically significant adverse event of any organ that is associated with drug
      exposure, of unknown etiology, and is consistent with an immune-mediated mechanism.

      EFFICACY EVALUATIONS The primary efficacy endpoint is the best response rate (RR). Duration
      of response, progression-free survival, time to progression, and overall survival will also
      be analyzed.

      PHARMACOKINETIC EVALUATIONS Pharmacokinetic parameters include AUC, Cmax, tmax, and t½, etc.
      STATISTICAL METHODS The sample size for this study is not determined from power analysis. It
      is based on the 3+3 design for dose escalation and safety evaluation requirements.

      Descriptive statistics will include: mean, standard deviation, median, and minimum and
      maximum values for continuous variables; frequencies and percentages for categorical
      variables.

      The efficacy parameters will be summarized using descriptive statistics. All safety and
      pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized using descriptive statistics.
    
  