
    
      The overarching purpose of this research is to determine the feasibility, acceptability, and
      preliminary efficacy of Cognitively-Based Compassion Training (CBCT®) compared to a cancer
      health education (CHE) attention on dimensions of health-related quality of life (HRQOL),
      biomarkers of inflammation and diurnal cortisol rhythm, and healthcare utilization-related
      endpoints including healthcare-related patient activation. To address this goal the study
      will be conducted to address four specific aims:

      Aim 1: To obtain evidence of preliminary efficacy of CBCT® versus CHE for survivors of solid
      tumor cancer and their informal caregivers to improve health-related quality of life
      outcomes. The objective of this aim is to estimate effect sizes for the differences between
      CBCT® and CHE at weeks 9 and 13 on HRQOL-related outcomes including psychological
      (depression*, anxiety, positive affect), physical (fatigue), social (empathy, feelings of
      social connection/isolation, dyadic function), and spiritual (self-compassion) domain as well
      as global well-being. The noted endpoint (*) is considered primary, and the others are
      secondary. We predict that CBCT® will result in better primary and secondary outcomes than
      CHE at weeks 9 and 13 (Study Hypothesis 2).

      Aim 2: To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy of CBCT® versus CHE for survivors of solid
      tumor cancer and their informal caregivers to influence stress-related biomarkers of
      inflammation and diurnal cortisol rhythm. The objective of this aim is to estimate group
      differences at weeks 9 and 13 on stress-related biomarkers of inflammation (plasma IL-6,
      IL-1β, TNF-α, NF-κB pathway activation), as well as diurnal saliva cortisol rhythm in
      survivor-caregiver dyads randomized to CBCT® compared to survivor-caregiver dyads randomized
      to CHE. For this aim we predict that CBCT® will result in lower proinflammatory cytokines
      (decreased IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α) and lower PBMC NF-κB (NF-κB) than CHE at weeks 9 and 13 (Study
      Hypothesis 3). We also predict that CBCT® will result in steeper slope (i.e. more dynamic
      diurnal cortisol rhythm) than CHE at weeks 9 and 13 (Study Hypothesis 4).

      Aim 3: To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy of CBCT® versus CHE for survivors of solid
      tumor cancer and their informal caregivers to improve health care utilization and patient
      activation in both survivors of solid tumor cancers and their informal caregivers over 13
      weeks of the study. The objective of this aim is to estimate effect sizes for the differences
      between CBCT® and CHE at weeks 9 and 13 on health care utilization (i.e. keeping
      appointments, use of preventive services, hospitalizations, and use of urgent care or
      emergency department services), and patient activation (i.e. motivation, knowledge, skills
      and confidence in managing personal health). For this aim, we predict that CBCT® will result
      in better healthcare utilization (lower hospitalizations, use of urgent care or emergency
      department services, greater keeping of the appointments and use of preventive services), and
      greater patient activation than CHE over weeks 1-9 and 10-13 of the study (Study Hypothesis
      5).

      Aim 4: To explore the interdependence of solid tumor cancer survivor and informal caregiver
      health-related quality of life from before to after CBCT®. The objective of this aim is to
      determine the degree to which HRQOL measures, biomarkers of inflammation, or diurnal cortisol
      rhythm in survivors predict the corresponding outcomes in caregivers (and vice-versa).

      Over the course of the study we will randomize 20 cancer survivor-caregiver dyads to CBCT®,
      and 20 dyads to the CHE attention group. We will conduct the study in several cohorts, with
      4-10 dyads randomized to CBCT® and 4-10 dyads randomized with CHE in each cohort. The
      research procedures are elaborated below in chronological order of when they will occur for
      each study cohort. The study will consist of four major phases after recruitment/ screening/
      consent:

        1. Baseline (pre-intervention) assessments

        2. Intervention phase

        3. 9-week (post-intervention) assessments

        4. 3-month (post intervention) assessments

      Assessments - Baseline (pre-intervention)

      After successful recruitment, screening, and consent we will invite solid tumor cancer
      survivor-informal caregiver dyads to the College of Nursing for the baseline assessment.
      Shortly after arrival blood will be collected from participants before starting self-report
      questionnaires. Blood will be drawn in order to obtain plasma and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Blood (2 X 7 milliliters) will be collected by venipuncture into
      EDTA-coated vacutainer tubes by the (TBA) study phlebotomist, and then immediately processed
      to obtain plasma or PBMCs.

      After blood sampling at the baseline assessment is complete we will next ask
      survivor-caregiver dyads to complete self-report assessments. Self-report instruments to be
      completed will assess different dimensions of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and
      healthcare adherence/ utilization.

      Interventions

      Within 2 weeks of the baseline assessment study participants will begin either 8 weeks of
      CBCT® or 8 weeks of CHE, depending on randomization. Study group will be revealed to study
      participants and study staff after the completion of the baseline assessment.

      Upon randomization to either the CBCT® or CHE groups participants will be given a booklet,
      "Survivorship and Surveillance Guidelines", and another booklet, "Healthy Behaviors for a
      Healthier Life." Although these booklets will not be referred to directly throughout CBCT® or
      CHE, participants will be encouraged review them and ask questions about the content of these
      booklets throughout the study. Participants with questions after reviewing these booklets
      will be referred to Dr. Badger, clinical co-I. These booklets are being included because they
      may have an indirect effect on measures of health care adherence/ utilization in both the
      CBCT® and CHE groups.

      Assessments - 9 weeks

      Within a week of concluding the study interventions we will schedule all survivor-caregiver
      dyads to return to the College of Nursing for the 9-week assessment. The 9-week assessment
      will mirror the baseline assessment except for the healthcare utilization questionnaire,
      which will use an 9-week version of this questionnaire.

      Assessments - 3 months

      About 4 weeks later we will have all survivor-caregiver dyads visit the College of Nursing
      for the final, 3-month assessment time point. As with the 8-week assessment, this visit will
      mirror the baseline assessment except for a different healthcare utilization questionnaire,
      which will use a 3-month version of this questionnaire.

      IMPORTANT READER NOTE: ==> A prior version of this study protocol on clinicaltrials.gov
      incorrectly stated information about interpretation of scores of the Morisky Medication
      Adherence Scale-8 (MMAS-8). ==> Individuals interested in using the MMAS-8 are directed to
      https://morisky.org for information about the scale, as well as for licensing and other
      requirements for using the MMAS-8 in their research or clinical practice. Dr. Pace and his
      colleagues sincerely regret any incorrect information posted previously about the MMAS-8 on
      this clinicaltrials.gov trial website.
    
  