
    
      This protocol examines the effect of two drugs on fear conditioning. Study 1 tests assess
      whether D-cycloserine (DCS) facilitates extinction of fear conditioning and acquisition of
      eyeblink conditioning. Study 2 examines whether the calcium channel blocker nimodipine blocks
      acquisition of fear conditioning and eyeblink conditioning.

      Study 1: The demonstration that activation of NMDA receptors is necessary for long-term
      potentiation suggests that this subclass of amino acid may be involved in certain types of
      learning and memory. The present project will examine the effect DCS, a partial agonist at
      the glycine modulatory site on the NMDA receptor, on two associative learning tasks,
      extinction of fear conditioning and acquisition of eyeblink conditioning. The inability to
      extinguish intense fear memories is a significant clinical problem. Finding procedures or
      treatments that facilitate extinction of fear memories is of paramount importance. In
      animals, extinction of conditioned fear involves an active learning process that is blocked
      by NMDA antagonists. Recently, Dr. Michael Davis (Emory University) demonstrated that the
      administration of DCS prior to extinction produces a dose-dependent facilitation of
      extinction of conditioned fear in the rat, when assessed with fear-potentiated startle. We
      propose to examine whether the clinically important process of extinction can also be
      enhanced by DCS in humans. Another aim of the study is to examine whether DCS facilitates a
      hippocampal-mediated task, trace eyeblink conditioning. The hippocampus is particularly rich
      in NMDA receptors and DCS blocks trace eyeblink conditioning in the rabbit. The present study
      will examine the effect of placebo, 100 mg DCS, and 500 mg DCS on extinction, retention, and
      reinstatement of fear-potentiated startle conditioning and acquisition of trace eyeblink
      conditioning. The first experimental session (acquisition) will be a fear conditioning
      procedure (paired presentation of a conditioned stimulus or CS and a mildly unpleasant
      shock). During the second experimental session (extinction), DCS or placebo will be given to
      the subjects 1 hour prior to an extinction procedure (CS presented without shock). Following
      extinction, the eyeblink conditioning study will be conducted. Finally, in the third
      experimental session, retention of fear and eyeblink conditioning will be evaluated. We
      hypothesized that compared to placebo, DCS will speed up learning, i.e., it will facilitate
      extinction of fear conditioning and acquisition of eyeblink conditioning.

      Study 2: The rationale for testing nimodipine is highly similar to the rationale for testing
      DCS, and the procedure is very similar. Understanding the neurochemical bases of fear
      acquisition and fear extinction may provide insights into pathological anxiety and help
      develop more effective treatments. This study will be conducted over two experimental
      sessions (and a screening session). Nimodipine or placebo will be given during the 1st
      session prior to acquisition of fear conditioning and eyeblink conditioning. The 2nd session
      will be a test of retention of eyeblink conditioning. We hypothesized that nimodipine will
      impair fear conditioning and eyeblink conditioning.
    
  