
    
      In vitro maturation (IVM) is an assisted reproductive technology which consists in the
      retrieval of immature cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) from small antral follicles, followed
      by their in vitro maturation in specific culture conditions. Oocytes having reached metaphase
      II (MII) stage after 24 to 48 hours of IVM can then be fertilized. This procedure was first
      developed for patients presenting polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), in order to avoid
      ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), an iatrogenic consequence of exogenous
      gonadotropins administration. However, the increasing use of GnRH antagonist protocols
      allowing ovulation trigger with GnRH agonist has dramatically reduced the indication of IVM
      in women at risk of OHSS. Yet, evidence indicate that IVM may be considered for patients
      presenting FSH resistance or contraindications to controlled ovarian stimulation. The recent
      development of female fertility preservation (FP) renewed interest to this technique. Indeed,
      it can be performed without any prior ovarian stimulation and whatever the phase of the
      menstrual cycle. Although it is still considered experimental, oocyte vitrification following
      IVM has been applied in different groups of patients, in particular those diagnosed with
      breast cancer, autoimmune or ovarian diseases. In physiologic conditions, final follicular
      maturation is induced by a double FSH and LH release which occurs when the dominant follicle
      reaches approximately 17 to 20 mm in diameter. This gonadotropin surge usually precedes the
      follicular rupture and mature oocyte release from 36 to 40 hours. In case of an assisted
      reproductive treatment, two strategies can be used to reproduce this hormonal signal: (i)
      either an injection of hCG, which binds to the LH receptor on granulosa cells, (ii) or a GnRH
      agonist (GnRHa) administration which induces an endogenous double peak of LH and FSH through
      a "flare up effect". Miming common practice for in vitro fertilization, priming with hCG or
      GnRHa injection 36 hours before the COCs retrieval has been suggested for patients undergoing
      IVM procedure in order to improve oocyte maturation rates and further IVM outcomes. Indeed,
      it is hypothesized that these iatrogenic hormonal activities might enhance the final oocyte
      maturation in vivo, therefore shortening the duration of the overall IVM process. Actually,
      in PCOS patients, several line of evidence indicate that IVM outcomes are improved after hCG
      priming. This positive effect might be explained by a premature expression of LH receptors on
      granulosa cells of small antral follicles <10 mm in diameter. Nevertheless, in
      normo-ovulatory non PCOS patients, LH receptor expression in these follicles remains very
      low, questioning the relevance of providing LH activity to improve oocyte maturation during
      IVM cycles performed for FP. The present investigation aimed to test whether the absence of
      therapeutic intervention prior to oocyte retrieval modifies IVM outcomes when compared with
      cycles primed either with recombinant hCG or GnRH agonist in breast cancer patients.
    
  