
    
      The Phase 1 portion of this study will be a dose escalation, cohort staggering (slow
      enrollment) for the 3 dose levels (low, medium or high dose level) with a placebo-controlled
      group:

        -  Cohort 1: A first cohort of thirteen subjects (13) subjects will be randomized, of these
           ten (10) will be dosed with the lowest dose of the quadrivalent VLP vaccine and three
           (3) will receive a placebo. The 7-day safety data after the immunization will be
           collected and reviewed by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) consisting of the
           Principal Investigator (PI), the Sponsor's Medical Officer and one external medical
           expert, prior to permitting immunization with the medium dose level.

        -  Cohort 2: A second cohort of thirteen subjects (13) subjects will be randomized; of
           these, ten (10) will be dosed with the medium dose of the quadrivalent VLP vaccine and
           three (3) will receive a placebo. The 7-day safety data after the immunization will be
           collected and reviewed by the DSMB, prior to permitting immunization with the highest
           dose.

        -  Cohort 3: A third cohort of fourteen subjects (14) subjects will be randomized; of these
           ten (10) dosed with the high dose of the quadrivalent VLP vaccine and four (4) will
           receive a placebo. The 7-day safety data after the immunization will be collected and
           reviewed by the DSMB. If the 7-day post-immunization safety data of this cohort is
           satisfactory according to the DSMB review, the Phase 2 portion of the study will
           proceed.

      The Phase 2 portion of this study will be an observer-blind, randomized, dose-ranging study
      of the 3 different vaccine doses or a placebo. Therefore, the remaining 20 subjects per
      vaccine dose will be dosed with the remaining 20 subjects of the placebo group.

      Three (3) and 21 days after immunization, key safety (Day 3) and immunogenicity (Day 21) data
      will be collected and analyzed. All subjects will be followed for safety until Day 201
      (6-month follow up), regardless the phase of the study.
    
  