
    
      Exergames are games that require physical movements and are used with a therapeutic purpose,
      e.g. to improve strength, balance or flexibility. Exergames rely on technologies that track
      body movements and reaction, to perform exercises in a persuasive environment. Exergames are
      increasingly used in rehabilitation to improve motor function and independence of patients.
      In the Rehabilitation Center Valens, the exergames of 'MindMotion GO' (MMGO) are used to
      improve balance in patients with neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis and stroke.
      Patients' movements are captured by a Kinect camera. With their body movements, patients
      control an avatar that has to be moved goal directed. Several games are available and during
      rehabilitation therapists select games and adapt the exercise program according to patients'
      progress. In this way, trunk control and balance can be trained in sitting and standing.

      Rehabilitation is effective to improve independence in activities of daily living (ADL) for
      patients with Multiple Sclerosis and Stroke. Higher levels of mobility and balance are
      associated with better outcomes regarding ADL independence. Higher treatment dose is
      positively associated with ADL and balance improvement. Self-regulated exercise, whereby
      patients perform given exercises independently, is recommended. Exergames are increasingly
      used for self-regulated exercise. However, usability of the MMGO is reduced by the fact that
      1) therapists are needed to choose exercises and 2) adapt the exercise program depending on
      patients' ability level, and 3) patients' motivation reduces after about 5 sessions if
      exercises are not adapted and variation of exercises is low.

      The planned study aims to overcome the given limitations and thus improve usability. Using
      routine data of patients exercising with MMGO and clinical outcome measures this study will
      investigate the relationship between scores on the MMGO and on clinical outcome measures and
      how these scores change over time. In addition, researchers will determine the relative
      difficulty levels of each exercise and its difficulty level in relation to participants'
      balance ability.
    
  