
    
      The multispectral digital colposcope (MDC) is a specialized lightsource and imaging device
      mounted on a custom-made colposcope that acquires a sequence of fluorescence images. The MDC
      also consists of a point probe that is used to take detailed light measurements (call
      spectroscopy) from smaller regions of the cervix. The goal of the study is to see whether the
      MDC can perform better than standard methods in detecting cancerous or pre-cancerous
      abnormalities of the cervix.

      Study subjects will be HPV swabbed. After vinegar is applied on the cervix as per usual
      colposcopy practice, the MDC will then be used to take a sequence of images of the cervix.
      Next 2-4 readings will be taken from the cervix using the point probe.

      Study subjects may also be randomly asked to have additional pictures taken with another
      imaging device. a) The Fast Fluorescence Camera (FFC) is a modified digital camera that will
      capture images similar to that of the MDC. It will take a pair of images under two different
      lighting conditions - white light and violet light, both of which are used by the MDC. b) The
      Confocal Probe (CP) is a hand-held microscope used to collect images from the same location
      as the point probe. The cervix is topically stained with a fluorescent dye (Acriflavine)
      which is taken up by cell nuclei. The CP is then able to capture, in real time, images of the
      cells and their fluorescent nuclei.

      This data will be used to train, test and valid an algorithm specific to the MDC. The ability
      of the algorithm to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia will be compared to standard
      clinical care (colposcopy).

      The MDC images and pathology results will be compared to the spectroscopy data from the MDC
      probe. We will determine if spectroscopy has equal sensitivity to colposcopy for detecting
      high grade lesions.
    
  