
    
      Endpoints: Time to recurrence, duration of response and safety

      Number of Patients: 53 patients

      Study Design: Non-randomized, open-label study.

      Key Inclusion Criteria: High-risk patients according to EAU criteria defined as

        -  pT1 and/or Grade 2b-3, or multiple and highly recurrent

        -  histologically confirmed carcinoma in situ (CIS)

      Key Exclusion Criteria:

      pTa Grade 1 or pT1 Grade 1 tumors, existing urinary tract infection or recurrent severe
      bacterial cystitis; those who cannot tolerate intravesical administration or intravesical
      surgical manipulation due to the presence of concomitant serious illness; no prior
      intravesical chemotherapy or immunotherapy in the last three months; no prior EOquin
      treatment (intravenous or intravesical) in last 12 months.

      Study Treatment:

      All patients will receive intravesical instillation of EOquin™ 4-mg/40 mL instillate once a
      week for six consecutive weeks

      Patient with carcinoma in situ (CIS) will receive further maintenance therapy with 3
      consecutive weekly EOquin instillations at the following time points: 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24
      months from the date of TUR. At 3-month follow up visit patients will undergo cystoscopic
      bladder biopsy and urine cytology. If bladder biopsy is negative at 3-month visit, the follow
      up during the remaining visits will be by cystoscopy and urine cytology only, which will be
      done prior to the start of maintenance therapy. In case of positive cytology presence of CIS
      has to be confirmed histologically with biopsies.

      At 6 months follow-up, if biopsies are positive for CIS, no further maintenance therapy will
      be given; patient will be taken off-study.

      Duration of Patient Participation:

      Intravesical instillation of EOquin™ will be given once a week for six consecutive weeks. All
      patients will have follow-up evaluations carried out at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 months from
      the TUR date or until progressive disease is observed. In case of recurrence, patients will
      go off the study and further treatment will be at the investigator's discretion.

      Off Study:

      Patients will be taken off the study:

        -  Upon first recurrence and or progression

        -  Persistent CIS at 6 months follow up

        -  Recurrent CIS after biopsy proven complete response
    
  