
    
      Proximal femoral fractures are common in the ED. A major challenge in such subjects is pain
      management. Suboptimal pain control is associated with stress, a prolonged hospital stay and
      delirium. Pain or fear of pain can limit early mobilisation, an important goal in treatment.
      Therefore early pain management is essential. Standard analgesic care consists of
      acetaminophen, opiates and/or Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID's). Opiates can
      cause respiratory depression, constipation, drowsiness, nausea and vomiting. Especially
      elderly patients are at risk for these side effects Regional nerve blocks are increasingly
      being adopted as an alternative pain management to systemic analgesia in the ED. One of such
      is the Fascia Iliaca Compartment Block (FICB). This is safe and simple to perform. Results
      from studies, despite lacking ultrasound guidance are promising. No permanent disability
      resulted from the few minor complications that have been reported. These include bladder
      perforation, pneumoretroperitoneum and neuropathy of the femoral nerve. Furthermore no
      additional treatment was necessary. Ultrasound prevents occurrence of such complications.

      The studies that have compared this specific block to standard analgesia have shown that
      regional anaesthesia may be superior. However these studies have low inclusion numbers and
      lack of randomisation and/or blinding.. Literature up until now has used the numerical rating
      scale (NRS) as a primary outcome. Although the NRS is a very trustworthy method of measuring
      pain, the score is a subjective outcome Morphine consumption on the other hand is more
      objective.

      The FICB involves the anatomic space situated at the level of the groin in which important
      nerves that supply the hip joint lie. Anteriorly the space is covered by the iliac fascia. It
      is therefore known as the fascia iliaca compartment. By introducing a large volume of local
      anaesthetic solutions, the femoral, lateral femoral cutaneous and to a lesser extent the
      obturator nerve are anesthetized. Solutions can spread easily within the compartment.
      Therefore a safe position injection site can be chosen, minimizing the risk of intravascular
      injection and nerve damage. The classic position for injection is about 3 centimetres lateral
      from the femoral nerve. In the original FICB the injection site is determined by using
      landmarks. The fascia iliaca compartment is then approached by introducing a blunt needle,
      which enables the physician to feel a 'pop' twice. The first pop is felt when the fascia lata
      is pierced, the second when the fascia iliaca is passed.

      Most ED's nowadays have access to ultrasound. When used for FICB placement, the local
      anaesthetic solution is visualized as it is introduced into the space. Therefore a higher
      chance of successful placement of agent and a lower risk of complications can be expected. So
      far no large double blind randomised placebo controlled trials have evaluated morphine use in
      ultrasound guided placement of local anaesthetic agents with FICB in the ED. This study is
      designed as such. Total morphine use will be taken as the primary outcome, administered in
      the form of patient controlled analgesia (PCA).
    
  