
    
      Potential participants will be recruited from clinical settings and HIV testing centers. If
      interested in participation, they will take a short Computer Assisted Self-Interview (CASI)
      screening survey to determine eligibility. Those eligible will take part in the one-day study
      visit at that time or will provide contact information to set up the study visit at a later
      date.

      All study participants will attend a one-day study visit at their respective study site. Upon
      arrival, participants will complete a CASI that collects demographic, social, behavioral, and
      attitudinal measures. Next, participants will take part in a simulated consent process for
      two hypothetical trials modeled after ATN 113 and HPTN 077. Study procedures differ for
      adolescents and parents, so each group is described separately below:

      Adolescent Participants: For each hypothetical trial, research staff will lead the
      participant through a simulated consent process consistent with their randomized consent
      condition. Then, the participant will complete a CASI assessing Willingness to Participate
      (WTP) and will work with research staff to complete the University of San Diego (UCSD) Brief
      Assessment of Capacity to Consent (UBACC).

      Parent Participants: For each hypothetical trial, research staff will review the informed
      consent forms with the parent. The parent will complete a CASI with three vignettes that
      describe each of the three possible consent conditions. Parents will rate the acceptability
      of each vignette. Then, the participant will work with research staff to complete the UCSD
      Brief Assessment of Capacity to Consent (UBACC). Finally, the participant will answer a
      series of questions via CASI.

      A subset of 6-8 adolescents and 6-8 parents per study site will complete a debriefing
      interview assessing adolescent and parent perspectives on the various consent conditions in
      greater depth, and to better understand the role of study features, family, and adolescent
      characteristics in willingness to participate/willingness to support the hypothetical
      research studies.
    
  