
    
      Background | Over the past decade, the number of back surgeries in Belgium has substantially
      increased. However, even after an anatomically successful surgery, 10% to 40% of the patients
      continue to report pain complaints, causing personal suffering and an enormous economic
      burden. The specific factors that can predict individual trajectories in postoperative pain,
      recovery, and work resumption are currently largely unknown.

      Aim | The aim of this study is to identify modifiable predictors of work resumption after
      back surgery.

      Methods | In this multisite, prospective, longitudinal study, 300 individuals undergoing back
      surgery will be followed one-year post-surgery. Prior to surgery, the participants will
      perform a behavioral computer task to assess fear of movement-related pain and avoidance
      behavior, and their generalization. In addition, participants will complete questionnaires to
      assess preoperative fear of movement-related pain, avoidance behavior, optimism, expectancies
      towards recovery and work resumption, and the duration and severity of the pain before the
      surgery. Immediately after surgery, as well as six weeks, three months, six months, and
      twelve months postoperatively, sustainable work resumption, pain severity, disability, and
      quality of life will be assessed.

      Hypothesis | The primary hypothesis is that generalization of fear of movement-related pain
      and avoidance behavior will negatively affect sustainable work resumption after back surgery.
      Second, the investigators hypothesize that generalization of fear of movement-related pain
      and avoidance behavior, negative expectancies towards recovery and work resumption, longer
      pain duration, and more severe pain before the surgery will negatively affect work
      resumption, pain severity, disability, and quality of life after back surgery. In contrast,
      positive expectancies towards recovery and work resumption and optimism are expected
      positively influence work resumption, pain severity, disability, and quality of life.
    
  