
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this research study is to determine the effect of pre-operative electrical
      stimulation (ES) on sensory nerve regeneration in the digital nerves that have been
      traumatically transected and subsequently surgically repaired.

      Hypothesis:

      Based on previous animal and human research, we hypothesize that pre-operative ES will result
      in significant improvement of sensory nerve regeneration in the hand compared to surgery
      alone after a traumatic digital nerve laceration. Additionally, we hypothesize that
      pre-operative along with post-operative ES will have an additive effect on sensory nerve
      regeneration compared to pre-operative ES and surgery alone.

      Justification:

      Traumatic injury to the peripheral nerves is most common in the young population; therefore
      resulting disability incurs a significant cost to the patient, as well as to society, from
      loss of productivity and healthcare dollars spent on rehabilitation. Despite major efforts in
      improving surgical technique, functional outcome has not significantly changed in the past
      thirty years. Irreversible denervation, atrophy of target muscles, and deranged sensation
      secondary to slow or aberrant axonal outgrowth remains a significant challenge. Currently the
      application of post-operative electrical stimulation is being used to promoted axonal
      regeneration to good effect. However, pre-operative conditioning of the injured peripheral
      nerve, with electrical stimulation, has not been investigated in the human population.

      Pre-operative conditioning with electrical stimulation (ES) of the injured peripheral nerves
      demonstrates particular promise. The mechanism of action of conditioning lesions consists of
      up regulation of regenerative associated genes and the cAMP and JAK/STAT pathways. Data from
      animal models, examining the effect of pre-operative electrical stimulation of peripheral
      nerves, demonstrate that this technique promotes peripheral nerve axonal regeneration. Senger
      et al have demonstrated that electrical stimulation produced axonal regeneration that is
      equivalent to the traditional pre-conditioning crush lesion. Thus, electrical stimulation has
      been proven as a viable method of pre-conditioning peripheral nerves, in order to promote
      upregulate axonal regeneration prior to primary coaptation of the nerve. Senger et al have
      also investigated the mechanism of action of this improved axonal regeneration in animals
      pre-conditioned with electrical stimulation and have found upregulation of regenerative
      associated genes.

      The effect of post-operative electrical stimulation on surgically repaired peripheral nerves
      is well detailed in the literature. Thus it may be synergistic to combine pre and
      post-operative electrical stimulation. Previously animal work has been translated into
      patients with digital nerve transection and repair, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Wong et al
      demonstrated those patients who underwent complete digital nerve transection, surgical
      repair, and postoperative 1 hour of 20Hz continuous ES showed consistently greater
      improvements in all sensory modalities by 5 to 6 months postoperatively compared to the
      controls. Gordon et al demonstrated brief post-surgical ES resulted in robust motor
      reinnervation to the thenar muscles by 3 months whereas it took more than a year in the
      control patients.

      Nix and Hopf demonstrated that low frequency ES of the crushed motor nerve to the soleus in
      rabbits accelerated improvement in muscle force production by 2 weeks compared to controls.
      Pocket and Gavin using the rat model showed that the toe-spray reflex in crushed sciatic
      nerves recovered significantly faster with low frequency and low intensity ES. Al-Majed et al
      showed that one hour of low frequency 20Hz ES of transected and repaired rat femoral nerves
      accelerated the slow-staggered regeneration growing across the repair site as well as
      enhanced preferential motor reinnervation. Even when the ES was delayed by up to 2 weeks
      post-rat femoral nerve repair, the enhancing effects were still persevered. In a companion
      study of the same year, those investigators showed that ES upregulated brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor and its receptor trkB within the first 2 days after surgery. Brushart et
      al showed that brief low frequency ES improves the specificity of reinnervation. Geremia et
      al performed a pivotal study showing an increase in axonal regeneration in sensory neurons if
      the period of post-surgical ES was no more than 1 hr. The effect was blunted if the
      stimulation period was any longer.

      To date, no studies have been done to look at the effect of pre-operative conditioning on
      sensory reinnervation of human peripheral nerves with ES. Given the promising nature of the
      animal data from Senger et al, and the well documented effectiveness of post-operative
      electrical stimulation of surgically repaired peripheral nerves, we designed this study to
      evaluate the effects of pre-operative conditioning with ES, as well as pre-operative and
      post-operative ES on digital nerve sensory recovery post transection and repair.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this study are two-fold. To determine the effect of pre-operative ES alone,
      as well as combined with post-operative ES on digital nerve regeneration of sensation,
      post-transection and surgical repair, when compared to control patients with surgery alone.

      Research Method/Procedures:

      Design:

      This is a double-blinded randomized placebo controlled trial that tests the effect of ES on
      sensory (digital) nerve recovery in the human hand. Patients will be recruited in the hand
      trauma (Plastic Surgery) clinics across Edmonton. Once consented for the research study, the
      subject will undergo a battery of tests (Semmes-Weinstein Monofilament Test, 2-point
      discrimination, quantitative sensory testing for cold, warm and heat pain thresholds, as well
      as the Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand [DASH] questionnaire) preoperatively to
      determine their baseline deficit prior to surgery.

      Surgery:

      All surgeons and intraoperative staff will be blinded from the experimental treatment. All
      procedure is the same for every patient in the operating suite. Patients will receive the
      standard-of-care surgical repair of their digital nerve with microscopic magnification and
      using fine-gauge sutures. Every patient will have 2 fine-gauge Teflon insulated wires
      (sterilized at the hospital where the surgery is done) inserted proximal to the nerve injury
      site, away from the suture site, 3 days pre-operatively and immediately post operatively.
      Those wires will be attached to the electrical stimulator that activates the nerve and send
      action potentials towards the cell body. For that reason, the patient must not receive local
      anesthetic because that would block the sodium channels, abolishing action potential
      propagation and nullify the effects of electrical stimulation.

      Post-operative Recovery:

      Patients will be assessed for baseline characteristics three days prior to the scheduled
      surgical date,l fine-gauge wires will be implanted percutaneous proximal to the presumed
      nerve injury site, these wires will be attached to an electrical stimulator (model SD9, Grass
      Instruments, Providence, RI, USA). At that point, the personnel directly connected to the
      study will leave the room. A research assistant who is not otherwise connected to the study
      will take over. An opaque envelope that contains a computed generated randomization code will
      be opened to determine the patient treatment group.

      Treatment group A: Pre-operative stimulation with sham post-operative stimulation

      Patients randomized to this group will receive 1 hour of continuous electrical stimulation
      three days prior to scheduled surgical date. The frequency will be fixed at 20Hz and the
      voltage and duration of electrical pulses will be sequentially increased to the maximum
      tolerable limit. As the nerve becomes accustomed to the sensation of the stimulation, the
      voltage is increased to the next tolerable threshold and this is repeated throughout the
      one-hour period. Once the stimulation is complete, the stimulator is detached and the patient
      is informed of the surgical date. The wires are taken out at the conclusion of the
      pre-operative appointment. These patients will have fine gauge wires for post-operative sham
      stimulation implanted at the time of surgery. In the post-operative recovery room the
      stimulator is attached to their wires. However, the voltage will only be increased to a level
      they are able to sense. The stimulator was then be turned off without the patients'
      knowledge. All connections are left in place. These patients will have their wires removed at
      the first follow-up within 1 week.

      Treatment group B: Pre-operative and post-operative stimulation:

      Patients randomized to this group will receive 1 hour of continuous electrical stimulation
      three days prior to scheduled surgical date and then again immediately post operatively. The
      frequency will be fixed at 20Hz and the voltage and duration of electrical pulses will be
      sequentially increased to the maximum tolerable limit. As the nerve becomes accustomed to the
      sensation of the stimulation, the voltage is increased to the next tolerable threshold and
      this is repeated throughout the one-hour period. Once the stimulation is complete, the
      stimulator is detached and the patient is informed of the surgical date. The wires are taken
      out at the conclusion of the pre-operative appointment. Patients randomized to this group
      will also receive 1 hour of continuous electrical stimulation post-operatively. These
      patients will have fine gauge wires for post-operative stimulation implanted at the time of
      surgery. In the post-operative recovery room the stimulator is attached to their wires. The
      frequency will be fixed at 20Hz and the voltage and duration of electrical pulses will be
      sequentially increased to the maximum tolerable limit. As the nerve becomes accustomed to the
      sensation of the stimulation, the voltage is increased to the next tolerable threshold and
      this is repeated throughout the one hour period. Once the stimulation is complete, the
      stimulator is detached and the patient is informed of the next follow-up. The wires are taken
      out at the first follow-up within a week with the first dressing and splint change

      Sham-Placebo Control Group

      These patients will have the stimulator attached to their wires 3 days prior to scheduled
      surgical date and postoperatively as were in the previous groups. However, the voltage will
      only be increased to a level they are able to sense. The stimulator was then be turned off
      without the patients' knowledge. All connections are left in place for a hour duration. These
      patients will similarly have their wires removed after the conclusion of their pre-operative
      appointment and at the first post-operative follow-up within 1 week of surgery.

      Post-operative Follow-up:

      All patients will have a one week post-operative visit, and then subsequently be followed
      monthly where the previously mentioned sensory nerve assessment tests as well as sensory
      nerve conduction studies and the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure will be done.
      There are a total of six monthly visits, each visit will take about 1.5h.

      Sample size calculation

      Based on a pivotal paper by Geremia et al; in the rat the difference in the number of
      regenerated sensory axons following 1h ES was 397+/-321 (SD) compared to the controls. With
      the type I error set at 0.05 and the type II error at 0.80, a sample size of 20 would be
      needed in the treatment group and the same number in the control group. To account for 10% of
      potential patients loss to follow-up we aim to recruit a total of 66 patients. An interim
      analysis will be done by the data monitoring team once the first 10 patients have completed
      their 6 month follow-up.

      Plan for data analysis:

      Per protocol analysis will be completed. All results will be reported as mean + standard
      deviation. Student t test and Fischer exact test will be preformed to determine demographic
      differences between treatment groups. Differences in sensory testing results will be
      evaluated via chi square testing. ANOVA will be used to determine reproducibility of testing
      by comparing outcomes to the contralateral hand. ANOVA variance analysis will also be
      preformed on all post treatment time points to determine whether the treatments differ over
      time. A 5% (alpha) level will be considered a statistically significant difference.
    
  