
    
      Background The epidemics of obesity, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and atherosclerosis
      are increasing worldwide. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), for a long time unnoted
      in the metabolic field, is becoming recognized as a condition possibly involved in the
      pathogenesis of these diseases. Support for this hypothesis emerges from studies revealing
      that NAFLD precedes the manifestation of the metabolic derangements. NAFLD includes the whole
      spectrum from non-evolutive simple steatosis to progressive non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
      (NASH) with/without cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in individuals without relevant
      alcohol consumption. NAFLD is a relevant issue in public health owing to its' epidemiologic
      burden. It represents the most common chronic liver disease in the general population and is
      expected to increase in the future as a result of an ageing population, the improving control
      of other major causes of chronic liver disease and the epidemics of obesity and diabetes. The
      prevalence of NAFLD varies according to age, gender and ethnicity. In the general population,
      the prevalence of NAFLD is about 25% and the incidence is of two new cases/100 people/year.
      2-3% of individuals in the general population will suffer from NASH. Furthermore, up to
      15-20% of patients with NASH may develop cirrhosis and 30-40%of these patients who develop
      cirrhosis may suffer from liver-related mortality. NAFLD is tightly associated with the
      metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is a condition characterized by a cluster of
      alterations including glucose intolerance/ insulin resistance, abdominal obesity, atherogenic
      dyslipidemia (low concentrations of high density lipoprotein- cholesterol and high
      concentrations of triglycerides), elevated blood pressure, a proinflammatory and a
      prothrombotic state. It increases morbidity and mortality, especially due to cardiovascular
      disease. The prevailing hypothesis for NAFLD pathogenesis is the 'two-hit' model, with
      insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia playing essential roles. Insulin resistance and
      hyperinsulinemia have a plethora of effects on hepatic lipid metabolism and can lead to
      accumulation of excess triglycerides in hepatocytes. The progression to NASH entails a
      'second hit', which is believed to be due to oxidative stress, upregulation of inflammatory
      mediators, and dysregulated apoptosis, resulting in inflammation (producing NASH) and
      fibrosis. Currently, the only accepted treatment for NAFLD regardless of stage is lifestyle
      modifications. These include weight loss by a combination of decreased caloric intake and
      increased physical activity.

      Study rationale Many patients worldwide are suffering from type 2 diabetes with steeply
      rising numbers predicted for the next decades. Although much progress can be seen in the
      field of diabetic research and new treatment modalities, new approaches have to be found to
      cure the disease and underlying risk factors. As men and women show sex specific differences
      especially in risk factors of T2DM, a sex- and gender-sensitive approach might be considered.
      Sex hormones might play an important role in the development and possibly the treatment of
      T2DM. In women higher but in men lower than normal testosterone concentrations predispose for
      a higher diabetes risk making evident that sex hormones and sex hormone equilibrium are
      relevant in disease progression. Especially in men low testosterone levels have deteriorating
      effects on glucose levels, which is aggravated in obesity as aromatization of testosterone to
      estrogen is enhanced. Due to this mechanism changes in energy homeostasis are reported which
      lead to changes in lipid accumulation, as described for visceral obesity. Testosterone
      deficiency is related to increases of visceral fat accumulation. Furthermore testosterone
      deficiency is associated with the development of non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a
      well known risk factor for progression of metabolic syndrome (MEtSy), T2DM and cardiovascular
      disease. Thus, testosterone replacement might be a successful way in hypogonadal men to treat
      obesity and counteract the further progression of MEtSy, T2DM or cardiovascular disease
      mainly driven by visceral fat accumulation and NAFLD and are able to improve quality of life.

      Testosterone and changes in metabolism:

      Whether low testosterone levels have direct effects on hyperglycaemia or testosterone
      deficiency is caused by chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes is not yet fully understood
      and needs further clarification.

      Studies are showing that the link between hypogonadism and the metabolic syndrome is
      bidirectional. On the one hand MetSy and obesity are associated with a higher risk of
      hypogonadism in the future but on the other hand low testosterone levels and SHBG levels are
      strong predictors for the development of MetSy and T2DM. It is further hypothesized that
      hypoandrogenism is an early marker for disturbances in glucose metabolism. Many studies
      proved that low testosterone levels may aggravate hyperglycaemia and also may deteriorate
      other metabolic parameters such as insulin levels and sensitivity, lipid levels, hepatic,
      myocardial and visceral fat content or body composition in general. Just recently the ADA
      recommends to test for testosterone deficiency (morning testosterone levels) in all men with
      T2DM with symptoms or signs of hypogonadism, which are decreased sexual desire or erectile
      dysfunction.

      Treatment in asymptomatic men is controversial. Supplementation of testosterone in diabetic
      men with hypogonadism was reported to increase insulin sensitivity and to significantly
      reduce HbA1c, which was also reported in a long time observational study including men with
      T2DM with an amelioration of glycemic control as well as other cardiovascular and
      cardiometabolic parameters. Furthermore, total and LDL cholesterol, as well as lipoprotein a
      were lowered, and body composition, libido, and sexual function improved, whereas frequencies
      of adverse events (AEs) or serious AEs between groups were comparable after 6 months of
      transdermal testosterone application. These results were corroborated by a systematic review
      including five RCTs with 350 diabetic hypogonadal men showing improvements in fasting
      glucose, fasting insulin, HbA1c and triglyceride levels. In a recent study depression was
      found to have confounding effects with alleviated success in reduction in waist
      circumference, weight, and body mass index as well as improvements in glycaemic control in
      men with psychiatric disorders. Testosterone is an important regulator of central and
      peripheral adipose tissue and shows many inhibitory effects such as triglyceride uptake in
      fat tissue or lipoprotein lipase activity, as well as a higher lipolytic activity triggered
      by β-adrenergic receptors. An RCT found that in men with hypogonadism subcutaneous fat mass
      decreases, lean mass and insulin sensitivity increase and the expression of insulin signaling
      genes is upregulated after testosterone treatment. Furthermore, inflammatory parameters as
      well as FFA decrease after testosterone treatment. Interestingly in this study a decrease in
      hepatic lipids in the treatment group was found, which was not significant in a 24 weeks
      treatment period. However, treatment groups were inhomogenous regarding baseline hepatic
      lipid content, the lipid content was relatively low for a collective of subjects with T2DM
      and the treatment period was relatively short. Another recent RCT found significant
      reductions in HOMA-IR, HbA1c by 0.94 +- 0.88% and an increase in flow-mediated dilatation,
      which indicates improved endothelial function in a hypogonadal male population with obesity
      and diabetes.

      Testosterone and cardiovascular risk:

      The influence of testosterone on cardiovascular risk factors is not well investigated as
      prospective data are widely missing but evidence shows that testosterone application in men
      does not increase cardiovascular risk. Furthermore androgen deficiency is associated with a
      higher risk in cardiovascular mortality. Recent epidemiological data suspect testosterone
      replacement therapy to increase cardiovascular risk. However, FDA experts find that data is
      insufficient to make clear suggestions and that there is a need for clinical trials assessing
      safety of testosterone replacement in people at high risk for cardiovascular risk, like older
      men, men with T2DM or obesity. After this FDA statement a retrospectively assessed
      observational study with over 80000 male veterans with documented low total testosterone
      levels was published reporting a reduction of all cause mortality, myocardial infarction and
      stroke in men with testosterone replacement therapy. A reduction of MACE was also reported in
      a further study in male subjects with low testosterone levels substituted to normal levels
      compared to those with persistent low levels. Men with high testosterone levels had similar
      MACE risk but a trend for higher stroke risk.

      Especially in an obese population with T2DM and hypogonadism the mortality and morbidity
      caused by coronary artery disease is expected to be high, as CAD is the leading cause of
      death in subjects with T2DM and often progresses asymptomatic until an infarction or sudden
      cardiac death occur. Recent conducted MPI (=myocardial perfusion imaging) studies in T2DM
      patients have shown higher prevalence of abnormal MPI, with more extensive ischemia, compared
      with subjects without T2DM. The DIAD trial did not show any benefit in prevention of cardiac
      events comparing MPI screening at regular intervals with a non-screened diabetic population
      up to nearly 5 years. However, it remains uncertain whether asymptomatic patients with type 2
      diabetes benefit from revascularization after the identification of inducible ischemia, as
      was suggested in a prior retrospective database analysis and a small randomized pilot study.
      Currently in obese men with hypogonadism and T2DM it is largely unknown whether testosterone
      replacement has any effects on cardiac perfusion. According to appropriate use criteria (AUC)
      for the detection a risk assessment of stable ischemic heart disease MPI is a potential
      diagnostic method to detect CHD at stages of high global coronary artery disease risk [42].
      According to NCEP ATP III criteria, the recommended tool of the AUC, the patient collective
      of TEST2FUNC featuring male subjects with hypogonadism, diabetes mellitus,
      overweight/obesity, hypertension and dyslipidemia are at high risk for coronary heart
      disease, as diabetes is seen as a CHD risk equivalent and confers to a high risk of new CHD
      within 10 years.

      Study objective:

      This study wants to investigate the direct effects of intramuscular testosterone replacement
      versus placebo in changing the intrahepatic fat content, myocardial fat content, visceral and
      abdominal fat content as well as pancreatic fat content of poorly controlled men suffering
      from T2DM and secondary hypogonadism. Furthermore, the effects of testosterone on glycaemic
      control and cardiovascular safety will be investigated. The effect of testosterone on cardiac
      perfusion will be tested in this high risk collective.

      For studying long-term effects, an open-label extension of the study by an additional 2 years
      is intended.
    
  