
    
      Patients >65 year old who are cochlear implant candidates will be recruited for study
      participation. Candidacy criteria will be based on current FDA guidelines for cochlear
      implantation. After pre-operative cognitive testing, subjects will undergo cochlear
      implantation using standard operative techniques. Patient will have routine post-operative
      care and will follow up with audiology per standard post-activation routine - 1 week after
      activation, then monthly until a stable program is achieved. Hearing will be measured with
      standard audiometry to check for residual acoustic hearing, hearing in noise tests (HINT),
      aided thresholds, and consonant-nucleus-consonant (CNC) words at activation, 6 and 12 months
      post-operatively, and as often as needed in the interim to determine function.

      Pre-operative and 6 and 12 month post-operative cognitive testing will be performed using a
      battery of tests that will differentiate verbal/auditory and non-verbal cognitive abilities.

      Written informed consent will be sought from all individuals who will participate in the
      proposed project. Consent will be obtained by the principal investigator or key study
      personnel such as the research coordinator. When a potential participant has been identified,
      she/he will be visited in person. The participant will be given an overview of the study as
      well as written material that further explains the study and the responsibilities of the
      participant. Since some of our participants may have cognitive impairment, we will also make
      a determination about capacity to provide informed consent. Following presentation of the
      informed consent document, participants will be asked questions about the study (i.e.
      purpose, procedures, risks, and benefits). If these questions are adequately answered, then
      the participant will be judged to have capacity to provide informed consent. However, if
      these questions are not adequately answered, the participants will not be judged to have this
      capacity. In these latter cases, assent will be obtained from the participant and informed
      consent will be obtained from the participant's legally authorized representative (spouse,
      adult child
    
  