
    
      Psychotic disorders often occur during late adolescence and early adulthood. Cognitive
      deficits are among the most debilitating features of these disorders and have important
      impacts on academic functioning. Youth with psychotic disorders are more likely drop-out or
      to struggle completing high school and entering postsecondary education. Supported education
      programs (SE) help people with mental illness succeed in school by providing various
      services. However, these programs do not target cognitive deficits. Cognitive remediation
      therapy (CR) is an evidence-based cost-effective treatment to improve cognitive deficits. CR
      leads to significant improvements in cognition, symptoms and functioning, and improvements
      are even larger when combined with psychiatric rehabilitation interventions, such as
      supported employment. However, little attention has been paid to SE. Combining CR and SE is
      an integrative approach that could have a positive effect on academic functioning in youth
      with psychotic disorders.

      This trial aims to assess the added value of cognitive remediation therapy to supported
      education intervention in young adults with a psychotic disorder. The objectives of this
      study are threefold: The first objective is to evaluate the efficacy of supported education
      and cognitive remediation therapy for young adults with psychotic disorders in terms of
      academic outcome (primary outcome) and cognitive, neurobiological, and psychological outcomes
      (secondary outcomes). The second objective is to explore mechanisms of change in academic
      outcomes using a multidimensional approach (cognitive, psychological and biological
      characteristics) in youth with psychotic disorders. The third objective is to investigate the
      patients' perspectives regarding their appreciation of the supported education programs.

      Participants will be assessed at baseline (T0) using a multidimensional approach including
      academic outcomes as well as cognitive, psychological and genetic measures. Participants will
      then be randomized to the experimental condition (Cognitive remediation + Supported education
      + Treatment as usual) or the control condition (Supported education + Treatment as usual) for
      three months. The cognitive remediation program that will be used is CIRCuiTS (Computerised
      Interactive Remediation of Cognition Training for Schizophrenia). Directly after the end of
      treatment (T1) and three months following the end of treatment (T2), the same measures as
      baseline will be repeated. One year post-treatment (T3), a last assessment will be conducted
      for academic outcomes.

      To assess qualitative experience of patients enrolled in supported education, a subsample of
      the randomized controlled trial will be recruited to participate in a photovoice activity.
      Photovoice is a participatory research approach that enables vulnerable people to act as
      co-researchers by identifying and representing their personal experience through photography
      or video. This approach notably includes a life-book approach in which participants will
      document their experience through photos they will take and other images they can find on the
      web or any other media, which will be paired with a narrative interview focusing on
      documenting their significant experiences going through the intervention.
    
  