
    
      BACKGROUND AND CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE

      Over the past decade, the surgical method for removing pituitary tumors has shifted from a
      microscopic resection technique performed exclusively by a neurosurgeon, to an endoscopic
      resection done as a team with an otolaryngologist and neurosurgeon. This field continues to
      evolve given this recent shift in treatment technique.

      Nasal packing has historically been a post-operative intervention of treating the nose
      employed by otolaryngologists for any nasal surgery they performed. However, with the advent
      of endoscopic sinus surgery and changes in surgical technique, the use of nasal packing has
      become less common. A systematic review by Quinn et. Al (2013) showed that nasal packing
      caused more patient discomfort than any other post-septoplasty maneuver and did not prevent
      complications of septoplasty, but could contribute to adverse events following septoplasty.
      In North America, nasal packing is no longer commonly used after septoplasty.

      However, following the endoscopic resection of pituitary tumors, the practice of nasal
      packing is still widely employed. The reasoning for placement of nasal packing following
      surgery is not clear, just as it was not for its use following septoplasty. A thorough search
      of the literature did not identify any publications providing justification for the use of
      nasal packing. Published recommendations to reduce incidence of post-operative nasal
      complications after transsphenoidal pituitary tumor resection include use of specific nasal
      medications (intranasal corticosteroids) and regular nasal saline irrigation (in patients
      without cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea) to clear nasal mucosal hyperemia edema and
      secretions, as well as to prevent nasal synechiae and scarring, to maintain the sinus cavity
      drainage, and accelerate the recovery of the physiological function of the paranasal sinus.
      However, an evidence based recommendation in support or against routine nasal packing has not
      been made. A review from neurosurgical literature on perioperative management post
      transsphenoidal pituitary resection reports the majority of patients do not require insertion
      of nasal packing at the time of surgery, some patients (intraoperative Cerebral spinal fluid
      (CSF) leaks requiring sellar floor reconstruction, Cushing's Disease, and acromegaly) may
      benefit from their insertion, and if used packing is typically removed postoperative day 1.

      In January 2018 an informal email survey of Canadian Otolaryngologists who routinely perform
      endoscopic pituitary surgery with a neurosurgeon (total of 7 respondents out of 11 surgeons,
      64% response rate) demonstrated that 5 of 7 use nasal packing following the procedure; 2 of 7
      do not. Packing is usually left in place for 48 hours when used. A screening of institution
      websites (February 12, 2018) in North America where this surgery is routinely performed found
      a balanced number of institutions that list the use or non-use of nasal packing following
      endoscopic pituitary tumor resection (13 institutional websites screened, 8 institutions
      routinely use nasal packing, 5 do not). There is clinical equipoise related to the use of
      nasal packing. An objective study assessing the utility of nasal packing following endoscopic
      endonasal pituitary surgery has not yet been completed.

      This study seeks to answer the question, "Is routine nasal packing following endoscopic
      pituitary tumor surgery a necessary treatment?". The results of this trial have the potential
      to standardize practice patterns in Canada and internationally, and will inform evidence
      based practice while directly impacting the quality of care delivered to patients undergoing
      pituitary tumor resection.

      HYPOTHESIS

      Nasal packing following routine endoscopic pituitary tumor surgery is an unnecessary
      intervention that may cause patients unjustified post-operative discomfort, negatively affect
      their quality of life, and unnecessarily increase associated cost of care.
    
  