
    
      Experiment 1: Consistency of microbiota-gut-brain axis responses

      Prior to the start of this study, there are screening procedures to ensure participants meet
      the criteria for the study. At the first consent screening appointment, participants will
      learn more about the study, answer questionnaires, and complete a psychological interview. At
      the second medical screening appointment, participants will have a physical exam, blood work,
      drug screen, pregnancy test, electrocardiogram (a measurement of heart activity), and a
      resting metabolic rate assessment (a measurement of how much energy the body uses at rest).
      Participants will also meet with a nutritionist to discuss their food preferences for the
      study. Although participants are not financially compensated for the screening procedures,
      the expense of the screening tests is covered and copies are provided to the participant upon
      request. All of the results of the screening procedures are confidential and will only be
      used by the study staff to determine eligibility for the study.

      Following the screening procedures, participants will complete two laboratory visits, both
      visits preceded by two weeks of home activity monitoring. During the home monitoring,
      participants wear a special watch that records activity levels. Participants also keep a
      sleep/wake log and use a website to log their daily sleep/wake times (if participants cannot
      access this website, they can call into an answering machine to inform investigators when
      they go to bed and wake up each day). The investigators will provide participants with a
      pre-study diet prepared by study dieticians for participants to eat for the three days prior
      to the laboratory visit. During the two weeks between the first and second laboratory visit
      participants will continue to wear the special watch, keep a sleep/wake log, and use a
      website to log their daily sleep/wake times (or call them into the answering machine).
      Participants will again be given a pre-study diet for the three days prior to their second
      visit.

      During the laboratory visits, participants will live in the Sleep and Chronobiology Lab at
      the University of Colorado at Boulder for 3.7 days on two different occasions. The day before
      the inpatient visit begins, participants will spend the night in the laboratory, sleeping
      their normal 8 hours. This will be used as a pre-study screening for problems with sleep. In
      the morning participants will complete some pre-study tests and samples which will take
      approximately 60 minutes. Participants will then be permitted to leave the laboratory and in
      the evening they will return to begin the study. During the study participants sleep schedule
      will be changed to simulate the sleep loss that emergency workers in medical and military
      situations experience. Participants will be given an initial 3 hour sleep opportunity and
      then kept awake overnight. Throughout the study participants will be given a 3 hour sleep
      opportunity for every 24 hours of the laboratory visit. While participants are awake, they
      will be asked to perform a number of computer tasks, including a driving simulator. Blood and
      saliva samples will be taken to test for circadian and metabolic markers. Participants will
      also be asked to collect samples of the bacteria that live in their gastrointestinal tract
      from used bathroom tissue after they use the bathroom in the study. Finally, investigators
      will test how the heart and nervous system respond to stress by having participants place
      their hand in an ice water bath. At the end of the laboratory visit participants will be
      given an 11 hour sleep opportunity to recover from their sleep loss. After 3 more days of
      recovery sleep and another 2 weeks of home monitoring (identical to the first two weeks of
      the study), these procedures will be repeated in a second laboratory visit.

      Experiment 2: Pre-biotic

      Methods for experiment 2 are exactly the same as experiment 1 with the following addition:
      During the two weeks prior to laboratory visits, half of the study participants will be
      randomized (e.g., flip of a coin) to receive the prebiotic combination of polydextrose (PDX)
      and galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) daily for 2 weeks and then tested in the first
      in-laboratory visit. These participants will then receive a maltodextrin placebo (a
      starch-derived food additive commonly used as a filling agent in a range of commercial foods
      and beverages) the two weeks prior to the second in-laboratory visit. The other half of
      participants will first receive maltodextrin and then the prebiotic diet. Investigators will
      provide participants the prebiotics and maltodextrin powders to be mixed in water and
      consumed each morning. The order in which participants receive the prebiotic diet will be
      maintained by the Clinical and Translational Research Center pharmacist. Neither the
      investigators nor participants will know what is in the powder provided.
    
  