
    
      Vector control, together with prompt treatment with an artemisinin-based combination therapy
      (ACT) for individuals diagnosed with malaria and intermittent preventive treatment in
      pregnant women, is a critical component of malaria control in Africa. The two main vector
      control interventions used in Africa are long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) and indoor
      residual spraying (IRS). LLINs are currently the mainstay of vector control and are believed
      to have contributed to the recent dramatic decline in malaria cases. However, resistance to
      the pyrethroid insecticides used in the bed nets has increased. The second main vector
      control method, IRS, has been an extremely effective adjunct to LLINs; its usefulness is
      threatened by the high cost of repeated applications and increasing mosquito resistance to
      insecticides used for spraying.

      A new product, durable lining (DL) treated with non-pyrethroid insecticides, has been
      developed by Vestergaard, which theoretically mimics the effect of IRS but is designed to
      last for a minimum of three years. The product consists of a mixture of two non-pyrethroid
      insecticides incorporated into a polymer fabric that are designed to migrate differentially
      over the lifetime of the product to ensure sustained bioefficacy. The use of two agents may
      also decrease the risk of development of resistance. It is estimated that the cost of the
      insecticide treated wall liners (DL), which are installed on the indoor walls of houses,
      would be equal to 2-3 rounds of IRS.

      To test the effectiveness of this new product, we will conduct a two-arm controlled
      randomized cluster trial to test the hypothesis that DL + LLINs are superior to LLINs alone.
      Over twelve (12) months (August 2015- Aug 2016), in an area with universal coverage (UC) of
      LLINs and where artemisinin combination therapies (ACT) are provided as the first-line
      treatment of malaria, we intend to evaluate the impact of DL on malaria transmission among
      children ages 6 months to 11 years as measured by the incidence of malaria parasitemia
      (symptomatic and asymptomatic), and the prevalence of moderate to severe anemia in
      under-fives. In addition, we will assess the effect of DL on entomological parameters, and
      measure the acceptability and a cost-effectiveness of the intervention. Stratified
      randomization based on malaria prevalence during the baseline survey will be used to select
      22 clusters per arm in Muheza district.
    
  