
    
      Survivors of critical illness frequently have significant, debilitating and persistent
      weakness after discharge from the intensive care unit (ICU). This weakness can persist for up
      to 4 years after ICU discharge. There are few interventions that have been successful in
      reducing or preventing weakness. Neuromuscular electrostimulation (NMES) therapy is
      beneficial in other populations of weak and functionally limited patients, such as those with
      chronic respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, severe chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease and end-stage congestive heart failure. We propose a randomized clinical
      trial to evaluate the efficacy of 60 minutes of NMES versus sham therapy, applied to the
      bilateral lower extremities, to reduce ICU-associated weakness in patients with acute
      respiratory failure. Our specific aims are to determine if NMES therapy will: 1) increase
      strength of the 3 treated lower extremity muscle groups (i.e., pretibial, triceps surae, and
      quadriceps), 2) improve important clinical outcomes (i.e., functional status, duration of
      mechanical ventilation, length of ICU and hospital stay, in-hospital mortality, and total
      hospital charges), 3) reduce critical illness myopathy as an etiology of weakness in
      clinically weak ICU patients. The investigators hypothesize that NMES therapy will reduce
      ICU-associated weakness, and improve clinical and functional outcomes. Additionally, the
      rates of critical illness myopathy as an etiology of weakness in clinically weak ICU patients
      will be lower in those receiving NMES versus sham therapy. Since there is no single test that
      is optimal for measuring muscle strength in the critically ill, the investigators will employ
      four non-invasive measures: manual muscle testing (MMT), hand held dynamometry (HHD),
      handgrip dynamometry (HGD), and maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP). With no existing
      therapeutic options available, our study explores the potential of NMES as a feasible
      intervention to reduce ICU-associated weakness.
    
  