
    
      This study is a prospective, mono-center observational human, in vivo pilot study to assess
      in-vivo CLE characteristics of normal urothelium, benign urothelium and urothelial carcinoma
      (low-grade, high-grade or CIS) of the upper urinary tract. Eligible patients have a suspect
      tumour in the upper urinary tract and are scheduled for a diagnostic URS. Eligible patients
      will be informed about this study by their urologist. Information about the study will be
      provided both verbally and in written form.

      CLE images are recorded using a probe-based system (Cellvizio 100 series, Mauna Kea
      Technologies, Paris, France). The probe has a diameter of 0,85 mm, hereby enabling passage
      through the working channel of ureterorenoscope. It has a depth of tissue penetration of 50
      µm, a field of view of 320 µm and a resolution of 3,5 µm. Images are collected at a scan rate
      of 12 frames per second. Using the Cellvizio Viewer system, we can observe mucosal
      microarchitecture with an increased field of view through mosaic post processing. This system
      also enables virtual staining of mucosal structures to further enhance tissue contrast.

      A fluorescent contrast agent is needed to obtain CLE images. Fluorescein
      (fluoresceinedinatrium, Fresenius Kabi, Zeist, Nederland), a non-toxic and commonly used
      fluorescent dye will be administered through the working channel of the ureterorenoscope into
      the pyelocaliceal system (3 - 5 mL 0.1% fluorescein diluted in saline) and left indwelling
      for 5 minutes to stain the extracellular matrix.

      In this study patients will undergo one CLE measurement during the planned diagnostic URS. We
      measure on average 2 regions of interest per patient. If a patient has multiple tumours we
      will do multiple measurements. The measurement duration per patient adds maximally 10 minutes
      during the URS. At a later stage two independent non-blinded observers will review the CLE
      images. The CLE images of the diagnostic URS are qualitatively compared with histopathology
      from diagnostic biopsies, and if performed also with pathology from the therapeutic
      nephroureterectomy.

      Based on the UTUC diagnosis from the diagnostic URS, in general about one third of the
      patients are indicated for a therapeutic radical nephroureterectomy. The other two thirds of
      the UTUC patients are treated with endoscopic treatment. If patients undergo several
      ureterorenoscopies, they may be approached for CLE measurements at consecutive
      ureterorenoscopies.
    
  