
    
      Tennis is a popular sport with tens of millions of players participating worldwide. This
      popularity was one factor leading to the reappearance of tennis as a medal sport at the 1988
      Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. The volume of play, combined with the physical demands
      of the sports, can lead to injuries of the musculoskeletal system. Overall, injury incidence
      and prevalence in tennis has been reported in a number of investigations. The sport creates
      specific demands on the musculoskeletal system, with acute injuries, such as ankle sprains,
      being more frequent in the lower extremity while chronic overuse injuries, such as lateral
      epicondylitis, are more common in the upper extremity in the recreational player and shoulder
      pain more common in the high-level player.

      Tennis tournaments are quite complex due to their variability in terms of exercise duration
      and the type of effort required. One feature of competitive tennis is that the season is
      relatively long and that the ranking system pushes players to compete all year long. During a
      competition, players must sometimes play one or two matches a day on consecutive days. For
      many reasons the duration and intensity of these matches are highly variable, but it is not
      uncommon to see matches continue beyond three hours and various studies have shown a drop in
      high-level tennis performance during extended matches. Under these conditions, optimum
      recovery methods are needed to maintain a high level of performance over the duration of a
      match. Among the strategies used, nutrition appears to be an important element to consider.

      The majority of studies on the impact of nutritional strategies on tennis performance have
      been conducted by taking measurements during or at the end of long matches. Some studies have
      suggested a beneficial effect of carbohydrates during prolonged tennis matches. However, it
      is increasingly common for competitive athletes to use sports drinks before, during and after
      matches to help maintain their performance over the duration of a tournament. Different types
      of commercial beverages, specifically formulated to meet the needs of athletes before, during
      or after exercise, have been developed and introduced into the market in recent years.

      Performance in most sports is determined by the athlete's technical, physiological and
      psychological characteristics. The physical aspect will be evaluated with a focus on what
      limits performance, and how training can be conducted to improve performance. Increasing the
      amount of aerobic high-intensity training, affects physiological adaptations and performance
      of trained athlete.

      Carbohydrate loading regimens is that 2 to 6 days are required for the attainment of supra
      normal muscle glycogen levels. Because high rates of glycogen re-synthesis are reported
      during recovery from exercise of near-maximal intensity and that these rates could in theory
      allow muscle to attain supra normal glycogen levels in less than 24 hours.

      Sheppard and Young proposed a definition of agility as "a rapid whole-body movement with
      change of velocity or direction in response to a stimulus." Agility as the skills and
      abilities needed to explosively change movement velocities or modes. Agility can therefore be
      viewed as a context specific ability, with athletes attempting to maximize their sports
      performance using effective movement as and when required. This allows a full
      contextualization of movement and allows differentials between sports to be identified, as
      well as key task differentials between differing playing positions within the same sport.

      Previously study in 2014 concluded that there was a significant effect of CHO supplementation
      on with post-match concentration being higher at the end of the match This double blind,
      randomized, controlled crossover study was designed to determine the influence of
      carbohydrate supplementation (0.5 g•kg-1•h-1) on glycaemia, salivary hormones (cortisol and
      testosterone) concentration, salivary immunoglobulin A (IgA) concentration, and rating of
      perceived exertion (RPE) during 3 hours of tennis match play in 12 well-trained tennis
      players. previously study conducted in 2011 and concluded that speed, agility and quickness
      training program intervention had a positive effect on power performance in young soccer
      players.

      Carbohydrate loading is widely used in various forms. Sports dietitians recommend that early
      in the week prior to competition athletes maintain a normal moderate-to-high carbohydrate
      diet as training gradually tapers. previously conducted a study in 2007 and concluded that
      the use of sprint training as an applicable training method of improving explosive
      performance of athletes in general.

      The main aim of this study is to determine the effect of carbohydrate loading with
      combination of agility training in performance of tennis players as previous studies did not
      show the combining effects of carbohydrate loading and agility training.
    
  