
    
      STUDY RATIONALE:

      A large proportion of comatose survivors of cardiac arrest presenting to our intensive care
      units at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) undergo therapeutic hypothermia. Current
      evidence suggests that timely achievement of target temperatures is desirable to improve
      outcomes. At LHSC, this intervention is protocolized with a defined set of preprinted orders
      that includes a dosing regimen for neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA's). Our preprinted
      protocol has been in place since January of 2004. Cisatracurium infusions were part of the
      therapeutic hypothermia protocol until October 2011. Since that time, our protocol has
      changed to cisatracurium prn boluses for any observed shivering. In this study we will
      examine if there has been any change in the times to achieving target temperatures with the
      implementation of this change. It is important to note that no other change in our protocol
      has taken place since it was first implemented, making our before and after comparison valid
      and fair.

      Our hypothesis is that NMBA infusions lead to a faster drop in core temperatures when
      compared to NMBA prn boluses. If this were to stand true, we would expect cisatracurium IV
      infusions to result in faster reductions in core temperature when compared with cisatracurium
      prn boluses in the context of our therapeutic hypothermia protocol. Hypothermia has been
      known to cause a subclinical increase in muscle tone. This previously reported phenomenon has
      been named "microshivering". When attempting to reduce core temperatures, microshivering is
      likely a natural body response to try to restore body temperature back to normal. We
      therefore hypothesize that NMBA infusions are likely more effective at abolishing
      microshivering, which would be a desirable effect when trying to induce therapeutic
      hypothermia.

      Although current American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines suggest considering the
      administration of NMBA's to facilitate induced hypothermia and control shivering. Their
      recommendation is to minimize the duration of NMBA use or if possible, avoid them altogether.
      After the publication of these guidelines our institutional protocol changed to prn boluses
      instead of the previous infusion orders. We therefore believe it is important to examine the
      effects of this change on our cooling protocol and potentially add to the growing body of
      knowledge in this field.
    
  