
    
      This prospective, single center, double blinded, interventional trial will be conducted at
      Rabin Medical Center Beilinson Hospital. Adult patients undergoing CABG and valve
      replacement/ repair surgeries will be eligible to participate.

      All The participant will sign an informed consent prior to any procedures being done
      specifically for the purpose of the study, in the departmental ward on the day of surgery
      when they are not under the influence of sedatives and are not in pain. The study design and
      patient requirements will all be explained to the patient by the study investigator
      throughout the consent process. Participants will have the opportunity to carefully review
      the written consent form and ask questions prior to signing. All consent forms will be
      IRB-approved. Each participant will receive a signed copy of the informed consent document
      for their record.

      Treatment allocation will be performed by an independent investigator who will not be
      directly involved in the participants' treatment.

      All other study investigators will be blinded to a group assignment. All study participants
      will be blinded to a treatment arm allocation. Upon consent, all study participants will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two study arms.

      Nitric oxide balloon will be connected to the CPB machine. Study Arm: The balloon will be
      opened to deliver nitric oxide at 40 ppm. Control Arm: The balloon will be closed and no
      nitric oxide will be delivered. Following randomization, all study participants will undergo
      the surgery according to standard clinical practice. In the surgery room all study
      participants will be connected to a standard anesthesia monitor and will be monitored
      according to standard clinical practice, which will include monitoring according to ASA
      standards, insertion of an arterial line and a CVP catheter.

      Participation in the study will not affect the anesthetic, surgical and cardiopulmonary
      bypass management in any way. The anesthetic protocol administered to the study participant
      is at the attending anesthesiologists' discretion.

      In addition to treatment arm allocation, all study participants will be monitored during
      surgery and followed-up throughout their duration of stay in the ICU and at the department
      ward.

      Throughout the follow-up, study participants' blood tests and vital signs, as routinely
      monitored, will be collected and documented.
    
  