
    
      Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic cutaneous disorder affecting approximately one in seventy
      women. Presenting symptoms may include intense pruritus, pain, burning, and severe
      dyspareunia. This disorder may affect any area of the skin, but has a notable predilection
      for the anogenital skin. Extra-genital involvement is infrequent, affecting only 11% of women
      with LS. Affected females outnumber affect males by 10:1. There is bimodal peak incidence in
      premenarchal girls and menopausal women with an average age of onset of 51 years of age.

      The typical lesions of LS are white plaques and papules, often with areas of ecchymosis,
      excoriation, and ulceration. Often, there is destruction of the vulva architecture with
      scarring of the clitoral prepuce, resorption of the labia minora, and narrowing of the
      introitus. Four to six percent of women with LS will develop vulvar carcinoma. The
      histopathologic changes of LS are distinctive and make biopsy a very useful diagnostic tool.
      Characteristic pathologic finding include hyperkeratosis of the epidermis, epidermal atrophy
      with loss of rete ridges, homogenization of the collagen in the upper dermis, and a lichenoid
      (band-like) inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis. While there is no known cure for LS, the
      current gold standard treatment is ultra-potent corticosteroids. When properly administered,
      topical ultra-potent corticosteroids help to resolve the symptoms of pruritus and burning and
      can prevent further vulvar scarring. In addition, proper treatment reverses the underlying
      histopathologic changes of LS, and preliminary data shows that the risk of malignant
      transformation also declines.

      Although treatment with topical corticosteroids is effective, topical corticosteroids may
      have serious local and systemic side effects, including dermal thinning, skin atrophy,
      superimposed infections, rebound dermatitis, and adrenal insufficiency. Due to these side
      effects, long- term use of corticosteroids for the treatment of vulvar lichen sclerosus may
      be inadvisable. Therefore, a safe and effective alternative intervention is needed for this
      disorder.

      Recently, microablative fractional CO 2 laser (SmartXide 2 V 2 LR CO 2 laser system, for
      MonaLisa Touch, DEKA, Florence, Italy) has been proposed for the management of LS. This type
      of laser has a wavelength of 10,600 nm that allows a superficial microablative effect in soft
      tissues and a pulsed beam that protects the tissues from possible overheating damage. The
      laser beam is delivered to the tissue in a fractional manner, creating small spots (called
      DOTs) alternating parts of tissue treated and not treated. The size of each DOT is set by the
      manufacturer at 150 - 200 μm. Moreover, it has a DEKA pulse (D-pulse) mode that consists of
      two parts: (a) constant, high energy peak power, for rapid superficial evaporation of the
      atrophic epithelium with low water content and (b) lower peak power with longer emission
      times that allows the energy heat to penetrate deeper in the epithelium. This D-pulse mode
      combined with DOTs remodels the connective tissue via the production of heat shock protein 47
      and produces new collagen/fibroblasts and ground matrix.

      Recently, two small studies demonstrated that fractional CO 2 laser (FxCO 2 ) therapy appears
      to be a promising treatment modality to treat lichen sclerosus. These studies demonstrated
      that FxCO 2 treatment may stimulate protein synthesis, accelerate tissue reconstruction, and
      decrease lichenification. Furthermore, after elimination of local inflammation, the stimulus
      of nerve endings was reduced, so the clinical manifestations of LS, such as intense vulvar
      pruritus and burning were improved.
    
  