
    
      Non-traumatic rupture of the spleen is a rare condition. It may occur in the diseased spleen
      should be suspected when patients (especially young men) present with abdominal pain and a
      history of acute infectious or myeloproliferative disorders. Rarely, rupture may occur within
      an apparently normal spleen. The incidence, symptoms, causes, therapy and prognosis are
      poorly defined. We, therefore, propose an extension of retrospective analysis already
      presented in 2003 to examine all the cases of non-traumatic splenic rupture treated at Ziv
      Medical Centre over the last 26 years and to rationalise treatment plans taking into
      consideration pitfalls and complications in management so that the care and outcome for these
      patients is improved.

      Methods:

      Patients with a diagnosis of non-traumatic splenic rupture will be identified from the
      hospital database, their medical records retrieved and analysed to determine their actual
      diagnosis and examine their management and outcomes.

      Time frame:

      The retrospective data over the last 26 years will be analysed over the next year.

      Endpoints:

      This is a retrospective study. Our records indicate that as non-traumatic splenic rupture is
      a rare diagnosis, there are fewer than 50 patients listed with this diagnosis, fewer still,
      where examination of the medical records will reveal this to be the actual diagnosis.

      Inclusion criteria:

      All patients where review of the medical records indicates non-traumatic rupture of the
      spleen.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients with antecedent trauma. Statistical analysis: Data will be subjected to statistical
      analysis using IBM SPSS and incremental risk calculator software.

      Budget: not needed

      Ethics:

      This study focuses only on the analysis of medical records. Supplementary information from
      patients and health care staff will not be collected. There are no interviews or
      questionnaires planned and data nor treatment outcomes will be discussed outside the context
      of scientific debate (including presentation and publication).
    
  