
    
      Childhood and adolescent obesity represents a major public health challenge worldwide.
      Singapore is no exception as the prevalence of obesity among children was estimated at 12%.
      Overweight and obese children are more likely to become obese adults, to develop
      non-communicable diseases at a younger age, and to have a shorter life expectancy. One of the
      main reasons behind the growing obesity epidemic is low levels of physical activity. Previous
      literature shows evidence of a steep decline in physical activity among boys after the
      primary school years and low levels of activity among girls throughout the primary and high
      school years in Singapore. Daily step counts are found to be up to 35% short of the
      recommended daily steps for adolescents. Low levels of physical activity are also associated
      with lower psychological well-being among adolescents. Thus, it is important that
      interventions aimed at increasing physical activity target adolescent years.

      In this study, the investigators propose to test the effectiveness of providing social
      comparison information on increasing physical activity among adolescents. Participating
      adolescents will be randomized into a group and groups will be randomized into one of two
      study arms in a 4-month walking program:

      Private arm: At the end of each week, participants will be provided with the number of steps
      logged by the participants in their group. The number of steps will be ranked from highest to
      the lowest without any identifiable information about the participants.

      Public arm: At the end of each week, participants in this arm will be provided with the same
      information as in the other arm plus the names of the participants corresponding to the
      number of steps logged.

      Social comparison information will be provided to the study participants via SMS. We will
      conduct a 4-month two-arm RCT to test whether social comparison information increases
      physical activity more when it is disclosed publicly compared to when it is provided
      anonymously. The primary outcome is the average number of steps taken per week by
      participants. Study outcomes relating to physical activity and health-related quality of life
      for participants will be evaluated at baseline and 4 months. Step activity will be tracked in
      real time via Fitbit wireless pedometers throughout the study.
    
  