
    
      The overall goal of the project is to evaluate the relationship of two variables: 1)
      tourniquet cuff pressure (TCP); and 2) tourniquet time (i.e. duration of inflation) during
      primary TKA relative to three categories of outcomes: 1) intraoperative performance; 2)
      post-operative pain and complications; and 3) post-operative complications.

      Design

      This study will use a randomized controlled trial that is double-blinded. The
      co-investigator, Mark Nazal, along with the principal investigator, Dr. Maxwell Langfitt,
      will work with the Orthopaedic Clinic Research Coordinator to recruit around 146 patients.
      Mark Nazal will then randomize these patients into one of six tourniquet cuff pressure (TCP)
      groups:

        1. 220 mmHg 4) 300 mmHg

        2. 250 mmHg 5) 325 mmHg

        3. 275 mmHg 6) 350 mmHg

      The primary TKA procedure will be performed by one of the three fellowship-trained orthopedic
      surgeons at Wake Forest Baptist Hospital (Dr. Maxwell Langfitt, Dr. Jason Lang, and Dr. John
      Shields). The orthopedic surgeon and the patient will be blinded to the TCP assignment and
      will not be told what tourniquet pressure is being applied. The OR nursing team will be told
      what the patient's assigned TCP is in order to perform the actual inflation.

      Data collection will include short-term data: post-operative day 1 (POD1), post-operative day
      2 (POD2), and 2-week followup; intermediate data: 6-week and 12-week followup; and long-term
      data: 1-year followup.

      The data collection for the first category of outcomes, intraoperative performance, will
      begin preoperatively, with the recording of baseline characteristics: circumference of the
      thigh in centimeters, baseline hemoglobin levels, and thromboembolism risk evaluation.

      Intraoperative data will include: the type of anesthesia, the tourniquet size in centimeters,
      and whether or not a drain is inserted into the joint. The time of inflation and time of
      deflation will be noted in order to determine the duration of tourniquet inflation.

      Then preincisional blood pressure (BP) will be measured and will continue to be noted every
      15 minutes. At the conclusion of the procedure the surgeon will rate intraoperative
      bloodlessness on a four-point scale: 1-bloodless, 2-nearly bloodless, some bleeding;
      3-bloody, tourniquet is no better than not using; or 4-venous tourniquet, tourniquet is
      making the procedure more difficult. Intraoperative bloodlessness is being used to determine
      the functionality and effectiveness of the tourniquet, surgical field visualization, and
      surgical site dryness.

      The data collection for the second category of outcomes, post-operative pain and
      complications, will begin on post-operative day 1 (POD1). Post-operative (post-op) pain will
      be assessed using a 0-10 pain rating visual analog scale for both the knee and the thigh, and
      will be measured at POD1, POD2, 2-week followup, 6-week followup, 12-week followup, and
      1-year followup. Next, wound healing issues will be assessed at POD1, POD2, 2-week followup,
      6-week followup, and 12-week followup. Wound healing issues include blisters, wound drainage,
      thigh bruising, significant erythema, decreased peripheral pulse, evidence of decreased
      distal perfusion, or decreased distal sensation.13 Estimated total blood loss will be
      assessed at POD2 using pre-operative Hgb-level compared to Hgb-level on post-op day 2. The
      patient's estimated blood volume (EBV) will be calculated using Nadler's formulas for men and
      women.16

      Then Meunier's formula will be used to calculate estimated blood loss.16 If a drain was
      inserted, then the volume of drainage will be measured at POD1. Finally, aseptic loosing of
      the implant leading to the need for revision will be assessed at 1-year followup.

      The data collection for the third category of outcomes, post-operative function, will begin
      at POD1. Ability to ambulate will be measured in distance by feet at POD1 and POD2.
      Furthermore, assessment of any use of assisted device for ambulation (wheelchair, walker,
      4-point cane, and 1-point cane) will be done at POD1, POD2, 2-week followup, 6-week followup,
      12-week followup and 1-year followup. Quadriceps strength and range of motion (ROM) will be
      recorded at 2-week followup, 6-week followup, and 12-week followup. Quadriceps strength will
      be measured on a 5-point scale, where 0 is no movement and 5 is full strength. ROM will be
      measured in degrees of motion. Next, the necessity of performing a manipulation under
      anesthesia (MUA) due to limited joint motion will be recorded at 6-week followup and 12-week
      followup. The type of PT will be recorded at 2-week followup, 6-week followup, and 12-week
      followup. Types of PT include out-patient PT, home health PT, PT rehabilitation, and skilled
      nursing facility PT.
    
  