
    
      Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is the strongest genetic predictor of risk for late-onset Alzheimer's
      disease (AD). Given the high level of interest in genetic testing, the demand for predictive
      testing for APOE will surely increase. Improved understanding of the impacts of testing,
      sources of variability in response, and inclusion of diverse samples are critical for
      informing methods to promote safe and effective disclosure of AD genetic risk information.

      As with other diseases, previous research on AD, a devastating and incurable illness, has
      found little significant or sustained distress in response to genetic susceptibility testing
      for APOE, even among persons who learn they are at elevated risk. These surprising findings,
      which run counter to the experience of many clinicians, may be related to limitations in the
      methods of previous studies. Most previous studies primarily enrolled well-educated
      Caucasians with a family history, who were strongly motivated to pursue genetic risk
      information. Further, most studies assessed impacts primarily through standardized measures
      of depression and anxiety, which may not capture the kinds of distress experienced or coping
      strategies that might blunt or mask distress. Qualitative research shows that receipt of
      genetic information can have important psychosocial effects not well captured through
      standardized measures. Also, in one study, people with a high-risk gene test for APOE
      performed worse on memory tests if they were informed about the results than if they were not
      informed, suggesting that other impact measures are needed.

      Another important limitation of prior work is that it has lacked representation of ethnic
      minority groups. Latinos are the second largest U.S. ethnic group, comprising about 18% of
      the population, yet no previous study has investigated the impacts of receiving AD genetic
      risk information among Latinos. While AD incidence rates may vary among Latino subgroups,
      data from the Washington Heights-Inwood Columbia Aging Project (WHICAP), a study in northern
      Manhattan, indicate that they are about twice as high among Caribbean Hispanics (primarily
      Dominicans) as among persons of European ancestry.

      In this study, the investigators will improve understanding of the impacts of receiving
      personal AD genetic risk information and the factors that influence adjustment to such
      information among Latinos who live in the same communities studied in WHICAP.
    
  