
    
      Cancers located in the upper aerodigestive tract of the head and neck region present unique
      management challenges due to the anatomic density of the region. These include (as for all
      cancers) effective management of all clinically evident cancer cells and sub-clinical cancer
      cells based on a knowledge of their anatomic location (2). For head and neck cancers, the
      anatomic density of this region of the body presents a significant risk for cancer therapies
      injuring important upper aerodigestive functions. In particular, swallowing function and its
      dysfunction (ie. dysphagia) can have multi-faceted consequences for the head and neck cancer
      patient including serious quality of life impairments (3) and the potential risk of late
      mortality with evidence to date suggest that aspiration lung injury may be a major cause (1,
      4). In fact, functional considerations have had a profound influence on the history of head
      and neck cancer therapy development.

      Historically, head and neck cancer management was managed surgically. Though oncologically
      effective, the transcervical exposure technique along with the tissues removed during the
      cancer extirpation led to increasing concerns about the functional impact of the therapy,
      especially as increasing interest in preserving function was sought by investigators and
      patients. As technical improvements in fractionated external beam radiotherapy (EBRT)
      developed in the early 1980s, investigations evaluated and demonstrated that various
      strategies to intensify EBRT with either concurrent chemotherapy or by altering the
      radiotherapy fractionation schedule (ie. twice daily treatments) improved not only
      local-regional tumour control rates but provided organ preservation. Studies now confirm that
      the improved local-regional control rates translate into improved survival rates and have led
      to their acceptance as standard-of-care (SOC) treatment options. While functional organ
      preservation was often described as a goal of these investigations, the ability to rigorously
      define and in fact measure organ function, especially swallow function, was often limited
      with successful organ preservation largely reflecting the ability to determine anatomic
      preservation (5). A major reason for this has been the limited spectrum of effective tools to
      not only measure function (especially swallow function) but that lend themselves to repeated
      systematic longitudinal use throughout a course of head and neck cancer treatment especially
      in follow-up surveillance where manifestations can go unappreciated. As a result, the true
      prevalence of treatment-related swallow dysfunction in head and neck cancer patients remains
      unknown, an observation confirmed in a recent multi-national systematic review (6). As noted
      by the Institute of Medicine, without the ability to measure, we cannot begin to improve upon
      the outcome (7).

      Measuring swallow function in HNSCC remains a particularly challenge as efforts continue to
      strive towards the development of function preserving organ cancer therapy. It has arguably
      taken on a greater prominence in light of the changing epidemiology of OPSCC (8, 9) where an
      increasing number of OPSCC (oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer) patients have cancers
      associated with the human papillomavirus (HPV) that have a favourable prognosis regardless of
      whether surgical or non-surgical management approaches are undertaken (10). This changing
      epidemiology, which some have described in epidemic proportions (9), suggests that an
      increasing number of cancer survivors will be at risk of developing late complications
      especially those related to swallow function. While arguably this tenet remains to be firmly
      established, to do so highlights several challenges that are important to address. These
      include establishing an effective strategy to longitudinally measure swallow function that
      also reflects the cluster of other treatment-related symptoms that can affect swallow such as
      taste changes and xerostomia (6). It requires not only a valid tool but one that lends itself
      to repeat ease of use ideally within a patient's ecologic environment to minimize bias and
      preferably within an infrastructure that readily curates this measure for analysis.

      To address this problem, investigators propose to longitudinally apply the Sydney Swallow
      Questionnaire (SSQ), a validated patient-reported outcome (PRO) instrument (11) that
      evaluates many dimensions of swallow function before, during treatment and in follow-up care
      of the head and neck cancer patient. The SSQ is particularly attractive as it is
      patient-centric and reflects their sensation of swallow-related symptoms (ie. xerostomia)
      which is important as the impact of sensory changes are otherwise not evaluated with other
      swallow metrics that are available. More significantly, the SSQ is quantitative,
      multi-dimensional (encompasses other swallow-related symptoms) and has discriminative power
      as a swallow metric. Normal population assessments have defined SSQ scores that reflect
      neurogenic and non-neurogenic dysphagia including cross-sectional studies in HNSCC patients.
      Its longitudinal application however has not been evaluated to define the natural history and
      prevalence of HNSCC-treatment related dysphagia. Lastly, our group has successfully validated
      a Chinese version of the SSQ (relevant for the inclusion of nasopharyngeal cancer patients
      due to the increase volume of the pharynx that is treated) and has developed an electronic
      version of both the original English and Chinese versions of the SSQ that is accessible
      through the web-portal of our Mosaiq/Oncospace® database that facilitates secure
      HIPAA-compliant data curation across institutions.
    
  