
    
      Clinical Trial - IIa - Study Description - Detailed Description

        1. Primary objectives:

             -  To evaluate the adverse events, adverse reactions, severe adverse events and severe
                adverse reactions during the study period, so as to investigate the safety;

             -  To evaluate the changes of serum ferritin over time after orally administration of
                CN128 in thalassaemia patients with blood transfusion dependent and aged 16 and
                above, so as to investigate the efficacy;

             -  To evaluate the effect on iron excretion in liver after orally administration of
                CN128 for 12, 24 weeks in thalassaemia patients with blood transfusion dependent
                and aged 16 and above, so as to investigate the efficacy;

             -  To evaluate the effect on iron excretion in heart after orally administration of
                CN128 for 12, 24 weeks in thalassaemia patients with blood transfusion dependent
                and aged 16 and above, so as to investigate the efficacy;

             -  To evaluate the proportion of patients with decreased or unchanged liver iron
                content after orally administration of CN128 for 12, 24 weeks in thalassaemia
                patients with blood transfusion dependent and aged 16 and above, so as to
                investigate the efficacy;

             -  To evaluate the safety and efficacy of long-term orally administration of CN128 in
                thalassaemia patients with blood transfusion dependent and aged 16 and above.

        2. Design:

             -  The study is designed as a single arm and opened phase IIa clinical trial, so as to
                investigate the safety and efficacy of CN128.

             -  A total of 50 eligible subjects are planned to be enrolled, and orally
                administration of CN128 for 24 weeks or 48 weeks according to the administration
                plan. The treatment period is from day 0 to 24 weeks, and the extended treatment
                period was from 25 weeks to 48 weeks.

             -  Administration plan:

           The trial will start with the lower dose of CN128 (10 mg/kg body weight [bw], bid) for
           two weeks, then the subjects will return to the study center. If no unacceptable
           toxicity associated with CN128 is found, the subjects will be given the higher dose (15
           mg/kg body weight [bw], bid). If unacceptable toxicity associated with CN128 is found,
           the subjects will be suspended or stopped administration. If the adverse event turns to
           normal or abnormal but no clinical significance after suspension administration, the
           subjects will be given the lower dose of CN128 (10 mg/kg body weight [bw], bid). After
           taking CN128 at 15 mg/kg, if unacceptable toxicity associated with CN128 is found, the
           dosage will be reduce to 10 mg/kg. If no symptoms appear, the dose can be increased to
           15 mg/kg. If the unacceptable toxicity related to CN128 still occurs, the subjects will
           be suspended or stopped administration. If the adverse event turns to normal or abnormal
           but no clinical significance after suspension administration, the subjects will be given
           the lower dose of CN128 (10 mg/kg body weight [bw], bid). The dose will be assessed once
           every two or four weeks.

           Subjects' medication status, uncomfortable symptoms, concomitant medication or non-drug
           therapy were recorded daily.

        3. Subject inclusion criteria:

             -  Thalassemia patients.

             -  The number of blood transfusion per month ≥1. Or hemoglobin can not be maintained
                at 90g/L above, if blood transfusions is less than once per month.

             -  Serum ferritin ≥ 500 µg/L

             -  Patients aged 16 and above

             -  Volunteer for the trial and sign the informed consent.

        4. Subject exclusion criteria:

             -  Active hepatitis B (HBsAg positive, HBsAb negative) or hepatitis C (HCV antibody
                positive, detectable HCV RNA, and ALT beyond normal range)

             -  Active gastrointestinal disease history (including: gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer,
                stomach or esophageal varices, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease,
                gastrointestinal cancer, familial genetic multiple intestinal polyps), and History
                of gastrointestinal perforation, gastrointestinal surgery that influence drug
                absorption, and other potential intestinal complications considered by researchers;

             -  ALT or AST > 2.5 × ULN, or serum creatinine > 1.5 × ULN;

             -  Neutropenia patient (neutrophil count < 1.5 × 109 / L);

             -  Active infection uncontrolled;

             -  The patients who are currently taking CYP3A strong inducer or strong inhibitor
                drugs, or the drug that may extend the QT interval, or the drug that may decrease
                neutrophil count, but can not temporarily interrupt the use of such drugs;

             -  The patients who are allergic or contraindicated to the main ingredients or
                excipients of CN128 tablets;

             -  Congenital long QT syndrome or known family history of long QT syndrome; QTc > 480
                ms; clinically significant ventricular or atrial fast arrhythmia;

             -  The patients who can not accept MRI as detection means, such as claustrophobic for
                MRI, pacemaker, and those using ferromagnetic metal implants;

             -  Birth planner (including male subjects) within or within 3 months after the end of
                the trial;

             -  Participated in other clinical trials in the three months before taking the test
                preparation, except for non-interventional studies;

             -  Pregnant or lactating women;

             -  Unsuitable to participate in the trial considered by the researchers.

        5. Usage:

           All subjects will be given the lower (10 mg/kg bw, bid) or higher dose (15 mg/kg bw,
           bid) for 24 or 48 weeks, according to the administration plan.

        6. Safety assessments:

           Safety evaluations include adverse events, adverse reactions, severe adverse events, and
           severe adverse reactions; growth (weight, height); total and free testosterone in men,
           follicle-generating hormone and luteinizing hormonin in women; vital signs and
           electrocardiogram; hearing, laboratory test (blood routine, blood biochemistry,
           coagulation function, thyroid and para-gland function, urine routine, etc.), urine
           pregnancy test (women of childbearing age), etc.

        7. Efficacy assessments:

           Efficacy evaluations include serum ferritin, liver iron content (MRI R2) and cardiac
           iron content (MRI T2*).

        8. Statistics:

             -  Subject characteristic distribution Demographic characteristics, general
                conditions, and baseline conditions (pre-treatment) of enrolled subjects were
                analyzed.The measurement data are described by means, standard deviation, minimum
                value and maximum value, while the qualitative data list frequency and percentage.

             -  Safety analysis Descriptive statistical analysis was used for safety endpoints.
                Summarize the incidence of adverse events, adverse reactions, adverse events
                leading to withdrawal from the trial, adverse events leading to death, severe
                adverse events, and severe adverse reactions. The incidence is calculated by
                subsystem, symptom/sign. Severity of adverse events and adverse reactions: if
                multiple adverse events occur in the same subject, the most serious one is included
                in the analysis; if different adverse events occurred in the same subject, the most
                severe adverse events were counted in the analysis. Drug exposure during the study:
                describe medication compliance during the study, actual dose, administration
                adjustments during the study, whether the study was discontinued, and reasons for
                the suspension.

             -  Effectiveness analysis Mean, standard deviation, median, minimum and maximum values
                were described and 95% confidence intervals were calculated. Paired T-test was used
                to compare each time point with the baseline if necessary. The 95% confidence
                interval was calculated by using Clopper-Pearson method for the proportion of
                patients.
    
  