
    
      POTS patients seem to experience orthostasis-dependent muscle weakness and pain as well as
      increased muscle fatigue upon physical activity, which can be improved by regular aerobic
      exercise. However, reduced sweat production of the extremities with limited control of the
      body temperature leads to exercise intolerance, so that sticking to a training program
      becomes a challenge for most patients. Recordings of MVRCs provide a new tool to assess
      muscle membrane dysfunction, depending on ischemia, surface temperature and training. As
      muscle dysfunction is assumed to be present in the majority of POTS patients but has not yet
      been scientifically studied the present study aims at understanding the muscular and
      cutaneous functioning in POTS using MVRC recordings, dependent both on orthostatic stress and
      exercise training as well as body temperature regulation. Our main hypothesis is that POTS
      patients experience functional muscle dysfunction that may be linked to altered muscle
      perfusion or body temperature regulation.

      The purpose of this study is to examine muscular and cutaneous dysfunction in POTS in order
      to i) better understand the underlying pathology for symptoms and to ii) ultimately improve
      treatment options.

      The study includes two examination days with the same procedure for all participants. In
      between the examination days, participants will undergo an endurance training protocol for 14
      days. The first examination day takes place in two parts: Participants will first receive
      repetitive MVRC recordings of the right tibialis anterior muscle (TA): 1) before, during and
      after repetitive stimulation of the right TA (intermittent 20Hz for 10 min) in the supine
      position. Then MVRC recordings will be done from the left TA 2) in the supine position and
      during the 60° HUT upright position for 10 minutes. The duration of this first part is
      approximately 60 minutes. The second part consists of a TST of the hands and feet only,
      including a SWT on the index, middle and ring finger of both hands. This second part also
      lasts about 60 minutes. On the second examination day, the first part (only 1)) of the first
      examination day will be repeated. In between the examination days training sessions will be
      undertaken on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 between the examination days. Participants will be
      asked to contract their TA muscle repeatedly by pulling the right foot towards the head in a
      standing position while the heel remains on the ground (at 5 second intervals). In order to
      carry out the training they will also receive a video demonstrating the exercise. On days 1
      and 3 they will do the exercise for 5 minutes, on days 5 and 7 for 10 minutes and on days 9
      and 11 for 15 minutes.
    
  