
    
      Simulation-based training (SBT) provides a safe and effective means to enhance skills
      development. Simulation-based curricula have been developed for a number of minimally
      invasive procedures, and more recently in gastrointestinal endoscopy. Previous studies have
      demonstrated the effectiveness of comprehensive structured curricula and curricula based on
      progressive learning in endoscopic simulation. However, as digital technologies evolve, other
      educational strategies using the latest innovations may aid to further enhance procedural
      skills training during simulation. One such strategy may lie in augmented reality (AR).

      The use of AR involves the superimposition of a computer-generated image on a user's view of
      the real world, which enhances the user's perception of reality. There has been a recent,
      growing interest for the integration of AR in medical education, such as in the visualization
      of anatomical structures, training for various medical procedures and telemedicine guidance
      for remote procedural training. The real time interactive nature of AR provides immersion,
      immediate learner support, and has the ability to lower the complexity of learning new tasks
      by showing the content of the tasks using different perspectives, which is beneficial for
      both engagement and the learning process.

      To date, there are only a few studies which have investigated the application of AR for
      medical education and procedural learning specifically. Some of the benefits demonstrated by
      these studies include decreased amount of practice needed, reduced failure rate, improved
      performance accuracy, accelerated learning, shortened learning curve and better understanding
      of spatial relationships. However, the majority of studies on the application of AR have been
      on training for laparoscopy, neurosurgical procedures, and echocardiography. There are
      currently no studies showing the benefits of AR in endoscopy training.

      Furthermore, several studies have shown the importance of self-assessment for suitable
      lifelong learning of new techniques in minimally invasive surgery and gastrointestinal
      endoscopy. A study by our group showed that experienced endoscopists had better
      self-assessment accuracy compared to novice endoscopists, therefore, a targeted intervention
      to help novice endoscopists is needed so that they may seek appropriate preceptorship during
      their training. One such targeted intervention to improve self-assessment accuracy may be AR,
      as it provides immediate and repeated visual support of the perfect approach to perform a
      specific task, therefore, allowing the trainee to reflect on their performance.

      In order to bridge the gap related to AR in endoscopy training, the investigators aim to
      determine the impact of a simulation-based AR curriculum on areas such as knowledge
      acquisition, technical performance during simulated polypectomies, non-technical skills
      during integrated scenarios, and self-assessment accuracy. The investigators hypothesize that
      AR is an instructional strategy with the potential to offer a highly realistic and meaningful
      learning experience for novice endoscopists with transferable skills to clinical practice.
    
  