
    
      Shoulder complaints are very common in overhead athletes. Throwing motions question large
      explosive strength and stability of the intrinsic instable shoulder joint. Malpositioning of
      the scapula increases the risk of overload injuries.

      The application of kinesiotape that keeps the shoulder in a correct position is used to avoid
      this. Until now no studies have shown if the tape is able to correct the position of the
      scapula. If this is the case, the application of the tape could enlarge the dynamic size of
      the subacromial space (virtual space in the shoulder in which rotator cuff tendons run
      through) and thus contribute to prevention of shoulder injuries.

      This study will take place in collaboration with Prof. Dr. Robert Van Cingel, director of the
      Sports Medical Center Papendal(SMCP) in the Netherlands. SMCP is a multidisciplinary center
      for sports medicine, sports rehabilitation and sports cardiology.

      30 young elite handball players will participate in this study. Three researchers will
      perform a number of measurements before and after applying kinesiotape to correct shoulder
      position.

        1. Measurement of the size of the subacromial space with dynamic ultrasound. Ultrasound is
           completely harmless and painless.

        2. Measurement of three-dimensional kinematics of the shoulder with FASTRAK. Sensors are
           placed on the skin of the shoulder with adhesive tape. Both placement of markers and
           measurements are non-invasive and painless.

        3. Assessment of shoulder posture by measuring several angles and distances. Measurement of
           shoulder strength and mobility. These measurements are all non-invasive and painless.

      Hypothesis of this study is that tape can influence the position of the scapula and is
      therefore able to change the size of the subacromial space. This results in a more efficient
      use of shoulder muscles with higher maximal strength as a result and maximizes shoulder
      mobility.
    
  