
    
      Hennepin Health System (HHS) will determine participant's eligibility in the pilot project if
      a participant meets the following stipulations; 1) The prospective participant must be an
      Hennepin Health Services outpatient or home health Physical Therapy (PT) patient. 2) The
      prospective participant's primary PT and Primary Investigator must determine that the
      participant has adequate motor control to participate in a HEP (home exercise program) on
      their own. 3) The prospective participant's primary PT and Primary Investigator must
      determine that the prospective participant has adequate cognitive ability to use electronic
      assistive technology (iPad Mini 4). The prospective participant will need to live greater
      than 100 miles from Minneapolis and/or needs to have financial hardship (as designated by
      being on Medical Assistance, Emergency Medical Assistance, Hennepin Care, Medicaid, Medical
      Assistance Cost Plan, Wavered services or have no health insurance).

      Note: The prospective participant may receive home health or outpatient PT at another
      facility other than Hennepin Health System (HHS), if they are from greater than 100 miles
      from Minneapolis (but the participant's care will need to be tied to a HHS admission).

      The tele-health will be administered in the following manner;

        1. The participant's primary PT will determine the appropriateness for this adjunct therapy
           and contact the tele-therapist/Primary Investigator, Casey Byron, MPT.

        2. Casey Byron, MPT will perform a chart review and interview the participant to determine
           if they meet eligibility requirements.

        3. Participant will sign the pilot program contract agreement, informed consent agreement
           and terms and conditions for the Hudl Technique app. The participant will be given
           information on how to operate the iPad Mini 4, how to use the Hudl Technique app and be
           given information on what to do if problems occur.

        4. The participant's primary PT will discuss the home exercise program (HEP) that they wish
           for the participant to perform with the tele-therapist.

        5. The tele-therapist will formulate an audio/video clip through Hudl Technique of the HEP
           and send it to the participant.

        6. The participant will record their performance of the HEP using the Hudl Technique app,
           iPad Mini 4 and iPad Mini 4 tripod and send their audio/video clip back to the
           tele-therapist.

        7. The video clip will be analyzed by the tele-therapist. Hudl Technique tools such as slow
           motion video, comparing two videos side by side, measuring angles, highlighting points
           of emphasis, and an audio voice over will be used to formulate a critiqued video clip.

        8. The critiqued video clip will be sent back to the participant.

        9. The participant will view the critiqued video clip and await the next video. ***There
           will be a maximum of 1 HEP per week.***

       10. The tele-health PT and participant's primary PT will correspond for updates to
           participant's HEP.

       11. The critiqued video clip will be "deleted" from the tele-therapists Hudl Technique
           account (HHS will not store any video clips that we generate).

      Study Parameters to be Measured:

      Participants will need to agree to data analytics of their electronic medical record (EMR).
      We will need access to information like payer source, diagnoses, address, and past and future
      emergency department and inpatient visits to the hospital. This will be performed through EMR
      review here at HHS and a survey for participants living greater than 100 miles from
      Minneapolis. The Hudl Technique app and a survey will allow for measurement of adherence to
      HEP. Participant's satisfaction with tele-health will be measured via survey (Modified
      Patient Satisfaction with Outpatient Physical Therapy Scale)1. Participants would be
      encouraged to allow the use of the Apple Health Kit. Participants would be encouraged to
      enter data in the Apple Health Kit, on a regular basis. This IOS/Apple program would allow
      for the measurement of changes that occur to a participant's body measurements (height,
      weight, and body mass index) with this adjunct therapy. The participant's use of the Apple
      Health Kit would be voluntary. Body weight measurements would also be assessed via survey.
    
  