
    
      The relapsing nature of Stimulant use disorder is a major obstacle to successful treatment.
      About 70% of those entering treatment will relapse within one year. To improve treatment
      outcome, new interventions targeting the underlying brain biomarkers of relapse vulnerability
      hold significant promise in reducing this critical public health problem.

      2.2 Preliminary Data: Using resting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) the team has
      identified brain biomarkers that support long-term abstinence. Our cross-sectional and
      longitudinal findings provide evidence that higher FC, particularly between NAcc and DLPFC,
      is a potential brain biomarker that supports abstinence. Long-term abstinent alcoholics (7
      years of abstinence) have higher resting FC between NAcc and DLPFC when compared to controls.
      Short-term abstinent alcoholics (11 weeks of abstinence) have intermediate FC (lower than
      long-term abstinent alcoholics and higher than controls). Further, lower FC between NAcc and
      DLPFC at 11 weeks of abstinence can be a predictor of subsequent relapse (with 74% accuracy).
      Moreover, in a pilot longitudinal FC study examining resting FC of NAcc at 5 and 13 weeks of
      abstinence in individuals with substance use disorder, we found that FC between NAcc and
      DLPFC decreased from 5 to 13 weeks of abstinence in subsequent relapsers, while it increased
      in subsequent abstainers. Based on the above, the investigators believe that long-term
      abstinence is supported by a compensatory mechanism that mediates proper executive function
      over reward (mediated by DLPFC-NAcc FC), a potential brain biomarker that could be an
      intervention target. These findings provide a compelling case to explore whether this brain
      biomarker can be modulated to enhance patients' ability to remain abstinent. There is a need
      to investigate methods that can be used to increase FC between DLPFC and NAcc.

      2.3 Existing Literature: Executive functioning, the ability to change maladaptive behavior,
      depends on DLPFC input to NAcc. DLPFC transmits reward representations to NAcc through
      glutamatergic projections that guide goal-directed behavior. If DLPFC fails to activate when
      required, a common observation in substance use disorder, target neurons in the NAcc core do
      not receive critical information needed to select the appropriate outcome, causing acquired
      maladaptive response patterns to persist (e.g. drug consumption). Higher FC between DLPFC and
      NAcc may be achieved by stimulating DLPFC while subjects perform engaging executive
      functioning tasks. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain
      stimulation technique that can modulate brain connectivity. DLPFC stimulation may increase
      input to NAcc to facilitate proper selection of goal-directed behavior and may also decrease
      craving in individuals with substance use disorder. Genetics and treatment response: A source
      of treatment response variability could stem from differences between participants in
      baseline genetic profiles or epigenetic changes over the course of treatment. Genetic
      polymorphisms, especially in genes important for neuroplasticity, may also mediate
      neuroplastic changes underlying the effects of tDCS, as has been demonstrated with gene BDNF.
      In light of these genetic influences on key tenants of our study - i.e. treatment response in
      alcohol use disorder and physiological effects of tDCS - genetic samples from participants
      will be collected to determine whether genetic or epigenetic variations may affect response
      to the cognitive training and tDCS intervention. This information may help inform the
      development of more individually-tailored treatment protocols in the future. As this is a
      secondary aim, participants will be given the choice in the Consent Form to opt in or out of
      the genetic sampling procedure.

      3.0 Study Endpoints/Events/Outcomes 3.1 Primary Endpoint/Event/Outcome: In a double-blind
      randomized design, 40 abstinent (1-2 weeks abstinent) individuals with Stimulant use disorder
      (SUD) recruited from Lodging Plus Program will receive 5 sessions (for 5 days) of either (i)
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to PFC or (ii) sham-tDCS. All subjects will
      perform executive functioning tasks during each tDCS intervention (active or sham) to prime
      the engagement of the NAcc-PFC brain circuit. Follow-up interviews will be conducted
      approximately 1 and 2 months after intervention completion (exact timepoint depending on
      participant availability) to query relapse status. Dependent variables will be (i) change in
      cognitive performance between pre- and post-intervention, and (ii) relapse status ~2 months
      after study participation. The Specific Aims are to determine if the intervention: (A1) is
      feasible and safe in individuals with SUD, (A2) induces cognitive performance changes, and
      (A3) is related to relapse status ~2 months after study. A fourth exploratory aim is to
      examine relationships between genetic variants, epigenetic changes and (A2-3).

      To evaluate feasibility (A1), withdrawal and retention policies are described in Section
      12.0. To evaluate safety (A1), = the Treatment Side Effects Questionnaire will be used to
      record intervention side effects. Based on our alcohol tDCS study and studies from other
      research groups, it is hypothesized that the intervention will be feasible and safe.

      To evaluate cognitive performance changes (A2), comparisons will be made on cognitive
      performance change from pre-intervention to post-intervention) between active tDCS and sham
      groups. It is hypothesized that the active tDCS group will have a larger improvement in
      cognitive performance than the sham group.

      To evaluate relapse status at follow-up (approximately 1- and 2-months later; A3), the
      investigators will conduct Timeline Follow Back, questionnaire and saliva/urine samples at
      each follow-up. Based on our alcohol pilot study and literature on the effects of tDCS in
      other addictions, it is hypothesized that the active tDCS group will have lower relapse rates
      and longer abstinence periods than the sham group.

      3.2 Secondary Endpoint(s)/Event(s)/Outcome(s): To determine generalization and durability of
      cognitive training, patients will be asked to complete the following tasks at
      pre-intervention, post-intervention, 1-month follow-up, and 2-month follow-up to examine
      generalization and durability effects of training: D-KEFS Trail Making Test, D-KEFS Verbal
      Fluency, D-KEFS Color Word, Rey 15-item Visual Memory test, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning
      Test, Digit-Span (WAIS-WISC), Digit Symbol (WAIS-WISC).
    
  