
    
      Parkinson's disease onset is clinically defined as the appearance of motor symptoms including
      akinesia, tremor and hypertonia. Several studies have shown that motor symptoms occur when at
      least 50 % of dopaminergic neurons are lost. However, there are evidence suggesting that the
      level of dopaminergic denervation is not homogenous at the time of diagnosis. Some patients
      have a higher level of dopaminergic loss at disease onset indicating the existence of
      compensation mechanisms.

      The aim of this study is to decipher how the metabolism of dopamine is involved in this
      compensation with a focus on the polymorphism of the COMT gene. This gene is expressed
      according to two variants: (i) COMT H that encodes a form of the enzyme with a high level of
      aactivity and (ii) COMT L that encode a form of the enzyme with a low level of activity.
      Thus, there are 3 possible genotypes in the population: (i) COMT HH associated with an
      increased degradation of dopamine, (ii) COMT LL associated with a decreased degradation of
      dopamine and (iii) COMT HH (intermediary between COMT HH and COMT LL).

      The hypothesis is that this polymorphism of the COMT gene may participate to compensation
      mechanisms in early PD. Patients with COMT HH genotype may have an earlier motor symptoms
      onset than patients with COMT LL genotype.

      To test this hypothesis, 51 patients with de novo PD will be included (17 patients for each
      genotype). Given the distribution of COMT polymorphism in the population, a maximum sample of
      76 patients will be screened for inclusion of 17 patients for each genotype.

      Only untreated patients will be included in the study in order to have a reliable assessment
      of motor severity without interference of dopaminergic drugs.

      The study will be scheduled as follow:

        -  At the first visit (V1), inclusion criteria will be checked and patients will sign the
           informed consent. COMT genotype of selected patients will be analyzed.

        -  Result of COMT genotype will be obtained within 4 weeks. Only the 17 first patients with
           each genotype will continue the study

        -  For these patients, an evaluation visit with clinical assessment including MDS-UPDRS,
           Non Motor Symptoms Scale, segmental symptoms scale, Montreal Cognitive assessment, MMSE,
           Frontal assessment battery and Parkinson's disease behavioral assessment scale (ECMP)
           will be performed..

      All the patients will have a monophotonic emission tomography with I-123-Ioflupane in order
      to assess the level of dopaminergic denervation. An MRI scan with resting state study will
      also be performed to assess the compensation mechanisms at the networks level. Cerebrospinal
      fluid sampling will be optional and will allow direct measurements of dopamine metabolites.

      The main outcome measure will be the level of dopaminergic denervation on I-123-Ioflupane
      scans according to COMT genotype with and without adjustment for age, gender and severity of
      motor symptoms on the MDS-UPDRS part 3.

      Secondary outcome measures will include:

        -  level of dopaminergic denervation compared across the 3 genotypes (COMT HH, COMT HL and
           COMT HH) with and without adjustment for age, gender and motor scores

        -  determination of functional compensation at the networks scale assessed on fMRI resting
           state scan according to dopaminergic denervation

        -  determination of CSF dopamine metabolite profile at the time of diagnosis (CSF sampling
           will be optional).

      If this hypothesis is confirmed, this will allow to test the efficacy of COMT inhibitors in
      order to delay dopaminergic drugs initiation for PD patients.
    
  