
    
      In spite of warnings regarding safety and adverse events widely publicized after the Women's
      Health Initiative (WHI), women continue to seek hormone replacement therapy for a variety of
      reasons. Increased cardiovascular events identified in WHI are an important concern for
      considering menopausal hormone replacement. There is the belief the 'natural' or bioidentical
      hormone replacement therapy could provide a safe alternative to widely used synthetic hormone
      replacement therapy. However, this has never been studied with any rigor and health care
      providers can not adequately advise patients seeking 'natural' bioidentical hormone therapy.

      This feasibility pilot study is designed as a prospective double blind study comparing 4
      groups of women who are within 7 years of menopause. There will be 10 women in each of the 4
      groups with a total of 40 women enrolled and these women will be treated for 12 months.

      The Long-Term Goal is to provide health care practitioners and consumers with evidence-based
      recommendations for the use of bioidentical hormone replacement. The Short-Term Goal of this
      pilot study is to determine if it is feasible to conduct a study in bioidentical hormones and
      obtain information that could lead to a larger more definitive study. We would like to
      provide safety information for bioidentical hormone use by evaluating surrogate markers for
      cardiovascular disease (lipid levels), with secondary evaluation of breast (mammogram) and
      uterus (endovaginal ultrasound), and to collect information about bone preservation.

      The information gained from this trial will provide information for a future trial to test
      the hypothesis that bioidentical hormone replacement therapy provides a safe alternative to
      standard hormone replacement therapy: To determine if bioidentical hormone replacement
      therapy is associated with improved lipid profiles (surrogate marker for cardiovascular
      disease) when compared to Prempro. This will be determined by evaluating lipid levels at
      baseline and during the 12-month treatment period.

      Secondary hypotheses will also be evaluated in the future to include:

        1. To determine if bioidentical hormone replacement therapy provides improved short-term
           risk profiles for uterine and breast health when compared to Prempro. This will be
           accomplished by requiring mammograms and endovaginal ultrasounds at baseline and the end
           of the 12-month treatment period.

        2. To determine if there is bone loss when using bioidentical hormone replacement when
           compared to Prempro. This aim will be evaluated by Dexa bone scan at baseline and at 12
           months.

      Subjects will randomly be assigned to one of the four arms of the study for the 12 months of
      treatment. The standard of care arm will consist of 10 women receiving in a double blind
      fashion low-dose Prempro. There will be 3 treatment arms consisting of different combinations
      of E2 estradiol and/or E3 estriol, all combined with bioidentical progesterone. These 3 arms
      will each have 10 subjects randomized and the bioidentical hormone delivered in a double
      blind fashion. Since the gold standard for treatment is the conventional arm (Prempro), we
      will compare each bioidentical arms to the gold standard. This comparison will occur at the
      end of 12 months of treatment. In this pilot study, we also wish to collect preliminary data
      about the comparisons between the 3 bioidentical hormone arm and the conventional arm. This
      is necessary because there is currently anecdotal evidence that E3 alone without combination
      with E2 may constitute adequate therapy in spite of its low biological activity at the
      estrogen receptor. The use of high doses of E3 with or without E2 is in common use by
      complementary and alternative practitioners.

      It is expected in this small pilot study that bioidentical hormone will provide an adequate
      short-term safety profile for cardiovascular, breast and uterine health that will provide
      guidance for a larger trial that is longer in duration. It is also expected that bone density
      may be maintained by bioidentical hormone replacement when compared to Prempro. There may not
      be sufficient numbers to determine significance between the control arm and the treatment
      arms; however, we expect to collect useful information for future trials. It is assumed that
      equivalence will not likely be determined based on the sample size.
    
  