
    
      Purpose: Basal joint arthritis, or carpometacarpal (CMC) osteoarthritis, of the thumb is very
      common, particularly in the elderly. Morbidities include pain, decreased range of motion, and
      decreased strength. Nonsurgical treatments for CMC arthritis include oral analgesics,
      splinting, and steroid injection. In multiple recent trials, botulinum toxin A (BTX-A)
      injection has been shown to be an efficacious nonsurgical option for osteoarthritis of large
      joints, including those that have failed steroid injections. To our knowledge, the efficacy
      of BTX-A injection in thumb CMC arthritis has not been examined.

      Methods: Patients with a clinical and radiographic diagnosis of basal joint arthritis who are
      appropriate and willing candidates for injection therapy will be selected. The primary
      symptom indicating need for injection would be pain not controlled with more conservative
      measures (e.g. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), splinting, physical therapy,
      etc.) Weakness and impaired functioning are also considered. Exclusion criteria will include
      any injection within the last 12 months or surgical treatment. All patients will undergo
      Eaton staging radiographically prior to treatment. Informed consent will be obtained and
      patients will be randomly assigned to one of three groups. One group will receive BTX-A
      injections, the second group will receive triamcinolone plus lidocaine injections, and the
      third group will receive saline plus lidocaine injections of the thumb CMC joint. Prior to
      treatment, patients' baseline function will be assessed with pinch, grip, and range of motion
      measurements, and the affect of their disease will be measured with a visual analog pain
      scale and the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. Pain scales
      and DASH questionnaires will be completed at twenty-four hours, ten days, twelve weeks, six
      months, and one year after treatment. Pain scales will be recorded for average pain and
      maximum pain. Clinical evaluations with pinch, grip, and range of motion measurements will
      occur ten days, twelve weeks, six months, and one year after treatment. All patients will be
      asked to return when sufficient symptoms recur to warrant further treatment.

      Expected Results: We hypothesize that BTX-A injection will have equal or better efficacy than
      steroid injection for the treatment of basal joint arthritis.

      Expected Conclusion: No study to date has examined BTX-A as a treatment for basal joint
      arthritis. Some patients are not surgical candidates and are reliant on non-surgical
      treatments for pain control and maintenance of function. BTX-A has shown to be effective in
      treating osteoarthritis of larger joints that undergo frequent use, including cases resistant
      to steroid injections. The basal thumb joint also undergoes frequent use and is often
      resistant to steroid injection. We believe that BTX-A will provide another efficacious
      non-surgical option for treatment of the CMC joint of the thumb. We estimate that the study
      will require approximately three to four years to achieve adequate patient numbers for each
      group.
    
  