
    
      During the selection of the sample it is essential to consider all the variables that could
      provoke an alteration in the levels of the indicators examined in the biological fluids
      investigated.

      The adoption of strict criteria for inclusion and exclusion, which differ from metal to
      metal, is therefore necessary to establish the presence / absence of possible confounding
      factors that could affect the analysis or interpretation of the data.

      It is to be noted also that the number of required participants in a study of MB must be
      sufficiently large to allow an adequate statistical analysis: the more limited the group of
      subjects included in the study is, the broader the variability of the data due to
      inter-individual and methodological differences.

      In light of this, some variables, such as age and sex, will be firstly neglected and other
      potential confounding factors will be considered such as, for example, smoking habits.

      Based on the purpose of the research project, the following criteria for exclusion will be
      considered:

        -  diseases that may interfere with toxicokinetics of the analyzed metals;

        -  pharmacological therapy;

        -  habit-forming additives consumption (excessive alcohol consumption);

        -  altered physiological states (pregnancy, strenuous physical exercise, recent meal,
           stress, psychological disorders);

      On the contrary, the basic criteria for inclusion in the study are:

        -  age: subjects of working age, between 18 and 65 years;

        -  diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (using the criteria of the "London Brain Bank")

      Regarding the criteria of partition or stratification of the subjects, the type and number of
      the possible partitions are conditioned by the sample size; indeed it is essential to ensure
      a sufficient number of cases (and if possible a similar number of cases) in the various
      layers to have correct statistical results. It was recommended that the minimum number of
      subjects per layer must be equal to 80.

      In order to collect all the necessary information for the inclusion of subjects in the study
      and the subsequent stratification of the data, an anonymous questionnaire was realized and
      administered to each recruited subject.

      The questionnaire deals with the environment and the lifestyle and work habits of every
      participant and it consists of multiple choice questions and free response questions and is
      divided into macro areas: identification data for data processing; place of residence;
      professional activity; extraprofessional activities; eating habits; habit-forming additives
      consumption; medical history.

      Each question will be transformed into a "continue" or "categorical" variable in order to be
      able to build and constantly update a database summarizing the collected data and allowing
      the statistical analysis of the results.

      Each subject enrolled will be also asked to sign a consent form, which states that he or she
      voluntarily take part to the study, after being informed about the purpose of the study and
      the analysis of both biological samples and personal data.

      The guarantee of anonymity for people recruited for this study is provided by an anonymous
      questionnaire which do not contain personal data, which are collected only in the consent
      form, separately from the questionnaire.
    
  