
    
      Post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) is one of the main direct causes of maternal mortality,
      particularly in rural areas with low access to skilled providers, blood banks, and surgical
      facilities. In addition to the mortality, PPH also accounts for a great number of
      morbidities, including anemia, renal and pulmonary problems, fatigue, and decreased
      resistance to infection, all major health problems affecting women in the TAR. Clinical
      research is rare in the Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR) of the People's Republic of China.
      This trial will estimate the effect of prophylactic oral ZB 11 administered at the beginning
      of the second stage of labor versus prophylactic oral misoprostol, administered in the third
      stage of labor, in reducing the incidence of postpartum hemorrhage (defined as a measured
      blood loss of > 500 cc).

      An observational postpartum blood measurement study was conducted. This included data
      collection on deliveries in three TAR hospital in Lhasa, piloting of consent forms and data
      collection instruments, and training in the use of a plastic drape for the measurement of
      postpartum blood loss.

      This randomized, double masked trial will test the hypothesis that misoprostol is more
      effective than ZB11 in reducing the frequency of postpartum hemorrhage (defined as either a
      measured blood loss of > 500cc or administration of open label uterotonics within the one
      hour observation period after delivery).

      An original sample of 848 women was increased and 967 consenting women were randomized (1:1)
      to a ZB11 or misoprostol arm. Since ZB 11 and misoprostol must be administered at different
      times, participants will receive either active ZB 11 or corresponding placebo at full
      dilation and active misoprostol or corresponding placebo immediately following the birth of
      the baby. The effectiveness of the study drug will be estimated by the postpartum blood loss
      that will be measured on all enrolled women with a blood collection drape.
    
  