
    
      The goal of epidural analgesia during labour is to obtain an analgesia with a minimum of
      "motor block". Absence of motor block at the time of the childbirth allows to decrease the
      rate of instrumentation (forceps, vacuum extractor). When the parturient approach complete
      cervical dilatation (8-10 cm), the anaesthetist must perform a last epidural injection for
      perineal analgesia. Generally a local anaesthetic is used (ex : Ropivacaine). Adjuvant can be
      associated to local anaesthetic (Sufentanil, Clonidine and more recently Neostigmine) to
      maximize local anaesthetic without increasing motor block.

      Neostigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, increase concentration of acetylcholine on synaptic
      level and stimulate analgesic mechanisms mediated by this acetylcholine on dorsal horn of
      spinal cord.

      Perineal pain after childbirth appears in most of the women with or without episiotomy. (Mac
      Arthur Am J Obst. Gynecol. 2004). This perineal pain can become source of chronic pain in
      9%-12% of the cases. Neostigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor at the dose of 500µg, combined
      with Sufentanil or Ropivacaine (=local anaesthetic) has an analgesic effect.

      The goal of this study is to examine the effect of epidural Neostigmine for perineal
      analgesia at the end of the labour and on the development of chronic pain post-partum.

      Inclusion criteria : any parturient of 18-45 years, normal pregnancy, at full term and having
      an effective epidural anaesthesia during labour.

      Exclusion criteria : multiple pregnancy, obstetric pathology, refusal of participation.

      Randomisation : 2 groups of 30 patients

      Method :

      Installation of the epidural catheter :

      - Injection of Ropivacaïne + Sufentanil

      Perineal analgesia :

        -  Ropi Group : epidural injection of Ropivacaine

        -  Neostigmine Group : epidural injection of Ropivacaine and Neostigmine

      Evaluation of VAS, vital signs of parturient and fetal heart rate, instrumentation rate.

      Evaluation of immediate post-partum pain (48hours) and use of analgesic medication in the
      ward.

      Evaluation of chronic pain after 10 days and 1 month.
    
  