
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common complication after surgery. Deep-vein thrombosis
      (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) constitute VTE. PE is often a consequence of DVT and it is
      a feared complication and the most common preventable cause of hospital death. VTE can be
      asymptomatic and can be detected by a compression ultrasound scan (CUS) of the legs and a
      Computer Tomography (CT) of the lungs. It is wellknown that cancer patients are at higher
      risk of developing VTE, the risk is approximately seven times higher than in the background
      population. A Danish study showed a significantly higher risk of death when VTE was diagnosed
      at the same time as the cancer diagnosis with a 12 % one year survival compared to 36 % in
      cancer patients without a history of VTE.

      Approximately 600 women in Denmark are diagnosed with ovarian cancer every year and it is the
      forth most common cause of cancer death among Danish women. Earlier studies have found that
      up to 31 % of ovarian cancer women develop VTE as a consequence of the disease and/or the
      treatment. Very few studies have examined the incidence of VTE before treatment.

      Methods: A Pulmonary CT-angiography is included in the routinely performed Fluorodeoxyglucose
      Positron Emission Tomography - Computer Tomography (FDG PET-CT) to reveal pulmonary embolism
      at time of first referral. Compressive ultrasound scan including Doppler flow of the lower
      extremities is performed four times from first referral and during a one-year follow up
      period to detect clinical or subclinical deep vein thrombosis (DVT) before and after
      initiation of treatment.

      Blood and tissue samples are taken, prepared and stored at -80 degrees in the Danish
      Cancer-Biobank for later analyzes of coagulation markers.

      Immune histochemical techniques will be use to demonstrate tissue factor (TF) in tumor
      tissue.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. In a prospective study at Aalborg University Hospital to estimate the incidence of
           clinical and subclinical venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with suspected ovarian
           cancer before and after initiation of treatment. The impact of VTE on survival will be
           evaluated.

        2. In the same prospective cohort the correlation between markers of coagulation and
           fibrinolysis and subclinical VTE, tumour burden and overall survival will be evaluated.

        3. Evaluate the correlation between immunohistochemical demonstrated tissue factor (TF) in
           tumour tissue and circulating TF in peripheral blood and the relation to VTE and tumour
           burden.
    
  