
    
      Rehabilitation following finger or hand surgery is often evaluated using only instruments
      assessing bodily function, e.g. hand grip strength and joint range of motion. However,
      considering the ICF rehabilitation framework, outcome measures should focus more on activity
      and participation. Furthermore, many patients requiring finger or hand surgery are still at
      the labor market, which underlines the importance of a valid assessment of their abilities in
      terms of activity and participation. This study will provide valuable knowledge in terms of
      whether AMPS is a valid tool for measuring improvement on these parameters in a population
      for which AMPS has not traditionally been used.

      The aim of the study is to assess the responsiveness of the Assessment of Motor and Process
      Skills (AMPS) in a population of patients undergoing rehabilitation following hand surgery,
      as this has not previously been investigated.

      Methods: Patients are included from the department of physical and occupational therapy at
      Silkeborg Regional Hospital in the period November 2017 to July 2018. A total of 50 patients,
      who have been referred for specialized occupational therapy rehabilitation following finger
      or hand injuries, will be included. Patients are excluded if they have movement restrictions
      following surgery (e.g. following surgery for tendon ruptures).

      At baseline and follow-up (after 8 weeks) all patients are assessed with AMPS, Canadian
      Occupational Performance Measure (COPM), hand grip strength and joint range of motion using
      standardized methods. All test procedures are performed according to a standardized test
      protocol.

      Statistical methods: Responsiveness to change is evaluated using an anchor-based method,
      comparing AMPS scores with the scores on the Global Rating Scale. The area under the ROC
      curve will be calculated, and an area under the curve of 0.7 is considered acceptable.
      Convergent and discriminative validity of the AMPS will be assessed across the different
      instruments used. Thus a higher correlation between AMPS and COPM and lower correlation
      between AMPS and hand grip strength and range of motion is expected.
    
  