
    
      Scales:

      The 5-point scale used to assess the surgical workspace during laparoscopic herniotomy:

        1. (Extremely poor conditions) Unable to complete surgery without interventions*

        2. (Poor conditions) Several minor adjustments needed to complete surgery. (ie. changes in
           patient positioning, surgeon position)

        3. (Acceptable conditions) After few minor adjustments surgery can be completed.

        4. (Good conditions) Surgical workspace is good, but there is some interference, but no
           need for adjustments.

        5. (Optimal conditions) Surgical workspace is optimal and procedure can be completed
           without any interference.

             -  Interventions are defined as change in depth of neuromuscular blockade and/or
                pneumoperitoneum.

      The 10-point scale used to assess the surgical workspace during laparoscopic herniotomy is a
      Visual Analog Scale, where the surgeon specify their rating of the surgical workspace by
      indicating a position along a continuous line between two end-points

      Video recordings:

      Elective laparoscopic inguinal hernia procedures will be used to make video-recordings under
      different levels of pneumoperitoneum during desufflation after surgery is completed.

      Each video-sequence will last 20-30 seconds and. three video-sequences during different
      levels of pneumoperitoneum will be made from each patient. The patients are randomized to one
      of three groups regarding level of pneumoperitoneum during the three video-recordings. Group
      1: 12-9-6 mmHg, 2: 11-8-5, 3: 10-7-4 mmHg. Three video-sequences during different levels of
      pneumoperitoneum (according to group allocation) will be made from each patient.

      We will record 5 pilot video-sequences and have them evaluated by two experienced surgeons in
      order to design a standard setup for filming the surgical workspace.

      From the 30 recorded video-sequences investigators will choose the 24 video-sequences best
      illustrating different levels of surgical workspace.

      The video-sequences will be embedded in an internet form, and each sequence is followed by a
      question about the rating of that particular surgical workspace.

      Each surgeon will be presented to the 24 sequences in a randomly selected recordings of
      different patients. After each recording the surgeon will evaluate the surgical work space on
      one of the two rating scales. After rating all recordings, using one scale, the recordings
      will repeat in a random order and the second scale should be used. When doing the assessment
      the surgeon should imagine that he/she is about to do a laparoscopic inguinal herniotomy, and
      the evaluation/rating is based on this situation.

      The surgeons are not allowed to discuss their ratings with each other during the study.

      To observe intra-rater agreement the surgeon will assess the same sequence at least twice
      using the same rating scale. Therefore the surgeons will see all recordings four times during
      the study.

      Sample size requirements are calculated by estimating the width of the confidence
      interval(CI) as described by Shoukri et all. An ICC of 0.8 with a 95% CI of [0.6-1.0] can be
      achieved with 8 surgeons assessing 24 recordings. To ensure sufficient variation in the
      recordings investigators will include a total of 10 patients and make three recordings from
      each.

      Sample size requirements are calculated by estimating the width of the confidence
      interval(CI) as described by Shoukri et all. An ICC of 0.8 with a 95% CI of [0.6-1.0] can be
      achieved with 8 surgeons assessing 24 recordings. To ensure sufficient variation in the
      recordings we will include a total of 10 patients and make three recordings from each.
      Investigators assume that the 24 recordings can be seen as 24 independent subjects.

      Both the inter-rater agreement and the intra-rater agreement will be calculated using Kappa
      and intraclass correlation statistics. with statistical software6. The model for ICC will be
      a two-way random, single measures, absolute agreement, ( ICC(2,1) ) Calculated using SPSS
      (ver 22.0).

      The agreement between the two rating scales will be tested with regression analysis using
      Spearman correlation coefficient.

      To assess which of the two rating scales that has the highest inter-rater agreement the two
      scales corresponding ICC with confidence intervals will be compared.

      Investigator and co-authors will be responsible for analyzing the study data with assistance
      from Statistician located at Herlev Hospital.

      Investigators will include 8 surgeons (Specialist level of training and proficient in
      laparoscopic inguinal surgery).
    
  