
    
      Test Product, Dose and Mode of Administration, Duration of Treatment:

      The study is using a modified 3+3 design and has 2 parts. First (Lead-In phase), the MTD for
      the Nivo-Pom-dex combination will be determined:

      Regimen A: The treatment regimen will include Pomalidomide, Nivolumab and low dose
      dexamethasone. There will be three different dose levels:

        -  First dose level (DL1): Nivolumab 240mg intravenous infusion, every other week;
           Pomalidomide at the standard dose of 4 mg/day from day 1 to 21 in a 28-day cycle and
           Dexamethasone 40mg weekly except for patients older than 75 or with comorbidities who
           will received 20 mg weekly.

      Initially, 3 patients will be enrolled and treated. If not DLT, 3 additional patients will be
      included at the same dose level.

        -  In the case there is DLT, the dose level will be de-escalated.

             -  If the DLT is haematological or non-hematological attributable to Pomalidomide, the
                dose level will be DL-1P (Pomalidomide 2 mg/d from day 1-21, Nivolumab 240mg every
                other week and Dexamethasone 40mg weekly or 20 weekly in patients older than 75 or
                with comorbidities.

             -  In the case the DLT is non-hematological, and attributable to Nivolumab, this
                combination arm will be stopped. No Nivolumab dose reductions are allowed in the
                trial.

      Once the MTD has been determined, both regimens A and B will be open for full accrual and
      patients will be included in an alternating way in both regimens simultaneously.

      Regimen B: The treatment regimen will include Pomalidomide and Nivolumab at the selected dose
      level from the previous arm of the study. Dexamethasone will be given in the standard dose of
      40mg weekly on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each 28-day cycle and could be reduced to 20mg weekly
      in case of age above 75 year-old or comorbidities. Elotuzumab will be given at the standard
      dose of 10mg/kg weekly for the first two cycles, and then on days 1 and 15 for the subsequent
      cycles.

      Treatment will be maintained until disease progression.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

        -  Safety: Adverse events will be assessed continuously during the study and for 100 days
           after the last treatment. Adverse events will be coded using the most current version of
           MedDRA and reviewed for potential significance and importance. Adverse events will be
           evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.0. Subjects should be followed until all
           treatment related adverse events have recovered to grade ≤ 1 or baseline, or are deemed
           irreversible by the investigator. Safety assessments will be based on medical review of
           adverse event reports and the results of vital sign measurements, ECGs, physical
           examinations, and clinical laboratory tests.

        -  Efficacy: Disease assessment will be performed with serum and urine myeloma lab tests,
           bone marrow assessment and computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging
           (MRI), as appropriate. Myeloma responses will be based on investigator assessment and
           determined as defined by IMWG criteria. Any initial assessment will be confirmed by a
           repeat evaluation every 4 weeks.

        -  Biomarker Assessments: Peripheral blood and bone marrow samples will be collected from
           subjects to assess mechanisms of primary resistance (cell surface protein analyses and
           transcriptome analyses) and mechanisms of chemosensitivity to NivoPomDex combination
           (10-colour flow cytometry, TCR clonality by NGS).
    
  