
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Develop an automated coding system using existing electronic medical records (EMRs) to
           assess adherence to national tobacco-cessation treatment guidelines by individual
           physicians in the primary care setting at 4 health maintenance organizations.

        -  Compare the validity of the automated coding system with that of coding performed by
           medical record abstractors.

        -  Determine the effect of performance feedback on tobacco treatment practice patterns over
           2 years among primary care physicians.

        -  Provide recommendations for recording tobacco-cessation treatment services in EMR
           systems and evaluating adherence to treatment guidelines.

        -  Produce a set of computer programs that can be easily adopted in diverse health care
           settings for assessing adherence to the national tobacco-cessation treatment guidelines
           using data from EMRs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Physicians from each
      participating center are sorted into pairs according to their rate of providing advice to
      quit smoking to identified adult smokers and the number of identified adult smokers seen in
      the 3-month baseline observation period. Each physician in the pair is then randomized to 1
      of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (automated coding system feedback): Physicians receive reports from an automated
           coding system regarding their performance in administering tobacco-cessation services in
           each of the five A's (Ask, Advise, Assess, Assist, and Arrange) to identified smokers in
           comparison with their past performance and in comparison with their anonymous colleagues
           once every 3 months. One year after randomization, these physicians are further
           randomized, using the same paired-group approach, to either continue receiving automated
           coding system feedback for 1 additional year OR to stop receiving feedback.

      Physicians receive a survey at the end of 2-year period regarding the usefulness of each
      aspect of the feedback reports and the feedback program in general.

        -  Arm II (control): Physicians do not receive any information regarding their performance
           in administering tobacco-cessation services in each of the five A's to identified
           smokers.

      A questionnaire about tobacco-cessation services in primary care is sent to patients of all
      physicians within two weeks of each patient's primary care visit and then at the end of the
      first year of providing feedback to physicians to compare patient report of tobacco-cessation
      services with what is documented in the electronic medical record for that primary care
      visit.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 40 primary care physicians per participating center and 1,000
      patients (250 per participating center) will be accrued for this study.
    
  