
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an umbrella term encompassing two entities
      causing progressive and ultimately disabling breathlessness. Emphysema is a process
      destructive of the airspaces distal to the terminal bronchioles, with loss of gas exchange
      tissue, of elastic recoil and of circumferential tethering of the small airways leading to
      their collapse on forced expiration. Chronic bronchitis is a disorder of the bronchi causing
      excess production and impaired mobilisation of mucus. Increased parasympathetic tone and
      progressive remodelling of airways impairs response to bronchodilators. Static and dynamic
      hyperinflation ensue - a persistently expanded chest and flattened diaphragms despite
      increasing use of accessory respiratory muscles - resulting in a disadvantaged respiratory
      pump.

      Patients with severe emphysema and hyperinflation benefit from lung volume reduction
      techniques designed to reduce gas trapping and to improve airflow, chest wall and lung
      mechanics. The best evidence exists for lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS), which however
      is not without risk and there is increasing interest in the development of bronchoscopic lung
      volume reduction (BLVR) techniques including emplacement of endobronchial valves and coils
      and targeted lung denervation (TLD), which have all been shown to improve lung function,
      exercise capacity, and quality of life.

      Endobronchial cryotherapy is a novel investigational treatment in patients with chronic
      bronchitis. Porcine models have shown ablation of abnormal metaplastic goblet cells and
      regeneration of healthy ciliated epithelium and submucosa within 48 hours with complete
      healing by 60 days following treatment. A pilot study evaluated 11 patients undergoing a
      lobectomy or pneumonectomy for presumed lung cancer. Metered sprays, one to each of two
      separate locations, were administered 2 weeks prior to surgery, at least 2cm distal to the
      proposed resection margin (first segmental and lobular bronchi). No adverse events were
      reported. Histology of the 8 submitted specimens demonstrated localised cryothermic effect
      extending to but not beyond the submucosa, and minimal inflammation.

      Chronic airway infiltration by neutrophils, macrophages, and Th-1 predominant lymphocytes
      driven by increased expression of inflammatory proteins, cytokines and chemokines, is
      intensified during exacerbations. It is generally accepted that acute exacerbations
      accelerate the decline in lung function in COPD. Recent studies have suggested a role for
      microvesicles (MVs) in the pathogenesis of COPD, driving exacerbations. MVs are fragments of
      cell membrane ranging from 0.1 to 1µm in diameter shed by almost all eukaryotic cells. They
      are recognised to be key mediators of intercellular communication, transporting a variety of
      molecular cargo including proteins and nucleic acids to distant cells, and have been
      implicated in various inflammatory diseases including COPD. The majority of studies have
      looked at circulating endothelial-derived MVs, which are elevated in patients with COPD, are
      significantly higher during an exacerbation, and are predictive of rapid forced expiratory
      volume in 1 second (FEV1) decline. However, there is a paucity of data on epithelial-derived
      MVs within the lung. We know from acute lung injury models that alveolar macrophage-derived
      microvesicles, which carry biologically active tumour necrosis factor, are rapidly released
      during the early phase and may play a role in initiating the disease process.

      Bronchoalveolar lavage and brushings are established techniques to obtain material for
      respectively, measurement of inflammatory proteins and microvesicles, and for cytology and
      messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) analysis. A novel technique sampling the mucosal lining
      fluid using a synthetic absorptive matrix ('bronchosorption') has been shown to have greater
      sensitivity to standard bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), eliminating the disadvantage of
      dilution.

      A combination of all three techniques to directly harvest lower airway samples at multiples
      sites of pulmonary inflammation would allow comparison of proteomic, transcriptomic, and
      histology data from the endobronchial environment before and after intervention. This would
      be the first study evaluating the lung microenvironment in this context, which may identify
      predictive biomarkers of response to intervention and future exacerbation risk.
    
  