
    
      Midportion Achilles tendinopathy has been found to have an incidence of 1.85 per 1000 in the
      general population and is reported to be a career-ending condition in up to 5% of
      professional athletes. The mainstay of treatment at present is typically prescription of
      eccentric strengthening exercises, activity modification and analgesia. If conservative
      intervention fails then surgery can be indicated, and a wide range of different procedures
      are described. Open Achilles surgery may be successful in 75-100% of patients but debridement
      with excision of areas of tendinosis weakens the tendon and can delay return to sport for up
      to 18 months.

      There is currently a growing acceptance for the role of the plantaris tendon in the
      development of medial Achilles tendon (AT) pain and focal medial Achilles tendinopathy. The
      plantaris arises from the lateral aspect of the supracondylar line of the femur, passing from
      lateral to medial deep to medial gastrocnemius and superficial to soleus, inserting into the
      medial aspect of the calcaneus. However there is wide variation in the exact insertion of the
      plantaris tendon observed distally. A large study examining 750 limbs reported 4 types of
      distal insertion, a further study reported 3 different insertion sites, whilst a more recent
      study reported 9 variations. Consistently 10-20% of plantaris tendons are identified to have
      a direct structural attachment to the AT. This variety of insertion patterns may explain why
      some individuals are more prone to plantaris issues than others.

      Friction of the plantaris tendon against the medial border of the Achilles tendon and
      subsequent pain and swelling is a significant problem in elite track and field athletes, with
      an annual injury incidence of 3.9-9.3% reported. Biomechanical studies have hypothesized that
      this is due to the plantaris tendon being stiffer and stronger than the Achilles tendon (AT),
      thus reducing its capacity to elongate in response to loading. This is thought to cause
      friction between the AT and plantaris contributing to peritendon inflammation, which can
      induce tendinopathy changes to the AT through either a neuro-inflammatory mediation or via a
      compressive mechanism.

      Twenty nine percent of patients with NIAT fail to respond to conservative management and many
      have to give up sporting activities. Patients who continue to experience symptoms may be
      referred for a high volume injection of the paratenon under ultrasound scan (USS) guidance -
      this aims to strip the paratenon layer from the AT which often becomes adherent with fibrous
      bands. This also strips the neovascularization from the ventral surface of the AT - this
      abnormal tissue has nerve fibres within it and it is believed that this is a major pain
      generator in NIAT. However, it is recognised that a sub-group of patients with NIAT have
      isolated medially-located pain approximately 4-6cm from insertion into the os calcis. On USS
      and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) the plantaris tendon may be seen to attach to the medial
      aspect of the AT (either inserting into the side of the AT directly rather than the os calcis
      or becoming adherent with fibrous tissue to the AT medial border). This is at the level of
      the AT where it has undergone a 90 degree rotation and corresponds to the soleus part of the
      tendon. Since the plantaris tendon crosses 2 joints (originating above the knee and inserting
      into the os calcis) whereas the soleus only crosses one joint (the ankle) there may be a
      differential movement of the plantaris against the medial border of the AT creating a
      frictional syndrome with subsequent focal inflammation and then tendinosis of the AT.

      The treatment for this "plantaris syndrome" if it fails to respond to conservative measures
      or USS guided injections is to remove the plantaris tendon and surgically strip the ventral
      aspect of the AT through a 3cm medial incision. This is performed in theatres under general
      anaesthetic with good or excellent results being reported in 90% and 94% of professional
      athletes returning to sport.3 However, there have been papers reporting on the successful
      treatment of patients purely cutting the plantaris tendon using a minimally invasive
      endoscopic technique.The plantaris tendon is easily visualized under USS and tenotomy of
      tendons under USS guidance is described elsewhere. Performing a tenotomy of the plantaris
      tendon under USS guidance would necessitate a 5mm incision and may be performed under local
      anaesthetic as an out-patient. Currently it is not known whether this is as good as the open
      surgical procedure performed in theatre and the investigators would propose a randomized
      study comparing the techniques.

      The rationale for the current study therefore is to compare clinical outcomes and AT
      structural changes in patients with NIAT undergoing plantaris excision using an open surgical
      procedure to those undergoing a minimally invasive US guided procedure performed in an
      out-patient clinic. The former is known to provide good clinical outcomes however the latter
      could significantly reduce post-operative scarring, recovery times and surgical costs. Thus,
      if found to be comparable, treating these patients in the clinic with an ultrasound guided
      plantaris release would offer a desirable alternative to surgery and result in a change of
      current clinical interventions for this population.
    
  