
    
      Various markers has been used for SLN biopsy including isosulfan blue (patent blue),
      indocyanine green (ICG), radioisotope colloid (RAIC) and ultrasound (US) with several
      advantages and disadvantages. In this study investigators designed an algorithm using the
      combination of mapping with patent blue, ICG, RAIC and US to compare the accurate
      identification of SLN in breast cancer patients. The protocol is based on the hypothesis that
      identification rate of SLN is increased with multiple agents. Patent blue and ICG provides
      visual guidance. The combination of dyes with sonographic and RAIC method have the potential
      to prevent obstacles and ensure better outcomes as an identification strategy.

      Patent blue provides visual identification of the SLN. ICG fluorescence can be detected
      percutaneously and by means of fluorescence imaging system in real time. RAI has several
      advantages, but disadvantages as well, like cost and invisibility. RAI can only be detected
      and confirmed by means of sound and numerical value through gamma probe. All breast cancer
      patients underwent axillary ultrasound before SLNB with different mapping combinations. The
      determination of abnormal axillary lymph node was followed by ultrasound-guided FNA cytology
      of these nodes. The sonographic abnormality criteria of the nodes were defined as; completely
      hypoechoic node, asymmetric focal hypoechoic node, cortical lobulation more than 3, cortical
      thickness >2mm, totally spheric appearance, absence of fatty hilum and compromise of normal
      vascularity (hypervascularization from various poles). Patients with negative results of FNA
      would undergo SLNB. Lymphatic mapping was performed with abovementioned dyes and radioactive
      colloid. Before the incising for SLNB real time intraoperative US was performed and
      suspicious axillary lymph nodes were seen by ultrasound guidance. In the SLNB operation,
      radioactive or dyed nodes and sonographically suspicious nodes were removed and labeled
      separately for pathological examination.
    
  