
    
      Purpose: The purpose of the study is to investigate the anti-fatigue effects of ketamine in
      individuals with chronic illness.

      Background: Although the underlying mechanisms of fatigue have been studied in several
      disease conditions, the etiology, mechanisms, and risk factors remain elusive and this
      symptom remains poorly managed. Fatigue is conceptualized as a multidimensional symptom which
      incorporates temporal, sensory, cognitive/mental, affective/emotional, behavioral, and
      physiological dimensions. It is described as a common, chronic, and disabling symptom in
      individuals with Sjogren s syndrome and those with systemic lupus erythematosus. We recently
      observed that upregulation of glutamate receptors (e.g.,GRM5) can predict individuals who
      will develop chronic fatigue one year after completing cancer therapy, suggesting that
      fatigue may share common glutamatergic markers with depression. Ketamine is an
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist and has been reported to have rapid
      anti-depressant effects, and we recently found that it also has rapid anti-fatigue effects.
      Evidence suggest that severe fatigue in diverse medical conditions is driven by similar
      biological mechanisms, hence identifying a potential anti-fatigue agent in one medical
      condition may be a valuable anti-fatigue therapy for other fatiguing conditions.

      Population for Study: This proof-of-concept study will enroll 59 individuals (target n of
      completers = 50) with chronic fatigue.

      Key Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria: Participants must have a fatigue visual analog scale

      (VAS) score of greater than or equal to 50 mm (on a 0-100 mm horizontal scale). The greater
      than or equal to 50 mm fatigue VAS score is considered clinically important fatigue cutoff
      score for patients with chronic illness, and also captures the effectivity outcome of a
      previous pharmacologic intervention for fatigue. The participants must not have any
      progressive or unstable conditions or be taking medications that cause fatigue.

      Methodology: This is a phase II, randomized, double-blind (study team and participants),
      active comparator-controlled, cross-over trial. After determining eligibility during the
      screening visit, the participant will be randomized to determine the sequence of study
      drug/active comparator to take during each phase.

      Main Study Events / Estimates of Duration and Time Commitments: The study has two periods,
      and each period is approximately two weeks long (total of four weeks). The study (both
      periods, excluding the screening visit) will require eight NIH outpatient visits and three
      phone calls.

      Primary and Representative Secondary Outcomes: The primary outcome measure of the study is
      the change in self-reported fatigue VAS score before and three days after receiving ketamine
      or active comparator (midazolam). A 20% decrease in fatigue VAS score three days after
      ketamine treatment will be considered the primary indicator of efficacy in this study. The
      secondary outcomes of this study include: symptoms, physical activity count, skeletal muscle
      strength, motivation score, cognitive function test scores, changes in gene expression or
      protein levels of pro-inflammatory markers (e.g., lymphotoxin, IFNy, TNF alpha) typically
      seen in fatigue, and neurometabolite (e.g., BDNF) levels and mitochondrial markers (e.g.,
      glucose transporte) and after a dose of ketamine or active comparator.

      General Analytic Plans: A linear mixed model with restricted maximum likelihood estimation
      will be used to examine changes in fatigue symptoms over the course of the trial where all
      participants with at least a pre-dose and one post-dose measure will be included.
      Within-subjects factors will include time with pre-dose and all other points. The interaction
      between time and ketamine treatment will be included along with the fixed intercept. Multiple
      test corrections (e.g., Bonferroni post hoc tests) will be used to examine differences
      between levels of significant effects.

      The primary outcome measure of the study is the change in fatigue score as measured by the
      self-reported fatigue instrument.
    
  