
    
      The amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by
      progressive muscular paralysis due to degeneration of motor neurons in the primary motor
      cortex, corticospinal pathway, brain stem and spinal cord. The incidence is estimated at
      2/100 000 per year and prevalence at approximately 4/100000.

      Various clinical forms are described. The disease is fatal is 3-5 years on average.

      The majority of cases are sporadic and of unknown origin but 5-10% are familial and present
      for 20% of them, mutations in the SOD1 (21q22.11) gene. Other genes have recently been
      implicated in ALS. Environmental toxic factors have been extensively researched.
      Beta-methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA), a neurotoxic nonprotein amino acid produced by most
      cyanobacteria, has been proposed to be the causative agent of the ALS-Parkinsonism Complex on
      the island of Guam in the Pacific Ocean.

      Epidemiology and clinical features of ALS have never been studied in Caribbean countries.

      The main purpose of the study will be to evaluate the incidence of ALS in Guadeloupe and
      Martinique.

      Secondary purposes will be:

        1. to evaluate the presence of specific phenotypic features;

        2. to establish he prognosis of different clinical forms;

        3. to study the genes implicated in ALS and quantify theexposure to BMAA.

      Since 2000, the diagnosis of ALS is made in about 20 patients per year in Guadeloupe and
      Martinique(for a total population of 800000 inhabitants) but the incidence and the clinical
      presentation of ALS in the French West Indiesare unknown.

      The exceptional association of ALS and parkinsonism is regularly observed in Guadeloupe. We
      propose to perform a prospective descriptive and longitudinal epidemiological study to
      determine the incidence of ALSin the French West Indies. In parallel we will study the
      involvement of genetic andenvironmental toxic factors as etiological factor for this disease.

      Primary outcome:

      - the impact of ALS in Guadeloupe and Martinique

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Assess the clinical characteristics (presence of phenotypic features?),

        -  the prognosis of different clinical forms study,

        -  to establish the genetic factors of the ALS and to search potential environmental
           factors
    
  