
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the disease-free and overall survival of patients with acute promyelocytic
           leukemia in clinical complete remission following tretinoin-based induction therapy
           treated with monoclonal antibody HuG1-M195, arsenic trioxide, idarubicin, and tretinoin.

        -  Determine the rate of molecular complete remission in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in this patient population.

        -  Determine the number and length of hospitalizations of patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive monoclonal antibody HuG1-M195 (MOAB HuM195) IV over 40-60 minutes
      twice weekly for 3 weeks. Approximately 2-4 weeks after completion of MOAB HuM195, patients
      receive arsenic trioxide IV over 1-4 hours daily for a total of 25 days with no more than 5
      days between doses.

      Beginning approximately 4-6 weeks after completion of arsenic trioxide, patients receive
      idarubicin IV daily on days 1-3 or 1-4 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning
      on day 5 or 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for
      patients who remain RT-PCR positive or are newly converted to RT-PCR negative (molecular
      complete remission) following a prior course of idarubicin for a maximum of 3 courses.
      Patients who remain RT-PCR positive following course 3 of idarubicin receive no further
      treatment on study.

      Beginning 3 months after completion of idarubicin, patients in molecular complete remission
      receive oral tretinoin daily for 14 days. Treatment repeats every 3 months for a total of 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed monthly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 35 patients will be accrued for this study within 2-3 years.
    
  