
    
      CORAMI is a registry study addressing the issue of complete vs culprit-only PCI within
      infarct related artery in patients with ST-elevation and non-ST elevation myocardial
      infarction treated with interventional procedures.

      The main objectives of the study include:

        1. gathering data on patients with at least two independent critical stenotic lesions in
           IRA (one of which is the culprit lesion) during index primary PCI for STEMI or NSTEMI
           (prevalence, characteristic, predisposing factors).

        2. comparing chosen treatment strategies for multiple lesion IRA

        3. comparison of complete vs. target lesion-only PCI in IRA in acute MI (myocardial
           infarction) patients.

      The study clinical hypothesis is that stenting single critical - culprit lesion in
      multi-lesion IRA in MI patients during index PCI procedure is superior to stenting all
      critical lesions in IRA in terms of early treatment result and might be associated with less
      frequent periprocedural angiographic complications.

      H0: The efficacy in terms of early treatment result of stenting one critical - culprit lesion
      in multilesions IRA in acute MI patients is less or equal to efficacy of stenting all
      critical lesions in IRA.

      H1: The efficacy in terms of early treatment result of stenting one critical - culprit lesion
      in multilesions IRA in acute MI patients is greater than efficacy of stenting all critical
      lesions in IRA.

      CORAMI Registry is a prospective, international (Poland, Slovenia), multicenter observational
      study with retrospective chart review which will be performed in experienced invasive
      facility centres with 24/7 PCI duty and continuous patient enrollment for 18 months (January
      2011 - June 2012).

      This study will collect data on all consecutive patients with STEMI and NSTEMI undergoing
      immediate coronary angiography which demonstrated at least two independent (requiring two
      stent platforms) critical lesions in infarct related artery (one of which is considered as
      target/culprit lesion that have caused the myocardial infarction and requires immediate PCI).
      Patients will be treated (multiple or single lesion stenting) according to local standard and
      operator's decision. Patient follow up phone call and/or visit (according to local protocols)
      will be performed at 12 months from enrollment if applicable by local standards.
    
  