
    
      Newborn infants, particularly those who are born preterm, are vulnerable to infection because
      of their immature immune systems. Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) and pertussis both
      represent significant risks to the newborn infant.

      Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD), caused by Neisseria meningitidis, is a devastating
      illness with a case fatality rate of 10-20% even with intensive treatment. Even infants who
      survive IMD experience significant disability in 10-20% of cases. Serogroups A, B, C, Y, W
      and X cause almost all cases of IMD, and in Europe, North America and parts of Latin America
      serogroup B is responsible for the majority of cases. In the UK there were 747 cases of IMD
      in 2016/17 and Men B was responsible for 396 (53%) of these. The major burden of disease is
      in infants under the age of 1 year. Pertussis is a highly infectious respiratory illness
      caused by Bordetella pertussis which can cause significant morbidity and mortality in young
      infants. There has been an increase in the incidence of pertussis in the UK, along with other
      high income countries in recent years which has disproportionately affected young infants.

      Infants in the UK are vaccinated against meningococcal group B disease at 2, 4 and 12 months
      with Bexsero® and against pertussis at 2,3 and 4 months as part of the 6-in-1 vaccine
      Infanrix hexa®. Additionally, since 2012 pregnant women in the UK have been routinely offered
      pertussis vaccination during pregnancy to protect the infant in the first few months of life
      prior to them receiving their own vaccinations.

      Serum bactericidal antibody (SBA) assays are important in the assessment of immunity
      following vaccination and are used in the production, release and licensure of some vaccines
      and the evaluation of the function of others. SBA assays for pertussis and meningococcal B
      typically use adult complement from a healthy adult donor pool. There is some concern that
      using adult complement may not allow an adequate assessment of neonatal immunity. The
      concentration of most complement components in the neonate is around 10-80% of that in the
      adult and circulating regulator levels are also reduced. Differences in complement function
      are more pronounced in preterm infants and the differences in the quality and activation of
      complement in neonates raises questions about whether an SBA assay using adult complement
      sources allows an accurate assessment of neonatal immunity.

      In this study the investigators will create a pooled complement source for three different
      gestational ages, ≥37 gestational weeks, 32-36+6 gestational weeks and less than 32
      gestational weeks, which will allow the investigators to compare the results of the pertussis
      and meningococcal SBA assays when using both standard adult complement and a gestational age
      appropriate complement source. To do this the investigators will collect cord blood samples
      from deliveries within the three gestational age groups.
    
  