
    
      The study is designed to slot into normal clinical care, with some extra blood tests
      performed at times patients would already be attending hospital. An extra blood test is
      desired 1 week following initial IVIg treatment which would require an extra visit, but this
      is an optional part of the study.

        1. Identification of suitable participant: patient with CIDP or MMN for whom treatment with
           IVIg has been decided upon by their treating neurologist.

        2. Provision of information leaflet and taking of consent. Blood test for Immunoglobulins
           (Igs), FBC, U&E, LFT and ESR will be taken before initial treatment with 2 g/kg IVIg;
           this is all part of usual care.

        3. 5-30 min following final infusion of first course of IVIg, a blood test for Igs, FBC,
           U&E, LFT and ESR will be taken.

        4. If the patient is willing to make an extra visit 7 days after day 1 of IVIg treatment,
           they will attend for further Igs, FBC, U&E, LFT and ESR.

        5. When the patient attends at 2 weeks for post-IVIg assessment as part of usual care, a
           blood test for Igs, FBC, U&E, LFT and ESR will be measured again.

        6. Usual process of IVIg treatment optimisation will then occur (as practised at the Walton
           Centre). This is part of usual care, with determination of IVIg dosing interval
           following clinical optimisation by dose suspension, followed by restabilisation and
           subsequent dose reductions to determine minimum effective dose.

        7. At the 3rd consecutive infusion of IVIg at the minimum effective dose, a pre-IVIg
           (trough) level of Igs will be taken for the minimum effective IgG level alongside FBC,
           U&E, LFT and ESR.

        8. Statistical analysis looking for correlations between the initial ∆IgG values and the
           final dose and dosing interval of IVIg will be undertaken.
    
  