
    
      Obesity is a common global health problem. It increases the risk of many chronic illnesses,
      such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular diseases. Conventional
      approaches to alleviate obesity are medications, exercise, dietary control, behaviour
      modification therapy or bariatric surgeries. However, the safety of anti-obesity agents is a
      concern, and gastric bypass surgery and other bariatric surgeries also pose potential risks
      after operation. Auricular acupuncture therapy is frequently used to treat obesity. However,
      the use of needles for auricular acupuncture may be unacceptable to people. Some researchers
      attempted to adopt a combined approach by integrating auriculotherapy with diet restriction,
      and the effect solely attributed to auriculotherapy cannot be determined. On the other hand,
      auricular acupressure (AA) is a safe, noninvasive, inexpensive and easily self-administered
      approach that causes very few adverse effects. Previous evidence has demonstrated that AA is
      an effective intervention to reduce body weight, increase satiety and self-efficacy on weight
      control through the self-administration of seeds pressing several times per day, after the
      seeds are applied by the researchers on the ear acupoints. It is associated with the
      decreased leptin levels and an increase of adiponectin level in which these hormones are
      associated with weight loss. However, therapists may have difficulties to monitor the
      compliance of subjects to perform seed pressing which in turn affecting the intervention
      dosages. This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of self-administered AA integrated with
      mobile device reminders for weight reduction in individuals with overweightness or obesity. A
      three-arm randomised waitlist-controlled feasibility trial is proposed. A total of 59
      subjects (19-21 subjects per arm) will be recruited. The three groups are AA plus smartphone
      application (experimental group); AA only (comparison group); and Waitlist control group. In
      the experimental group, seeds will be applied on six specific ear acupoints of the subjects
      by the researcher. Subjects will be requested to apply pressure on the acupoints thrice per
      day. They will install a smartphone App which will send out regular reminders for pressing,
      allow the subjects to input the number of bowel open, compliance rate, and difficulties
      entered during the process for timely advice. The total treatment period will be 8 weeks.
      Outcome measures will be conducted at baseline and postintervention at 8 weeks, including
      obesity and anthropometric index, leptin concentration and adiponectin level. Patient
      satisfaction towards the therapy, the use of the smartphone application and the
      implementation of the treatment protocol will be determined.
    
  