
    
      Initial exploratory investigations will compare left-sided and right-sided Jugular Venous
      Pressure (JVP) using ultrasonography. Should results show that they are the same, the central
      line is to be placed into the right internal jugular vein when required.

      To begin the trial and whilst the patient is spontaneously breathing, a physical examination
      of the right JVP will be performed. A central line will be inserted with the patient awake
      into the right internal jugular vein. Left-sided ultrasound of JVP and Central Venous
      Pressure (CVP) will be measured using the right-sided catheter will be recorded
      simultaneously. The tip of the catheter attached to the transducer (which is zeroed to the
      reference point) will be placed at the point of venous collapse, identified by
      ultrasonography, to identify if the JVP and CVP match. The tip of the catheter will then be
      placed at the angle of Louis. Measurement of the pressure difference between the angle of
      Louis and the reference point will identify if this value shows variability compared to
      previous approximations of 5cm above the right atrium. With the patient anaesthetised and
      mechanically breathing, left JVP and CVP will be measured once more. Twenty-four hours
      post-surgery, ultrasound of the JVP and CVP will be measured with the patient breathing
      spontaneously.

      The physical JVP examination will be recorded from the opposite side to the central venous
      catheter. The bed will be adjusted to an angle between 30 and 60 degrees, that most clearly
      identifies the collapsing vein. Differentiation between the JVP and the carotid pulse must be
      distinguished. Tangential lighting using a flashlight should be used to correctly identify
      and note the apex of the jugular venous pulsations. Recordings will be taken at
      end-expiration allowing the vertical distance between the venous meniscus and phlebostatic
      axis to be measured. JVP will be measured in millimetres of water.

      Ultrasound recordings will be made using the SonoSite ultrasound probe by Sam Jenkins. The
      equipment and gels required are used routinely on site and will be supplied by Sheffield
      Teaching Hospitals. The SonoSite probe will be calibrated prior to each use, based on the
      recommendations of the manufacturer. The angle of the bed is kept constant and the patient
      will remain in the same position following the physical JVP examination. Ultrasound gel will
      be applied, again on the opposite side to the central venous catheter. Locating the area of
      venous collapse will be identified following visualisation from both longitudinal and
      transverse planes. The apex of venous collapse at end-expiration will be marked using the
      longitudinal view. Corroboration of the correct position of the probe by looking at the
      transverse view will be performed prior to marking of venous collapse.

      CVP will be measured once the central venous catheter has been zeroed. The reference point of
      the transducer will be placed at the 4th intercostal space, mid-axillary line. The bed should
      still be kept at a constant angle for this measurement. The mean of the 'a' wave upon
      end-expiration will be taken. Converting the CVP from millimetres of mercury to millimetres
      of water will allow direct comparison to prior findings of JVP.
    
  