
    
      Premature ovarian failure, defined as the onset of the menopause before the age of 40 years,
      is a relatively common problem that affects 1% of women. There are a variety of aetiologies
      underlying premature ovarian failure including Turner syndrome and those with idiopathic
      onset, however with the increasing success of intensive treatment for childhood cancer, there
      are increasing numbers of young survivors, with a variety of late effects of treatment,
      including premature ovarian failure.

      Evidence is required for the optimal management of young women with premature ovarian
      failure, either as a result of childhood cancer treatment or for other reasons. These women
      are currently offered combined sex steroid replacement in the convenient form of the oral
      contraceptive pill, or hormone replacement therapy, designed for older women after the
      menopause. These preparations are not designed to achieve physiological replacement of
      oestrogen or progesterone, either in dosage or in biochemical structure - many preparations
      using synthetic derivatives. These younger women who have differing metabolic and
      psychological requirements are looking to a future of 30 or more years of replacement. The
      optimal mode of SSR is not known for young women with premature ovarian failure, however
      there is concern that current regimens may be inadequate for optimal skeletal and
      cardiovascular health.

      Current preliminary data demonstrates that use of physiological sex steroid replacement
      improves uterine parameters. Evidence is required to determine whether optimising sex steroid
      replacement can also significantly improve parameters of skeletal and cardiovascular health.
      Young women with ovarian failure face several decades of hormone replacement, so small
      improvements in management may make large differences to later morbidity and mortality.

      The aim of the study is to determine whether physiological sex steroid replacement improves
      parameters of skeletal, cardiovascular and reproductive health of women treated with current
      sex steroid replacement regimens.
    
  