
    
      Background: Chronic musculoskeletal pain conditions are among the most common problems seen
      in primary care. As the importance of these conditions for the health of individuals and
      society has been increasingly recognized, use of long-term opioid therapy for chronic
      musculoskeletal pain has grown exponentially. Unfortunately, research has not kept pace with
      this change in prescribing practice. Although evidence supports the ability of opioid
      analgesics to produce short-term reductions in pain intensity, long-term trials evaluating
      opioid effectiveness are not available. Evidence for effects of opioids on function and
      quality of life are limited, but observational data indicate that many patients treated with
      long-term opioids continue to experience severe pain and functional limitations. Furthermore,
      the long-term harms of opioids are poorly described in the literature. Preliminary
      investigations suggest a variety of potential harms related to opioid therapy, but the
      incidence and severity of these harms have not been well-quantified.

      Objectives: The main objective of the Strategies for Prescribing Analgesics Comparative
      Effectiveness (SPACE) Trial is to compare benefits and harms of two prescribing strategies:
      1) an opioid-intensive strategy that uses strong opioids, such as morphine, early in
      treatment, and 2) an opioid-avoidant strategy that optimizes non-opioid medications while
      delaying and minimizing opioid use. SPACE will evaluate, over 12 months, 1) effects of
      opioid-intensive versus opioid-avoidant prescribing strategies on pain-related function and
      pain intensity and 2) adverse effects of opioid-intensive versus opioid-avoidant prescribing
      strategies, including adverse medication-related symptoms, clinically important adverse
      events, and changes in physical and cognitive performance. Secondarily, the investigators
      will examine effects of the two prescribing strategies on health-related quality of life,
      pain sensitivity, and aberrant drug-related behaviors. The investigators will also conduct a
      secondary qualitative analysis to better understand patients' perceptions of their response
      to the interventions and of the value of intervention components.

      Methods: SPACE is a pragmatic randomized clinical trial designed to compare the benefits and
      harms over 12 months of two clinically-relevant prescribing strategies for chronic
      musculoskeletal pain. Eligible Veterans will be those seen in primary care for chronic back
      or lower-extremity (hip or knee) arthritis pain who have moderate-severe pain intensity and
      interference with function. Those currently receiving chronic daily opioid therapy will be
      excluded. Participants will be randomized to the opioid-intensive (n=138) or the
      opioid-avoidant (n=138) arm, with stratification by primary pain location (back or hip/knee).
      Medications in each arm will be adjusted to target improvement in pain, while considering
      individual patient preferences and responses. Interventions will be delivered in a care
      management model using the randomly assigned prescribing strategies, automated symptom
      monitoring, and a structured decision-making approach to guide medication adjustment. Outcome
      assessors masked to treatment assignment will conduct interviews to assess patient-reported
      outcomes at 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and will assess physical performance and cognitive
      function at 0, 6, and 12 months. For the primary outcome, the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)
      Interference scale, the study will have 80% power to detect a 1 point difference between
      groups, assuming 2-sided alpha=0.05 and 20% attrition. Analysis will use an intent-to-treat
      approach, including all participants in the arm to which they were originally assigned.
    
  