
    
      Dehydration, or the loss of body water, is a common health problem during military
      operations, athletic events and illness, particularly in children and the elderly.
      Warfighters frequently become dehydrated when training or fighting in hot and mountainous
      environments because heat and high altitude increase body water losses. The negative
      consequences of dehydration worsen as body water losses increase. Severe dehydration (>10%)
      is a life-threatening emergency that may result in heat illness, seizures, permanent brain
      damage or death. The most common type of dehydration is caused by sweat loss during heavy
      physical labor or exercise (hypertonic dehydration). A different type of dehydration can be
      caused by blood loss, burns, diarrhea, vomiting or diuretic drugs used for example by
      diabetics (isotonic dehydration). Despite the critical importance of proper fluid balance to
      human performance and health, no field-expedient, non-invasive dehydration test is available
      for either form of dehydration. The ultimate goal of this project is to develop a
      field-expedient, non-invasive test for both types of dehydration. The test will be sensitive
      to 2% dehydration, a critical threshold for performance impairment and a statistically valid
      decision point for hydration assessment.

      Design: Fifteen volunteers will be first euhydrated (well-hydrated) and then moderately
      dehydrated (2-4%) using two procedures. First, sweat loss during exercise in the heat without
      fluids (hypertonic dehydration). Second, excessive urination stimulated by a diuretic pill
      called Lasix (isotonic dehydration). SRP biomarkers in saliva samples will be compared to
      changes in body weight, and to known hydration indicators in blood and urine. Results will
      identify the best SRP biomarkers for diagnosing both types of dehydration and compare
      accuracy of the new saliva test to the existing hydration indicators.
    
  