
    
      A clinical registry is an observational database, usually focusing on a clinical condition,
      procedure, therapy, or population. A stroke registry can be defined as "an organized system
      for the collection, storage, retrieval, analysis, and dissemination of information on
      individual patients who have had a stroke".

      An ideal stroke registry is nationwide and enrolls patients from as many participating
      hospitals as possible in order to increase representativeness and avoid selection bias. For
      example, the Risk-Stroke register in Sweden, launched in 1994, has covered all hospitals that
      admit acute stroke patients across the country since 1998 . Appropriate data structure and
      governance policies are needed to keep a nationwide stroke registry sustainable and operating
      well. Through the publication and communication of results, a stroke registry should be
      helpful for improvement of stroke care quality, health policy, and the outcomes of patients.

      SECRET registry aim to help in the following

        1. National Grading of The Presented Stroke Care Services:

           where A 6 levels grading system was designed according to the capability of each service
           spot (hospital, center, etc.) to present a range of the 5 stroke service bundles of
           care. each Service Spot (SS) will have one of the following colors according to the
           availability of the services.

        2. Cost-effectiveness registry Based SOPs SECRET is the first of its type registry to study
           the parameters for cost/effectiveness analysis for specific steps in the chain of care
           for stroke patient. The only convincing tool which could be used to approach the
           politics to be attentive and malleable for changing national plans of healthcare.

        3. Aneurysm Registry This Part of the registry is dedicated for the cerebral aneurysm
           disorders and their type of clinical presentation. The options of treatment and each
           option effectiveness and cost outcome.

      CFD for Best Medical Treatment Registry To investigate the possible application collected
      from CFD analysis in special situation to guide physician for best medical treatment (BMT)
      option for a Neurovascular Disorder.
    
  