
    
      Background:

      Infections in young infants is a challenge as 1) it is often not possible to distinguish
      serious bacterial infection (SBI) from viral infection by clinical appearance alone, 2) a
      causative organism is often not identified and 3) due to relatively low sensitivity and
      specificity of current biomarkers. The consequence is overtreatment with antibiotics being
      prescribed to as many as 50% of febrile young infants presenting to emergency departments.
      However, the majority of these children does not have a bacterial infection. Host RNA
      expression profiling has shown high sensitivity and specificity for discriminating bacterial
      from non-bacterial infections in preliminary studies of febrile young infants.

      Methods:

      A prospective multicentre observational study including young infants admitted and evaluated
      due to suspected infection at the 4 paediatric acute care units in the Capital Region of
      Denmark (Rigshospitalet, Hvidovre Hospital, Herlev Hospital, Nordsjællands Hospital -
      Hillerød). Whole blood will be collected in PAXgene blood RNA tubes and analysed by RNA
      sequencing at the Centre for Genomic Medicine, Rigshospitalet. Host RNA expression profiles
      will be identified in a discovery cohort and the diagnostic performance will be tested in a
      validation cohort. A control group of healthy and afebrile young infants will be included.

      Time frames:

      Patient recruiting: May 15th 2020 to February 28th 2022. Sample analysis (RNA sequencing):
      March 1st 2022 to August 31st 2022.

      Perspectives:

      New molecular-based diagnostic tools complementary to conventional methods may optimise
      infection management in young infants by improving early diagnostics and allowing early
      modification of antibiotic treatment. This will reduce antibiotic resistance, side effects,
      unnecessary hospitalisation and invasive procedures.
    
  