
    
      Gaucher disease is the most common glycolipid storage disorder, caused by reduced activity of
      the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase, which leads to the accumulation of the substrate,
      glucocerebroside (GC), in the cells of the reticulo-endothelial system.

      One of the hallmarks of GD is its great phenotypic heterogeneity with variable presentations
      and symptoms, beginning with a lethal variant of infants dying at or near birth with hydrops
      fetalis and ichthyoids at one extreme and totally asymptomatic individuals without any
      physical or laboratory abnormalities at the other extreme.

      This autosomal recessive disease is pan-ethnic, but it is especially prevalent among
      Ashkenazi Jews. From over 300 different mutations reported in the glucocerebrosidase gene,
      five account for 98% of the disease-producing alleles. Of these mutations, N370S (or 1226G)
      occurs in 1 out of 17 Ashkenazi individuals, leading to a disease frequency of 1:850 in this
      ethnic group.

      The high prevalence of more than a single mutation among Ashkenazi Jews and the existence of
      two additional rare inherited lysosomal glycolipid storage diseases, Tay Sachs and Nieman
      Pick, at a higher prevalence within the same ethnic group is believed to be caused by
      selective advantage.

      Available genetic data are consistent with a founder effect(4) whereas the nature of such an
      advantage has not been identified.

      The aim of this study was to investigate the anti-HCV immune response in patients with GD in
      an attempt to define the potential role of high levels of GC in the immune system and
      antiviral immunity.

      Study importance:

      The host metabolic background exerts a profound effect on antiviral immunity, which may
      influence the clinical course of chronic HCV infection.

      The accumulation of GC in patients with GD may provide a selective evolutionary advantage to
      these patients.

      Glucocerebroside was recently tested in human trials and shown to be effective in altering
      NKT- dependent metabolic pathways, insulin resistance, and associated liver injury.

      The present study examine the capability of Glucocerebroside to be be used as a tool in the
      antiviral treatment of hepatitis C by potentiating the immune response of natural killer T
      cells and dendritic cells.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation (SD). The Kruskal Wallis non-parametric
      ANOVA test was used to identify differences between the study groups.

      The student t-test and non-parametric Mann-Whitney test were used to compare quantitative
      variables between the study groups as appropriate; P <0.05 was considered to be significant.
    
  