
    
      All study participants will complete all the questionnaires provided, specifically the Adult
      Sickle Cell Quality of Life Measurement Information (ASCQ-Me), Leeds Assessment of
      Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (LANSS), PainDETECT and Douleur Neuropathique 4 (DN4). All
      study participants will also have qualitative sensory testing and laboratory investigations
      done. Nerve conduction studies will only be done on a randomly selected 20 percent sub-study
      sample.

      Laboratory investigations include sample of blood (~ 10 mls) will also be collected for the
      participants and analysed for Haemoglobin (steady state), white blood cells, and lactate
      dehydrogenase, percent reticulocytes. These are common markers of disease severity in SCD.
      Disease severity is one of the variables which will be used in the epidemiological
      description of the study population as well as in the statistical analysis of the data.

      The Q-Sense will be used to conduct quantitative sensory tests. This allows specific degrees
      of heat/cold stimulation to assess sensation and pain thresholds to be applied and patients
      indicate at which degree they detect the stimuli and furthermore when it becomes painful, at
      each site. The results are then compared to known controls. Hypersensitivity and allodynia to
      thermal stimuli is considered diagnostic for neuropathic pain. The tests are considered safe
      in sickle cell patients and when tested have not resulted in any crisis. Patients may
      experience mild pain after the test, and therefore will be asked to take their regular
      analgesics immediately following the test.

      Nerve conduction studies (NCS): A subset of participants identified with chronic or presumed
      neuropathic pain will, in addition to QST, receive a standard neurophysiological evaluation
      by nerve conduction studies to determine the presence/absence of a large fibre neuropathy,
      whether a focal mononeuropathy or diffuse polyneuropathy. Polyneuropathies will be
      characterized by process as either axonal or demyelinating, and by pattern as sensory, motor
      or sensorimotor, with comparisons to findings on QST.
    
  