
    
      SARS-CoV-2 caused sequela is a pathological condition, and specific cells are damaged from a
      prior disease, injury, or attack. Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) is
      caused by an infection of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 virus. The virus or virus-triggered
      disorder immunity attacks target tissue(s) and organ(s). No matter name of the virus and the
      cells, tissue(s), or organ(s), they all belong to the category of antigen and cause an immune
      response; this can induce inflammation or not depending on the immune system tolerance .
      While older patients may have an increased risk of developing severe disease or sequelae,
      young survivors have also reported symptoms months after acute infection of SARS-CoV-2,
      reported by the British Lung Foundation. Some infected people, referred to as long-haulers,
      experience a long period of symptoms. Characterization of the etiology and pathophysiology of
      late sequelae is underway and may reflect organ damage from the acute infection phase;
      manifestations of a persistent hyperinflammatory state even perform as autoimmune diseases.
      Rheumatic disease can also occur during the infection of COVID. Ongoing viral activity
      indicates an inadequate antibody response. Factors in addition to acute illness that may
      further complicate the picture include physical deconditioning at baseline or after a long
      disease course, pre-COVID-19 comorbidities, and psychological sequelae following a long or
      difficult disease course relating to lifestyle changes due to the pandemic. Likely, the
      persistent sequelae of COVID-19 represent multiple syndromes resulting from distinct
      pathophysiological processes along the spectrum of disease. So far, no specific medicine has
      been identified for treating the COVID-19 virus and post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2. Due to
      the difficulty treating either SARS-CoV-2 or its caused sequelae, there is a very pessimistic
      suggestion: People must live with COVID-19 forever. Most people who contract coronavirus
      disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection recover entirely within a few weeks. However, the
      long-haulers continue to experience symptoms after their initial recovery. This condition has
      been called post-COVID-19 syndrome or "long COVID-19." Older people and people with many
      severe medical conditions are the most likely to experience lingering COVID-19 symptoms, but
      even young, otherwise healthy people can feel unwell for weeks to months after infection. The
      most common signs and symptoms that linger over time include fatigue, shortness of breath,
      cough, joint pain, and chest pain. Other long-term signs and symptoms may include muscle pain
      or headache, fast or pounding heartbeat, loss of smell or taste, memory and concentration or
      sleep problems, and rash or hair loss, the Mayo Clinic reported.

      Virus infections have been long associated with autoimmune diseases, whether multiple
      sclerosis, diabetes, or myocarditis. Three potential mechanisms for virus-induced autoimmune
      disease or virus-induced immunopathology are molecular mimicry, bystander activation, and
      persistent virus infection.

      Those prolonged symptoms are consistent with the internal physical pathological process. That
      can be the virus infection continuing, or the infection triggered an immune reaction in one
      or more physical locations when a person became infected with the COVID-19 virus.

      Here is the critical point: when the structure of cells is destroyed, the result is the
      affected cell's function will be lost. Does the etiology directly destroy the antigen, or the
      virus trigger the disorder immunity to destroy the antigen? The results are the same: the
      antigen is under inflammation. Returning the damaged cells (antigen) to normal or close to
      normal states is the key to saving lives.

      This raises questions concerning how can we protect those cells from becoming damaged and how
      can we return injured cells to their normal function? Regardless of whether the cell has been
      damaged directly by the virus infection, or another reason like disordered immunity, my
      clinical research will show how to solve those medical problems.
    
  