
    
      In this cross-over study, each patient receives subcutaneous and intravenous metoclopramide,
      with a randomized order of administration. During each perfusion phases, metoclopramide is
      administrated with continuous flow, doses being increased every two days, first from 10 to 20
      and then from 20 to 30 mg/d. In order to guarantee plasmatic balance during route change, the
      first dose of the second phase is extended for three days. Metoclopramide plasmatic
      concentration is measured at inclusion and at the end of each dose administration, with a
      total of 7 dosages.

      Principal purpose of this research is to clarify subcutaneous bioavailability of
      metoclopramide. For this meaning, the mean difference between all subcutaneous and
      intravenous concentration ratios is compared. Secondary purposes consist of: calculating
      metoclopramide subcutaneous bioavailability for each study dose (10, 20 and 30 mg/d);
      describing dose-bioavailability relation for subcutaneous metoclopramide; comparing
      dose-concentration relationship of intravenous and subcutaneous metoclopramide; studying
      local tolerance by checking all inflammatory signs surrounding injection site; evaluating
      clinical efficacy by comparing between the two groups the number of vomiting episodes, use of
      Serotonin receptor antagonists and the nausea scores on a 11-level numerical scale.

      Eighteen patients have to be analysed at least. For each patient not having completed the
      study, one more will be included in order to reach the eighteen necessary patients.
      Therefore, it is expected to include twenty-four patients. Included population
      characteristics will be described. A three-dimensional analysis with period, subject and dose
      is performed to determine metoclopramide absolute bioavailability. For secondary criteria,
      dose-concentration relation is analysed with a four-dimensional analysis;
      dose-bioavailability and dose-concentration relations are described by linear and log-linear
      regression. For principal purpose, only results of patients having completed the study are
      part of this aforementioned analyse.
    
  