
    
      1 - Scientific background and rational Use of sensory cues is essential for execution and
      correction of voluntary movements. The motor areas and their regulation is of special
      interest in patients with schizophrenia as there is clear evidence of motor abnormalities
      independent of the effects of antipsychotic medication, even before the onset of the
      disorder. Sensorimotor abnormalities have been proposed as a valid endophenotype in
      schizophrenia. Our global objective is to study and provide vulnerability markers for
      schizophrenia.

        1. Control of manual dexterity will be assessed by a force sensor (Power Grip Manipulandum,
           PGM)

        2. Oculomotor movements during behavioral task will be recorded using a video-oculography
           device

        3. The involvement of cortical inhibition in this volitional inhibition task will be
           studied by neuronavigation guided TMS coupled to EMG recording

      2 - Description of the project methodology There is strong evidence for schizophrenia being a
      neuro-developmental disorder (Rapoport et al., 2005). It has been shown, for many years, that
      patients with schizophrenia exhibit abnormal patterns of sensorimotor integration (Manschreck
      et al., 1982), which is the capacity to integrate different sensory stimuli into appropriate
      motor actions. It is clinically relevant, in terms of early diagnosis and prevention, whether
      deficient sensorimotor integration is present in the prodromal phase of schizophrenia, and
      whether this constitutes a vulnerability marker for the disease.

      Our global objective is to study the interactions and related substratum of oculomotor
      movements during force control task.

      The secondary objectives:

      (i) To show that increased motor noise is indeed present in schizophrenia. (ii) To show by
      TMS that cortical excitability in the primary motor cortex (M1) is task-modulated and
      decreased in schizophrenia.

      (iii) Assess the role of deficient cortical inhibition in these behavioral deficits To this
      end, three different groups of subjects will be studied: schizophrenic patients, non-affected
      siblings, ultra high risk patients, non-treated schizophrenic patients and healthy control
      subjects.
    
  