
    
      There is a current worldwide outbreak of the novel coronavirus Covid-19 (coronavirus disease
      2019; the pathogen called SARS-CoV-2; previously 2019-nCoV), which originated from Wuhan in
      China and has now spread to 6 continents including 210 countries. Coronaviruses (CoVs), is a
      large family of single-stranded RNA viruses, can infect animals and humans, causing
      respiratory, gastrointestinal, hepatic, and neurologic diseases. Coronaviruses are a group of
      enveloped viruses with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome (26-39 kb). Four
      coronavirus genera (α, β, γ, δ) have been determined so far, with human coronaviruses (HCoVs)
      detected in the α coronavirus (HCoV-229E and NL63) and β coronavirus (e.g MERS-CoV and
      SARS-CoV) genera. This isolated novel β-CoV shows less than 80% similarity to the sequence of
      two bat-derived severe acute respiratory syndromes (SARS)-like coronaviruses, bat-SL-CoVZC45
      and bat-SL-CoVZXC21, and about 50% identity to the sequence of a middle east respiratory
      syndrome (MERS-CoV). Patients with COVID-19 show general clinical manifestations including
      fever, dry cough, dyspnea, myalgia, fatigue, normal or decreased leukocyte counts, and
      radiographic evidence of pneumonia. After the virus enters the host cells, the viral RNA
      genome is released into the cytoplasm and is translated into two polyproteins and structural
      proteins, after which the viral genome begins to replicate. When the virus enters the host
      cells, its antigen will be presented to the antigen presentation cells(APC), which is a
      central part of the body's anti-viral immunity. Antigenic peptides are presented by major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC; or human leukocyte antigen (HLA) in humans) and then
      recognized by virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Hence, the understanding of the
      antigen presentation of SARS-CoV-2 will help our comprehension of COVID-19 pathogenesis.
      However, there is still a lack of any report about SARS-CoV-2, we can get a lot of
      information from previous researches on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. The antigen presentation of
      SARS-CoV mainly depends on MHC I molecules, but MHC II also contributes to its presentation.

      These findings may provide valuable information for the rational design of vaccines against
      SARS-CoV-2. One of the main mechanisms for ARDS is the cytokine storm, the deadly
      uncontrolled systemic inflammatory response resulting from the release of huge amounts of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines by immune effector cells in SARS-CoV infection.
      Better survive in host cells, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV use multiple strategies to avoid immune
      responses. The evolutionarily conserved microbial structures called pathogen-associated
      molecular patterns can be recognized by pattern recognition receptors (PRR).

      The antigen presentation can also be affected by the coronavirus. For example, gene
      expression related to antigen presentation is down-regulated after MERS-CoV infection.
      Therefore, destroying the immune evasion of SARS-CoV-2 is imperative in its treatment and
      specific drug development.
    
  