
    
      Objectives:

      Primary Objective To assess feasibility of of acquiring time resolved, 3D 13C pyruvate MR
      images of breast cancer requiring neoadjuvant chemotherapy after administration of
      hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of time resolved, 3D 13C pyruvate MR imaging after
           administration of hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate for differentiating breast cancer from
           normal breast parenchyma.

        2. To spatially correlate lactate seen on hyperpolarized 13C MR to anatomic imaging with
           conventional MRI.

        3. To assess if hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate MR can differentiate between tumour necrosis
           versus viable tumour

        4. To acquire statistical information to help design, fund, and power future clinical
           studies with larger patient populations.

      Overall Study Design This is a pilot prospective, single-institution study in participants
      who will receive NAC. Participants will be first informed of the study by personnelle within
      the patient's circle of care. If the patient expresses interest in participating in the
      study, the study's Clinical Research Coordinator will approach the patient to provide further
      information, answer any questions, provide study documentation, as well as to obtain informed
      consent if agreeable. Clinical procedures will be completed at Sunnybrook Health Sciences
      Centre (SHSC) under the supervision of medically trained personnelle.

      - Population: A total of 13 participants will be recruited for this study. Prior to the first
      study research MRI scan, we will scan up to 3 volunteer participants with a known breast
      malignancy (Group 1). These participants will not have hyperpolarized 13C pyruvate
      administered. They will be scanned with a 13C phantom in order to test the functionality of
      the 13C coil.

      Subsequently, up to 10 volunteer participants with breast cancer requiring NAC, between 18
      and 80 years of age with pathology- and imaging-confirmed breast cancer requiring NAC will be
      studied (Group 2). Imaging confirmation involves highly suspicious masses on mammography
      and/or ultrasound. Pathology confirmation involves image-guided core biopsy of the suspicious
      mass.

        -  Design: Each participant will receive one research MRI scan on the 3T MRI scanner prior
           to NAC. This visit will occur separately from the patient's clinical dynamic contrast
           enhanced (DCE) MRI.

        -  Scan Timing: The research MRI exam will be scheduled before the initiation of NAC, and
           within 5 days prior to, or following, the clinical MRI scan.
    
  