
    
      Background: Over 5 million Americans are currently suffering from heart failure, resulting in
      over 1 million hospital admissions each year. Heart failure hospitalizations are one of the
      most expensive medical problems facing Americans today]. Admissions for acute decompensate
      heart failure exacerbations are managed medically through oral and intravenous (IV)
      diuretics. Side effects of diuretics are well established, the most common of which is
      metabolic derangements, more specifically alterations in levels of potassium . Clinical
      manifestations of hypokalemia and hyperkalemia are most commonly muscle cramps and clinically
      insignificant arrhythmia. The most concerning manifestations of hypo and hyperkalemia include
      symptomatic arrhythmia, myalgia, and more rarely rhabdomyolysis. Active use of diuretics
      requires monitoring of serum electrolytes to prevent clinically significant derangements in
      potassium. The frequency of monitoring required to prevent these events has not been
      established. Monitoring is thus provider dependent. At our single large academic medical
      center monitoring frequency ranges from 1-2 times daily on average. In this trial we will
      determine whether twice-daily electrolyte labs result in less frequent clinically hypo or
      hyperkalemia. We will also investigate a multitude of other outcomes including potential cost
      savings by reduced laboratory test ordering.

      Intervention: Randomization of study population to ONCE daily scheduled BMP or TWICE daily
      scheduled BMP.

      Risk: Risks to both arms of the study are in clinical equipoise and include: Hypokalemia,
      hyperkalemia, arrhythmia (secondary to hypokalemia or hyperkalemia), delayed identification
      of rising creatinine (acute kidney injury).

      Project goals: Twice daily basic metabolic panel's or labs are common practice at Vanderbilt
      University Medical Center. However, it is unclear how often the second BMP each day is acted
      on. Our project aims to answer a few fundamental questions about the need for twice daily
      labs in patients hospitalized with acute/subacute-decompensated congestive heart failure who
      are being actively diuresed.

      Descriptive:

      Age Race Sex JVP on admission JVP on discharge Congestion on CXR Left ventricular ejection
      fraction Diabetes (Type I, or Type II [defined as HgA1C >6.5%]) Type of cardiomyopathy- ICM
      vs NON Ace-I or ARB Beta blocker Aldosterone antagonist HF hospitalization within past 12
      months Na K (all recorded during stay) Cl BUN Cr (all recorded during stay and most recent
      prior to hospitalization) Total dose of loop diuretics received during admission Total dose
      of thiazide diuretics received Total dose of mineralocorticoid antagonist received

      Outcomes:

      Primary: Proportion of labs spent in ideal potassium range (defined at 3.5-5.0 mmol).

      Secondary: Clinically relevant hypokalemia or hyperkalemia; defined as new muscle weakness,
      rhabdomyolysis, paralysis, ECG changes or conduction. Amount of potassium given, number of
      times per day potassium was given and average potassium value during stay. Time free from
      readmission, length of stay, change in weight (as surrogate for amount of diuresis), Input
      and output, mortality at 1mo and 3mo, cost savings during admission.
    
  