
    
      Study Design:

      An open-label, multi-centre, randomised, parallel study, in adults and adolescents (16 years
      and older) with type 1 diabetes and sub-optimal glycaemic control (HbA1c 7.5% to 11%), either
      on insulin pump treatment or multiple daily injections, contrasting flash glucose monitoring
      using FreeStyle Libre device with traditional finger-stick glucose monitoring for 24 weeks.
      Expecting approximately 15% to 20% dropout rate recruitment will aim for 160 participants
      aiming for 150 randomised and 128 completed participants.

      Participant Recruitment:

      This is a UK multi-centre and recruitment will take place at the following centres:

        1. Diabetes Centres within Manchester University Foundation Trust

        2. Royal Derby Hospital, Derby

        3. Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham

        4. Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge

        5. Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Norwich

        6. Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth

      Each centre will aim to recruit between 25 to 30 participants. Additional diabetes centres
      surrounding above hospitals may act as participant identification centres. Potential
      participants will be identified by their treating clinicians and invited to contact the
      research team. They will be sent the study information leaflets and an invitation by post or
      in-person to join the study by the research team at least one day before the recruitment
      visit. The study may also be advertised via social media.

      After recruitment, consent, subjects will be randomised for 24-weeks home use of
      flash-glucose monitoring or 24-weeks use finger-stick glucose monitoring.

      Study Visits:

      The study includes up to 7 visits for participants completing the study. Maximum time in
      study is 30 weeks. Each study visit can be scheduled with +/- 2 weeks of the planned visit
      date.

      Visit 1: Recruitment Visit and Screening Assessment

      Once the participants have agreed to participate in the study, they will be invited for the
      recruitment visit, and given a participant ID, when the following activities will be
      performed by the research team:

        -  written informed consent/assent

        -  checking inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  medical and diabetes history including the presence of diabetes complications and
           hypoglycaemia burden

        -  ethnicity, body weight and height measurement; calculation of BMI

        -  record of current insulin therapy

        -  urine or blood pregnancy test (females of child-bearing potential)

        -  record of occupation and educational attainment

        -  any history of disordered eating or needle phobia

        -  previous participation in structured education, the status of carb counting, use of
           bolus calculator

      Screening Blood Sampling

      Blood samples will be taken to measure HbA1c (measured at the local laboratory if not done
      within the last two weeks). Renal and Thyroid function will also be evaluated (if not done in
      last one year). Less than 15 ml of whole blood will be taken from each participant.

      Questionnaires at screening

      Evaluation of participants' responses in terms of quality of life, diabetes distress, needle
      burden, disordered eating, depression and diabetes treatment satisfaction using

        1. EQ-5DL-5L questionnaire

        2. Type 1 Diabetes Distress Scale (DDS),

        3. Diabetes fear of injecting and self-testing (D-FISQ) questionnaire,

        4. Diabetes Eating Problem Survey (DEPS-R),

        5. Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ),

        6. Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and

        7. The Glucose Monitoring Satisfaction Survey (GMSS).

        8. Hypoglycaemia burden will be assessed using Clarke questionnaire and Gold score.

      Visit 2: Insertion of the blinded glucose monitoring device

      Purpose of visit 2 is to insert a blinded glucose monitor (FreeStyle Libre Pro device). The
      participant will be provided with instructions about using this device for the next two
      weeks. Visit two may be combined with visit 1.

      Visit 3: Adherence assessment, randomisation and the start of study treatment

      During Visit 3, participant's adherence/tolerance of using the flash-CGM over preceding 14
      days will be assessed. To proceed with the study participant should have worn the blinded
      glucose monitoring device for at least ten days' during the last 14 days of the run-in
      period. If the participant fails to demonstrate adherence or develops any significant allergy
      or intolerance to the glucose sensor, the study will be terminated, and the participant will
      be removed from the study. Participant randomisation for the treatment intervention will take
      place during visit 3.

      Initiation of study treatment The participant will arrive at the clinical facility or clinic
      at the agreed time. Body weight measurement will be made. Participants will be provided with
      necessary training on the use of study devices according to randomisation.

      Training session Participants randomised to flash-glucose monitoring arm will receive
      education and training about insertion and initiation of the sensor as well as how to use
      flash-glucose monitoring data for treatment optimisation. They will be encouraged to download
      data at home to identify pattern recognition. This session will be conducted by a
      professional diabetes educator or a member of the study team. Education will be tailored to
      meet the needs of the individual. Participants randomised to conventional finger-stick
      glucose monitoring arm will be encouraged to use finger-stick glucose levels to optimise
      treatment and will receive education about insulin dose adjustments using finger-stick
      glucose levels. The study will try to mimic real-life conditions by continuing participants
      pre-study diabetes treatment unchanged and finger-stick glucose testing frequency as
      determined by the participant as required. Participants in both arms will also receive
      training on sick day rules and dealing with hypo and hyperglycaemia. Participants will be
      provided with a paper diary to collect information about insulin doses and carbohydrate
      intake in the last three days of each study month.

      Visit 4: (+4 weeks since randomisation): Review data and treatment optimisation Purpose of
      this visit is to review data from Flash-glucose monitoring and finger-stick glucose
      monitoring to further optimise treatment. Study devices will be downloaded. Information about
      insulin doses and any adverse events will be collected.

      Visit 5: (+12 weeks since randomisation): Review data and treatment optimisation

      Purpose of this visit is to review data from Flash-glucose monitoring and finger-stick
      glucose monitoring to further optimise treatment. Study devices will be downloaded.
      Information about insulin doses, participant diaries and any adverse events will be
      collected. A blood sample will be collected for HbA1c.

      Visit 6: (+22 weeks since randomisation): Finger-stick glucose monitoring arm only

      Participants randomised to finger-stick glucose monitoring arm will have an extra visit ten
      weeks after visit 5 to insert a blinded glucose sensor for data capture.

      Visit 7: (+24 weeks since randomisation): End of randomised study treatment

      The participant will be invited to attend the research centre approximately 12 weeks after
      Visit 5. This would be the end of 24 weeks randomised study period. All study devices will be
      downloaded. Insulin usage data will be recorded and diaries collected. The participant will
      have a blood test for the HbA1c. Body weight measurement will be made. The participant will
      be asked to complete the same questionnaires completed at Visit1. In addition, participants
      in the FSL arm will be asked to complete a additional questionnaire exploring expectations
      and experience of using FSL during the study. A subset of participants (n=40 aiming for 25
      completed questionnaires) in the FSL arm and subset of researchers (n=10) will also be asked
      to complete additional questionnaires to help with the process evaluation.
    
  