
    
      WHAT CAUSES ANXIETY IN PREGNANT WOMEN

      Anxiety during pregnancy may expose the woman to a higher risk of a negative outcome in four
      different fields:

      1. Fetal obstetric outcomes; 2. Neonatal outcomes; 3. Child development; 4. Risk to the
      woman.

        1. The anxiety in pregnant woman may expose the fetus to a higher risk of spontaneous early
           labor, preterm delivery, lower birth weight, fetal distress, fetal growth restriction,
           risk for spontaneous abortion, risk of pre-eclampsia and for operative/instrumental
           deliveries. Furthermore could be a major risk for the uterine artery to have high
           resistance that could reduce blood flow to the fetus.

        2. The neonates that had a mother with anxiety issues during pregnancy may have an higher
           risk of admission to neonatal ICU, have a lower Apgar score and small head
           circumference, growth retardation, slowed mental development and excessive crying,
           irritability, hostility and erratic sleep. The mother anxiety could also increase the
           possibility to have colic in the neonatal age.

        3. On the other hand the maternity anxiety could have long-term negative effects on the
           child development. There are risks of negative effect on maternal-infant bonding,
           difficult with affect regulations, cognitive delays, behavioral and emotional
           difficulties, maladaptive and social interactions, cognitive delays, behavioral and
           emotional difficulties and maladaptive social interactions. Furthermore, the child could
           develop a major level of fear and anxiety during life, an insecure and disorganized
           attachment and lower IQ at age 15-15 years. Anxiety of the mothers during pregnancy
           could cause a non-optimal neuromotorial development of the child, a research
           demonstrated an association between the anxiety of the mother in late pregnancy and the
           infant behavior, his emotional problems and his difficult temperament during later
           infancy. To demonstrated the correlation between anxiety and negative outcomes during
           childhood a Belgian/Dutch study showed that the 14-15 years old person that had a mother
           with anxiety disorders reveals a major risk of impulsivity and cognitive disorders.
           Another study demonstrated the connection between antenatal anxiety and
           behavioral/emotional problems of a four years old child. Another probable negative
           outcome of the pregnant anxiety is the asthma during childhood. A study demonstrated
           that the baby with a anxious mother has an higher risk to the use of antibiotic, to have
           respiratory and skin illnesses in the first year of the life than the child born from a
           mother without anxiety disorder.

        4. It is very important underline to that anxiety during pregnancy has a negative effect
           not only on the fetus and child but also on the mother as well. Many researches
           demonstrated a link between prenatal anxiety and postpartum depression, psychiatric
           complications, and a higher risk of preeclampsia. In addition, the mother suffering of
           anxiety requires more examination from an obstetrician and most of all require an
           elective caesarean section. Other negative outcomes are poor nutrition, impaired
           self-care of the mother, failure to follow medical and prenatal guidelines, and major
           exposure to use alcohol, drugs and tobacco.

      INTERNET INFORMATION In 2004 the 4,5% of the researches of internet were about medical
      information and, in 2009, the 61% of adult Internet users in the United States searched for
      health-related information. The Internet allows people to have an immediately health
      information and also pregnant woman search information about pregnancy and connected
      problems. For example women affected with nausea and vomiting during early pregnancy search
      online how this problem could be treated. On the other hand, not all information available on
      the Internet are regulated, nor are always reliable or current.
    
  