
    
      Family planning services, including hormone contraceptives, are critical for HIV-infected
      women, in whom prevention of unintended pregnancy not only decreases maternal and child
      mortality, but also reduces the risk of mother-to-child HIV transmission. Similarly,
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a lifesaving intervention that improves the health and
      economic status of HIV-infected women throughout the world. Therefore, it is of significant
      public health importance to guide the appropriate use these essential medications. To this
      end, millions of HIV-infected women in low and middle income countries (LMIC) currently use
      or are gaining access to subdermal progestin-containing implants as a preferred method of
      long-acting reversible contraception. These implants are often combined with ART despite the
      lack of critically needed pharmacokinetic (PK) drug-interaction data to inform their safe and
      effective concomitant use. Highlighting this concern are several case reports of unintended
      pregnancy that occurred in patients with subdermal progestin-containing implants concurrently
      receiving non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based ART, the most commonly
      used ART in LMICs. While NNRTIs are known to significantly decrease oral pill progestin
      concentrations, no data are available to inform healthcare providers of the impact of NNRTIs
      on progestin concentrations following release from subdermal implants. To fill this critical
      gap in knowledge, the overall aim of this proposal is to conduct a PK study to evaluate the
      combination of a levonorgestrel (LNG) implant and NNRTI (nevirapine or efavirenz)-based ART
      in HIV-infected Ugandan women. The investigators propose that lower LNG concentrations will
      be observed in patients on NNRTI-based ART and although the implant's efficacy may be
      retained initially, this negative interaction will jeopardize implant effectiveness near the
      end of its intended duration of use (5 years). The specific aims of this project are (1) to
      characterize the PK of LNG released from a subdermal implant over one year in HIV-infected
      women with and without NNRTI-based ART and (2) to evaluate the potential for a bidirectional
      drug-interaction resulting from the long-term impact of chronic progestin exposure on
      antiretroviral concentrations. To achieve these aims, this study will enroll 20 HIV-infected
      women into each of three study groups: a control group not receiving ART and two treatment
      arms consisting of patients receiving nevirapine- or efavirenz- based ART. Using sparse PK
      sampling strategies, LNG, nevirapine or efavirenz concentrations will be measured over
      one-year and compared between and within groups, as appropriate. The LNG data will also be
      used to develop a PK model that will predict LNG disposition over the following three years
      of intended use, allowing for identification of the safe duration of LNG implant use in women
      on NNRTI-based ART. At the conclusion of this project, the first evidence-based medical
      knowledge will be available to guide the safe and effective concomitant use of subdermal LNG
      implants and NNRTIs, thereby improving management of reproductive health in millions of
      HIV-infected women worldwide.
    
  