
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 3 groups of up to 6 participants will be
      enrolled in Part 1 of the study, and up to 40 participants will be enrolled in Part 2.

      If you are enrolled in Part 1, the dose of selinexor and sorafenib you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the starting dose
      combination level. If no intolerable side effects were seen, the next group will receive a
      higher dose of selinexor and sorafenib than Group 1. If intolerable side effects are seen,
      the next group may receive a lower dose level of selinexor and/or sorafenib. This will
      continue until the highest tolerable combination dose is found.

      If you are enrolled in Part 2, you will receive selinexor and sorafenib at the highest
      tolerable combination dose or most effective combination dose found in Part 1.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days. However, the study cycles may be 3-12 weeks long, depending on
      if/how the disease responds to the treatment, how your bone marrow reacts to treatment, and
      what the doctor thinks is in your best interest.

      You will take selinexor tablets by mouth 2 times each week (Monday/Wednesday or
      Tuesday/Thursday or Wednesday/Friday) for 3 weeks. You must take your dose of selinexor
      within 30 minutes after eating, with at least 4 ounces of fluids (either water, milk, juice,
      and so on). You must swallow the tablets whole. Do not crush them. If the powder comes into
      contact with your skin, you may have an increased chance of skin-related side effects.

      You will take sorafenib by mouth 2 times a day, every day. Depending on how the disease
      responds to the study drugs, the number of days you receive the study drug may change. Your
      doctor will discuss this with you. You must take your dose of sorafenib at least 1 hour
      before or 1 hour after eating.

      You will be given a drug diary and asked to write down what time you take the study drugs
      every day. You must bring in the study drug diary and any unused study drugs and bottles to
      each study visit.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1-4 and then every 1-3 cycles after that:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have an EKG.

      The study doctor will tell you how often you will have these tests after Cycle 4.

      One time each week during Cycles 1-3, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine
      tests. After Cycle 3, you will have this blood draw 1 time every 2-4 weeks. If the doctor
      thinks it is needed, blood may need to be drawn more often or more than 1 tablespoon of blood
      may need to be drawn.

      After Cycle 1, you may be able to have these blood draws performed at a local lab or clinic
      that is closer to your home. The results of the testing will be sent to MD Anderson for
      review. The study doctor or study staff will discuss this option with you.

      On Day 28 of Cycles 1 and 3 (+/- 7 days) and then every 1-3 cycles after that, you will have
      a bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Every 3 months (+/- 14 days), if you can become pregnant, blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) or
      urine will be collected for a pregnancy test.

      If you stay on study for more than 6 months and you are not having side effects, you may have
      some of the above tests more or less often. The study doctor will discuss this with you.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the study doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse,
      if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you stop taking the study drugs before the end of Cycle 24:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the
           status of the disease.

      Follow-Up:

      About 30 days (+/- 7) after your last dose of study drugs, you will have a physical exam. You
      may have this exam at MD Anderson or a local clinic near your home. If you have this exam at
      a local clinic, the results of the exam will be sent to MD Anderson for review.

      If you cannot come to MD Anderson or a local clinic, you will be called by a member of the
      study staff and asked if you have had any side effects and/or started any new treatment(s).
      This call should last about 5 minutes.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      If the disease appears to get better and you are responding well to the study drug, you will
      return to MD Anderson every 3-6 months for up to 5 years after your last dose of study drugs
      for the study staff to check how you are doing.

      If you cannot return to MD Anderson for these visits, you may be called by a member of the
      study staff. The call should last about 10 minutes.
    
  