
    
      Nearly 30 years into the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) epidemic, stigma is still
      hampering efforts to stop its spread. Human Immunodeficiency Virus(HIV)-infected women are
      particularly vulnerable to both perceived and enacted stigma, which together are referred to
      as internalized stigma. As the demographic face of HIV infection in the US has changed from
      being largely a disease of gay white men to one of poor minority women, the debilitating
      effects of stigma have worsened. It has a profound impact on prevention and treatment
      efforts; women with HIV infection may be fearful of insisting that their sexual partners wear
      condoms because of the possibility that this may signal their serostatus, and they may not
      want to take antiretroviral medications in front of others, fearing that people may ask
      questions about their pills and the reasons for taking them. The effects of stigma include a
      cascade of other negative outcomes as well, including poor self-esteem and self-efficacy,
      especially self-efficacy for disclosure and for coping. Yet it is nearly impossible to
      intervene with those who stigmatize others because this group is often as broad as the
      general public, and they may not be interested in an intervention. Therefore, the best
      approach may be to work with women who are experiencing stigma, in an effort to decrease
      stigma, improve self-esteem and coping self-efficacy, and facilitate safe disclosure. To
      date, there have been few interventions to help HIV-infected women deal with stigma. One
      option would be a video converted to an Moving Picture 4 (MP4) file that can be viewed on an
      iPod Touch, a small portable viewing device, allowing the woman privacy and safety in
      viewing. Barroso (primary investigator on the proposed study) assisted in the creation of a
      video on stigma for women with HIV infection, based on the results of a qualitative
      metasynthesis. The 45-minute video presents vignettes about five seropositive women and the
      ways in which stigma has impacted their lives. The primary aim of the proposed study is to
      assess the feasibility, acceptability and utility of implementing this low-cost,
      technologically delivered intervention to mitigate the negative effects of HIV-related stigma
      on seropositive women. The secondary aim is to compare outcomes across time in women who
      receive the stigma intervention with those of a control group receiving usual care at
      baseline, 30, and 90 days, and to determine effect sizes for a larger definitive study to
      test the efficacy of this intervention in reducing internalized stigma, improving coping
      self-efficacy and self-esteem, and facilitating safe disclosure in HIV-infected women. The
      investigators believe that this intervention is innovative because they are the first
      investigators to propose using a video, developed from the findings of a metasynthesis of
      studies about stigma as it is experienced by HIV-infected women, for this purpose. It is also
      innovative in the use of a portable viewing device which will allow the women to safely and
      privately view the video. The investigators further believe that this intervention has the
      potential to make a significant impact, at a low cost in terms of money and personnel time,
      in mitigating stigma.
    
  