
    
      The assumption is that researchers can engineer synthetic metabolic and genetic networks to
      expand the panel of molecules that are currently known to be detected by natural systems. The
      investigators also hypothesize synthetic metabolic and genetic networks can be tuned for
      decisions making and in particular to diagnose diseases from biomarkers detections.

      This project proposes for the first time a hybrid analogue / digital solution for the
      multiplexed detection of biomarkers using bacterial and paper-based biosensors. Biosensors
      can be designed using analog or digital devices. Digital devices in synthetic and natural
      systems are noise-resistant and useful for decision-making. Analog devices are useful for
      signal transmission and processing. Here the investigators take advantage of signal
      transmission and processing via analog transducers and adders, and then decision-making via
      genetic switches. Such a hybrid analogue / digital approach has not yet been developed for
      biosensing. Another novelty of the project is to use synthetic metabolic pathways to develop
      analog devices. The advantage in term of treatment, for example, consists in the fact that
      the speed of enzymatic reactions in an analog adder far exceeds the speed of gene expression
      required to create a genetic logic matrix; it becomes even more pronounced when the devices
      are connected in series. The methodology will be illustrated for the detection of biomarkers
      of prostate tumors, but it is broad enough to be applicable to other diagnoses. The choice to
      develop biosensors for prostate disease is of practical relevance since the current screening
      strategy (based on PSA measurement) can lead to overdiagnosis and cannot differentiate
      between patients with aggressive tumors and those with an indolent illness.This study propose
      to mainly develop a bacterial and paper-based biosensor system
    
  