
    
      Radical surgical treatment of primitive PDAC, associated with adjuvant cancer treatments, is
      possible only in 15-20% of patients, and, to date, represents the best therapeutic strategy.
      Nevertheless, remote recurrence is frequent after radical surgical treatment of primitive
      neoplasia. Among the main locations of metastasis from PDAC, the lung represent the second
      metastatic location with a better prognosis than other remote metastasis. Surgical treatment
      of lung metastasis has a consolidated role in the treatment of other neoplasms such as
      sarcomas, colorectal and renal neoplasms while in the context of PDAC the resection of lung
      metastases is a rather rare and also debated event.

      In absence of consolidated data on the results of surgical treatment and on the clinical
      outcomes of patients with lung metastasis from PDAC the investigators designed this
      retrospective observational study in order to analyze the clinical and pathological
      characteristics of patients suffering from lung metastasis from PDAC treated at San Raffaele
      Hospital in a period between 2008 and 2019. To this purpose, the investigators will analyze
      and compare two patient cohorts: 1-patients in whom lung metastasis were resected for
      therapeutic purposes; 2-patients in whom lung metastasis were removed for diagnostic purposes
      only.

      An analysis of genetic mutations and the gene expression profile of lung metastasis and
      primary neoplasia will also be performed to evaluate any predictive elements of lung
      metastasis and the prognostic role of these mutations.

      In parallel, the investigators will perform radiomics analysis on TAC imaging at diagnosis of
      lung metastasis and, if possible, of the primary tumor.

      All the data necessary for the completion of the study were collected as part of the usual
      outpatient visits in the appropriate outpatient medical records and include: date of birth,
      date of diagnosis, gender, performance status, stage of the disease, comorbidity, concomitant
      chronic therapies, level of tumor markers (CEA and Ca19.9) before treatment and variations
      during therapy, type of chemotherapy, start and end date of chemotherapy, number of cycles,
      possible dosage reduction of the drugs used in the various chemotherapy regimes, dates and
      results of instrumental revaluations according to RECIST 1.1, main chemotherapy toxicities
      and grade according to CTCAE 5.0, date and type of surgery, mutation analysis results and
      last follow-up date. In the event of death, the dates of death are communicated by the
      registry office of the municipality of residence of the patient, according to the official
      procedure. All data will be collected in an electronic database in coded form
      (pseudonymization).

      Power size calculation:

      All patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria and who have been treated at the
      Medical Oncology and Thoracic Surgery Units of the San Raffaele Hospital between 2008 and
      2019 will be taken into consideration, for a total of 44 patients. To identify predictive
      and/or prognostic clinical and pathological factors that can influence the outcome of these
      patients, the two cohorts described above will be analyzed and compared through univariate
      and multivariate analyzes. Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) will
      also be assessed using the Kaplan Meier method and the long-rank test will be used to compare
      OS and PFS between the two cohorts under study. All tests will be double-tailed and a p <0.05
      will be considered significant. The ninety-five percent confidence intervals (CI) will be
      calculated to assess the accuracy of the estimates obtained.
    
  