
    
      Background: Rates of obesity and the metabolic syndrome are increasing in the young adult
      population (years 18-28), further creating a need for interventions that will improve later
      quality of life. Modifying diet, especially increasing fruit and vegetable intake, can help
      assist in health maintenance and disease prevention. In the past decade, there has been
      considerable research on behavior interventions focusing on dietary change for the promotion
      of health. However, successful theory-based dietary behavioral interventions for young adults
      who follow poor lifestyle habits, are limited. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the
      impact of the FRUVEDomics pilot study on dietary behaviors and metabolic parameters on young
      adults "at-risk" of disease.

      Methods: An 8-week free-living dietary intervention, based on the USDA Dietary Guidelines for
      Americans and driven by the Social Cognitive Theory, was conducted in young adults (18-28
      years old) at West Virginia University. Individuals were recruited if they had pre-existing
      poor nutritional habits. A metabolic syndrome risk screening score was given to participants
      at baseline to measure "risk" status for chronic disease. Subjects (n=36) were randomized
      into one of three nutritional intervention groups; 1) "FRUVED" (50% fruit & vegetable), 2)
      "FRUVED+LRC" (50% fruit & vegetable plus low refined carbohydrate), and 3) "FRUVED+LF" (50%
      fruit & vegetable plus low fat). Anthropometrics, surveys, venous blood samples and body
      composition were collected before and after the intervention. Group nutrition education
      including basic nutrition for the prescribed intervention, culinary tool kit distribution,
      sample budget and grocery shopping tips were successfully delivered to each participant group
      prior to the start of the intervention. Participants underwent individual weekly
      consultations with a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist using food logs, food pictures and
      receipt management, to assess adherence and cost of the intervention.

      Specific Aim: Identify novel metabolomic and microbiome phenotypes in response to fruit and
      vegetable diet intervention in young adults with and without metabolic syndrome (MetS).

      Hypothesis 1: Diet consisting of 50% fruit & vegetable consumption (FRUVED diet) will improve
      metabolic health as evidenced by lower plasma concentrations of adipokines, inflammatory
      mediators, and ceramides.

      Hypothesis 2. Diet induced changes in the metabolome and micobiome will reveal novel
      phenotypes that have the potential to be used as new diagnostic biomarkers to distinguish
      between MetS and healthy adolescents.
    
  