
    
      Accumulating evidence suggests that tomato consumption has cardiovascular benefits, primarily
      through increasing blood flow in vivo; the active ingredient in tomato, or its extract
      (Fruitflow) have been shown to inhibit glycoprotein IIb/IIIa, similar to aspirin (which has
      antiplatelet activity and is used for secondary prevention of cardiovascular and
      cerebrovascular events in patients). Considering the fact that Fruitflow can improve the
      platelet function and peripheral blood flow, we hypothesized that Fruitflow can also increase
      the blood flow in the brain and thereby possibly enhance memory and cognitive function in
      middle-aged or elderly people who have memory complaints. Therefore, the initial goal of our
      study is to evaluate the effects of Fruitflow on brain blood and cardiovascular function by
      using Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (to check for changes in cerebral blood flow),
      cardiovascular fitness testing (to check for changes in VO2-max and stroke volume), and
      neurocognitive evaluation (to check for changes in memory and executive function).

      Many pathways such as inflammation and oxidative stress are involved in the pathophysiology
      of memory loss with ageing. Recent studies have shown that a natural compound found in the
      skin of red grapes and also in wine, called "Resveratrol", have beneficial effects for
      prevention of cognitive decline by reducing inflammation and improving cardiovascular
      function. Therefore, our next goal is to evaluate whether administration of Resveratrol, by
      itself or in combination with Fruitflow, can improve brain blood flow, VO2-max, and cognitive
      performance.

      Thus our clinical trial will have the following 4 arms: Fruitflow, Resveratrol,
      Fruitflow/Resveratrol combination, and placebo for each supplement.

      The results of the study will potentially provide evidence that these natural supplements can
      have significant cardioprotective and neuroprotective properties in middle-aged and elderly
      adults.

      Subjects (between 50 and 80 years old) complaining of memory problem who have MMSE
      (Mini-Mental State Examination) above 27 will be recruited from patients of Dr. Majid Fotuhi
      (PI at the Neurology Institute for Brain Health and Fitness). Flyers at the institute and
      advertisement in Baltimore will provide information about the opportunity to enroll in an
      observational study for 3 months, along with eligibility criteria. Participants will continue
      to receive routine and standard care, while data on outcome (i.e., dependent) variables and
      mediators will be collected over three study visits:

      Day 1: at the onset of their participation: Assessment of memory and Cardiovascular Fitness
      Testing (CFT)

      Day 2: Blood Test and Transcranial Doppler (TCD) Ultrasound at time 0 and 3 hours after
      taking the first dose of the supplements;

      Month 3: Assessment of memory, Cardiovascular Fitness Testing, and Transcranial Doppler
      Ultrasound 3 months after daily treatment with supplements in each group.
    
  