
    
      This study is particularly focused on studying antibodies, a protein in blood that react with
      foreign substances (such as bacteria and viruses) to help eliminate them. This study will
      examine antibodies and the cells that they are produced by, B cells that develop in response
      to the influenza vaccine.

      The majority of antibodies that develop following seasonal influenza vaccine are highly
      specific for particular influenza strain that comprises the influenza vaccine, necessitating
      the annual reformulation of the influenza vaccine to match strains expected to be in
      circulation for the upcoming season. This is problematic, and strategies to develop an
      influenza vaccine that can promote the robust and persistent development of antibodies that
      are effective against a wide range of influenza strains are needed. One potential strategy is
      to promote antibody responses targeting the neuraminidase (NA) protein of influenza. NA is
      more highly conserved across influenza viruses as compared to the hemagglutinin (HA) protein
      which is the major component of the influenza vaccine. Thus understanding how differences in
      seasonal influenza vaccines may influence the quality and breadth of HA and NA specific
      antibodies is of importance in the development of more effective influenza vaccines.

      There are several FDA-approved seasonal inactivated influenza vaccines (IIVs) and it remains
      unknown the extent to which they may induce HA and NA-specific B cells and antibodies, and
      particularly those that may have broad protective activity against influenza. Differences in
      the various seasonal IIVs, such as how they were produced, their dose, and the immune
      stimulating components (adjuvant) they contain may influence the HA and NA-specific response.
      The two major types of seasonal IIV approved for adults are IIV that is comprised of
      inactivated influenza virus that was grown in chicken eggs (e.g. Sanofi Fluzone, IIV), and
      the other comprised of inactivated influenza virus that was grown in cell culture (e.g.
      Seqirus Flucelvax, cc-IIV). Additionally, for adults 65 years and older, High Dose Fluzone
      (HD-IIV3), and Sequris Fluad IIV, which includes an adjuvant (a-IIV3). This study will
      evaluate the relative induction of HA and NA-specific antibodies and B cells from adults
      immunized with these various seasonal influenza vaccines, and how these responses may change
      after each year, and differ in older adults who may have a different past exposure history to
      influenza compared to younger adults. The seasonal influenza vaccines will be given as
      standard of care, in populations they are approved for, and administered in approved dose and
      route.
    
  