
    
      The clinical picture of 2019-nCoV disease is in a broad spectrum, which includes asymptomatic
      infection, a mild upper respiratory tract infection, respiratory failure, and even severe
      viral pneumonia with death. Although the mortality rate is not yet clear, the reported
      case-fatality risk was 11-14% during the initial studies which included patients with severe
      disease. The overall case fatality rate was reported as approximately 2%. In addition, most
      cases have resulted in a pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen therapy and ventilator
      support. The alarming levels of spread and severity of COVID-19 caused a global emergency and
      this outbreak has been characterized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO).

      Studies have suggested that investigational product favipiravir can improve the recovery of
      patients with mild disease and reduce the treatment duration from less than 11 days.

      The main purpose of this study is to obtain efficacy and safety data for favipiravir use in
      the Turkish patient cohort diagnosed with COVID-19 and decided to be treated with
      "Favipiravir" before enrollment to this observational study. This study is designed as an
      observational drug study which will evaluate the safety and efficacy of favipiravir in
      patients and diagnosed with COVID-19 and older than 15 years of age.

      This study is designed as an observational drug study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      favipiravir in patients diagnosed with COVID-19 and older than 15 years of age with a
      favipiravir treatment decision. Patients who have already had a routine favipiravir treatment
      decision or favipiravir treatment started will be included in this study.

      A total of 1000 female and male patients aged 15 years or older will be included in the
      study. The planned observation duration for each patient is 7 days.

      This study will be conducted in 14 sites.
    
  