
    
      Maternal depression is a concurrent and longitudinal risk factor for children s development.
      Maternal depression exerts direct effects and indirect effects through proximal processes of
      mother-child dyadic interactions. Both depressed mothers and their infants are inattentive,
      unresponsive, affectively flat, and disengaged during naturalistic interactions, and their
      dyadic interactions have been described as less synchronous. Our primary objective is to
      investigate differences between depressed and non-depressed dyads in maternal behaviors,
      child behaviors, and dyadic behaviors in terms of latency, synchrony, and contingency. In the
      present study, we propose to examine the determinants and effects of dyadic interactions of
      depressed and nondepressed mothers with their infants across several domains of child
      development. We plan to replicate and extend previous work by observing the dyads in
      naturalistic as well as experimental face-to-face settings at 5, 12, and 24 months.

      Groups of depressed and nondepressed mothers will be selected on the basis of self-reports of
      depressive symptoms and by clinical diagnostic interviews. These assessments will be repeated
      at 12 and 24 months to assess the course of maternal depression. The study consists of a home
      visit, a lab visit, and administration of questionnaires to mothers and their spouses or
      partners at three time points. All maternal and child behaviors during dyadic interactions
      will be coded as continuous streams of data for analysis of reciprocal influences within the
      dyad. By coding a range of behaviors such as facial affect, vocalization, physical activity,
      and visual attention of the mother and infant, we hope to capture variations in mother-child
      interactions, both between and within depressed and nondepressed dyads. Differences in styles
      of dyadic interactions have been shown to have important consequences on subsequent child
      development in several domains. In addition, experimental simulations will consist of
      instructed 'depressed' and 'happy' simulations of mothers with their infants. Specific
      simulations allow observation of changes in infant behaviors from the spontaneous episodes
      and comparison between depressed and nondepressed dyads.

      Understanding the context of child development, both normative and atypical, is important as
      means of elucidating the processes by which maternal depression operates as a risk factor for
      children s cognitive and socioemotional development. Several socio-demographic and
      psychosocial factors will be assessed by maternal and paternal self-reports to examine which
      factors exacerbate or buffer the effects of maternal depression. In addition to modifying the
      observations of maternal and child behaviors to be age-appropriate, new measures will be
      introduced at 12 and 24 months to capture child s functioning in multiple areas.
    
  