
    
      The aim of this study is that evaluate the remineralizing and antibacterial effects of the
      different remineralization agents. Initiative caries lesions named as white spot lesions and
      these lesions are localized at enamel. Demineralization is occured but cavitations aren't
      seen at this stage. It is important to control at this stage with remineralization agents
      because of the minimally invasive approach.

      Fluoride varnish or polipeptide containing agents alone or combination using effects on
      remineralization, esthetic and bacterial counts will be evaluated with Quantitive Light
      Fluorescence , Diagnodent (Cavo-Diagnodent), Spectrophotometer (Vita Easy Shade) devices and
      microbiological assessment at laboratory.

      The investigators will choose and include in our study that who come to the Ege University
      Faculty of Dentistry pediatric department, between 10-18 years olds, healthy and have one or
      more white spot lesions on her/his permanent teeth.

      32 volunteer who have inclusion criteria will be put into pratice. 32 volunteer divided into
      4 groups for different applications. We will tell each volunteer that they must brush their
      teeth twice a day with fluoride dentifrice ( the investigators will give them 1400 ppm
      fluoride containing fluoride dentifrice)

        1. Group: Control group ( The investigators won't do any application , the oral hygiene
           konwledge will be given only.)

        2. Group: Fluoride + Calcium (TCP) (The investigators will do fluoride+ calcium varnish(
           Clinpro white varnish) application on white spot lesions)

        3. Group: Polipeptide solution (The investigators will do polipeptide ( Curodont repair)
           solution application on white spot lesions)

        4. Group: [Fluoride + calcium varnish] + polipeptide solution combination ( The
           investigators will do polipeptide ( Curodont repair) solution and fluoride + calcium
           varnish (Clinpro white varnish) application on white spot lesions) First day,the
           investigators will collect stimulated saliva from each volunteer before any application.
           Saliva samples will transport to the microbiology laboratory. After any application 6
           weeks, 3 months and 6 months later we will collect stimulated saliva again for
           microbiological assessment.

      Nyvad Caries Diagnostic Criteria , ICDAS indexes will be used to make the follow-up of
      lesions at baseline and 6 months after the application. Plaque index (Silness & Löe , 1964)
      and bleeding index (Ainamo&Bay ,1976) will be used to assess oral hygiene every visit.

      The investigators will use QLF,Diagnodent devices will be used at beginning for evaluate the
      demineralization level and after applications 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months later used for
      evaluate the remineralization level. In addition for determine about esthetic results the
      investigators will use spectrophotometer (Vita Easy Shade) device at beginning, 6 weeks, 3
      months and 6 months later.
    
  