
    
      An estimated 90 participants will participate in this study based on the following
      eligibility criteria: (a) 18+ years of age, (b) smartphone ownership (c) current nondaily
      smoker, who smokes at least weekly, and no more than 25 out of the past 30 days (i.e., 71% of
      nondaily smokers), and (d) has current quit intention (i.e., 65-74% of nondaily smokers).
      Investigators will stop enrollment when n=90 participants have completed the primary endpoint
      of the study, which is the 6-week follow-up. This study will be conducted entirely remotely
      and will require a screening process prior to enrolling participants on the app.

      Study participation will last 6 months, where surveys will be administered prior to the quit
      day (online, as part of a screening test), and at 2-week, 6-week, 3-month, and 6-month
      follow-ups of the participant's chosen quit day. Participants will use the app for a strongly
      encouraged period of 7 weeks (1 week before, 6 weeks following the quit attempt), and
      optional continued use thereafter.

      Participants will complete two types of assessment: (1) surveys, and (2) (in a sub-sample)
      user feedback sessions conducted via phone and/or video-conference call. Potential
      participants will click-through to the study website. This website will explain that
      participants must call study staff in order to be phone-screened and to participate in the
      study. During the phone-screen, participants will be directed to complete an online survey
      via REDCap. If participants complete the survey and pass the screening test (e.g., correctly
      responding to reading-check items in the online survey), they choose a smoking cessation quit
      day, and schedule a phone call with study staff to enroll in the study. This enrollment phone
      call occurs 1 week prior to the chosen quit day. During this call, study staff will provide
      the link to download the app, and provide participants with an app-walkthrough. Thereafter,
      participants will receive survey links for 2-week, 6-week, 3-month and 6-month follow-ups via
      an emailed link.

      Participation in the user feedback session is optional. Within the baseline survey,
      participants will be asked if they would be willing to participate in an online
      video-conference user feedback session after they have used the app for seven weeks (1 week
      pre, 6 weeks post their chosen smoking quit day). If selected for the online user feedback
      sessions (selected at random from interested participants, with stratification based on
      gender, age, and race/ethnicity), participants will receive an email and/or phone call upon
      completing their 6-week survey to set up the user feedback session.

      The online user feedback sessions (n=20) will consist of the participants, and 1-2 members of
      the study staff. Relatively little guidance will be provided in this setting. Instead, 4
      open-ended questions will be posed (i.e., did the app help you in your quit attempt? What did
      you like? What did you dislike? How could the app be improved?). All conference calls will be
      recorded for later analysis.

      Sample size and Power Considerations: The primary goal of this study is to gather qualitative
      input rather than data to detect a pre-specified effect. The goal of this pilot study is to
      get input from app users who are interacting with the app and study staff completely
      remotely, without the benefit of in-person interaction, which is closer to the real-world
      experience potential users would have than the participants in Study 1.

      Planned Analyses:

      Aim 1 (Ease-of-use and usefulness). To assess the degree to which SiS Version 2 is easy to
      use and perceived as useful by nondaily smokers attempting to quit smoking, investigators
      will use the Week 6 survey data, and will calculate means and standard deviations for the
      survey items querying ease of use and usefulness for each feature of the app.

      Aim 2 (Within-person changes). To test if nondaily smokers utilizing SiS Version 2
      experienced changes over time on constructs theorized to underlie smoking cessation,
      investigators will use the online survey data and fit one repeated measures mixed effects
      model per construct of interest (i.e., desire to smoke, mood, self-efficacy to quit/stay
      quit, motivation, outcome expectancies such as pros/cons, stress, coping), where the
      construct will be the dependent variable, and time (0=baseline, 1=2-week, 2=6-week,
      3=3-month, 4=6-month) will be the predictor. Correlations over time will be modeled with an
      unstructured covariance matrix. The primary endpoint is 6 weeks post quit (i.e., end of
      treatment). A contrast statement will be used to compare baseline versus 6-week follow-up.
      Given the explorative nature of this study, investigators will not correct for multiple
      testing.

      Aim 3 (Identify app features in need of improvement). To identify features of the app that
      are in need of improvement, investigators will examine the passively generated app usage data
      generated by study participants as they undergo their quit attempts, and will generate
      descriptive summary statistics on these usage data. To gain deeper insight, investigators
      will also conduct user feedback sessions with a randomly selected subsample of participants.
    
  