
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To test the effects of the 12-week Mindful Movement Program on quality of life in older
           female breast cancer survivors.

        -  To test the effects of this program on mindfulness outcomes in these participants.

        -  To compare mindfulness qualities in the experimental group with the control group.

        -  To determine the qualitative benefits of this program as described by these
           participants.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (Mindful Movement Program [MMP]): Participants undergo a 2-hour MMP session once
           weekly for 12 weeks. Participants are encouraged to practice intentional-mindful
           movement at home 5 minutes daily during weeks 1-4, 10 minutes daily during weeks 5-8,
           and 15 minutes daily during weeks 9-12. Mindful movement is a self-directed activity
           incorporating mindfulness concepts and physical movement. Mindfulness consists of the
           three core elements: intention (reasons for participating in a mindfulness
           intervention), attention (observing experiences in the present moment), and attitude
           (nonjudgmental openness and acceptance of experiences). Each MMP session includes verbal
           sharing with a partner and the group and movement individually and with a partner, while
           focusing on the elements of mindfulness. Music is incorporated into some portion of each
           session.

        -  Arm II (control): Participants undergo no intervention. All participants complete
           questionnaires for sociodemographic and individual characteristics, quality of life
           (including psychological, social, spiritual, and physical well-being, anxiety and
           depression, fear of recurrence, body image, and upper body symptoms), movement, and
           mindfulness (including attention, self-compassion, and intention) at baseline and weeks
           12 and 18.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 participants (45 in the experimental group and 30 in the
      control group) will be accrued for this study.
    
  