
    
      Mitochondrial Diseases (MD) are rare progressive, multi-system, often early onset and fatal
      disorders affecting both children and adults. Despite advances in the understanding of
      mitochondrial disorders, treatment options are extremely limited and, to date, largely
      supportive. Therefore, there is an urgent need for novel treatments. Sonlicromanol (KH176) is
      an orally bio-available small molecule under development for the treatment of these
      disorders. The current study will explore the pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of
      sonlicromanol in children (from birth to 17 years) with genetically confirmed mitochondrial
      disease of which the gene defect is known to decrease one or more oxidative phosphorylation
      system enzymes and who suffer from motor symptoms.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of sonlicromanol on motor
      symptom severity in children with genetically confirmed mitochondrial disease affecting
      oxidative phosphorylation during a 6 month treatment period (GMFM).

      The trial consists of 2 phases, with the main phase being a randomized placebo controlled,
      double-blind, phase II parallel group study to explore the efficacy and safety of
      sonlicromanol in twenty-four (24) children with mitochondrial disease and motor symptoms,.

      The first phase is an adaptive PharmacoKinetics (PK) study with 4 days treatment (to expected
      steady state in most subjects) in the following age-groups: birth - 1 year, 1-2 years, 2- 6
      years, 6-12 years, and 12 - 17 years. An age group should have at least 3 subjects before
      being analysed. Subjects will take 4 days of open-label sonlicromanol orally at the
      anticipated adult-equivalent dose. After completion of enrolment in an age group, the PK data
      from that age group will be analysed to confirm the adult-equivalent dose that will be used
      thereafter in the second phase of the trial. Older age groups will be studied before younger
      age groups.

      In the second phase subjects will be randomized (by age group) over 2 groups. Group 1 will
      receive an adult-equivalent dose of sonlicromanol twice daily orally for 26 weeks. Group 2
      will receive matching placebo twice daily for 26 weeks. A final follow-up visit is scheduled
      2 weeks after the intake of the last dose of the treatment period.

      Duration of Subject Participation:

      The overall study duration of the trial for a eligible subject is estimated to be
      approximately 7 months, consisting of up to 4 weeks screening, 26 weeks (6 months) of
      treatment and 2 week post-treatment follow-up. At the end of the study treatment all
      participants will be offered to continue treatment with sonlicromanol during a open label
      extension (OLE) trial for 12 months.
    
  