
    
      Cerebral metastases are a major public health problem in cancer patients. They are the most
      common brain tumours in adults. It is estimated that approximately 20-40% of patients with
      primary malignant neoplasia will develop cerebral metastasis during the course of their
      illness. In addition, the incidence of brain metastases is increasing due, in particular, to
      the aging of the population, as well as to the improvement of the overall management of
      cancer patients (cytotoxic or targeted systemic treatment) and easier access to magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI), which improves patient survival. The prognosis of patients with
      brain metastases is still poor and the median overall survival of these patients is of the
      order of a few months. Although the management of brain metastases is multidisciplinary, the
      benefit of surgery has been clearly demonstrated in the literature. Consequently, it is
      demonstrated that the quality of the tumour excision and in particular the carrying out of
      the complete excision of contrast enhancement on the MRI is correlated with improved overall
      survival (especially in case of single metastasis) and improved local control of the disease
      or progression-free survival, but also a better quality of life. It is therefore essential to
      perform the most complete excision possible while minimising the associated morbidity. For
      this purpose, various tools for surgical resection have been developed and are available,
      including intraoperative fluorescence guided surgery. Sodium fluorescein is a fluorochrome
      that accumulates, after intravenous injection, into vascularised tumour tissues and is
      revealed intraoperatively by a light source of suitable wavelength (560 nm) using a set of
      lenses included in the microscope. The resection is thus guided by this fluorescence, the
      complete disappearance of which will translate into a complete tumour resection. Its interest
      is twofold: to increase the percentage of complete tumour resection and to improve survival
      without recurrence and overall survival.Few studies have evaluated the use of fluorescein
      sodium for the resection of brain tumours (especially glioblastomas) but also cerebral
      metastases. If two studies on brain metastases showed a complete resection rate greater than
      80% and a better rate of local control of brain disease, it is important to note that these
      studies were not randomised (with a control arm), they did not really prove the effectiveness
      of this technique under fluorescence, hence the need to set up a randomised study. We
      therefore propose to evaluate the technique of fluorescence guided microsurgery (fluorescein
      sodium) compared to the conventional microsurgical technique in the resection of cerebral
      metastases in adults in order to specify, by a prospective and randomised study, the
      assistance provided by this technique in the quality of resection and the gain in terms of
      overall survival and local control of brain disease.
    
  