
    
      Tobacco use remains the number one cause of premature death and morbidity in the United
      States, and tobacco-related diseases account for 24% of all VA healthcare costs. The VA has
      been a leader in addressing tobacco use, having implemented annual tobacco screening and made
      pharmacotherapy readily available. However, one of the most cost-effective services -
      telephone quit lines - remain highly underused. Few Veterans enroll in telephone counseling
      to help them quit smoking, and among Veterans who begin telephone counseling, few complete a
      full course. The advent of electronic health records (EHRs) has enabled new strategies for
      ensuring that patients receive preventive services. These methods can reduce provider burden
      and close gaps in systems of care. The investigators' research team has conducted numerous
      studies using EHRs to identify smokers and proactively reach out to coordinate telephone
      tobacco treatment. While the investigators have successfully implemented this approach, the
      overall enrollment rates for counseling remain low and the majority of smokers complete only
      one counseling session. Therefore, the investigators propose to test novel mHealth strategies
      for promoting enrollment in and adherence to telephone counseling. The Specific Aims are to:
      1) Conduct a sequentially randomized trail to estimate the effectiveness of text messaging
      for increasing enrollment in and adherence to telephone tobacco treatment, 2) Compare rates
      of tobacco cessation between patients who received and did not receive text messaging during
      treatment, and 3) Evaluate patient experiences with these interventions. Using the VA EHR,
      the investigators will identify N=3,600 smokers at two VA sites. All identified smokers will
      be mailed an introductory packet with information about the study. Patients who consent will
      be randomized to standard telephone outreach for counseling or to receive 8 educational texts
      to counter barriers of participating in counseling prior to telephone outreach. Patients who
      enroll in tobacco treatment will then be randomized to receive standard telephone counseling
      or to also receive appointment reminders and supportive texts throughout the 8-week
      counseling period. The investigators hypothesize that these approaches will increase the rate
      of enrollment in telephone tobacco cessation and 12-month biochemically validated abstinence
      (primary outcomes) over standard telephone counseling approaches. The investigators will also
      assess patient experiences with each texting protocol. The investigators' overarching goal is
      to investigative innovative mHealth strategies for increasing Veteran use of telephone-based
      tobacco cessation counseling and to improve quit rates. This research, exploring both
      population-based outreach and text messaging, advances multiple goals set forth by the VA's
      Blueprint for Excellence. Results will have direct implications to inform decision-making and
      population-based care models for tobacco treatment.
    
  