
    
      Fibromy'activ, an adapted physical activity program (APA) for patients with fibromyalgia,
      aims to provide lasting symptomatic relief, to favorably influence the life course, to
      identify mechanisms of action and to define a reproducible interdisciplinary protocol.

      Fibromyalgia affects at least 4% of the population. This chronic painful pathology is a
      source of social exclusion with a major impact on professional activity . In France, the
      prevalence of co-morbidities is increased in pain patients . There is a significant impact on
      health care systems. It is very expensive for the society of about € 7,900 / patient / year.

      The fibromyalgia population managed at the Center for Assessment and Treatment of Pain CHU
      Timone (CETD), is characterized as follows: 50 years of average age, 85% of women with
      children in 80% of cases. 60% have a level of education lower than the baccalaureate, less
      than 30% have a professional activity. The duration of the pain before the first consultation
      is on average 8.1 years. The SPICE score is above average which indicates a higher level of
      precariousness. It is associated with dysfunctional pain adjustment strategies, psychological
      distress, low acceptance and poor quality of life. The characteristics are close to European
      studies

      Natural evolution can lead to a total physical, psychological, social deconditioning. A link
      has been established between the severity of this pathology, a provider of precariousness and
      the poor physical condition, related to physical inactivity. The reverse has been described ,
      so the practice of APA brings a significant reduction in symptoms .

      To our knowledge, no study has demonstrated with sufficient evidence the effectiveness of the
      practice of well-defined adapted physical activity (APA) via a reproducible program of
      physical activity that has been the mechanisms of action that underlie this efficacy by
      biology and functional brain imaging (PET CT) in this context.

      In addition, the publications mention recruitment difficulties, a high drop-out rate and a
      difficult maintenance of the benefits of physical activity in the long term, or even a return
      to the initial level after a few months.

      The programs evaluated do not seem to take into account the peculiarities of patients, their
      coping coping strategies, associated with chronic pain and disability . In order to reinforce
      the durability of the benefits of our intervention, we make modulating factors of "coping"
      styles of therapeutic targets in their own right, as well as muscular strength, aerobic
      capacity or flexibility. Thus, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) procedures validated in the
      treatment of chronic pain are adapted and transposed to our APA program in order to propose
      specific strategies.

      "Fibromy'activ" aims to act upstream and downstream of the formation of health inequalities
      found in the population suffering from fibromyalgia and favored by the natural evolution of
      the disease: These workshops tend to favorably influence the course of life and to define a
      reproducible interdisciplinary protocol.

      It is a question of making accessible and reproducible the practice of adapted physical
      activity (APA), non-medicinal therapeutic recommended by the HAS since 2010 (level of proof
      A), by the EULAR in 2016, but not refunded, poorly protocolized therefore not reproducible
      and little implementation. It is part of the spirit of the amended Health Act with the coming
      into force of the application decree since March 2017 "Physical Prescription".
    
  