
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the pathological complete response in patients with triple-negative, stage
           II or III breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin and paclitaxel with or
           without everolimus.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety profile of these treatment regimens.

        -  To evaluate tumor response to these treatment regimens as measured by ultrasound before
           definitive surgery.

        -  To evaluate the rate of breast conservation surgery after treatment with these regimens.

        -  To determine treatment-mediated changes in cell cycle position, proliferation, and
           apoptosis as well as status, levels, and phosphorylation state of S6K, p53, p73, and p63
           and select p53 family target genes before and after initiation of paclitaxel.

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to identify a pre-treatment gene signature that will predict response.

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to identify a change in gene signature after the first treatment that will
           predict response.

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to determine if previously established p63 and p73 gene signatures predict
           response to treatment.

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to determine if a change will be observed in p63 and p73 gene signatures
           between pre- and post-treatment biopsies.

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to determine if triple-negative breast cancers can be clustered into different
           subtypes on the basis of gene expression, given the size of the microarray data set that
           will be generated from this clinical trial and previous clinical trials (> 100 tumors).

        -  To isolate RNA and generate microarray data sets from pre- and post-treatment biopsy
           material to determine if p63 and p73 gene signatures can sub-classify triple-negative
           breast cancers.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to initial lymph node
      status (positive vs negative involvement) and tumor grade (low or intermediate vs high).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour and oral everolimus once weekly in
           weeks 1-12 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly in weeks 4-12 in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour and oral placebo once weekly in weeks
           1-12 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly in weeks 4-12 in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Approximately 3-6 weeks after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo partial
      or total mastectomy with lymph node evaluation. Patients may then receive additional
      chemotherapy or radiotherapy.

      Patients undergo ultrasound-guided core biopsies at baseline and in weeks 1, 4, and 12 for
      analysis of proliferation, apoptosis, and pathway activity markers via IHC or western
      blotting and RNA microarrays.

      Patients are followed up within 3 weeks after surgery.
    
  