
    
      Postoperative pain, nausea and vomiting continue to be one of the most common and unpleasant
      complications after surgery. The traditional pain treatment with opioids alone is not
      adequate any more. To optimize pain treatment and postoperative outcome, new analgesics and
      new combination of already existing analgesics are searched for.

      Pain after gynecological surgery usually severe. Uncontrolled acute post-operative pain is
      associated with dissatisfaction, post-operative complications and considered as a strong risk
      factor for development of chronic pain. An enhanced recovery pathway for gynecological
      surgery must include a strategy to effectively control post-operative pain and allow
      attainment of other Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) targets such as early mobilization
      and return to oral diet whilst reducing the need for opiates.

      Beyond increasing the risk of developing opioid use disorder, perioperative opioid
      consumption may produce undesirable side effects such as nausea, vomiting, constipation,
      ileus, pruritus, altered mental status, urinary retention, respiratory complications and
      increased length of hospital stay. While many of these side effects are frustrating to
      patient in the immediate postoperative period, the most dangerous effects are those that
      affect the respiratory system such as opioid-induced respiratory depression (ORD) which
      consider as a significant cause of brain damage and death in the postoperative period.

      Opioid reduction strategies prove useful for decreasing total opioid dose and, in turn, their
      associated adverse effects. Such strategies may include adjuvant non opioid analgesics such
      as α-2 agonists, gabapentinoids and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists as well as local,
      regional or neuraxial anesthesia and modification of surgical technique where possible for
      operative patients.

      Pregabalin is a new synthetic molecule and a structural derivative of the inhibitory
      neurotransmitter gamma-amino butyric acid. It is a α2-δ ligand that has analgesic,
      anticonvulsant, anxiolytic and sleep-modulating activities. Pregabalin binds potently to the
      α2-δ subunit of calcium channels, resulting in a reduction in the release of several
      neurotransmitters including glutamate, noradrenaline, serotonin, dopamine and substance P.

      Pregabalin could reduce the hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons induced by tissue
      damage; therefore it may be useful in the postsurgical pain prevention.

      In 2015, a meta-analysis published in British Medical Journal (BMJ) suggested that pregabalin
      could improve postoperative analgesia and opioid-related adverse effects namely, vomiting and
      visual disturbances after surgery. However, the use of the pregabalin for acute postoperative
      pain is still under trial though widely reported.
    
  