
    
      The proposed research addresses serious public health concerns (inactivity, health
      disparities) in a large, rapidly growing population of Mexican American (MA) men who are
      markedly less physically active than men of other ethnicities and suffer from higher
      prevalence of conditions related to sedentary lifestyle. While this population is clearly in
      need of physical activity (PA) interventions, to date none have specifically targeted MA men.
      In fact, the majority of PA interventions for Latinos have exclusively included women and/or
      are designed around female preferences.The proposed study will address the needs and barriers
      to PA in MA men by developing text message-delivered intervention materials based on Social
      Cognitive Theory (SCT) to complement an individually tailored, theory-based print material PA
      intervention for Spanish speaking Mexican and MA men. Text messaging could be a particularly
      effective and appealing channel for increasing PA in this target population as it allows for
      participant interaction, real-time accountability, and immediate feedback, features which MA
      men in the demonstration trial of our print intervention specifically requested. Text-based
      interventions have been shown to improve a number of health behaviors, including PA. A recent
      review of texting interventions found that they were generally well received and effective in
      reducing inactivity, weight, and waist circumference,5 and a meta-analysis found a moderate
      effect size (g = 0.54) for using mobile devices to increase PA. However, few of these trials
      targeted underserved populations, and none specifically targeted Latinos. Cell phone
      ownership is high in Latino adults (86% vs. 84% in non-Latino Whites), and Latinos are
      actually the most likely to use mobile phones for text messaging, with 85% reporting
      regularly sending and receiving texts (compared to 79% of Whites). Thus this is a familiar,
      convenient channel for delivering new intervention materials. Additionally, as Latinos also
      face environmental barriers to PA, in the current proposal we will enhance the individually
      tailored psychosocial print-based materials by developing materials targeting barriers in
      home and work environments. This multi-media, multi-level approach has potential for broad
      reach at relatively low cost, which could help reduce health disparities.
    
  