
    
      Solid organ transplantation is associated with an increased incidence of cancer versus the
      general population, and broadly on par with comparable immune deficiency states such as
      HIV/AIDS. The aetiology of cancer post-transplantation is primarily due to the burden of
      immunosuppression that is compulsory for all transplant patients to prevent allograft
      rejection. Skewed standardised incidence ratios are observed for cancer post-transplantation
      compared to the general population, with preponderance for cancers with a strong viral
      component. The literature on cancer-related mortality after transplantation is scarce, but
      again disparate mortality risk has been documented comparing solid organ transplant
      recipients to the general population.

      There is a shortage of UK-specific data to guide transplant clinicians on how best to deal
      with cancer. This is important as countries differ with regards to ethnic demographics and
      post-transplant immunosuppression protocols, both of which are important confounders to
      translate data from other transplant cohorts. Collett and colleagues have previously
      published registry data of cancer incidence in British transplant recipients (by linking UK
      Transplant Registry to various national cancer registries) for a cohort transplanted between
      1980 and 2007. They found similarities but also important differences between cancer
      incidence in a British solid organ recipient cohort versus registry data from Sweden,
      Finland, Canada and the United States. Importantly, the relevance of this data to the
      contemporary solid organ transplant cohort is unclear, as immunosuppression protocols have
      evolved since 2007 to a predominantly tacrolimus-based regimen since publication of the
      SYMPHONY study in 2007. No subsequent analysis has been done to determine the impact of
      tacrolimus introduction into cancer occurrence post-transplantation in the UK.

      Previous work has analysed cancer-related mortality in the UK, providing data on site of
      cancer-related mortality and stratifying analysis along demographic factors such as age,
      gender and/or ethnicity that are relevant to the British population. This analysis linked two
      different national data resources from the study by Collett and colleagues - Hospital Episode
      Statistics and the Office for National Statistics. It demonstrated the crude cancer-related
      mortality rate in England (between 2001 and 2012) was 361 cancer-related deaths per 100,000
      person years (compared to 424 and 416 for cardiovascular- and infection-related deaths
      respectively). Of note, cancer-related mortality within the first year post kidney
      transplantation (7.4%) has been shown to rise in incidence with increasing time
      post-transplantation (22.0% beyond the first year post kidney transplantation and second
      leading cause of death).

      This previous work has identified the strengths and limitations of utilising such data
      resources. One of the major limitations with registry data is the absence of important and
      relevant information that can confound the data, which can be overcome by linking data
      between registries. For example, previous analyses identified kidney cancer accounted for
      over half of all cancer-related mortality for kidney transplant recipients with a history of
      pre-transplant cancer. However, the limitation of that data was the inability to probe this
      association further for a number of important issues; 1) location of kidney cancer (whether
      native or transplant kidney), 2) whether pre-transplant cancer was kidney-related, and 3)
      time on dialysis pre-transplant (which is a strong risk factor for acquired cystic renal
      disease and malignant transformation). While this information was unavailable in isolated
      data sets, such information is contained within other national data resources and could be
      combined by data linkage to create a broad and comprehensive epidemiological resource.

      Data or record linkage has been defined as "a process of pairing records from two files and
      trying to select the pairs that belong to the same entity." Cancer data is not routinely
      collated by transplant centers and there is no robust mechanism to explore cancer
      epidemiology data post solid organ transplantation through the UK Transplant Registry.
      However, linking information to other existing data registry resources will facilitate such
      analysis. This is an under-researched area within both transplant and cancer communities, but
      increasingly important due to the increasing incidence and prevalence of cancer post solid
      organ transplantation.
    
  