
    
      There are 2 phases to the study: the Screening Phase and the Intervention Phase. Only
      patients identified as eligible from the Screening Phase may enroll in the Intervention
      Phase.

      Screening Phase: After signing Informed Consent 1 (Screening Informed Consent), the patient's
      MUC16ecto tumor expression will be determined as previously described. In order to be
      eligible for this protocol, the patient's ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube
      carcinoma must express the MUC16ecto protein detectable by IHC analysis of banked (paraffin
      embedded) or fresh biopsied tumor. After signing Informed Consent 1, approximately 2 weeks
      will elapse while the patient's banked tumor is tested for MUC16ecto expression. If a
      patient's tumor is found to express MUC16ecto, she will undergo leukapheresis for the
      collection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), which will be frozen for future use.
      The leukapheresis product will be stored until the end of the study in case future research
      tests related to this study are developed.

      Intervention Phase: Patients must sign Informed Consent 2 (Intervention Informed Consent)
      before receiving treatment on the study before receiving treatment on the study.

      Once the patient is eligible to receive the CAR+ T cells, the frozen leukapheresis product
      will be thawed and used to generate the 4H11-28z/fIL-12/EGFRt+ genetically-modified T cells.
      It is expected to take approximately 4-6 weeks to prepare the autologous CAR+ T cells.

      On day 1-3 patients in cohorts V will receive conditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide
      750 mg/m^2 or 300 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide concurrent with 25-30 mg/m2 fludarabine 2-7 days
      prior to the initial infusion of autologous CAR+T cells. Patients will receive autologous
      CAR+T cells in 2 infusions, the first IV and the second IP, each comprising about half the
      total dose. The IV infusion will be given first. The patient will then be closely monitored.
      One to 3 days later if clinically stable, the patient will receive the remaining dose of
      CAR+T cells IP. Patients in cohort I or -I will not receive cyclophosphamide, but will
      receive the T cells in the same manner (approximately half IV, followed by close monitoring
      and then 1-3 days later, if the patient is clinically stable, the remaining cells will be
      administered IP).
    
  