
    
      Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is the leading non-genetic cause of sensorineural
      hearing loss (SNHL) in children in the United States, and is the most frequent known viral
      cause of mental disability. Approximately one percent of all newborn infants in the United
      States are infected with CMV. Of those infected, approximately 10% have involvement that is
      evident at birth (symptomatic congenital CMV disease) with manifestations including
      microcephaly, central nervous system abnormalities, chorioretinitis, hepatosplenomegaly, and
      SNHL. The most common sequelae following congenital CMV infection is SNHL and it occurs in up
      to 50% of infants with symptomatic congenital CMV infection and in 15% of asymptomatic
      infants. Overall, congenital CMV infection accounts for one-third of all cases of SNHL. Among
      newborn infants who fail hearing screening, the prevalence of congenital CMV infection is
      much higher (six to 10%) than the general newborn population (<1%). Since early therapeutic
      intervention for infants with symptomatic congenital CMV infections improves audiological and
      neurodevelopmental outcomes early diagnosis is essential for early treatment and maximizing
      infant outcomes.

      The Illinois Legislature passed a bill that was signed into law in August 2015 by Governor
      Rauner regarding congenital CMV. The main objectives of this law are public education
      regarding CMV infection and efforts to raise awareness of this infection amongst healthcare
      providers caring for expectant mothers. This Public Act mandates parents receive information
      regarding testing opportunities and early intervention services for CMV infection when their
      newborn infant fails his or her hearing screen. Although this bill does not mandate CMV
      screening, it does state that the hospitals have to provide information about testing
      options.

      Our central hypothesis is that screening newborn infants who either fail their newborn
      hearing test or have a diagnosis of small for gestational age (SGA) will lead to better
      identification of infants with congenital CMV infection and enhanced rates of therapeutic
      intervention. This has the potential to significantly improve outcomes for infants with this
      common viral infection. This particular cohort of patients have not been well studied locally
      or regionally. In addition, in view of current legislation that will be effective in January,
      2016 this is a timely project that will provide preliminary data for future statewide
      recommendations around CMV testing of newborn infants. This will be a pilot/feasibility study
      to obtain preliminary data for an Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) Title V grant.
      Although not guaranteed, preliminary discussions with the IDPH are highly encouraging giving
      the statewide interest in this topic.
    
  