
    
      The occurrence of anastomotic fistula (AF) is the most feared complication after digestive
      cancer surgery. It is responsible for high morbidity and accounts for more than a third of
      the deaths observed. The rate of anastomotic fistula reported in the literature varies
      between 1 and 40% according to the definition chosen by the authors. In the literature, the
      occurrence of the anastomotic fistula is responsible for a mortality rate of 4% and an
      overall morbidity of 35%. In the short term, the anastomotic fistula can put the patient's
      vital prognosis at risk by its septic consequences. Also, it is responsible for increasing
      the length of stay and costs. In the longer term, anastomotic fistula affects the functional
      prognosis of the patient as well as oncology in patients operated for cancer.

      Early rehabilitation becomes a standard in colorectal surgery, with exits around the 5th
      postoperative day. Anastomotic fistulas and their complications may appear well beyond. The
      diagnosis is made on average around 6-7 postoperative days. At an early stage, clinical signs
      are inconsistent and not very specific. Anastomotic fistula can manifest itself in a variety
      of clinical presentations, ranging from no symptoms to life-threatening septic shock. Routine
      imaging is neither reliable nor cost-effective for the detection of anastomotic fistulas and
      has the disadvantage of radiation.

      It is necessary to find an intraperitoneal infection marker with a high negative predictive
      value. This is particularly important in the era of early rehabilitation, allowing for safe
      patient discharge with a low risk of readmission. C-reactive protein (CRP) has already shown
      its utility in the early detection of infections after digestive surgery, however, because of
      conflicting results, no clear recommendations are established in the literature.

      Our study aims are to investigate the diagnostic accuracy of the postoperative CRP trajectory
      as an approach to eliminate the diagnosis of anastomotic fistula and to try to establish an
      optimal threshold with high sensitivity and negative predictive value.
    
  