
    
      Background: Cardiac arrest is the number one cause of mortality in the Canadian population.
      Out-of-hospital bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is associated with a 3 to 4
      fold increase in survival for cardiac arrest. Any interruption in the delivery of chest
      compressions to cardiac arrest victims is detrimental on survival. In an effort to minimize
      interruptions in chest compressions, the new International Guidelines changed the
      long-recommended 15:2 compression to ventilation ratio to 30:2. Although the 30:2 ratio is
      meant to increase survival for cardiac arrest, the ability of rescuers to deliver the new CPR
      ratio intervention has never been studied. Little is known about the potential impact of the
      new recommendations on bystander fatigue and resulting CPR quality.

      Objectives: The overall goal of this study is to compare bystander fatigue and CPR quality
      after 5 minutes of the new 30:2 versus the old 15:2 chest compression to ventilation
      International Guidelines in a population aged 55 or greater.

      More specifically, we will compare each CPR ratio with regard to:

        1. The achieved frequency and depth of chest compressions,

        2. Participant rating of their perceived level of exertion, and

        3. Resulting serum lactate levels in a subset of the participants.

      Methods: We will conduct a randomized cross-over trial comparing bystander fatigue and CPR
      quality using two different CPR ratios. Intervention: All participants will be asked to
      perform two 5-minute sessions of CPR on a recording manikin - one session using the 30:2
      ratio, the other using the 15:2 ratio. There will be a supervised practice session in the
      beginning, and resting periods in between. The order in which the sessions will be executed
      will be determined in a random fashion. The study population will consist of volunteers aged
      55 or older, a group most susceptible to perform CPR on a real victim. The study will take
      place in a busy public area of The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus, between the cafeteria and
      the emergency department. Participants will have to score 3 or less on the validated Clinical
      Frailty Scale in order to participate in the study. Participants with physical limitations or
      disease processes precluding their ability to safely perform CPR will be excluded. Outcome
      measures: Information on age, gender, height, weight, prior CPR training, and measure of
      frailty will be collected at the time of enrollment. The number, frequency, and quality of
      chest compressions (depth and release) will be measured during each CPR session using a
      recording ResusciAnne manikin. Heart rate and blood pressure will be measured before and
      after each CPR sessions. The participants will be asked to rate their level of fatigue before
      and after each CPR session using the validated Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion scale. In
      addition, serum lactate levels will be determined before and after each CPR session in
      volunteers from the second group. Sample size: We hope to recruit 42 participants, among
      which 10 will have their lactate levels measured. Data analysis for Objective#1 and #3 will
      include descriptive statistics and a paired t-test with 95% confidence interval; Objective#2
      will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and WIlcoxon Rank Sum test. In addition, we
      will perform a stepwise logistic regression analysis to control for the potential confounding
      effects of variables otherwise associated with bystander fatigue and CPR performance using
      both CPR ratio. This study protocol will receive ascent form the OHREB before implementation,
      and will be entered on the OHRI randomized trial registry.

      Importance of the study Data from this study will evaluate bystander fatigue and resulting
      CPR quality when comparing the new 30:2 to the old 15:2 International Guidelines. This highly
      innovative project will improve our understanding of the physiological demands associated
      with the implementation of the new CPR International Guidelines. We anticipated the results
      from this study will be widely distributed, and will help shape the next iteration of the
      International Resuscitation Guidelines.
    
  