
    
      Stroke is an enormous international public health concern, particularly in the developing
      world where there are limited resources available to provide for an aging population. One of
      the main contributors to stroke incidence is the highly prevalent Chagas disease, a parasitic
      infection affecting an estimated 18 million individuals and a major cause of heart failure in
      Latin America. Chagas disease conveys stroke risk through two established mechanisms:
      structural cardiac disease and chronic inflammation. Although inflammation is associated with
      an increased risk of ischemic stroke and poorer outcome, its role has been largely linked to
      atherogenesis. Chronic inflammation can result in endothelial dysfunction and stimulate the
      hemostatic system, increasing systemic fibrin production and platelet activation. Brain
      atrophy has also been associated with chronic inflammation. Adults, young and old, who
      develop a secondary cardiomyopathy from Chagas are therefore at higher risk of cardioembolism
      and neurodegeneration. Stroke patients usually survive, but can be left with significant
      disability affecting their health status, productivity, and quality of life. These factors
      impact caregivers as well. Thus, the social and economic consequences of stroke are vast.
      During our R21 planning grant period, we were able to establish a collaborative
      infrastructure between the research groups in Brazil and the United States and collect
      preliminary data. We found an association between Chagas disease and stroke that was
      independent of cardiomyopathy. Cognitive impairment and brain atrophy were also associated
      with Chagas disease independently of cardiomyopathy. Biomarkers orosomucoid, neprilysin,
      interleukin-6 (IL-6) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) were identified as diagnostic and
      therapeutic targets in Chagas disease. As part of this phase, we will address three specific
      aims: (1) to establish brain magnetic resonance imaging markers of stroke risk in patients
      with Chagasic congestive heart failure (CM); (2) to determine whether biomarkers can predict
      stroke risk in patients with Chagasic CM; and (3) to evaluate the efficacy of antiplatelet
      treatment in decreasing microembolization rate in patients with Chagasic CM. The long-term
      goal of this project is to establish non-invasive methods of stroke risk stratification and
      prediction of stroke outcome in patients with Chagas disease. This work will also facilitate
      the development of novel anti-trypanosomal, anti-inflammatory, and antithrombotic strategies
      for stroke prevention and management in Brazil.
    
  