
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether calcium gluconate and magnesium sulfate (CaMg) infusions can prevent
           or ameliorate chronic, cumulative oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity in patients
           receiving FOLFOX combination chemotherapy for stage II, III or IV colorectal cancer.

        -  Determine whether CaMg infusions can increase the cumulative oxaliplatin doses that can
           be delivered without chronic neurotoxicity.

        -  Determine whether CaMg infusions can ameliorate the acute neuropathy associated with
           oxaliplatin.

        -  Determine whether CaMg infusions cause any adverse events.

        -  Investigate whether CaMg infusions influence quality of life, fatigue, and activities of
           daily living of these patients.

        -  Determine if polymorphisms in the GSTP1 gene predict early onset of oxaliplatin-induced
           neurotoxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to age (< 65 vs > 65), gender, and chemotherapy regimen (FOLFOX4 vs
      modified FOLFOX6). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive calcium gluconate and magnesium sulfate IV over 30 minutes
           immediately before and after each oxaliplatin administration (once every 2 weeks) of
           their assigned chemotherapy regimen.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive a placebo IV over 30 minutes immediately before and after each
           oxaliplatin administration (once every 2 weeks) of their assigned chemotherapy regimen.

      In both arms, treatment continues until chemotherapy is discontinued (approximately 6
      months).

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires on day 1, a symptom experience diary on days
      2-5 of their chemotherapy regimen, and questionnaires at 1 and 3 months after completion of
      study treatment.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and tested for the GSTP1 gene.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  