
    
      Brief Summary:

      The study is an randomized clinical trial (RCT) comparing a 3-5 intervention treatment with
      dentist administered Cognitive Behavioural Therapy ( D-CBT) with a control treatment. The
      control treatment is a "treatment as usual" concept using premedication with benzodiazepines
      and a common sense approach.

      The treatment will be performed in a regular dental office. The dentist is working as a
      regular dentist and is trained in the CBT Method.

      Detailed Description:

      Background Dental fear is common in adults and has a prevalence of about 10-25%.
      Approximately 2/3 of fearful patients manage to get through treatment, but with great
      discomfort. The remaining 1/3 avoid dental visits and some of them qualify for the diagnosis
      odontophobia (prevalence 1,4-7,1%).

      Several studies demonstrate reduced oral health in people with dental fear and odontophobia
      compared to the general population.

      Dental phobia often develops gradually and patients' dental health would often benefit from
      treatment of dental anxiety before the manifestations of phobia; before dental health
      deteriorate and avoidance of dental treatment has lasted too long.

      Consequently, it would be beneficial if dental anxiety were effectively treated in a dentist
      general practice and thereby easily accessible. Thus there is a need for evidence based
      treatment methods for this context.

      Psychological treatment of dental phobia is well documented in multidisciplinary treatment
      programmes were psychologists and dentists work together. However, there is a lack of
      psychologist resources and high cost of a treatment approach that requires 2 specialists.
      This emphasises the need for treatment programs of dental anxiety within dentist's
      competence. Dentists can, provided the right training, be successful in the utilisation of
      psychological techniques for the treatment of anxiety. Willumsen et al developed and tested
      dental anxiety treatment methods including the use of CBT interventions for use by dentists.
      This RCT study showed good results at post treatment, also in a 5 year follow up. Two CBT
      methods (applied relaxation and cognitive therapy) with contrasting principles (relaxation vs
      activation) were tested against nitrous oxide sedation. All three treatment approaches showed
      adequate effect but CBT interventions were superior in a longer time perspective. However,
      the treatment methods were resource demanding; requiring 10 sessions of treatment. It would
      therefore be beneficial to develop a shorter method of treatment that could be used by a
      dentist in a general practice and also to test its use within the context of a regular dental
      practice.

      Premedication with benzodiazepines and a common sense approach including tell-show-do is the
      recommended and most frequent used alternative in Norway when treating this group of patients
      in general dental practice; Therefore the study is designed to compare the psychological
      intervention with these treatment modalities to explore differences in effect.

      The hypothesis is that a treatment programme with D-CBT have more reduction of dental fear
      than traditional treatment with common sense/ premedication

      The aims:

        1. Test D-CBT against a combined pharmacological common sense approach in a RCT study
           performed in a general dental practice.

        2. To explore whether demographical data, levels of dental fear, comorbidity, coping
           strategies or dentist-patient relation can predict treatment outcome of D-CBT.

        3. To do a 1-year- and 3 year follow-up on the RCT-patients with assessment of levels of
           dental fear in the patient, quality of life, oral quality of life and ability to receive
           dental treatment.

           Methods Design The study is a randomized controlled trial. Population Patients will be
           recruited through written and oral information to local dentists and physicians,
           advertising in local newspapers or referred from a waiting list at a local dental fear
           clinic .

           Criteria for inclusion

             -  Strong dental anxiety that affects the patients self-perceived ability to go
                through dental treatment

             -  Age over 18

             -  Agreement to all the practical arrangements of the study Criteria for exclusion

             -  Substance abuse

             -  Not being able to communicate fluently in Norwegian Sample size Sample size was
                estimated with power (1-Betta) 0,8 og type error (alfa) 5%. From these criteria
                sample size was calculated to 30 in each group. Drop out is expected to be about
                15% giving 35 participants in each group and a total of 70 participants in the
                RCT-study.

           Location and operator The study will be performed in a general dental practice in
           Mandal, a small town in the south of Norway. All patients will be treated by the same
           dentist, an experienced private practitioner with an interest in treating dentally
           anxious patients; MSH.

           Research psychologists and dentists experienced in treating patients with dental fear
           have developed the dentist-based cognitive behaviour treatment method (D-CBT). D-CBT is
           based on existing literature.

           In addition an expert group consisting of clinical psychologists and dentists, all of
           which are experienced in treating dental anxiety, have assessed the practical aspects of
           implementing the method and manual.

           A manual describes the intervention in detail. The method will be tested in 5 patients
           in a pilot study.

           Randomisation procedure Patients are randomized in two groups by simple randomisation.
           Lists will be constructed by statistical software and treatments will then be allocated
           to patients in sequence using numbered opaque envelopes containing treatment
           allocations.

           The intervention group All patients in the D-CBT group will go through 3- 5
           consultations with a duration of 60 minutes or 3 sessions of 90 minutes aimed at
           treating their dental anxiety. The appointments will be spaced with a maximum of 2 weeks
           to minimize the setback that will often occur between appointments (detailed description
           in appendix).

           All sessions will be videotaped throughout the study. The control group The
           non-intervention group will be offered premedication with midazolam during dental
           treatment per standard procedures. Common sense principles as communication skills,
           control and tell-show-do will be implemented.

           Similarities between the control and the intervention groups:

             -  Building a good relation with the patient

             -  Stop signal will be utilized

             -  Explain and show what the dentist wants to do before doing treatment (tell-show-do)

             -  The treatment should be as painless as possible

           Differences between the control and the intervention groups:

           Midazolam/tell-show-do

             -  Sedation is an alternative

             -  Minimalizing exposure to the patient (for example hiding instead of showing the
                syringe while putting the anaesthetics).

           Psycological intervention -characteristics

             -  Psychoeducation about anxiety

             -  Exploration of the individual anxiety

             -  Exposure to the frightening stimuli (no hiding, but actively showing in detail all
                components of dental treatment, preferably utilizing a mirror while doing
                treatment).

           Data Each patient receives a project number. A codebook between project number and
           journal number is stored at the Specialist Center of Public Dental Health in South
           Norway All data will be registered online using Nettskjema to collect data directly into
           Services for sensitive data (TSD). The research data from each patient will only be
           identified by the project number.

           All data will be stored and analysed using the TSD platform. TSD complies with the
           directive of privacy and electronic communication in Norway. TSD is developed and
           operated by the University of Oslos' centre for IT (USIT).

           Only MSH and the supervisors will be given access to the data in TSD. All video
           recordings will be stored on encrypted memory sticks locked in a filing cabinet. The key
           to the filing cabinet is kept in a key cabinet locked by a code. The code is known only
           by the dentist (MSH) and the dental secretary (KL). The recordings will be stored up
           until publication of articles and TW is responsible for deleting them.

           Statistics The current project uses a traditional experimental research design to assess
           the research hypothesis. In order to compare differences between the 35 participants in
           the two research conditions the data will be analysed with regression analysis. A 2x2
           repeated measures ANOVA will be used to test if the experimental condition of five
           sessions of D-CBT treatment is superior to the control condition of premedication and
           gradual habituation. A factor analytic approach will be used to assess the level of
           influence on the results by factors like: age; gender; social economic status and
           substance abuse. The statistical analysis will be completed using the IBM SPSS
           statistical software version 16.0.

           Measure of treatment quality and adherence All sessions will be videotaped throughout
           the study. At least 20% of the tapes will be viewed by the supervisors to ensure
           continued treatment quality and adherence to manuals.

           Measures

           Demographics data:

           The following demographics will be registered: Sex, age, Norwegian skills, civil status,
           children, education, work status, self-assessment of health, self-assessment of oral
           health and substance abuse. The patients register time since last regular appointment
           with a dentist.

           Level of dental anxiety: Modified Dental Anxiety Scale (MDAS) and Index of dental
           anxiety and fear (IDAF-4C+). .

           Measures to identify factors that may influence treatment outcome:

           Post-traumatic stress disorder: Post-traumatic stress disorder-checklist (PCL).

           Depression and anxiety: The hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS)

           Satisfaction with life:

           The Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS) Oral quality of life: Oral impact on daily
           performance (OIDP). Patient-dentist relation: Working Alliance Inventory -12 (WAI-12).

           Coping strategies: The dental coping strategy questionnaire (DCSQ). Patient assessment
           of the treatment: An questionnaire containing a likert scale assessing how the patients
           evaluate different elements of the treatment they have received has been developed based
           on similar scales in comparable studies Personality traits: The Big Five Inventory

           Dental reports:

           Oral examination and assessment of x-rays. Three. dentists separately record oral health
           and treatment needs based on the radiographs (BWs and OPG). With access to the initial
           clinical recordings, the diagnostic registrations will then be discussed among the three
           dentists until a consensus is achieved.

           Oral Health: Decayed, missed or filled teeth (DMFT).Root-filled teeth. Remnants of roots
           Periradicular bone lesions. Number of third molars.

           Oral treatment needs: Number of teeth with need for restorations, periodontal
           treatment,root fillings, bridges , dentures and extractions.

           Ethics: The study is approved by the Regional Ethics. To make sure the quality of the
           intervention meets adequate standards, the dentist will go through training by qualified
           personnel before the study is initiated and there will be a continuous surveillance by
           watching videotapes of the treatment to ensure that the quality will be upheld
           throughout the study.

           The associate supervisor of the project, psychologist Bent Storå, will be available for
           guidance and help when needed.

           Researchers:

           Dentist, PhD candidate Mariann Saanum Hauge (MSH), Main supervisor professor dr. odont,
           Tiril Willumsen (TW), Associated supervisor clinical psychologist PhD, Bent Storå(BS),
           Research assistant, dental secretary Kari Laudal (KL) Financial matters The study
           receives financial support from the Norwegian Directorate of Health through the
           Specialist Center of Public Dental Health in South Norway.
    
  