
    
      This is the first clinical trial of the VRC-HIVMAB060-00-AB (VRC01) monoclonal antibody.
      VRC01 is a broadly neutralizing antibody directed against HIV. This is a dose-escalation
      study to examine safety, tolerability, dose and pharmacokinetics of VRC01. The hypothesis is
      that VRC 01 will be safe for administration to HIV-1- infected adults by the intravenous (IV)
      and subcutaneous (SC) routes and will not elicit hypersensitivity reactions. Samples will be
      collected to learn if VRC01 is detectable in mucosal secretions and blood of participants and
      how long VRC01 can be detected in the blood after it is given.

      Up to 30 HIV-1 infected adults will be enrolled. Adult 18-60 years old will participate in
      the dose escalation part of the study. There are 4 dose escalation groups for IV
      administration; the doses are 1 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg. There is 1 group for
      SC administration at 5 mg/kg. Each dose escalation group is expected to include at least 3
      participants. Each participant during the dose escalation part of the study will receive two
      infusions of VRC01 with about 1 month between doses, with infusions administered in an
      inpatient unit and an overnight stay at the NIH Clinical Center required. No more than one
      subject per day per group will receive a first infusion of the VRC01 product by the IV route
      and no more than one subject per week will receive a first infusion of the product by the SC
      route. Study participation lasts for 24 weeks for participants who receive two doses. After
      the dose escalation is completed, about 10 HIV-infected adults, ages 18-70 years old, with
      detectable viral load will be enrolled to receive one dose of VRC01 at 40 mg/kg IV with
      follow-up for 12 weeks. Participant health and effect on CD4 count and HIV viral load will be
      monitored. Samples will be collected and stored for research purposes.
    
  