
    
      The safety of the patient undergoing enteral nutritional therapy depends on the constant
      evaluation of the nursing team, which, through specific skills, allows the establishment of
      nutritional care and prevents incidents related to the diet administration process. The
      challenge is to adopt safe practices that contemplate all these specificities, knowing that
      only knowledge is insufficient for the development of these competences, but also depends on
      the ability and commitment of these professionals.

      Training and capacity are predominant strategies in the health area to increase patient
      safety in the execution of nursing staff's care activities, however, this type of approach,
      when applied in isolation, is sometimes insufficient to change behavior end development of
      skills and attitudes among these professionals. Combined strategies such as alerts and
      reminders systems, educational visits, auditing systems, clinical simulations, feedbacks and
      workshops, on clinical practice safety are being deployed and evaluated as a more effective
      way of changing behavior.

      In this sense, the research question of the present project is: The implementation of a
      strategy of safety in service through an educational intervention associated to the visual
      identity campaign is able to increase the adhesion of the nursing technicians to the
      fulfillment of routines in the use of nasoenteral tube? The objective is evaluate the effect
      of an isolated education intervention and combined with a visual identity campaign on the
      safe practice in the use of nursing care to the patient in use nasoenteral tubes. The
      clinical trial will be carried out in 2017, in a university hospital. Two profiles of
      participants will be included in the study: the first one refers to the nursing technicians
      of the hospital areas, part of them will receive a set of interventions, and the second one
      refers to the patients in use nasoenteral tube, considering that the effect of intervention
      will be measured by assessing compliance with care routines.

      The study will be conducted according to the following steps, respectively: (1) Evaluation of
      the agreement between observers, (2) Pre-intervention evaluation (baseline), (3) Intervention
      (Educational Intervention and Visual Identity Campaign) and (4) Post-intervention evaluation.
      Both groups (IG and CG) will be submitted to the same research procedures in the evaluation
      stages (pre- and post-intervention); However, only the nursing technicians of the GI will be
      submitted to an intervention stage.
    
  