
    
      The 12 somatic genetic cancer tests that have received temporary authorisation in France form
      the basis of this study. These tests are not yet in the national biology reimbursement
      nomenclature but are supported by the ministry of health in a temporary list "Le référentiel
      des actes innovants hors nomenclature de biologie et d'anatomocytopathologie" (RIHN).

      The PRME RuBIH2 will focus on 5 clinical situations in onco-haematology:

        1. Myelodysplasia (MDS)

        2. Acute lymphocytic leukemia (T) (ALL)

        3. Lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD)

        4. Acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML)

        5. Myeloproliferative disorders (MPD)

      The project is organised in 4 complementary work packages (WP): WP1 Cost evaluation, WP2
      Prescription Guidelines, WP3 Clinical Validation and WP4 Budget Impact and Organisation.

      WP1 will provide costing information on molecular tests and will build on previous studies
      conducted in France.

      WP2 will update existing prescription guidelines based on evidence from the literature and
      evidence from the WP3. These prescription guidelines will in turn be valued and provide
      recommendations for a flat fee bundle for pre-specified clinical situations.

      WP3 will provide evidence on the clinical impact of molecular diagnosis (in particular NGS)
      in the 5 pre-specified conditions. Changes in patient management will be measured using a
      prospective questionnaire for an estimated 3960 molecular tests. The impact of the test on
      the patient clinical pathway will be analysed. The impact of molecular tests on patient
      outcome will not be measured.

      WP4 will use information from WP1 and WP2 to estimate the budget impact and to provide
      scenario analyses on the territorial organisation of molecular biology platforms. Based on
      the estimation of the national activity of molecular onco-haematology platforms the annual
      functioning budget required to implement molecular diagnosis in France will be estimated.
    
  