
    
      With traditional landmark-based or nerve-stimulator techniques, the incidence of HDP
      following supraclavicular blocks is approximately 50-67%. Ultrasound-guided techniques are
      thought to enhance precision while reducing the volume of anesthetic used, but even then HDP
      incidence is nearly 60%. To date, no trials have studied the dose-response relationship
      between local anesthetic volume and degree of HDP.

      Patient Selection

      30 eligible patients undergoing right upper extremity surgery and eligible for
      supraclavicular blocks will be recruited at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical
      Center.

      Evaluation of HDP

      Baseline M-mode recordings of diaphragm function will be made by an anesthesiologist.
      Patients will perform "voluntary sniff" (VS) tests, or forceful nasal inhales, immediately
      preceding the brachial plexus blockade, and again at 15 minutes and 30 minutes after the
      block.

      Diaphragmatic excursion from baseline will be measured in centimeters; three measurements
      will be made and averaged. Hemidiaphragmatic paresis will be defined as greater than or equal
      to 60% reduction in diaphragmatic excursion, no movement, or paradoxical movement in the VS
      test.

      Evaluation of Pulmonary Function

      A bedside negative inspiratory force (NIF) meter will be used to measure negative inspiratory
      force prior to the block and 30 minutes after the block.

      Evaluation of Supraclavicular Block

      At the 15- and 30-minute marks, the investigators will assess sensory blockade and motor
      block in the axial, musculocutaneous, radial, median, and ulnar distributions. Both will be
      judged on 3-point scales. The investigators will also apply a 0-10 point verbal rating scale
      to assess dyspnea at 30 minutes. Oxygen saturation will be measured off of supplemental
      oxygen before the block and 30 minutes after the block.

      Following the assessments, patients will have surgery using brachial plexus blockade as the
      primary anesthetic.
    
  