
    
      Chronic orthostatic intolerance due to the postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) severely
      impairs daily life in over a million Americans, mostly young women. POTS is defined by
      symptoms of orthostatic intolerance associated with excessive upright heart rate. While there
      is general agreement that abnormalities in vascular regulation and autonomic activity account
      for the tachycardia and symptoms of POTS, its pathophysiology is heterogeneous and only
      partially characterized.

      The key feature of POTS is symptoms which are most prominent when standing. However, in some,
      findings are present supine (lying down) but worsened standing. Symptoms of POTS include
      dizziness in all patients, exercise provoked symptoms and thus exercise intolerance,
      excessive fatigue, nausea and abdominal pain, headache, shortness of breath and deep
      breathing, weakness, shakiness and postural anxiety, pallor, and neurocognitive loss
      (difficulty thinking). These occur on a day-to-day basis. The symptoms overlap with the case
      definition of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and POTS is often found in CFS in the young.
      Fainting is relatively uncommon during daily life.

      A major subset of POTS has increased peripheral resistance and low blood flow(LFP) related to
      increased angiotensin-II (Ang-II), and decreased nitric oxide (NO). NO deficits are reversed
      by Ang-II type-1 receptor (AT1R) blockade, ascorbic acid (AA) and tetrahydrobiopterin in skin
      suggesting the importance of oxidative stress. Preliminary data also suggest that the
      coupling of sympathetic nerve activity to blood vessel contraction is enhanced via ↑Ang-II
      and ↓NO. We hypothesize that this is due to activation of reactive oxygen species (ROS)
      including superoxide, which scavenges NO to generate peroxynitrite, and hydrogen peroxide.
      Combined measurements in the skin and the systemic circulation will be combined with local
      measurement of ROS production and sympathetic nerve activity will enable us to determine
      precisely how the autonomic nervous system is affected by the illness. Methods include
      cutaneous microdialysis to measure ROS, skin biopsy and blood tests to measure gene
      expression of nitric oxide synthase and Ang-II receptors, and peroneal microneurography to
      measure muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). Combined with ultrasonic femoral artery
      blood flow this will yield assessment of the interactions of nerves with the blood vessels
      that they control.

      If we discover specific biochemical mechanisms of POTS in patients, then we may be able to
      specifically treat the defect.
    
  