
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the in vivo effects of toothpastes and dental gels
      on gingival and periodontal health, enamel demineralization, remineralization and
      microstructure . The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of over-the-counter
      toothpastes and dental gels including Colgate Total, Crest Cavity Protection, Zendium Classic
      toothpaste, and Livionex LivFree and LivFresh using established clinical evaluation
      parameters as well as innovative imaging approaches (Optical Coherence Tomography and
      Multiphoton Microscopy) to measure the status of the oral tissues

      Imaging devices:

        -  Optical Coherence Tomography can be used to identify and measure inflammation of the
           gums and gum pockets.The results can be used to evaluate the health of the gums, and
           changes caused by using specific toothpastes

        -  Multiphoton Microscopy can be used to identify and measure bacterial plaque or biofilm
           in the mouth. The results can determine effects of specific toothpastes on the
           development and breakup of bacterial biofilm or plaque.

      In the first part of this study, subjects with moderate gingival inflammation (Löe and
      Silness Gingival Index ≥2) and pocket depths <4 will be randomly assigned to brush twice
      daily for 21 days with the test or the control dental gel. On Days 0, 7, 14, and 21, plaque
      levels (Quigley-Hein, Turesky Modification Plaque Index), gingival inflammation (Löe and
      Silness Gingival Index), and gingival bleeding (modified Sulcus Bleeding Index) will be
      determined by one blinded, investigator (Dr. Wilder-Smith) using standard probing techniques.
      In vivo Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Multiphoton Microscopy (MPM) will be used for
      in situ imaging. The results from this study will help evaluate the effects of the test
      dentifrice formulation on plaque removal and maintaining gingival health.

      In the second part of this study, plaque formation and removal will be quantified in subjects
      using ex vivo Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Multiphoton Microscopy (MPM) imaging of
      small enamel chips mounted on a simple intra-oral retainer. In this cross-over design study,
      the subjects will attend the test site on 11 occasions over an 11-week period. Subjects will
      have an intra-oral retainer manufactured, which will be worn for a minimum of 22 hours per
      day and will have up to 8 sterile human enamel inserts fitted.This study will be conducted in
      three arms with a maximum of 44h of retainer wear during each arm, and each study arm will
      follow the same procedure. 2 different over-the-counter toothpastes and a water control will
      be used for each arm of the study, respectively. There will be a minimum of two weeks between
      each study arm.

      The third part of this study will involve subjects with no specific oral health issues. The
      protocol will involve subjects wearing simple retainers for 3 periods of 2 weeks each with 5
      sterilized enamel chips attached in the palate area. The study will have 3 arms using a
      control and 2 active toothpastes. There will be washout of 1-2 weeks between each study arm.
      Samples will be analyzed outside of the mouth using OCT and MPM techniques, as well as micro
      computer tomography (microCT), Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS) and X-Ray Photoelectron
      Spectroscopy (XPS). (Section 3 has been completed as of July 11, 2016)

      The fourth part of this study will involve subjects with xerostomia. Subjects will wear
      simple removable retainers for 2 periods of 1 week each, with 5 sterilized demineralized
      enamel chips attached in the palate area of the retainer. Fresh enamel chips will be used for
      each arm of the study. After study completion, chips will be used for Scanning Electron
      microscopy (SEM) and microhardness measurement. We will provide custom retainers made from
      impressions of each subject. Upon conclusion of the study, we will analyze the effects of
      each toothpaste on surface enamel using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and microhardness
      as well as microCT, EDS and XPS data.

      In the fifth part of this study, plaque formation and removal in subjects will be quantified
      using the standard clinical index for plaque levels (Quigley-Hein, Turesky Modification
      Plaque Index). This will be determined by one blinded investigator using a periodontal probe.
      In addition, ex vivo Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Multiphoton Microscopy (MPM)
      imaging of biofilm samples will be performed on plaque specimens collected using standardized
      technique and a 2mm curette. In this 3-arm cross-over double-blinded study, the subjects will
      attend the test site for up to 7 occasions over up to a 22-day period.

      The sixth part of this study will involve (a) subjects with previously diagnosed gingivitis,
      including moderate gingival inflammation (Löe and Silness Gingival Index ≥2) and pocket
      depths <4, and (b) subjects with previously diagnosed gingivitis (moderate gingival
      inflammation (Löe and Silness Gingival Index ≥2)) AND periodontitis including gingival
      bleeding, gingival inflammation, and at least four sites with probing pocket depths >4mm.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned to brush twice daily for up to 6 months with the test or
      the control dental gel. On Days 0, 30, 90, and 180, plaque levels (Quigley-Hein, Turesky
      Modification Plaque Index), gingival inflammation (Löe and Silness Gingival Index), gingival
      bleeding (modified Sulcus Bleeding Index) and periodontal pocket depths will be determined by
      one blinded, investigator (Dr. Wilder-Smith) using a periodontal probe. In vivo Optical
      Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Multiphoton Microscopy (MPM) may be used for in situ imaging
      if gingival/periodontitis sites are accessible to the imaging probes. The results from this
      study will help evaluate the effects of the test dentifrice formulation on plaque removal and
      maintaining/recovering gingival/periodontal health.
    
  