
    
      Intervention Physical exercise program

      At the baseline assessment all patients' physical fitness will be evaluated by the
      kinesiologist (exercise specialist). The exercise component will consist of approximately 60
      min of resistance and aerobic training, for a minimum of 3 days per week. The exercise
      program will be individualized based upon the baseline fitness test (according to the
      American College of Sport Medicine, ACMS, standard)50 and will include: a 5 min warm-up,
      either 25 min of aerobic exercise (starting at 30- 40 % of heart rate reserve, HRR), and 25
      min of resistance training (8 exercises targeting major muscle groups performed at moderate
      intensity), and a 5-10 min cool-down and stretching period. All exercises will be clearly
      explained and demonstrated by the kinesiologist at baseline. Patients will be asked to carry
      out this program at home, unsupervised, but will be monitored with weekly telephone calls.
      Training intensity progression will occur when the participant can complete aerobic exercise
      on mild exertion and/or when the participant can complete 15 repetitions of a given
      resistance exercise. Participants will be provided with resistance bands and an exercise mat,
      as well as a pedometer and a heart rate monitor, which can be used by the participant to
      monitor progress and by the kinesiologist to monitor daily compliance. A log book will also
      be completed to report all activities and frequency of exercises completed.

      The kinesiologist will follow (by telephone call) all the participants on a weekly basis to
      ensure program compliance and address any barriers that may prevent ongoing participation.

      Nutritional counseling The patients' nutritional status and adequacy of dietary intake will
      be assessed by a nutritionist using a three day food record, biological indices (e.g.
      glycated hemoglobin), clinical history, and the Patient-Generated Subjective Global
      Assessment tool51. Anthropometric measures, including percentage of lean body mass and fat,
      will be measured with bioelectrical impedance and skin calipers. Nutritional care plans will
      focus on meeting daily protein requirements (1.2g/kg), management of cancer-related symptoms
      (such as diarrhea, constipation), blood glucose control, optimization of body composition
      (i.e. weight loss/gain if necessary) and nutrient intake through providing practical
      suggestions, based on actual intake, to improve macronutrient distributions of protein, fat,
      and carbohydrates.

      The type of dietary protein (amino acid composition), digestibility, amount, timing of
      intake, and co-ingestion with other macronutrients can be used to capitalize on post-exercise
      induced muscle protein synthesis52. Twenty (20) grams of protein, in liquid form, taken
      immediately after resistance exercise is regarded as sufficient to maximally stimulate muscle
      protein synthesis in healthy individuals52. Whey protein, in particular, is regarded as being
      especially effective when ingested after exercise54 because it is rapidly digested and
      contains all of the indispensable amino acids including leucine, which is believed to
      independently stimulate translation initiation of protein synthesis in skeletal muscle52.
      Post exercise co-ingestion with carbohydrate does not appear to provide any further anabolic
      effect, although does improve protein balance by blunting proteolysis and maximally
      stimulating insulin secretion55.

      The nutritionist will provide patients with a post-workout nutrition prescription consisting
      of 20g of whey protein52 and 1g/kg carbohydrates53. Elderly patients require at least a 20g
      dose of dietary protein after resistance exercise and approximately 30g doses, in intervals,
      within the 24h "window of anabolic opportunity" in order to simulate an anabolic response
      52.54,61. Ingestion of 1-1.5g carbohydrate/kg, within the "glycogen recovery window" of 15-30
      minutes after exercise, replenishes glycogen stores53.

      To ensure compliance, patients will be asked to complete daily logs and to return their empty
      sachets of whey protein.

      Relaxation Strategies The kinesiologists will instruct patients to perform deep breathing
      exercises for relaxation purposes. Patients will be instructed to perform these exercises
      daily and as needed. Relaxation CD's, including soothing sounds, will also be given to
      patients.
    
  