
    
      Remifentanil is an amidopiperidine derivative with unique pharmacokinetic properties. Its
      steady-state volume of distribution is 30 L (3). Its context-sensitive half life is
      consistently short (3.2 min), even after prolonged infusion(4). The pharmacokinetic profile
      of remifentanil is independent of the hepatic (5) and renal function (6). And finally, the
      recovery profile of remifentanil is excellent with a speedy anesthetic emergence time which
      is important for a quick and proper neurologic assessment in the early postoperative period.

      Remifentanil produces good intraoperative hemodynamic control during intense noxious
      stimulation like laryngoscopy, endotracheal intubation, and during pinning of the head (8).
      However, side effects of remifentanil include hypotension and bradycardia (15)
      intraoperatively, along with apnea(16,17) and hyperalgesia(18) postoperatively which is
      caused by increasing sensitivity to noxious stimuli. Investigations demonstrate different
      mechanisms of opioid-induced post-infusion anti-analgesia and secondary hyperalgesia (9).
      Overall remifentanil is a versatile opioid that is being increasingly used in the operating
      room.

      DEXMEDETOMIDINE (DEX), an alpha-2 adrenoreceptor agonist, is gaining popularity in
      neuroanesthesia. It has a desirable neurophysiologic profile including neuroprotective
      characteristics through its effect on α2A receptor subtypes (10). Its hypnotic effect is
      mediated through the α2 receptors in the locus ceruleus and its analgesic properties are
      mediated through an effect on the dorsal horn of the spinal cord (11,12). Since it has
      sympatholytic and antinociceptive properties, it may improve hemodynamic stability at
      critical moments of neurosurgical stimulation. Dexmedetomidine reduces anesthetic drug and
      opioid requirements in the perioperative period (13,14). In addition, dexmedetomidine does
      not affect evoked potential monitoring, (19) making it a favorable anesthetic adjunct in
      cases in which neurophysiologic monitoring is being used. In recent years, dexmedetomidine
      has emerged as an effective drug useful in a wide range of anesthesia related areas.

      Study Questions We postulate that dexmedetomidine provides better hemodynamic control in the
      intra- and post-operative periods and reduces PACU analgesic requirements.

      Primary Hypothesis 1: Intraoperative dexmedetomidine provides better postoperative analgesia
      than remifentanil, thus reducing PACU opioid requirements.

      Primary Hypothesis 2: Dexmedetomidine causes fewer hemodynamic perturbations than
      remifentanil.
    
  