
    
      Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4
      (CTLA-4) and the programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand-1
      (PD-L1) pathway might induce inflammatory potentially serious and even lethal immune related
      Adverse Events (irAEs). Diarrhea and/or colitis are ones of the most frequently reported
      irAEs in patients taking ICI, occurring after an average of three infusions. The incidence is
      higher among patients taking combination anti-CTLA-4/ anti-PD-1 therapy (44%) than those
      receiving anti-CTLA-4 (23-33%) or anti-PD-1 (≤19%) monotherapy. The most common autoimmune
      and musculoskeletal irAEs reported in clinical trials are represented by arthralgia and
      arthritis. The incidence of arthralgia and/or inflammatory arthritis secondary to nivolumab
      therapy ranges from 5% to 16% and 5%, respectively. Although the immune mechanisms underlying
      irAEs have not been fully elucidated, studies suggest that Th17 and Tregs cells, increases in
      expression of immunologically-related genes, eosinophilia, microbiome among others and
      cytokines may be involved in the pathophysiology of immune-related complications in some
      diseases that resemble irAEs, such as colitis and rheumatic manifestations. Previous studies
      report Th-17, that drives interleukin-17 (IL-17) production, as a key mediator of many immune
      diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease and ICI-induced colitis, and IL-17 elevations
      have been observed in experimental colitis. Importantly, interleukin-6 (IL-6) promotes the
      differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Th17 cells (17), and IL-6 inhibition may rebalance
      the altered Th17-Treg axis without inhibiting the Th1-CD8+ T-cell subsets that govern
      antitumor immunity. An imbalance of Th17/Treg may cause the onset and progression of
      immune-mediated side effects. Thus, a 3-fold increase of IL-17 and IL-6 by week 12,
      concomitant with the development of fulminant colitis has been reported in a patient who
      developed presumed ipilimumab-induced colitis. These findings raise the possibility of using
      IL-6 blockade as a strategy for treating colitis and arthritis induced by immune checkpoint
      blockade.
    
  