
    
      A lung cancer patient might want to take part in the ImmunoSABR phase 2 trial (NCT03705403).
      Before they can decide, it is important that the patients understand why the research is
      being done and what it would involve for them.

      This tPDA will give information about this trial via text, small movies, quiz and
      preferences. In the end, the patient will receive an overview of their choices.

      Detailed Description ImmunoSABR:

      IMMUNOSABR will include 126 patients. In this single-stage controlled randomised open-label
      phase II trial, we aim to demonstrate an absolute increase in progression-free survival
      (primary endpoint). PFS will be determined as the time between randomisation and disease
      progression, according to RECIST 1.1, death due to any cause or last patient contact alive
      and progression-free. Patients will be randomized between control (no immunocytokine) and
      experimental arms (with immunocytokine L19-IL2) in a 1:1 ratio. The accrual period will be 29
      months (or 2.41 years), and the minimum follow-up will be 18 months (or 1.5 years), making
      the total study duration 47 months. Comparison between control and experimental arms will be
      made using the Log-Rank statistic. This test for superiority will be one-sided with the
      desired type I error of 0.10 and power of 0.90.

      Patients enrolled in the trial will be randomised into the control arm (C-arm) or
      experimental arm (E-arm).

      C-arm: Standard of Care (SOC) according to the local and national guidelines: (wait and see
      or surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or standard (symptomatic) radiotherapy and/or SABR,
      oligometastatic disease.

      E-arm: SABR (oligometastatic disease) or radiotherapy (diffuse disease) + L19-IL2 up to 6
      cycles (+ aPD(L)1 if SOC) The expected 1.5-year PFS is 15% in the C-arm and 35% in the E-arm.
      A sample size of 116 patients (58 patients per treatment arm) is needed to show this
      difference of 20% in PFS, using a logrank test with a two-sided alpha of 0.05 and power of
      85%. Patients will be evenly divided over the two arms. Assuming a drop-out rate of 10%, a
      total of 126 patients (63 per arm) need to be included.

      Primary objective The main objective of the trial is to test if the activity of the
      combination of (SAB)R and L19-IL2 in patients with metastatic NSCLC will result in improved
      progression-free survival (PFS) compared to the SOC.

      Secondary Objectives

      Assessment of the PFS of the patient cohort, at 5 years after randomisation. Assessment of
      the overall survival of the patient cohort, at 5 years after randomisation.

      To assess the toxicity of this treatment schedule; To assess Quality of Life (QoL); To assess
      the occurrence of an Out of Field Radio-Immune (OFRI) response / abscopal effect using
      imaging; To assess the occurrence of an In Field Radio-Immune (IFRI) response using imaging;
      To perform correlative biomarker studies related to treatment response.

      Exploratory endpoints:

      Correlative biomarker studies:

      Tumour tissue: e.g EDB expression, non-synonymous mutations, immune monitoring; Blood: e.g.
      EDB expression, cfDNA, and immune monitoring; Radiomics on CT and if available MRI; Faeces:
      diversity in microbiota. iRECIST Tumour grow kinetics
    
  