
    
      Sugammadex is the first selective relaxant binding agent indicated for reversal of rocuronium
      and vecuronium-induced blockade.

      At the same time sugammadex is able to form the complexes with other aminosteroid-based
      muscle relaxants including long acting NMBAs* such as pancuronium 1,2.

      Still there are only limited data on the efficacy of sugammadex with pancuronium and no data
      on the efficacy of sugammadex with other aminosteroid-based long acting NMBA - pipecuronium
      which is still widely used in Russia (as well as in the other former Soviet Union Countries
      and Eastern Europe countries). In the only study evaluating efficacy of sugammadex with
      pancuronium has been shown that moderate pancuronium-induced blockade is effectively reversed
      in less than 3 minutes with a sugammadex dose of 4.0 mg/kg 3. In this respect it would be
      interesting in this study to evaluate the efficacy of sugammadex with pipecuronium.

      It is also very well known that the incidence of postoperative residual blockade (and its
      complications) is higher when the long acting NMBAs such as pancuronium and pipecuronium are
      used 4,5,6,7. So the possibility to use sugammadex for reversal of pipecuronium-induced
      blockade could help to reduce the incidence of residual blockade and related complications.

      The effectiveness of sugammadex for the reversal of long acting NMBAs such as pipecuronium at
      the same time would be significant in light of the limitations of cholinesterase inhibitors.
      These drugs are more often administered after the long acting NMBAs taking into account their
      prolonged clinical duration of action.

      It is expected that the dose of sugammadex 4 mg/kg will allow to recover the TOF ratio to 0.9
      in less than 4 min and in this case this time will be similar to the recovery time after
      moderate pancuronium-induced blockade.

      *NMBAs-neuromuscular blocking agents

      2.3 Study Design

        1. A single center, randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, safety-assessor
           (single) blinded trial

        2. Adult patients undergoing abdominal surgery under general anesthesia who receive
           succinylcholine for tracheal intubation and pipecuronium for maintenance of
           neuromuscular blockade. Planned number of subjects - 42

        3. Patients will be randomised into 2 groups to receive at the end of surgery 4 mg/kg of
           sugammadex or 3 ml of saline (placebo) for reversal of pipecuronium-induced
           neuromuscular blockade. According to the sample size justification randomization will be
           done with the ratio of 1:2 - 14 patients will be enrolled in the placebo group and 28
           patients - in sugammadex group

        4. Neuromuscular function will be monitored using the objective neuromuscular monitoring
           with the TOF-Watch® SX acceleromyograph at the adductor pollicis muscle, starting after
           induction of anesthesia (before succinylcholine and pipecuronium administration) and
           continuing at least until recovery of the TOF ratio to 0.9

        5. The primary efficacy variable is the time from the start of sugammadex or placebo
           administration (reappearance of T2) to recovery of the TOF ratio to 0.9

        6. The secondary efficacy variable is the time from the start of sugammadex or placebo
           administration to the time of extubation

        7. Safety assessment is going to be done in order to evaluate the safety and tolerability
           of sugammadex for reversal of pipecuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade (analysis of
           AEs and vital signs)

           Safety variables:

             -  Vital signs, i.e. heart rate and blood pressure (at screening, pre-pipecuronium,
                pre-sugammadex or pre-placebo, at 2, 5, 10, and 30 minutes post-sugammadex or
                post-placebo, and at the post-anesthetic visit)

             -  Physical examination (at screening, at the post-anesthetic visit)

             -  Pre-treatment (serious) events (from signing informed consent until administration
                of sugammadex or placebo) and (serious) adverse events ((S)AEs, from administration
                of sugammadex or placebo up to the end of trial)

        8. Descriptive Variables:

             -  Time from OR admission (physical placement of subject into the OR) to actual OR
                discharge

             -  Time from start of sugammadex or placebo administration to actual OR discharge

             -  Time from tracheal extubation to actual OR or PACU discharge

             -  Time from PACU admission to actual PACU discharge

             -  Number of patients extubated in the OR in both groups
    
  