
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of conventional vs hypofractionated high-dose
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy in patients with localized prostate cancer.

        -  Determine the side effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine whether hypofractionated radiotherapy schedules will improve the therapeutic
           ratio by either improving tumor control or reducing normal tissue side effects.

        -  Compare acute and late treatment-related gastrointestinal and urological toxicity in
           these patients.

        -  Determine different prostate-specific antigen-related endpoints for local failure and
           distant metastases.

        -  Extend the database of patients treated to escalated doses with dose-volume histograms
           (DVHs) of normal tissues at risk and relate these to common toxicity endpoints.

        -  Develop a model to estimate normal tissue complication probability (NTCP) of rectum and
           bladder for hypofractionated as well as conventional dose-escalated radiotherapy
           schedules.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, pilot study. Patients are stratified according to
      risk of seminal vesicle involvement (low-risk vs moderate-risk or high-risk).

        -  Hormone therapy: Patients receive androgen-deprivation therapy comprising an injection
           of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist once monthly for 3-6 months and
           oral cyproterone acetate beginning the week before the first LHRH agonist injection and
           continuing for at least 2 weeks after each LHRH agonist injection. Within one week after
           the last LHRH agonist injection, patients proceed to radiotherapy.

        -  Radiotherapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients undergo conventional high-dose intensity-modulated radiotherapy
                (IMRT) in 37 fractions over 7.5 weeks.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo hypofractionated high-dose IMRT in 20 fractions over 4
                weeks.

             -  Arm III: Patients undergo hypofractionated high-dose IMRT in 19 fractions over 3.8
                weeks.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed periodically during study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 15 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,163 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  