
    
      This is a multi-disciplinary research study with five investigators from different, yet
      complementary, disciplines to establish this new collaboration. There is a high translational
      potential for information gained from this project based on the collaboration of a
      rheumatologist, a dentist, oral biologists, and infectious disease experts with expertise in
      immunology, microbiology, and genomics. In brief, RA participants will be recruited by the
      rheumatologist. A total of 100 participants will be recruited for two groups to be studied;
      one group of subjects with RA and the other group will be healthy controls. These two groups
      will be divided into the following groups for participation in the study: Group 1: will
      consist of 25 RA adult subjects who have not been treated with biologics which will be
      compared to 25 healthy controls from age-matched members of the same household. Group 2 will
      consist of 25 RA adult subjects responsive to first line anti-TNF therapy which will be
      compared to 25 subjects of the same age and sex with RA who are resistant to two or more TNF
      antagonists. The participants will be scheduled for a research study visit at the University
      of Florida Dental Clinic Research Unit. During the exam the following will take place: the
      multidimensional health assessment questionnaire (MDHAQ), dental exam, saliva collection, and
      dental plaque will be removed from different tooth surfaces for supragingival.

      The supragingival will be subjected to deep sequencing in the genomics lab. To test two
      specific aims: 1) testing the hypothesis that oral microbiome profiles based on 16S RNA data
      are associated with the development of RA or with the response to a specific therapy, and 2)
      testing the hypothesis that the specific genes, variants, and functional capabilities
      (metagenome) are associated with RA or with therapeutic response. Upon completion of this
      pilot study, the investigators will have systematically identified bacterial biomarkers (e.g.
      species, subspecies, genes) that correlate with RA and may serve as potential targets for
      disease treatment. These markers may be developed into new drug targets for RA therapy in
      future studies.
    
  