
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by severe disability and metabolic changes leading
      to an increase in cardiovascular mortality compared with the general population. RA is an
      independent cardiovascular risk factor. In contrast to the general population, RA patients
      with low body mass index (BMI) had a significantly higher risk of cardiovascular death. Low
      BMI may indicate rheumatoid cachexia and may explain the excess cardiovascular risk and
      mortality. Cachexia is defined by is a loss of body cell mass, predominantly in skeletal
      muscle, associated with increased fat mass and often stable weight. Rheumatoid cachexia, not
      well recognized, is frequent, affecting two third of patients. Pathogenesis may include
      inflammatory cytokine production, physical inactivity, higher catabolism and reduced
      peripheral insulin action. Therapeutic strategy includes increasing physical activity and the
      treatment of disease itself. Studies have shown that regular progressive resistance strength
      training improves strength and pain in patients with well-controlled RA without exacerbating
      disease activity or joint pain. At comparable mechanical power output, eccentric (ECC )
      exercises are characterised by lower metabolic demand than concentric (CON) exercises. ECC
      exercise is characterised not only by its low energy cost, but also by specific
      cardiocirculatory specificity. In patients with Parkinson's disease, compared to a
      conventional rehabilitation programme, ECC training better improved quadriceps muscle volume.
      In overweight and diabetic patients, ECC training improved resting energy expenditure and fat
      oxidation, blood lipid profile and insulin resistance compared to CON training. As in
      cancers, ECC training appears to be particularly suitable for patients with rheumatoid
      cachexia as it can maximize the functional and structural muscle responses with low energy
      cost populations.

      This study aimed to determine the muscle effects of ECC training, with the primary outcome
      being the knee extensor strength gain at 3 months. Secondary outcomes are the improvement in
      muscle mass, functional status and cardiovascular risk. From patients who consented in ECC
      training group, muscle biopsy specimens from vastus lateralis will be obtained at baseline
      prior to the training period. Primary and secondary outcome criteria will be assessed at
      inclusion, at 3 months, and 6 months.

      In total, 48 patients will need to be recruited. These patients will be randomly assigned to
      one of the 3 groups, with each group comprising 16 patients: group 1 with ECC training, group
      2 with CONC training, group 3 with no training (control). The training program will consist
      in 30 sessions over 12 weeks.
    
  