
    
      Patellofemoral disorders make up about 20% of all knee pathologies and are often a source of
      diagnostic and therapeutic doubts for the orthopedic surgeon. In fact, the origin of this
      type of disorder is multifactorial and they can occur in the form of a large variety of
      clinical pictures with different penetrance in each patient.

      In accordance with the classification of Dejour et al., the instability of the patella can be
      divided into traumatic and a-traumatic (recurrent or habitual). The latter patients may
      present a variety of anatomical anomalies that predispose to dislocation: patella hypoplasia,
      genu recurvatum, conditions of ligament hyperlassity, hypoplastic external femoral condyle,
      trochlear dysplasia, high patella, torsional defects of the lower limb.

      The incidence of patella dislocation is estimated to be 5.8 cases per 100,000 people, with
      values that become five times higher in patients aged between 10 and 17 years. Conservative
      treatment is preferable in the first case of acute dislocation, however the recurrence of
      this episode occurs in a percentage equal to 15 - 44% in these subjects.

      Many surgical interventions have been described to correct the various factors that
      predispose to patellofemoral instability, with variable success rates (72% with the Hauser
      technique and 93% with the Roux-Goldthwait technique, 73% with that of Fielding et at. and
      78% with that of Trillat. after a long follow-up.

      On the other hand, Crosby and Insall, Arnbjornsson et al. and Marcacci et al. have
      demonstrated a similar clinical outcome in long-term controlled studies but an increase in
      degenerative changes in operated patients compared to patients treated conservatively. This
      can be explained by the fact that often a single procedure is not sufficient on its own to
      resolve such a complex pathology, or with the fact that the operations used so far
      excessively increase the pressures on the patellofemoral cartilage with subsequent arthrosic
      degeneration.

      The medial patello-femoral ligament (MPFL) is one of the main stabilizers of the patella in
      its movement on the femur; numerous studies have recently shown that this ligament is damaged
      in almost all cases, thus recognizing the role of structure that most limits the patella in
      its lateral dislocation to the MPFL (biomechanically speaking about 50 - 60% of the force).
      Following these studies, the reconstruction of the MPFL as an elective treatment for
      relapsing patella dislocation has recently been proposed. Currently, countless surgical
      techniques have been proposed that use various types of grafts: autologous tendons (the first
      in 1990 from Suganuma et al.), donor tendons (allograft) and synthetic ligaments.

      Our team recently developed a minimally invasive MPFL reconstruction technique using an
      allograft tendon of the fascia lata. The rationale for this technique is to stabilize the
      patella and limit medium-long term patellofemoral arthritic degeneration by restoring the
      MPFL in the most anatomical way possible, not using a tubular graft but an aponevrosis with
      biomechanical characteristics similar to the MPFL native. The MPFL reconstruction can be used
      alone or in association with the realignment of the extensor system by transposition of the
      anterior tibial tuberosity, managing to correct most of the recurrent patellofemoral
      instabilities. Only in very serious particular cases is it necessary perform additional
      procedures that are more invasive and have a more uncertain clinical result (such as
      Trocleoplasty).

      The objective of the present study will be to evaluate the clinical patellofemoral joint
      function (primary endpoint) and radiographically the patellofemoral arthritic degeneration
      (secondary endpoint) of of MPFL reconstruction with fascia lata allograft at a minimum
      follow-up of 2, 5 and 10 years in a group of 25 patients.

      Sample is represented by 25 patients underwent MPFL reconstruction using a minimally invasive
      technique using a donor-sided fascia tendon (allograft) performed at the Rizzoli Orthopedic
      Institute between 2011 and 2015 by the team of Prof. Marcacci.

      Any concomitant treatments: treatment of associated meniscal lesions (meniscectomy),
      reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), realignment of the extensor system by
      transposition of the anterior tibial tuberosity (intervention by Elmsile-Trillat).

      Follow-up visit will be carried out at 2, 5 and 10 years of average follow-up. The "non
      parametric Wilcoxon" and "paired Student's t-test" tests will be used to determine the
      changes between the various follow-up intervals in the outcome measurements respectively for
      the non-parametric variables (Tegner activity level) and for the parametric ones ( SF-12
      test, VAS pain test, KOOS test, Kujala test, "tilt" and "sulcus" angles, "Insall-Salvati"
      report).

      The changes between the various follow-up intervals in the objective IKDC score and in the
      Iwano score will be assessed by means of the "Pearson chi-square test".

      All "p values" will be 2-tailed; the significance level will be defined at p ≤ 0.05.
    
  