
    
      This study will determine the following:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To estimate the ocular survival and event-free survival of bilateral disease patients
           with advanced intraocular retinoblastoma in either eye (R-E IV-V) responding to the
           vincristine/topotecan window, with alternating cycles of vincristine and carboplatin
           with vincristine, topotecan, and periocular carboplatin, with intensive focal
           treatments.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To estimate the ocular survival of eye and event-free survival of eye of bilateral
           disease patients with advanced intraocular retinoblastoma in either eye (R-E IV-V)
           responding to the vincristine/topotecan window, with alternating cycles of vincristine
           and carboplatin with vincristine, topotecan, and periocular carboplatin, with intensive
           focal treatments.

        -  To estimate the ocular survival and event free survival of patients with advanced
           intraocular retinoblastoma (R-E IV-V) not responding to the vincristine/topotecan
           window, with a combination of vincristine, carboplatin, etoposide, and periocular
           carboplatin, with intensive focal treatments.

        -  To estimate the ocular survival and event free survival of eye of patients with advanced
           intraocular retinoblastoma (R-E IV-V) not responding to the vincristine/topotecan
           window, with a combination of vincristine, carboplatin, etoposide, and periocular
           carboplatin, with intensive focal treatments.

        -  To estimate the ocular survival and event-free survival of patients with early stage
           intraocular retinoblastoma (R-E I-III) with vincristine and carboplatin with intensive
           focal treatments.

        -  To estimate the ocular survival of eye and event-free survival of eye of patients with
           early stage intraocular retinoblastoma (R-E I-III) with vincristine and carboplatin with
           intensive focal treatments.

        -  To estimate the response rate of early stage eyes (R-E I-III) in patients with
           contralateral advanced disease treated with vincristine and topotecan.

        -  To estimate the ocular survival and event-free survival of early stage eyes (R-E I-III)
           of patients with contralateral advanced disease treated with vincristine and topotecan.

        -  To describe the outcome of intraocular retinoblastoma with respect to the new
           International Classification for Intraocular Retinoblastoma and the AJCC.

        -  To describe primary visual cortex function in patients with unilateral and bilateral
           retinoblastoma.

        -  To describe the cognitive, adaptive, and social/emotional development of children with
           retinoblastoma.

        -  To describe changes in the pineal gland during treatment in patients with bilateral
           retinoblastoma.

        -  To assess the relation between CYP3A4/5 genotype and the pharmacokinetics and
           pharmacodynamics of topotecan.

        -  To assess the relation between ABCG2 genotype and the pharmacokinetics and
           pharmacodynamics of topotecan.

        -  To determine if carboplatin can produce changes in cochlear function that are detectable
           with measurement of otoacoustic emissions.

        -  To evaluate the need for and feasibility of starting early intervention support during
           the first year after the diagnosis of retinoblastoma.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To provide insight into molecular pathogenesis of retinoblastoma.

        -  To describe the incidence and type of germline mutations of the RB gene in patients with
           retinoblastoma.
    
  