
    
      Currently, outpatient psychiatric settings are plagued by long wait times and are often
      unable to accommodate all individuals seeking services. Furthermore, a lack of trained
      therapists in these settings means that many treatment seekers do not have access to
      empirically supported psychotherapeutic treatments such as cognitive behavioral therapy.
      "Beating the Blues" (BtB) is a computerized, internet-delivered, cognitive behavioral
      treatment for depression. BtB is highly scalable and might enable a larger proportion of
      individuals to receive cognitive behavioral therapy in a psychiatric setting while also
      reducing therapist time. Although computerized CBT interventions have proven effective in
      primary care settings, there is no research demonstrating the effectiveness of cCBT in
      secondary care settings in the United States. Thus the primary goal of the proposed research
      is to test the efficacy of BtB in a specialty care sample.

      Patients presenting to these settings tend to have more severe and complex psychopathology
      than those presenting to primary care. Although BtB is likely effective, computerized
      treatments do carry a higher risk of dropout and non-response. Therefore, reliable and valid
      predictors of response are needed to determine who is most likely to respond to the
      treatment, versus who is likely to fail or drop out. Thus the second aim of the current
      proposal is to pilot an assessment procedure containing a number of potential predictors of
      cCBT response and investigate these predictors for inclusion in a larger validation study.

      The current trial is a pilot study with a randomized waitlist control design with optional
      delayed treatment for individuals randomized to the waitlist condition. For the first phase,
      the investigators will enroll 90 treatment-seeking adults 18 or older recruited from a pool
      of individuals seeking outpatient psychiatric services at a hospital clinic. Sixty (n=60)
      individuals will be assigned immediate treatment group with BtB plus telephone and email
      support, and n=30 to the waitlist/delayed BtB plus telephone and email support group.
      Efficacy will be assessed over 8 weeks using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (pre to
      post treatment) and the PHQ9 (measured at weeks 1-8). There will also be a 1-year follow-up
      survey with biweekly symptom assessments throughout the year for treatment responders (weeks
      9-61). Potential predictors of outcome include demographics, CBT skills, personality
      measures, cognitive functioning, measures of attitudes and beliefs, social functioning,
      psychiatric comorbidity and depression illness characteristics, and psychophysiological
      measures. A second phase will enroll sixty individuals (n=60), who will be assigned immediate
      treatment group in order to validate the predictive model constructed during Phase 1.
    
  