
    
      The study will focus on the following primary objectives:

        1. Enumerate the prevalence of musculoskeletal, sensory, and fitness impairments among
           adult survivors of childhood ALL. The study hypothesizes that adult survivors of
           childhood ALL will have a higher prevalence of musculoskeletal, sensory and fitness
           impairments than a control group frequency matched on race/ethnicity, age, and gender.

        2. Evaluate the association between personal and treatment factors and musculoskeletal,
           sensory and fitness impairments. The study hypothesizes that:

             -  Female gender, younger age at diagnosis, and cranial radiation will be associated
                with decreased lean body mass.

             -  Female gender, younger age at diagnosis, and type of glucocorticoid (dexamethasone
                vs. prednisone) treatment will be associated with muscle weakness.

             -  Sensory loss will vary as a function of age, with participants diagnosed at 12+
                years of age demonstrating vincristine related sensory loss, and those diagnosed at
                <12 years of age demonstrating dexamethasone and/or intrathecal methotrexate
                related sensory loss.

             -  Fitness impairments will be evident in participants who received 100 mg/m2+ of
                anthracyclines.

      The study will focus on the secondary objectives:

        1. Compare physical activity patterns between adult survivors of childhood ALL and a
           frequency matched control group. The study hypothesizes that adult survivors of
           childhood ALL will demonstrate lower levels of physical activity as measured with an
           activity monitor (accelerometer), and will report lower levels of overall physical
           activity, when compared to members of the comparison group.

        2. Describe the association between habitual physical activity and energy expenditure among
           ALL survivors. The study hypothesizes that activity levels, measured with the
           accelerometer, will be positively correlated with energy expenditure, measured using the
           doubly labeled water technique.

        3. Explore the associations between musculoskeletal and sensory health, and physical
           activity patterns among adult survivors of childhood ALL. The study hypothesizes that
           adult survivors of childhood ALL with lower proportions of lean muscle mass and/or
           sensory loss indicating peripheral neuropathy will demonstrate the lowest levels of
           physical activity.
    
  