
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To demonstrate the efficacy of performing reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic
           hematopoietic cell transplantation in patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies or
           secondary myelodysplasia after completion of prior high-dose chemotherapy and autologous
           hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

        -  To compare the strategy of this regimen with the strategy used in CALGB-100002.

      Secondary

        -  To describe the response rate at 6 and 12 months in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To describe the time-to-progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the ability to use pharmacokinetic-directed busulfan to achieve AUC within
           20% of target AUC in > 80% of patients.

        -  To determine percent of donor chimerism in T-cell, myeloid and B-cell populations
           achieved with this regimen compared with CALGB-100002.

        -  To determine the risk of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease and other
           toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To describe the overall survival and disease-free survival of patients treated on this
           regimen.

        -  To determine the rate of viral, bacterial, and fungal opportunistic infections occurring
           in the first year after transplantation compared with CALGB-100002.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Preparative Regimen:

             -  Busulfan test dose: Patients receive busulfan IV over 45 minutes once during days
                -14 and -9.

             -  Busulfan treatment dose: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes
                on days -7 to -3 and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3.

        -  Graft-vs-Host Disease (GVHD) Prophylaxis:

             -  HLA-identical donor: Patients receive antithymocyte globulin IV over 6-10 hours on
                days -6 to -5; oral tacrolimus twice daily on days -2 to 90 followed by a taper* as
                tolerated until day 150 or 180; and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

      NOTE: * Tacrolimus may be tapered on days 60-90 if donor chimerism of CD3+ cells is < 50% at
      day 60 or patient has progressive disease.

        -  Matched-unrelated donor: Patients receive antithymocyte globulin, tacrolimus, and
           methotrexate as in HLA-identical donor regimen. Patients also receive oral mycophenolate
           mofetil twice daily on days 0 to 60.

             -  Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood
                stem cell transplantation on days 0 and 1. Patients then receive filgrastim
                subcutaneously daily beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

             -  Donor Lymphocyte Infusion (DLI): After day 180 (or day 210 for patients without an
                HLA-identical donor), patients with stable or progressive disease and no active
                GVHD may receive up to 3 DLIs every 8 weeks.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and then periodically during study therapy for
      pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for up to 5½ years.
    
  