
    
      Sepsis is the most common cause of death and the most expensive condition among hospitalized
      patients in the U.S. The delivery of high-quality care for sepsis necessitates optimal
      institutional functionality and availability of adequate healthcare personnel and resources.
      However, since the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic hit the U.S., fear of
      acquisition of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has resulted in
      fewer patients with acute conditions seeking hospitalization. Furthermore, the rapid
      onslaught of COVID-19 admissions has profoundly strained hospital supplies, personnel and
      care processes and left little time to re-calibrate the management of other acute conditions
      that share these resources. As such, the impact on the detection, triage, monitoring,
      resuscitation, and outcome of patients with sepsis is currently unknown. Large administrative
      and clinical data repositories of inpatient discharges that are populated in near-real time
      may enable study of contemporaneous inpatients with COVID-19 and sepsis (without COVID-19)
      respectively.

      We aim to:

      Aim 1: Determine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the incidence of hospital admission
      for non-COVID-19-related sepsis and septic shock and the proportion of these patients that
      receive Intensive Care Unit-level care. This analysis will assess for dynamic changes in the
      number of patients developing and/or seeking hospital care for sepsis and septic shock during
      the pandemic and whether the burden of critically ill and mechanically ventilated patients
      with COVID-19 may have impacted the threshold for providing ICU-level care to patients with
      sepsis and septic shock

      Aim 2: Determine the trend in risk-adjusted mortality among patients admitted with
      non-COVID-19-related sepsis and septic shock during the pandemic. This analysis will indicate
      whether being hospitalized for sepsis/septic shock during vs. prior to the pandemic was
      associated with any change survival. An analysis will be performed to identify prognostic
      factors associated with non-COVID-19-related sepsis and septic shock.

      Aim 3: Determine the impact of COVID-19-specific center-level characteristics (e.g. case
      volume, multi-ICU status, intubation threshold) on risk-adjusted mortality of
      non-COVID-19-related sepsis and septic shock during the pandemic period. Identification and
      modification of pandemic-related triage and processes that impact survival in sepsis may help
      preserve quality of care when health systems are strained.

      Aim 4: Determine the impact of COVID-19 on processes of care in the management of sepsis:
      This aim will investigate whether COVID-19 has impacted key quality processes in the
      management of patients with sepsis present on admission (POA).
    
  