
    
      The proposed research will engage a new cohort of young men, whose female partners are
      already engaged in the Kampala Women's Bone Study. Women in the Kampala Women's Bone Study
      will be invited to engage in this novel study to recruit their male partners. Women's HIV
      risk is directly related to the HIV status and risk of their male sexual partners and thus,
      we will leverage our ongoing cohort of KWBS young women to recruit their male sexual partners
      for a new men's study. Men will be offered PrEP, diagnostic STI testing and treatment, and
      followed for 6 months to assess PrEP continuation and STIs. Men's data will be linked to data
      from their female sex partners in the parallel KWBS study to determine whether women's PrEP
      use aligns with HIV risk and exposure.

      B. Study Aims Aim 1. To determine whether young women's adherence to PrEP aligns with the HIV
      status of their male partners Men engaging in this study will have HIV testing at enrollment,
      month 1 and quarterly for up to 6 months. Results from this testing will be linked to data
      from the participant's female sex partner that characterize her PrEP use to determine whether
      her PrEP use aligns with his HIV status.

      Aim 2. To determine whether young women's adherence to PrEP aligns with the HIV risk of their
      male partners Men engaging in this study will have testing for common curable STIs (Chlamydia
      trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae) at enrollment, month 1 and quarterly for up to 6
      months. Results from this testing will be linked to data from the participant's female sex
      partner that characterize her PrEP use to determine whether her PrEP use aligns with his HIV
      risk (defined by the results from his STI testing).

      Aim 3. To determine whether young men's adherence to PrEP aligns with the HIV status and risk
      of their female partners We will offer PrEP to HIV-negative men enrolled in this study and
      track PrEP initiation, refills, and adherence to PrEP (based on self-report and drug levels).
      The frequency of high PrEP adherence will be compared among men with female partners infected
      and uninfected with HIV or another STI.

      C. Primary exposure The primary exposure is male infection with HIV (Aim 1), NG or CT (Aim 2)
      and female infection with HIV, NG, or CT (Aim 3).

      D. Primary outcomes The primary outcome will be PrEP used by women with sufficient daily
      adherence to confer HIV protection (6-7 doses in the past week or TFV ≥40ng/mL) for periods
      when women are dispensed PrEP. When PrEP is not dispensed, the TFV level will be assigned as
      0 ng/mL.

      For Aim 3, the primary outcome will be PrEP used by men with sufficient daily adherence to
      confer HIV protection (4 doses in the past
    
  