
    
      The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are bone marrow disorders characterized by anemia,
      neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Patients with MDS are at risk for symptomatic anemia,
      infection, and bleeding, as well as a variable risk of progression to acute leukemia. With
      the exception of stem cell transplant, the standard treatments for MDS are rarely curative,
      and relapse rates are significant. MDS patients with cytopenias who fail standard therapies
      require regular blood or platelet transfusions which are expensive and inconvenient, and are
      at risk for serious bleeding complications.

      Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the principal regulator of platelet production by megakaryocytes in
      the bone marrow. A 2nd generation TPO-agonist, eltrombopag (Promacta ) has been shown to
      increase platelets in thrombocytopenic patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura
      (ITP). Eltrombopag is administered orally, is well-tolerated, and is FDA approved for the
      treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic ITP who failed to respond to standard
      treatment.

      Because the management of MDS patients with persistent cytopenias remains unsatisfactory and
      novel therapeutic approaches are needed, we propose a non-randomized, pilot, phase II study
      of eltrombopag in low to Int-2 risk MDS subjects with thrombocytopenia and anemia cytopenias
      who are either untreated or cytopenias that persist despite treatment with standard therapies
      to assess its utility in these settings.

      Subjects will initiate study medication at an oral dose of 50 mg/day (25 mg/day for East
      Asians), which will be adjusted as clinically indicated to the lowest dose that maintains a
      stable platelet count greater than or equal to 20,000/microL above baseline while maximizing
      tolerability. Treatment response will be any increase in a cytopenia, in the lineage that
      fulfilled eligibility criteria for enrollment and will be defined as: (a) platelet count
      increases to 20,000/microL above baseline at 16 or 20 weeks , or stable platelet counts with
      transfusion independence for a minimum of 8 weeks in subjects who were previously transfusion
      dependent; (b) erythroid response for subjects with a pretreatment hemoglobin of less than 9
      g/dL will be defined as an increase in hemoglobin by greater than or equal to 1.5g/dL without
      packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion support, or a reduction in the units of PRBC
      transfusions by at least 50% during the eight consecutive weeks prior to response assessment
      compared with the pretreatment transfusion number in the previous 8 weeks; (c) neutrophil
      response will be defined in those with a pretreatment absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of <
      0.5 times 10(9)/L as at least a 100% increase or an absolute increase > 0.5 times 10(9)/L.
      Subjects meeting a response may remain on the extended access until they meet an off study
      criteria or the study is closed.

      Subjects with response at 16 or 20 weeks may be consented for entry into the extended access
      part of the trial. In the event that a subject is transfused platelets for a count
      >10,000/microL without a medical indication during the study period, the subject may continue
      on study drug and the response assessment may be extended for an additional 4 weeks to week
      20, at the discretion of the principal investigator. Subjects with evidence for a clinical
      response in any lineage at 16 weeks but not yet meeting full primary endpoint response
      criteria, and who are tolerating investigational treatment, may receive an additional 4 weeks
      of eltrombopag and be reassessed after 20 weeks. At that time, if they meet primary endpoint
      response criteria, they will be eligible to enter the extended access part of the study. If
      they do not meet primary endpoint response criteria, eltrombopag will be discontinued.

      Primary objective is to assess the efficacy of eltrombopag in patients with low to Int-2 risk
      MDS. Safety of eltrombopag in this subject population will be assessed concurrently.

      Secondary objectives include the toxicity profile of extended treatment with eltrombopag
      (treatment longer than 4 months), reduction in incidence and severity of bleeding episodes,
      and response following extended access to study drug (treatment longer than 4 months).

      The primary endpoint will be the portion of drug responders as defined by changes in the
      platelet count and/or platelet transfusion requirements, or the proportion of subjects who
      meet erythroid response, or neutrophil response criteria.. Platelet response is defined as
      platelet count increases to 20,000/microL above baseline at 16 or 20 weeks, or stable
      platelet counts with transfusion independence for a minimum of 8 weeks. Erythroid response
      for subjects with a pretreatment hemoglobin of less than 9 g/dL will be defined as an
      increase in hemoglobin by greater than or equal to 1.5g/dL without packed red blood cell
      (PRBC) transfusion support, or a reduction in the units of PRBC transfusions by at least 50%
      during the eight consecutive weeks prior to response assessment compared with the
      pretreatment transfusion number in the previous 8 weeks. Neutrophil response will be defined
      in those with a pretreatment absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of <0.5 times 10(9)/L as at
      least a 100% increase or an absolute increase > 0.5 times 10(9)/L. Subjects with an
      erythroid, and/or neutrophil response at 16 weeks may continue study medication (extended
      access) until they meet an off study criteria. Subjects with erythroid, or neutrophil
      response at 16 weeks may continue study medication for an additional 4 weeks (to ensure
      eligibility) prior to being consented for entry into the extended access part of the trial.
      Patients may remain on the extended access until they met an off study criteria.

      The toxicity profile will be measured using the CTCAE Version 4.0 criteria.

      Secondary endpoints will include incidence of grade 2 or higher bleeding events as measured
      by CTCAE v. 4.0; changes in serum thrombopoietin level, measured at 4 months; and progression
      to higher risk MDS as measured by IWG criteria.
    
  