
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Few studies of progression of atherosclerotic peripheral vascular disease have been performed
      and none have used objective methods to evaluate disease progression in a large number of
      symptomatic subjects. The study is of obvious major clinical importance. Elevated plasma
      homocysteine is well established as an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis. If folate
      treatment results in less frequent/rapid progression of peripheral vascular disease, then it
      will be confirmed as the first effective treatment for atherosclerosis which is without toxic
      side effects and does not involve major changes in life/dietary habits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The Homocysteine and Progression of Atherosclerosis Study (HPAS) is a long term, prospective,
      blinded, multifactoral clinical study which began in 1991 to study the relationship between
      elevated plasma homocysteine (HC) as well as a number of other risk factors and PVD
      progression. The study is divided into two phases, conducted sequentially upon 400 patients
      with symptomatic lower extremity (LED) and cerebrovascular disease (CVD). The first phase was
      a three year natural history study in which relationship of progression of peripheral
      vascular disease to plasma homocysteine and other risk factors was established. The clinical
      question addressed by the natural history study was: Do patients with symptomatic peripheral
      vascular disease and elevated plasma homocysteine have more rapid/frequent progression of
      peripheral vascular disease than patients with symptomatic peripheral vascular disease and
      normal plasma homocysteine? Progression of disease was assessed by the primary outcome
      variables of ankle brachial pressure index and degree of carotid artery stenosis, as
      determined in the noninvasive vascular laboratory, and by secondary outcome variables
      including vascular death, need for vascular surgery, stroke, myocardial infarction,
      amputation, and other clinical events. All outcome variables were determined by investigators
      blinded to the results of plasma homocysteine testing.

      The second phase of the study, which began in August, 1995, is a blinded, prospective,
      randomized, placebo-controlled trial of folic acid treatment of elevated plasma homocysteine
      in the same patient population. Folic acid treatment has been demonstrated to result in
      normalization of elevated plasma homocysteine. The treatment trial addresses the clinical
      question: Do patients with symptomatic peripheral vascular disease and elevated plasma
      homocysteine treated with folate have less frequent/rapid progression of peripheral vascular
      disease than patients with symptomatic peripheral vascular disease and elevated plasma
      homocysteine treated with placebo? Although the second phase is described as a clinical
      trial, the Surgery and Bioengineering Study Section describes it as clinical research, not an
      NIH-defined Phase III trial.

      The study was renewed in FY 1999 through 2003 to continue follow-up and analysis.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  