
    
      Patients admitted to Stanford Hospital and Clinics medical and surgical units meeting the
      study's inclusion and exclusion criteria will be considered for enrollment during the
      recruitment phase.

      The research personnel, under the supervision of the study PI (an expert in delirium), will
      perform daily study procedures as follows:

      A member of the research team will obtain a list of all newly admitted patients from the
      prior 24 hours each Monday through Friday morning from the unit's nurse manager. A member of
      the research team will also look at daily operating room schedules for patients to be
      admitted to participating units post-operatively, having received permission to do so from
      the directors of participating medical/surgical services. Given that the purpose of this tool
      is to screen for a condition that may occur in medically ill patients, every newly admitted
      patient or their surrogate (for those lacking decisional making capacity), meeting inclusion
      criteria will be approached for participation in the study and asked to provide consent.
      Patients lacking capacity for consent will not be automatically excluded, given that the
      inclusion of delirious patients is critical for adequate evaluation of the S-PTD, and most
      delirious patients, by definition, lack capacity to provide informed consent. We will ask for
      the consent from surrogate decision makers in these cases.

      In addition, it is anticipated that some patients who meet eligibility will be unable to sign
      a consent form due to physical limitations related to their hospitalization (e.g. patients
      recovering from recent surgery). If a patient is unable to sign the consent form due to
      physical limitations, oral consent will be obtained. Oral consent will also be used in the
      event that a patient lacks capacity and has no surrogate decision-maker at bedside, but a
      surrogate decision-maker is available by phone. For Spanish-speaking patients, consent will
      be obtained by the same procedures utilizing Spanish-language written/oral consent, with the
      help of SHC interpreter services.

      For each patient that consents to participate in the study, the nurse assigned to that
      patient during the shift will be approached. These nurses will additionally be asked to
      provide consent, as they are also subjects of the study.

      All patients will be followed for the duration of their hospital stay (expected to average 5
      days), to a maximum of two weeks, except in the case of delirious patients, who will be
      followed until the resolution of the episode of delirium.

      Every day, enrolled patients will undergo two, separate evaluations. Towards the end of their
      shift (within the last 2-hrs of each shift) the patient's nurse will complete the S-PTD,
      utilizing all available data from the entire nursing shift (8-12 hours, depending the unit's
      shift mode), which allows nurses to take into account all of nurse's interactions and
      observations across the entire shift (including direct interactions between the patient and
      the nurse, family and all clinical staff). In addition, patients will undergo a clinical
      neuropsychiatric examination performed by a neuropsychiatrist (the gold standard), estimated
      to take about 5 minutes. The examiners will be blind to the results of each other's exam.
      Finally, a member of the research team, blind to the results of the previous tests, will
      conduct a separate interview of the patient's nurse towards the end of the shift in order
      collect the nurse's forms and evaluate the nurse's opinions regarding the ease to complete
      the S-PTD.

      Later the results of the S-PTD will be compared against the results of the neuropsychiatric
      examination. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive
      value of the S-PTD will be calculated as compared to the results of clinical neuropsychiatric
      evaluation based on DSM-5 criteria.
    
  