
    
      Normally chronic tumor related pain is controlled when subjects receive repeated doses of
      opioid analgesics. However, opioid therapy is commonly associated with side effects such as
      nausea, vomiting, sedation, constipation, addiction, tolerance, and respiratory depression.
      Tapentadol, a newly synthesized drug with an Prolonged Release (ER) formulation, also acts as
      a centrally acting pain reliever but has a dual mode of action.

      The aim of this trial is to investigate the effectiveness (level of pain control) and safety
      (side effects) of Tapentadol Prolonged Release (ER) compared to a tablet with no active
      ingredient drug (placebo) and a corresponding dose of Morphine (an opioid commonly used to
      treat tumor related pain). This trial is a randomized, double-blind (neither investigator nor
      patient will know which treatment was received), active- and placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group, randomized-withdrawal, multicenter trial. To maintain the blind all subjects
      were re-randomized at the start of the maintenance period. To maintain the blind all
      tapentadol subjects were re-randomized at the start of the maintenance period. Subjects that
      received morphine in the titration period continued in the maintenance period on morphine.

      The trial includes a 2 week titration phase starting with either 45 mg Morphine Sulfate
      Controlled Release (CR) twice daily or 100 mg tapentadol ER taken twice daily (bid). Based on
      effectiveness and side effects participants can up-titrate in steps of 50 mg Tapentadol ER or
      15 mg Morphine Sulfate CR to a maximal dose of 250 mg Tapentadol ER bid or 90 mg Morphine
      Sulfate CR twice daily respectively. If subjects meet the stabilization criteria at the end
      of the titration phase they will be re-randomized to either placebo or active treatment and
      will continue 4 weeks at the last dose level in the maintenance phase.

      Assessments of pain relief, defined as a responder include the pain intensity numeric rating
      scale (NRS). The Patient Global Impression of Change scale (PGIC) will also be used as a
      secondary efficacy endpoint. Safety evaluations include monitoring of adverse events,
      physical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. Venous blood samples will be collected
      for the determination of serum concentrations of tapentadol.
    
  