
    
      Trichotillomania (TTM) is a chronic impulse control disorder that causes people to pull out
      their own hair. TTM typically develops in late childhood or early adolescence. It has been
      suggested that, like with obsessive-compulsive disorder, early identification and treatment
      of TTM might prevent the disorder and other co-occurring disorders in adults. The researchers
      in this study have developed the first treatment for TTM to target children and adolescents.
      Preliminary trials of this treatment, called behavior therapy (BT), indicate efficacy. This
      study is a larger, more rigorous examination of whether BT can successfully treat children
      and adolescents with TTM.

      Participation in this study will be divided into two phases, each lasting 8 weeks. Follow-up
      visits will occur 3 and 6 months after completing treatment. In Phase 1, participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive either BT or supportive counseling (SC) for their TTM. Both
      groups of participants will complete eight weekly study visits. Those receiving BT will be
      encouraged to identify situations in which hair pulling is likely to occur and use behavioral
      techniques to resist urges to pull their hair. BT will also involve self-monitoring and
      homework throughout the week. Those receiving SC will discuss ways to minimize interference
      of hair pulling with everyday life and receive education and emotional support from a study
      therapist-but will not be taught specific behavioral techniques. After 8 weeks, participants
      will be evaluated to determine whether treatment is helping them. If participants are
      receiving BT and showing reduction in symptoms, they will continue to Phase 2, which involves
      four maintenance sessions of BT over 8 weeks. If participants receiving BT are not responding
      to treatment, they will be given referrals to other services. Participants receiving SC will
      end their participation after 8 weeks, and those not responding to treatment will be offered
      BT.

      Study assessments will be completed at baseline, after Phase 1, after Phase 2, and at 3- and
      6-month follow-ups. These assessments will include a clinical interview, questionnaires about
      symptoms, and family assessment measures.
    
  