
    
      Background:

        -  Worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common malignancy with a
           median survival of 6-9 months. The Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) study
           established sorafenib as a standard consideration in this disease and set the bar for
           future studies of systemic therapy.

        -  TRC105 is a chimeric anti-angiogenic monoclonal antibody that binds cluster of
           differentiation 105 (CD105), a transmembrane receptor selectively expressed by
           proliferating endothelial cells. TRC105 binds to CD105-expressing endothelial cells and
           mediates growth inhibition, apoptosis and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity
           (ADCC).

      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  Phase I: To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of TRC105 when given with
           standard-dose sorafenib for HCC.

        -  Phase II:To determine the estimate response rate according to Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for the combination of TRC105 with sorafenib
           in HCC.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of HCC.

        -  Childs-Pugh A or B (7 points) cirrhosis is allowed.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection,
           radiofrequency ablation, or liver transplantation.

        -  In phase I, prior systemic therapy is allowed.

        -  In phase II, prior systemic therapy for HCC (including sorafenib) is allowed.

        -  No history of bleeding varices in previous 1 year (unless subsequent liver transplant).

        -  No anti-coagulation (except low-dose aspirin).

      Design:

        -  TRC105 will be administered intravenously every two weeks, on days 1 and 15 of each 28
           day cycle. Sorafenib will be self-administered twice daily by mouth.

        -  Phase 1: The first part of this study was a standard 3+3 dose escalation phase I study
           with the primary objective of establishing MTD for TRC105 when given in combination with
           standard-dose sorafenib. Sorafenib is taken orally at a dose of 400 mg twice daily.
           TRC105 is administered as an intravenous infusion every two weeks. Patients will be
           restaged including imaging studies to assess for response and progression every 8 weeks.
           The TRC105 dose was escalated in cohorts of 3 to 6 patients up to a maximum of 15 mg/kg
           every two weeks. Intra-patient dose escalation was not allowed.

        -  Phase II: TRC105 will be administered as an intravenous infusion every two weeks at the
           recommended phase II dose, 15 mg/kg of TRC105 ever two weeks in combination with
           standard dose sorafenib, defined in phase I. The sample size and interim stopping rule
           will be determined using a Simon optimal two-stage design. The first stage will
           initially enroll 6 evaluable patients, and if 0 of the 6 have a clinical response, then
           no further patients will be accrued. If 1 or more of the first 6 patients has a clinical
           response, then accrual would continue until a total of 23 patients have been enrolled.
           As it may take several weeks to determine if a patient has experienced a response, a
           temporary pause in the accrual may be necessary to ensure that enrollment to the second
           stage is warranted. If there are 1 to 2 clinical responses in 23 patients, this would be
           an uninterestingly low response rate. If there were 3 or more complete responses in 23
           patients (13.0%), this would be sufficiently interesting to warrant further study in
           later trials. Under the null hypothesis (5% response rate), the probability of early
           termination is 73.5%.

      Cohort: -0; Sorafenib (mg by mouth (PO) twice daily): 400 bid; TRC105 (mg/kg intravenous (IV)
      weekly): 1

      Cohort: 1; Sorafenib (mg PO twice daily): 400 bid; TRC105 (mg/kg IV weekly): 3

      Cohort: 2; Sorafenib (mg PO twice daily): 400 bid; TRC105 (mg/kg IV weekly): 6

      Cohort: 3; Sorafenib (mg PO twice daily): 400 bid; TRC105 (mg/kg IV weekly): 10

      Cohort: 4; Sorafenib (mg PO twice daily): 400 bid; TRC105 (mg/kg IV weekly): 15
    
  