
    
      Present treatments for intraocular retinoblastoma cure 99% of children but have significant
      toxicity. Enucleation of the eye is effective but blinds the eye and leaves a lifelong
      cosmetic deformity. Radiation is associated with the subsequent development of fatal cancers.
      Systemic (intravenous)chemotherapy is used worldwide but experience with it has shown that
      the majority of eyes initially treated with chemotherapy still require additional treatments,
      such as radiation, laser, cryotherapy or even enucleation. In addition blood transfusions,
      secondary infections, insertion of ports and permanent hearing loss are now well reported.
      Three years ago we developed this technique of Chemosurgery for significantly increasing the
      dose of drug to the cancer while decreasing the dose of drug administered to children. This
      approach has decreased the need for enucleation in advanced eyes scheduled for enucleation
      with minimal systemic toxicity. We now offer treatment of both eyes simultaneously (in
      bilateral cases) and to eyes with less advanced disease and normal vision as an alternative
      to toxic systemic chemotherapy. In cases of very advanced ocular disease we will be using
      multiple drugs infused at the same session to increase tumor kill.

      Chemosurgery interventions are performed under general anesthesia. The femoral artery (artery
      at the groin) is punctured and a catheter (a small plastic tube)is advanced into the
      opthalmic artery (the artery of the eye)using fluoroscopic (X-ray) guidance. The drugs are
      injected directly into the opthalmic artery over a period of 30-45 min.The catheter is then
      removed, manual compression exerted to the femoral artery, the child is awaken and goes to
      recovery for 6 hours. The procedure is repeated every 3-4 weeks for a total of 2 to 6
      sessions according to tumor response. Since April 2006, our center has treated by
      chemosurgery 60 eyes in 52 patients with advanced intra-ocular retinoblastoma for which
      enucleation was considered.
    
  