
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is now the most common mental health diagnosis among
      the youngest generation of Veterans receiving treatment from the Veterans Health
      Administration (VHA), necessitating the need for diverse types of targeted care. Although
      there are two evidence-based psychotherapies (EBP) for PTSD, the vast majority of combat
      Veterans who receive these treatments still meet diagnostic criteria for PTSD and their
      functioning continues to be impacted. Furthermore, Veterans that have experienced trauma
      related to killing have high rates of suicide and more severe PTSD symptoms. Although there
      have been few studies examining predictors of poor outcomes in EBPs, one area that has
      recently begun to receive growing attention is moral injury. A recent study found that PTSD
      and moral injury were distinct constructs with unique signs and symptoms, and preliminary
      evidence indicates that the feelings of guilt and anger that characterize moral injury
      associated with trauma such as killing in war may contribute to worsening symptoms over the
      course of existing treatments. Although PTSD may be one manifestation of psychological trauma
      related to killing, conceptualization of the impact of killing requires a broader framework.
      The emerging concept of moral injury offers an alternative context to better understand the
      many possible outcomes of exposure to killing. For these reasons, the development of targeted
      moral injury interventions is critical. The investigators designed and received VA funding to
      conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the Impact of Killing (IOK) treatment,
      which can be seamlessly added as a standalone treatment following existing EBPs for PTSD. IOK
      focuses on key themes including physiology of killing responses, moral injury,
      self-forgiveness, and improved post-deployment reintegration. The treatment was designed to
      fit well into already existing systems of care and has been shown to improve functioning,
      PTSD symptoms, and general psychiatric symptoms following EBP. Whereas the IOK RCT pilot was
      initially conducted at the San Francisco VA Healthcare System, the investigators' goal is to
      conduct a fully-powered, multi-site efficacy trial at two regionally-diverse sites with a
      larger sample size and active control condition. Consequently, the objective of this project
      is to test the efficacy of an individual treatment for PTSD stemming from moral injury called
      IOK, compared to a present-centered therapy (PCT) control condition, and to determine the
      rehabilitative utility of IOK for Veterans seeking treatment for PTSD. The primary outcome is
      psychosocial functioning. The target population is Veterans who have initiated or completed
      Cognitive Processing Therapy or Prolonged Exposure Therapy, two EBPs for PTSD, and continue
      to have PTSD symptoms and moral injury related to killing. Veterans will be randomly assigned
      to receive either: 1) IOK (10 individual therapy sessions lasting 60-90 minutes) or 2) PCT
      (sessions of equal duration to IOK). The first aim is to test the efficacy of IOK through
      measures of psychosocial functioning (primary outcome) and PTSD severity (secondary outcome).
      The second aim is to determine whether IOK gains made by Veterans are durable. Given that
      moral injury treatment is a new and burgeoning area, the investigators have two exploratory
      aims that can help move the field forward. The first exploratory aim is to conduct
      post-treatment evaluations with a subset of the IOK treatment group to better understand how
      to support continued improvement in functioning among participants. The second exploratory
      aim is to evaluate mediators of functional improvement, such as self-forgiveness, among
      Veterans completing IOK. If the aims of this grant are achieved, the investigators will be
      able to have a moral injury intervention following EBP that can be seamlessly integrated into
      existing care for one of the most commonly occurring mental health problems in Veterans.
      Furthermore, suicide is a national priority for VHA, and expanding treatment for PTSD and
      moral injury has the potential to decrease suicide and improve functioning in Veterans.
      Finally, IOK offers skills and ways of understanding warzone experiences that can be mastered
      and can continue to be implemented by Veterans over time.
    
  