
    
      Epidemiologic information to be collected

      At baseline (upon signing informed consent), the following information will be collected:
      Demographic data - age, sex, height, weight, state of birth, previous pathology reports
      associated with the bacteria the subject has contracted, laboratory results, current
      medication use, and any other prior medical problems/history. The following outcome measures
      will be assessed: (a) time to resolution of fever, (b) time to normalization of white blood
      cell count, (c) time to microbiologic eradication of infection, (d) mortality at 28 days
      following onset of infection.

      Blood work to be collected

      Hematological parameters:

      Patients included in this study will be required to have blood samples taken to determine
      their platelet count and hemoglobin at baseline (prior to the first dose of linezolid),
      weekly whilst receiving linezolid and at end of linezolid treatment. Monitoring of
      hematological parameters is recommended as part of the standard of care for patients being
      treated with linezolid for greater than 2 weeks. This information will be collected from the
      participant's medical record and become part of the research record.

      Pharmacokinetic samples:

      On doses 4 or 5 of Linezolid administration blood samples will be obtained from the patient's
      vein prior to the first dose of the day of intravenous (IV) or oral Linezolid. Subsequent
      samples of blood will be obtained over an eight hour period following dose administration (2
      hours, 4 hours and 8 hours after dose administration). About 5 ml or one teaspoon will be
      obtained by the bedside nurse for each blood sample for a total of 20 ml or 4 teaspoonfuls.
      The GCRC staff will travel to the patient's hospital unit and obtain the blood samples when
      necessary. If the patient is an outpatient, the patient will be asked to come to the GCRC to
      have the blood samples withdrawn.

      If the samples are not obtained prior to the first dose of medicine on days 2 or 3 of dose
      administration, blood can be obtained from the patient's vein around two separate doses on
      day 2 and 3 and day 3 and 4. Blood will be obtained from the patient's vein prior to taking
      the next dose of IV or oral Linezolid and two hours after the medicine has been administered.
      About 10 ml or two teaspoonfuls will be obtained by the bedside nurse for each blood sample
      for a total of 20 ml or 4 teaspoonfuls.

      If the patient develops a decrease in hematologic parameters (defined as Hb < 10 g/dL, WBC <
      2.5, ANC <1.5 or platelets <100), blood will be collected from the patient's vein immediately
      before a linezolid dose and two hours after the medicine has been administered. At these
      levels, the clinicians caring for the patient will be advised that the frequency of
      hematologic monitoring should increase to three times weekly. If the following hematologic
      parameters occur, the clinician will be advised by the investigators to consider utilizing an
      alternative antibiotic: Hb <8 mg/dL, WBC <1.5, ANC <1.0, platelets <50. It is acknowledged
      that the investigators are not responsible for the care of the patient and that many factors
      may influence the clinician's decision to continue or to switch linezolid therapy. The
      management decisions will be made by the patient's clinical team and NOT the investigators.

      The blood samples will be processed and stored in a - 80° C freezer in a secured laboratory
      under the supervision of the principal investigator. These samples will then be used to
      determine the amount of Linezolid that reached the participant's blood following dose
      administration.

      All samples will be analyzed to obtain the amount of Linezolid found in the blood. No genetic
      testing will be performed on any of the samples being obtained. The biologic samples (blood)
      will be under the control of the principal investigator of this research project. To protect
      confidentiality, all personal identifiers (i.e., name, social security number, and birth
      date) will be removed (de-identified) and replaced with a specific code number. The
      information linking these code numbers to the corresponding subjects' identities will be kept
      in a separate, secure location. The investigators on this study will keep the samples
      indefinitely. Part of the biologic samples will be sent to Dr. Craig Rayner at Monash
      University of Australia. All samples sent outside of the UPMC facility will be de-identified.
      Samples sent to Monash University will be kept in Dr. Rayner's laboratory. If a subject
      withdraws and provides the request in writing, samples collected and not already processed
      will be destroyed. All samples at UPMC will be kept in the investigator's laboratory located
      in Scaife Hall, Room 812, 3550 Terrace Street.

      All patients will be seen at the UPMC facility while they are inpatients.

      If a subject is removed from Linezolid clinically, subjects will not be required to prolong
      the use of Linezolid and the subject's hospitalization will not be prolonged if not
      clinically indicated.
    
  