
    
      There would have two groups included in our study, which are primary pterygium group(40
      patients) and the normal group (20 volunteers). The inclusion criteria for the primary
      pterygium group were: 1) more than 18 and less than 60 years old; 2)diagnosed as primary
      pterygium by the professional doctor; 3)0.0 or better logMAR BCVA; 4) absence of other ocular
      disorders and no history of eye surgery and other systemic diseases. The inclusion criteria
      for the normal group were: 1) between 18 and 60 years old; 2) 0.0 or better logMAR BCVA;3) no
      history of any ocular pathology, and normal physical and mental health.

      All the subjects would receive the ophthalmic examination and contrast sensitivity test
      (quick contrast sensitivity function, quick CSF), in which the pterygium group would achieve
      the pterygium surgery by the same surgeon (Jin Yuan) and then be performed the contrast
      sensitivity test on the 1st, 3rd and 6th month postoperatively.

      The quick CSF method, implemented in a 10 alternative forced-choice digit identification
      task, was used to assess the contrast sensitivity function34, 38. Stimuli were displayed on a
      gamma-corrected 46 inch LCD monitor (Model: NEC LCD P463) with a 1920×1080 pixel resolution,
      50 cd/m2 mean luminance and 60 Hz vertical refresh rate. Observers viewed the display
      monocularly from a distance of 4 m in a dark room. For each trial, they were asked to
      verbally report the identities of three digits presented on the screen to the experimenter,
      who used the computer keyboard to enter their responses. The stimuli disappeared after all
      the responses were entered. Observers were given the option to report ''I don't know'' upon
      which the response was coded as incorrect. No feedback was provided. All three responses were
      used to update the posterior distribution of the CSF parameters, which in turn was used to
      adaptively choose the most informative combination of spatial frequency and contrast for the
      next trial. A new trial started 500 ms after the responses. There were 30 trials in
      approximately 5 min. The quick CSF data were scored to generate the cutoff spatial frequency,
      defined as the spatial frequency corresponding to a perceptual sensitivity of 1, and the area
      under the log CSF (AULCSF), a summary measure of the window to spatial vision
    
  