
    
      For recurrent or metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN), the
      standard first-line treatment is chemotherapy by cisplatin-fluorouracil and cetuximab which
      allows a median overall survival of 10.1 months. Due to its toxicity, this combination could
      be proposed only to patients younger than 70 years, good PS (ECOG PS0 or PS1) and adequate
      renal function.

      In routine practice it is estimated that the proportion of eligible patients is about two
      third. One third of patients were ineligible to first-line chemotherapy by
      cisplatin-fluorouracil-cetuximab. Among them, 25% due to PS2 and the others for various
      reasons (older than 70 years, renal insufficiency….). For these ineligible patients, an
      alternative chemotherapy should be proposed. The carboplatin-paclitaxel scheme with weekly
      paclitaxel is safe for poor population and demonstrated efficacy in head and neck cancers
      with overall survival varying from 4.9 months to 12.8 months in first line. The response rate
      varies from 20% to 52% and is about 25% in our experience. Even for frail patients it should
      be a safe and active treatment.

      Nivolumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting PD1 demonstrated survival benefit compared with
      chemotherapy in patients with SCCHN who progressed after platinum-based first line (median OS
      of 7.5 months versus 5.1 months and 12-month OS rate of 36.0% versus 16.6%). Safety data
      confirm these antibodies are of interest in a population of frail patients. Only 58.9% of
      patients experienced treatment-related adverse events with nivolumab arm and 13% of grade
      3/4. Durvalumab, an anti-PDL1 antibody is currently tested in SCCHN with promising results.

      Head and neck cancers are rapidly progressive and due to the delayed action of immunotherapy,
      and the recent demonstration that immunotherapy with anti-PD1 or anti-PDL1 can be responsible
      of hyperprogression, patients will probably benefit from addition of chemotherapy to
      immunotherapy, mostly for patients unfit for cisplatin-fluorouracil because their poor
      condition is often related to the cancer and a rapid response is needed.

      This trial proposes to study the addition of Durvalumab to chemotherapy in first line
      treatment for frail patients with recurrent/metastatic SCCHN.

      Prior to this evaluation, a run-in tolerance study in a limited number of patients to ensure
      that the experimental treatment combination is safe.
    
  