
    
      The patient will determine the calprotectin concentration in their own stool sample using the
      IBDoc® assay. For this, the patient will collect a stool sample in a standard collection tube
      at home. The patients will return to the clinical site with the specimen, where they will
      receive a standardized IBDoc® training. They will also be given opportunity to perform an
      IBDoc® practice test using the collected sample. The patients will then perform the full
      IBDoc® assay using the collected stool sample under the observation of the healthcare
      provider, who will assess their performance. The final result - the interpretation of the
      IBDoc® lateral flow assay by the CalApp® smartphone application, to yield a final μg/g
      calprotectin concentration in stool, will be sent to the health care provider (HCP) via the
      IBDoc® Web Portal.

      The usability of the IBDoc® test will be evaluated according to the following factors:

      - Trueness/ accuracy - the patients' ability to obtain correct results will be evaluated by
      comparing patients' IBDoc® results with reference measurements from the same stool sample
      using the BÜHLMANN fCAL® ELISA, performed at a laboratory site. For reference measurements
      the HCP at the clinical site will obtain 3 CALEX® Cap extracts from the patient's stool
      sample, which will be stored frozen and shipped to the laboratory site.

      To exclude bias or inaccuracy that may arise from the analytical performance characteristics
      of the IBDoc® assay itself, a comparative IBDoc® assay will be performed according to the
      instructions for use, with the patients' samples in a laboratory. For the comparative IBDoc®
      measurement the HCP at the clinical site will obtain one CALEX® Valve extract from the
      patient's stool sample, which will be stored frozen and shipped to the laboratory site.

      -IBDoc® Calprotectin test usability, clearness of obtained result, and comprehensiveness of
      the Instruction for Use will be assessed in the following ways:

        -  Patient's questionnaire

        -  HCP's questionnaire - human factors evaluation

      The ability of patients to correctly collect and extract stool samples using the CALEX® Valve
      device will be analysed as an additional module within the IBDoc® User Performance
      Evaluation. The CALEX® Valve extracts obtained by the patients as part of the IBDoc®
      procedure will be stored frozen and shipped to the laboratory site. Calprotectin levels in
      the patients' CALEX® Valve extracts will be determined with the BÜHLMANN fCAL® ELISA and
      compared to calprotectin reference values obtained from the same stool samples by the HCP's.
    
  