
    
      Study design and methodology

      ATC patients will be identified by thyroid cancer specialists (including endocrine surgeons,
      head and neck cancer surgeons, clinical oncologists, endocrinologists, pathologists,
      radiologists, clinical nurse specialists) working in thyroid cancer multidisciplinary teams
      (MDTs) across the UK Cancer Networks.

      Patients will be approached by a member of the MDT and provided with a patient information
      leaflet on the interNational Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer Tissue Bank and Database project.
      Following discussion and adequate time to consider the project, the patient will be invited
      to participate and to provide their written consent.

      Consent will be sought for thyroid tissue collection, blood sample collection as well as
      collection of anonymised clinical data.

      It is expected that the majority of patients will be willing to participate as their own care
      will be unchanged but they have the potential to help future patients in the same difficult
      situation.

      As entry into the study will not affect the patient's own care there is no time limit after
      diagnosis in which participation can be undertaken.

      Ethical approval has been granted for qualifying relatives of deceased patients to be able to
      consent for their family member's already collected thyroid tissue and clinical information
      to be collected.

      As the majority of the patients will not have anaplastic thyroid cancer that is amenable to
      total thyroidectomy the tissue specimen collection will usually entail diagnostic core
      biopsies or fine needle aspirates from the thyroid gland. The tissue specimens will initially
      be used for histological diagnosis at the local hospital and any spare tissue will then
      subsequently be sent to the Wales Cancer Bank (WCB) 3. In the minority of patients who
      undergo some form of thyroid resection, tissue blocks and possibly slides will be sent for
      storage at WCB once the initial diagnostic work is complete.

      An optional EDTA blood samples will also be collected and sent to WCB. Patients will ideally
      provide both tissue and blood samples but can opt to submit one or other specimen type if
      they prefer.

      A multidisciplinary steering committee will be established to oversee the running of the
      project and to review subsequent independently submitted research proposals.

      A baseline Case Report Form (CRF) will be completed and forwarded to WCB. Where consent has
      been given for the collection of clinical data this will be entered on to a secure database
      by the Chief Investigator, Dr Moss.

      As ATC comprises a heterogeneous group of histological appearances that often prove difficult
      to accurately diagnose, a central pathological review process will be implemented to ensure
      uniform pathological reporting. An opportunity for molecular profiling of individual tumours
      will also be considered at this stage.

      Outcome data will be requested at 6, 12, 18months and annually thereafter. However as the
      prognosis is generally poor with current treatment options, outcome data collection is
      unlikely to extend beyond 6 months in the majority of cases.

      ATC disease trajectory, response to treatment and outcomes (Progression Free Survival and
      Overall Survival) will be correlated with histological appearance and molecular profile.

      Patient identifiable data will only be accessible at the referring centre by the clinical
      team caring for the patient but not at the interNational ATC Tissue Bank. Each patient will
      be allocated a unique identification number by WCB and all stored data and specimens will use
      this for reference only.

      It is unknown with the currently available UK data on thyroid cancer incidence precisely how
      many cases of anaplastic thyroid arise annually. It is estimated that 70-90 new cases are
      diagnosed per year. The research project is expected to run for between 5 and 10 years in the
      first instance to allow a significant number of patients to be included in the project.
      Funding has been secured from Thyroid Cancer Support Group- Wales5.

      Eligibility Criteria

        -  All patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer who are able to provide informed consent.

        -  Patients with foci of anaplastic thyroid cancer within a more differentiated thyroid
           cancer who are able to provide informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Patients with non anaplastic thyroid cancer including medullary thyroid cancer,
           papillary thyroid cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, thyroid lymphoma

        -  Patients unable to provide informed consent

      Identification of Patients

      Patients may be discussed and identified at a thyroid cancer or head and neck cancer
      multidisciplinary team meeting. Identification may arise from pathologist, radiologist,
      clinicians or clinical nurse specialists.

      Due to the expected short survival of this patient group it would be prospective
      identification of patients and not a retrospective review of previous cases.

      Patients will be approached by a member of the team either on an inpatient ward or in the out
      patient clinic only once the diagnosis is confirmed, the patient is aware of their diagnosis
      and have had sufficient time to come to terms with the diagnosis.

      Patient Recruitment and Registration

      Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of anaplastic thyroid cancer and who are aware of their
      diagnosis and able to provide informed consent would be considered.

      Appropriate patients would receive a verbal explanation of the study in the first instance
      followed by a written information leaflet.

      The patient would then be given as much time as they need to decide if they wish to
      participate. For those wishing to proceed, a member of the thyroid cancer multidisciplinary
      team will go through the consent process and consent form with them. They will answer any
      questions and highlight the optional parts of the study. The patient would be given a copy of
      the consent form including contact details for the local thyroid cancer team lead and the
      Chief Investigator.

      No patients from vulnerable groups would be approached. Information on the tissue bank and
      database project will be posted on the Thyroid Cancer Forum-UK (TCF-UK) and Thyroid Cancer
      Support Group- Wales websites as well as announced at national and international thyroid
      cancer meetings and in the medical press. Other UK thyroid cancer patient support groups will
      be kept informed of the project as they will be in contact with anaplastic thyroid cancer
      patients and their families. The project will also be registered and displayed on the
      www.clinicaltrials.gov website.

      Sample Collection and Storage

      It is expected that the vast majority of patients will already have had biopsies or Fine
      Needle Aspirates (FNA) taken from their thyroid gland in order to make the diagnosis in which
      case it is these samples that will be sent to the tissue bank. Occasionally diagnostic
      biopsies will have been retrieved from anatomical sites other than the thyroid gland
      including, but not confined to, cervical lymph nodes and distant metastases.

      Only tissue samples that are no longer required by the local pathology department will be
      sent to the tissue bank. Due to the usual short prognosis for patients with this disease it
      is not expected that the local pathology department will need to request the samples back in
      order to undertake any further investigations at a later date in the patient's cancer
      journey. However if this situation does arise then any unused samples will be returned as
      requested.

      The patient will be asked if they wish to donate an optional EDTA blood sample as part of the
      research project and this sample will be taken when possible at the same time as any routine
      clinically indicated blood samples to reduce the number of venepuncture procedures required.

      Data Collection and Storage

      The patients will be asked if they wish for a summary of their clinical history including
      details on their mode of presentation, any treatment interventions and complications (such as
      requiring a tracheostomy or enteral feeding tube) to be included in the study.

      Quality Assurance

      The patient's local thyroid cancer team will be responsible for liaising with the iNATT
      project/Wales Cancer Bank to attribute a unique identifier number to each study participant.

      The patients' initials and unique identifier number will be used to identify subjects.

      The Wales Cancer Bank (WCB) processes confidential and valuable data. The WCB Security Policy
      aims to protect data against loss or destruction, and unauthorised access or modification. It
      also ensures data integrity will be maintained.

      The clinical data is stored on a secure website server. The national data is only accessible
      by Dr Laura Moss (iNATT Chief Investigator). The patient's local team can only access data on
      their own patients and not patients registered elsewhere in the UK. Data fields collected
      include patient initials, iNATT unique identifier number, gender and date of birth. This
      information is required in order to nationally assess age and gender distribution and to
      correlate with treatment received and outcomes.

      Ethical considerations

      Research into anaplastic thyroid cancer has been thwarted by a combination of its rarity and
      poor prognosis. A rare disease is often quoted as having an incidence of <2 cases per 100,000
      and anaplastic thyroid cancer has an incidence of only 0.17 per 100,000 in Europe. The rarity
      means it is very difficult to carry out prospective research without collaboration amongst
      thyroid cancer teams. This project is designed to involve thyroid cancer multidisciplinary
      teams across the UK and will seek to approach as many patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer
      as possible.

      The project has been discussed from an early stage with the National Cancer Research
      Institute Thyroid Cancer subgroup and has its support.

      Patient involvement in the project development was sought at an early stage from the two UK
      thyroid cancer specific patient organisations, Butterfly Thyroid Cancer Trust and Thyroid
      Cancer Support Group-Wales. The latter charity has subsequently committed themselves to
      funding the entire project.

      It is anticipated that the recruitment rate will be high as the patient will not need to
      undergo any additional invasive procedure other than a blood test which is optional. Patients
      will be aware that this is a rare disease with currently no effective therapy and short
      prognosis so it is anticipated that there will be altruistic donations for the benefit of
      future patients who face the same diagnosis. Patients will be approached by members of their
      local thyroid cancer multidisciplinary team who are experienced in the management of this
      disease and who have appropriate experience in consent procedures.

      Data will be collected in accordance with the Caldicott Principles and patient identifiable
      data will be very limited.

      Patients participating in the project face no physical risk as a result of their
      participation in the project. Due to the anticipated timescale for collection of tissue and
      data it is expected to take a minimum of several years before any meaningful outcomes will be
      achieved. The poor prognosis of the disease means that the project participants are unlikely
      to be alive when the subsequent research projects come to fruition and will not therefore
      benefit directly from participation in the study.

      The patient information leaflet explains the project objectives both in terms of what is
      being asked of the individual patient in terms of donation of tissue, blood and data and also
      stipulates that the samples will be stored pending submission of future research proposals
      from respected researchers which will have the necessary ethical approvals and will be
      scrutinised by the interNational Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer Tissue Bank and Database (iNATT)
      steering committee. Patients will be able to withdraw their consent at any stage, without
      needing to provide a reason and will be made aware that any unused samples will either be
      returned to their local hospital or disposed of in accordance with the Human Tissue Authority
      code of practice and their data will be removed from the database. The issue of consent
      withdrawal is not expected to be a significant problem.

      Human tissue disposal It is recognised that all donations to the iNATT project are altruistic
      and patients are free to withdraw consent without reason at any time.

      Patients are advised, at the time of consent, that some of their samples may already have
      been used by the time they wish to withdraw.

      It is acknowledged that the disposal of human tissue is a sensitive area and the project will
      comply with the Human Tissue Authority code of practice, 'The removal, storage and disposal
      of human organs and tissue'

      Ethics Approval The project will be conducted in accordance with the World Medical
      Association, Declaration of Helsinki (2008 version) and in accordance with the terms and
      conditions of the ethical approval given to the trial.

      Study management

      Velindre University NHS Trust Research and Development Department will be responsible for
      organising Material Transfer Agreements between Velindre University NHS Trust and each Tissue
      Collection Centre. Individual investigators will liaise with their local R&D departments.
      They are then responsible for recruiting patients, adhering to the most recent version of the
      protocol and collection of data on the case report forms (CRFs).

      The project will be overseen by a multidisciplinary steering committee comprising clinical
      oncologists, Wales Cancer Bank manager, Velindre University NHS Trust R&D management, thyroid
      cancer scientists and pathologists. The committee will review the tissue sample collection in
      terms of central pathology review to ensure consistency, rate of national recruitment, number
      of centres participating and any potential limitations to patient recruitment into the
      project.

      Publication

      Any publications or presentations arising directly as a result of this project will
      acknowledge all contributing investigators.

      Summary

      The aim of the project is to facilitate research opportunities into this difficult disease
      which historically has been difficult to research due to the combination of its rarity and
      overall poor prognosis. By utilising a national tissue and data resource model a significant
      number of patients and samples can be studied in a realistic research timeframe. The project
      has the potential to help with our understanding of the disease aetiology and to open new
      avenues for treatment interventions.

      As a result of the patient participating in this project they will be agreeing to any surplus
      anaplastic thyroid cancer tissue plus a blood sample being sent to the Wales Cancer Bank for
      storage until a suitable research project is approved by the interNational Anaplastic Thyroid
      Cancer Tissue Bank and Database (iNATT) Project Steering Committee. Participants also have
      the option of having their clinical information collected in a pre-existing national
      database. Participants will not be approached regarding any further tissue or blood samples.
    
  