
    
      Procedure Participants were recruited consecutively from the rehabilitation unit
      Vikaergaarden in the period from January 17, 2012 to May 29, 2015, and from the
      rehabilitation unit Thorsgaarden from October 20, 2014 to May 29, 2015. The random allocation
      of the participants to an intervention group (IG) or a control group (CG) was done by an
      independent external organization ("TrialPartner", Public Health and Quality Improvement,
      Central Denmark Region). The permuted block sizes stratified the randomization according to
      sex, age, and place of referral. The randomization took place within three days after the
      participants' arrival to the rehabilitation unit. Owing to the nature of this study, it was
      impossible to blind participants and their relatives to the allocation group. The project
      manager was blinded to the study outcomes, which were collected from the registers or by the
      blinded research occupational therapist. Rehabilitation units' staff, particularly
      physiotherapists, were not blinded.

      Care in the CG The patients were referred for rehabilitation either from hospital or home by
      the hospital personnel or by the home care staff.The typical standard rehabilitation and care
      program lasts five weeks. The interdisciplinary approach is based on the patient's whole
      situation, capability and wishes/needs. On the first day of rehabilitation, the patient's
      functional status is observed by the rehabilitation unit's physiotherapists and occupational
      therapists, and a nutritional screening is performed by the rehabilitation unit's
      nutritionist.The team members discuss the patient's discharge destination and necessary
      arrangements with the patient and his/her relatives at the mid-term meeting and before
      discharge from the rehabilitation unit. Municipality nurse participates in these meeting
      personally or by telephone. Destination after discharge is based upon the patient's
      motivation, functional and medical status.

      The patient's GPs visit the patients during the stay if required or occasionally by own
      initiative depending on practice routine and geographical distance. GPs mostly visit frail
      and high-risk elderly patients especially if recently hospitalized. Acute medical aid is
      called for in case of illness after 4.p.m. and on weekends and public holidays.

      Care in the IG Participants in the IG had the same access to usual care and additionally
      underwent a CGC performed by a physician specialized in geriatric medicine. The intervention
      included medical history, physical examination, blood tests, medication adjustment and
      treatments, including intravenous antibiotics or blood transfusions conducted by the
      geriatrician at the rehabilitation units. The geriatrician was employed 18.5 hours per week
      and was present at the rehabilitation units for four days a week, and could be contacted on
      telephone for any reason by participants, their relatives, or the units' staff on weekdays
      from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.

      BaselineAssessments Before randomization baseline characteristics were registered from
      medical records by the project manager, comprising age, gender, place of referral, marital
      status, residence, previous diagnoses, list of medications and comorbidity burden by Charlson
      Comorbidity Index (CCI). Baseline functional status and quality of life measures were
      assessed on day 3 from admission to the rehabilitation units by a research occupational
      therapist.

      Statistics The numbers of hospital admissions, ED visits, ambulatory contacts, and GP
      contacts will be compared by Incidence Rate Ratios (IRR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
      IRR will be calculated using negative binominal regression with adjustment for mortality by
      including the risk time as an exposure variable.

      Mortality rates after 30 and 90 days will be calculated as percentages of deaths in total
      population per group. In non-survivors and in case of missing baseline observations, the
      missing measures will be set to the worst possible values. The worst value imputation method
      will be used in all other cases of missing values.

      The mean group values will be analyzed using repeated measurements mixed model. Dichotomous
      variables will be created to investigate distribution between participants who worsened/did
      not change versus participants who improved their functional status or quality of life, and
      analyzed using logistic regression. Results will be expressed as odds ratios (ORs) with 95%
      CIs.

      Subgroup analyses will be conducted to explore if effects of intervention when compared to
      usual care depended on the baseline comorbidity burden low/moderate (CCI 0-2) versus high
      (CCI ≥3 points). The subgroup analyses will be carried out for the functional status and
      quality of life.

      There were no drop-outs during the study and data on healthcare utilization are complete.
      Intention-to-treat analyses will be performed in the all 368 participants. The two-sided
      significance level of 5% will be used for evaluation of statistical significance in the
      primary and secondary endpoints.

      (The materials and methods are described in detail elsewhere: Zintchouk D, Lauritzen T,
      Damsgaard EM. "Comprehensive Geriatric Care Versus Standard Care For Elderly Referred To A
      Rehabilitation Unit - A Randomized Controlled Trial". J Aging Res Clin Practice 2017;inpress.
      Published online December 15, 2016, http://dx.doi.org/10.14283/jarcp.2016.126).
    
  