
    
      background and Rationale: Autonomic dysfunction is a common complication of stroke that may
      lead to poor rehabilitation outcomes and to increase in mortality. Although this dysfunction
      is a common symptom of stroke, both in the acute phase and in the chronic phase, it is not a
      specific therapeutic target yet. The severity of the autonomic dysfunction can be measured in
      many ways, but the most common way is assessment of the sympathetic-parasympathetic
      equilibrium by heart rate variability analysis. It is known that the plasticity of the brain
      can influence the autonomic nerve system and that providing appropriate stimuli encourages
      these changes. It was found that stimulation of rhythm, stimulation of cognitive tasks (in
      particular, stimulation of executive functions) and stimulation of activity, influence the
      autonomic nerve system in healthy subjects. Thus, we can ask if an integrated task (activity,
      cognitive, rhythm) may influence the autonomic nervous system and cause an increase in brain
      activity, therefore contributing to the rehabilitation of stroke patients. Taken together,
      the purpose of this study is to examine the influence of stimulation of rapid or slow rhythm,
      stimulation of cognition by cognitive tasks, stimulation of activity by pedaling a fitness
      bike and combined stimulation, on the autonomic nerve system. This effect will be tested by
      measuring heart rate variability in chronic stroke patients and in a control group with
      equivalent age and lifestyle.

      The Medical Device:

      Heart rate and heart rate variability will be monitored by Polar RS800CX watch (PolarElectro
      OY, Kempele, Finland(. A transmitter placed on the patient's chest will collect the data.
      This data will be stored in the watch's computer and then analyzed in a specific Polar
      software (Polar Protrainer 5 inc.). An appropriate filtration will be made after a
      preliminary study. Pedaling capability, RPM, will be collected from cadence sensor with
      Bluetooth smart.

      The Purpose of this Medical Research:

      The purpose of this study is to examine the influence of stimulation of rapid or slow rhythm,
      stimulation of cognition by cognitive tasks, stimulation of activity by pedaling a fitness
      bike and combined stimulation, on the autonomic nerve system in chronic stroke patients and
      in a control group with equivalent age and lifestyle.
    
  