
    
      EPIFLO is a Small, silent disposable, battery-operated oxygen concentrator capable of
      delivering 98% to 100% oxygen (balance moisture) for seven days at a rate of ~3.0 ml/hour;
      and 60" long sterile cannula (tube) that conveys the oxygen concentrator to the area beneath
      the bandage overlying the wound.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the number of surgical site infections
      associated with perineal surgery within 30 days between subjects randomized to receive EPIFLO
      or Standard of Care. Secondary Study objectives include Resource utilization and duration of
      hospitalization.

      Hypothesis 1: The proportion of surgical site infections will be lower for patients treated
      with Transdermal Continuous Oxygen Therapy (TCOT) Hypothesis 2: In the patients who develop
      infections, wounds will be smaller and heal more rapidly in those treated with Transdermal
      Continuous Oxygen Therapy.

      Key Safety Assessments Include potential dermatological toxicity changes attributed to EPIFLO
      as measured by observed and reported discomfort and changes in skin during and after the
      Treatment Period (It is essential to establish the difference between toxicity from the
      dressing vs. toxicity arising out of EPIFLO).

      This Study will be a randomized controlled trial of 30 patients aged 18-80 years who are
      scheduled to undergo elective perineal resection surgery at the University of Maryland
      Medical Center. This study is designed to be a Phase II safety & efficacy study. Patients who
      met the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized to receive the interventional device
      with Standard of Care or Standard of Care only (1:1). The patients will be equally divided
      between the two arms. Sham devices are not involved in this study. Wound infections will be
      diagnosed by the investigator using Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Criteria. As
      an additional measure to prevent bias, the pictures of the wounds may be sent to an
      independent clinical specialist for assessment of infection; this specialist will be blinded
      to get an objective opinion.

      The expected time on study is 1 month ( 27-30 days). This does not include screening period
      which occurs when the subject consents to be in the study (signs the informed consent) to
      when they have their surgery (day 1). The screening period can be up to 28 days. While in the
      study, there are four study visits: Visit 1 day 1 is the day of the surgery, and
      randomization. The second study visit will be the day of the post surgery discharge (day
      3-5). The third study visit will be 14 days following surgery, (day 14) and the Final study
      visit will be the day of the post surgical follow up visit (day 28). The total treatment
      period may be 14 or 28 days. After 14-days of treatment, if the wound is completely healed,
      the treatment phase is complete. If the wound is not completely healed they will receive an
      additional 14 days of treatment. Either way the patient's healing progress will be followed
      for a total study duration of 30 days.
    
  