
    
      The interesting material properties, such as good mechanical strength, electrical
      conductivity, low density, porosity adaptable, are closely associated to the intrinsic
      characteristics of carbon nanotubes (CNTs), of which BP is made . The high surface
      development of CNT, in addition to promoting their aggregation, allows the preparation of
      micro-and nano-porous membranes that exclude the passage of colloidal particles with a
      diameter greater than 50 nm. The micro-porous structure, also gives the BP high capacity to
      absorb liquids, such as water, for which the effect of capillarity, penetrates quickly in the
      mesh material. This could be a possible interpretation of the rapid and effective adhesion of
      BP to humid biological tissues observed in our preliminary studies on the effects of the BP
      implanted in vivo.

      The bio-adhesion of BP has been documented in ex vivo preliminary experiments mechanical
      peeling (bench surgery). The results showed that the force required the posting of BP from
      organic support is much greater than that required for the conventional prosthesis made from
      polymer networks, commonly used in human hernia surgery fixed with fibrin glue or synthetic
      materials. Based on these assessments the use of BP could be introduced in the field of
      prosthetic surgery.

      Based on these assessments and based on the potential offered by the use of BP in the field
      of prosthetic surgery, deductible by the intrinsic characteristics of the material in this
      project is expected to further research for the development of a new generation of prosthetic
      materials for humans use, easily implantable by the surgeon without the need for sutures,
      graphs and / or biological glues.

      The reasons are:

        1. stitches: they could tighten the knot vessels (ischemia-atrophy) or nerves (chronic
           pain);

        2. graphs: placing blind and can cause bleeding or pain;

        3. biological glues: derived from the plasma of donors and thus could transmit diseases
           unknown.

      It is still unknown if BP has the appropriate mechanical properties to withstand the stresses
      that occur on the abdominal wall and In any case is documented the good bio-adhesion on
      living tissues and anatomical preparations, but only if made humid.

      Exploiting the functional groups present or introduced into the crystalline structure of
      MWCNTs (multiwall carbon nanotube) and/or on the polymer, it will be possible to implant on
      the muscle/muscular fascia surface, the composite material, to obtain gripping. Moreover,
      biologically active molecules, with functions antimicrobial, anti-adhesive, anti-inflammatory
      or analgesic, can be introduced into the crystalline structure of MWCNTs, for modulate the
      inflammatory response and the incorporation of the implanted material in the fibrous scar.

      We would like investigate the effects of exposition to BP fragments on healthy tissues and
      CaCo2 cells (Cancer Colon cluster), MCF-7 (Michigan Cancer Foundation-7), a breast cancer
      cell line, and hSCs (healthy smooth-muscle cells) of thyroid artery.

      The objective of this project is to obtain results that can direct the search for the
      ultimate realization of a prosthetic device for use in human abdominal surgery.

      Our Research Group proposes that the present research program has all the skills to achieve
      all the objectives .

      The protocol have been drawn in the respect of environmental policies, and ethical principles
      on experimentation on animal model, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union
      (86/609/EEC-European Economic Community), and the Italian Law n° 116/92.

      The clinical-chemical parameters examined from blood samples of 1 ml will be: BUN (blood urea
      nitrogen), blood glucose, creatinine, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, albumin, total
      Blood proteins levels, SGOT (serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase), SGPT (serum
      glutamate pyruvate transaminase), GGT (galactosylhydroxylysyl glucosyltransferase), ALP
      (alkaline phosphatase) and fractionated bilirubin, PT (prothrombin time), APTT/PTT (activated
      partial thromboplastin time / prothrombin time), Fibrinogen, CBC (complete blood count)
      formula, lymphocyte sub-populations, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate.

      This procedure will be performed under sedation and followed by body weight check and the
      pick-up of a blood sample. The same procedure will be repeated twice at the intervention and
      after 35 days at the sacrifice.

      At the time of sacrifice will be prepared anatomic samples of all the viscera and of the
      implantation site, to be studied histologically. Pathohistological samples for microscopic
      examination will be prepared. Portions of BP implanted in BPR1-BPR15 will be excised with all
      the surrounding fascia, dermal and muscular tissues. The same procedures will be performed,
      also in PRR16-PRR30 group.

      The post-operative pain, as in the human, it will be mild, and will be treated with
      analgesics according to techniques standardized in humans. In our experience, the animals
      undergo to prosthetic surgery, both the experimental and the control group, will treated with
      prophylactic antibiotics and pain medication in the immediate post -operative, and will be
      closely watched.

      Even if in animal model, the sterility of all the surgical procedure prevents inflammation,
      edema and sepsis and abscesses and ensures a low level of postoperative pain. The days after
      the surgical procedure is expected a moderate appetite of the operated animals and mild
      clinical symptoms related to the post-operative .

      All treated animals will be observed daily to carefully control the amount of food that will
      be consumed and thus the potential loss of appetite. Will be look for evidence of possible
      inflammatory and degenerative processes affecting the skin of the abdominal wall, the
      symptoms of infection or rejection of the prosthesis. If weight loss will be excessive (e.g.
      more than 10% of the normal weight of an animal of the same race, the same age and in
      comparison to the control group), or the animal will show clinical symptoms of suffering more
      than a normal postoperative, will be subjected to general anesthesia and then deleted.

      The analgesic and antibiotic therapy performed in the postoperative period will be as follows
      :

      Antibiotic : enrofloxacin 2.5 mg /kg /day I.M. for 5/ 7 days; and anti-inflammatory analgesic
      : ketoprofen, Findol 10%, 0.3 ml/10kg/die i.m. for 3 /5 days. If necessary will be given also
      tramadol, 2-4 mg /kg/day in the first 2 /3 days post-intervention . The surgical wound will
      be checked daily.

      The clinical -chemical parameters examined from blood samples of 3 ml will be: BUN (Blood
      Urea Nitrogen), blood glucose, creatinine, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, albumin,
      total proteinemia and Blood protein level, SGOT(Serum Glutei Oxaloacetic Transaminase),
      SGPT(Serum Glutamic PyruvateTransaminase), GGT(gamma glutamyl transferase), ALP(alkaline
      phosphatase) and fractionated bilirubin, PT(Prothrombin Time), APTT/PTT(Activated partial
      thromboplastin time), Fibrinogen, CBC(Complete Blood Count) formula, lymphocyte
      subpopulations, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate.

      At the sacrifice the organ samples will be fixed in 10% buffered formalin, cut and stained
      with Haematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) for histological observation.
    
  