
    
      This is an epidemiological study on the incidence of Group A beta hemolytic streptococcal
      (GAS) infections (both pharyngitis and impetigo) in school-age children in two rural area of
      India: surveillance in four schools, in the north in the Punjab near Chandigarh conducted by
      the medical staff of the Department of Community Medicine Post-graduate Institute for Medical
      Research and Training (PGI); and in one school in the south in Tamil Nadu near Vellore
      conducted by the medical staff of the Department of Community Medicine, Christian Medical
      College (CMC).

      Children and their teachers were questioned weekly for a history of GAS infection. On all
      children suspected from the history of a streptococcal infection of the pharynx or the skin,
      a physical examination of nose, throat, ears and skin was performed and throat culture and or
      skin culture and blood sample were taken for subsequent antibody determination. The diagnosis
      of GAS infection was made on the basis of established clinical criteria and the isolation of
      GAS from throat and skin lesion cultures.

      The surveillance of the children was completed in March '04 in Vellore, and in April '04 in
      Chandigarh. For the next year, there will be extensive analysis of the clinical data;
      analysis of the isolated GAS for emm type and other bacteriologic characteristics; and
      epidemiologic analysis in a search for patterns of distribution of GAS infections by sex,
      age, school and session.

      The general objectives have been:

      To establish population-based surveillance to determine the incidence of GAS infection in
      school children age 7-11, to characterize the M protein of the newly isolated strains of GAS
      by emm gene sequencing,

        1. to identify surrogate markers of protective immunity relevant to vaccine development
           such as serum antibody to the M type-specific peptides and cysteine protease, and

        2. to define the molecular epidemiology of GAS in terms of those characteristics that are
           relevant to vaccine-induced immunity.

      Information from this study is needed to plan an eventual trial of a vaccine(s) if and when
      one is available. Information on the antigenic structure of GAS isolated in India will be
      needed for planning vaccine composition. Information on incidence is needed to determine the
      size of a future cohort that will be needed to obtain a statistically significant result on
      vaccine efficacy.

      A vaccine trial is not part of this study, nor was there any intervention, other than
      diagnostic procedures and antibiotic treatment of all who develop a GAS infection.
    
  