
    
      The long term results and benefit of infection control in the treatment of periodontal
      disease have been well documented. According to a cause-related concept, the disruption of
      bacterial plaque biofilms can be defined as primary objective for the treatment of
      periodontitis.

      In the past few years, glycine powder air polishing showed positive outcomes in removing
      subgingival biofilm in periodontal pockets, and subgingivally delivered metronidazole seemed
      to improve the results of scaling and root-planing alone . Recently, a new prophylactic
      powder has been developed. The special action of the powder is attributable to the new
      ingredient Erythritol and the extra-fine grains that measure only 14 microns. The small size
      results on one hand in a minimal impact per grain on the treated surface and on the other
      hand in a very dense jet of powder, efficient on biofilm.

      Aim of the present study is evaluate the use of erythritol powder with/without the adjunct of
      local metronidazole in the treatment of periodontal pockets.

      MATERIALS & METHODS:

      20 consecutive adult periodontal patients, requiring cause-related therapy as phase 1 of
      their treatment plan, and presenting ≥4 sites with probing pocket depth ≥4mm will be
      enrolled. For each patients four sites will be considered for the study, and two sites will
      be allocated in the test group and two sites will be allocated in the control group. In the
      test group, ultrasonic debridement of the pocket will be performed using a piezoceramic
      ultrasonic device with the tip connected to the Handpiece Led for 5 minutes/pocket. Then, it
      will be followed by the subgingival use of erythritol powder applied by the use of Perio-Flow
      Handpiece with Perio-Flow Nozzle, connected to an airflow unit 2x5 seconds/pocket. At this
      time the subgingival delivery of metronidazole gel will be provided. In the control group,
      the same protocol will be used except for the use of a placebo instead of metronidazole.
      After instrumentation, patients will rinse with chlorhexidine 0.20% 3 times/day for 2 weeks.

      At baseline, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months the following parameters will be evaluated:
      Probing Pocket depth (PPD), Bleeding on Probing (BoP), Clinical Attachment Level (CAL).
    
  