
    
      This study is designed to test the efficacy of an energy drink compared to placebo via a
      double-blind, crossover, randomized clinical trial. Energy levels will be assessed before and
      after consumption of the test beverages on 2 days separated by a week in 200 participants
      aged 18-70 years. The study is crossover because the participants will be (randomly)
      receiving one drink on Test Day 1 and the other drink on Test Day 2.

      After signing written informed consent, participants will be fed a light lunch, and their
      pulse, weight and height measured. A baseline battery of computer-based tests to assess
      energy levels will be conducted. These computer-based measures will take ~40 minutes to
      complete and will include: a) a long-term memory test b) a Profile of Mood States (POMS2)
      brief form; c) Rapid Visual Information Processing (RVIP) test, d) The N-Back Task; d)
      Reaction time online test; f) the Flanker Task. Participants will then be asked to fill out a
      baseline survey (30 min), with questions about current health-related behaviors, specifically
      questions about physical activity and diet.

      Upon completing the baseline battery (survey administered at test session 1 only),
      participants will be randomly administered the energy drink or the placebo to consume while
      observed. Subsequently, the battery of computer-based tests to assess energy levels will be
      re-administered 30 minutes, 2.5 hours and 5 hours after consumption of the test drink.

      The study intervention will be double-blinded: participants will be blinded to whether they
      are receiving the active or the placebo drink, and study team members will also not be aware
      of the assignment.

      When the study ends, full compensation will be given if the intervention is fully completed;
      if the intervention is not fully completed, partial compensation will be given.
    
  