
    
      Fibroadenomas are well-circumscribed benign tumors, easily distinguishable from adjacent
      normal breast tissue on ultrasound images.

      The goal of this protocol is to compare HIFU and surgery in terms of cost, safety, and
      clinical effectiveness for the treatment of nonmalignant breast tumors.

      Fibroadenomas appear to be an ideal target for evaluation of ultrasound guided HIFU
      treatment. However, not all the FA are suitable for surgical treatment and in many cases
      surveillance associated or not with hormonal medication may be sufficient for limiting the
      symptoms at the degree compatible with a good quality of life for the patients. In addition,
      from the fraction of the patients for which ablation is a genuine medical need due to the
      severity of the pathology (size, symptoms, disturbed daily activity with possible
      psychological impact), only a part of them are suitable for undergoing the HIFU treatment.

      Therefore, all the patients to be included in this study have an initial indication of
      surgical resection of the adenoma. Unlike the patients presenting FA and suitable for
      medication and surveillance, the cases for which surgery is an indication are symptomatic
      (significant pain, discomfort, anxiety) and/or are presenting a growth observed during their
      surveillance with ultrasound examination. In addition, all the eligible patients will have to
      comply with the technical limitations of the HIFU method in terms of lump size, subcutaneous
      depth, presence of calcifications and other contraindications like presence of breast
      implants or under areolar location. Knowing that after the age of 45 years the lumps are in
      many institutions reserved exclusively for surgery in order to eliminate all suspicion of
      malignancy, the upper age limit is fixed at 45. Further limitations as established by the
      American Society of Breast Surgeons for potential candidates of percutaneous excision will be
      added as inclusion criteria for all patients (the lesion must be sonographically visible, the
      diagnosis of FA must be confirmed histologically, lesions should be less than 4cm in largest
      diameter).
    
  