
    
      This will be a multi-center, prospective, sham-controlled, double blinded, randomized
      clinical study.

      A total of eighty evaluable (80) subjects with unilateral arthritic knee pain will be
      recruited into this clinical trial from multiple sites. Enrollment will continue until 80
      subjects have evaluable primary endpoints. Some subjects will not pass the 1-week trial
      period, and others may be lost to follow-up. The Principal Investigator (PI) will screen all
      of the subjects for appropriateness for the procedure. The degree of neuropathic pain will be
      assessed using the DN4 standard questionnaire. 29 A diagnostic injection of the IPS under
      ultrasound, fluoroscopy or landmark guided in the clinic will be performed, and only those
      subjects with significant temporary pain relief (> 75%) for at least 2 hours will be allowed
      to continue with the study. All subjects will be brought to the procedure room or operating
      room (OR) for the trial implant procedure under local anesthetic. An introducer will be
      placed under ultrasound or fluoroscopic guidance at the target nerve and the electrodes
      percutaneously advanced towards the IPS. After insertion of the receiver and then
      confirmation of stimulation, the trial stimulator will be secured to the skin. The stimulator
      tail will be outside the body and attached to the skin. All subjects will undergo an active
      7-day provisional test period. Only those subjects reporting > 50% pain relief at the end of
      the 7-day provisional test period as compared to baseline will be allowed to continue with
      the study. The trial leads will be removed at the end of 7 days.

      All subjects responding to therapy with > 50% pain relief at 7 days will, at a later date, be
      brought to the operating room (OR) and given a sedative and local anesthetic. An introducer
      will be placed under ultrasound or fluoroscopic guidance onto the target nerve and the
      electrode array advanced towards the nerve. The receiver will be mated with the electrode
      array, and, after confirmation of stimulation, the permanent stimulator will be tunneled and
      secured. The subject will then be randomized to either active sub-threshold (high frequency)
      stimulation or no stimulation (sham). All subjects and assessors will be blinded to the group
      assignment for up to three months follow-upFollow-up visits will be conducted at 1 week, 1
      month, 3 months, and 6 months post-implantation. Follow up phone calls at 12 months, 18
      months, and 24 months post-implantation will be performed to confirm durability of pain
      relief with a verbal rating scale (VRS; 0-100) and global perceived effects scale (GPES) and
      to capture any subject-reported adverse events.

      Initial and follow-up evaluations will consist of physical exams, visual analog scales (VRS
      at 12, 18, 24 months), Western Ontario and McMasters University Arthritis Score (WOMAC),
      range of motion (flexion and extension measured by goniometer, work status and medication
      intake evaluation. At 1-month post-permanent implant, if there is not >50% relief, the
      subject will be unblinded. If sham was confirmed, the stimulator will then be reprogrammed to
      receive active treatment, and the trial continued. If the active arm was confirmed, the
      stimulator will be reprogrammed, and the trial continued. All subjects will be unblinded at
      the 3-month visit regardless of randomization and outcome. If sham was confirmed, the
      stimulator will then be reprogrammed to receive active treatment Available stimulation
      programs include tonic (on table testing), burst, 1000 Hz 1499 Hz frequency stimulation, all
      of which may be utilized via the same subject.
    
  