
    
      Median survival after pediatric heart transplantation (HT) is 15 years in the current era.
      This means that a substantial fraction of patients transplanted during childhood fail to
      survive to adulthood, or require heart re-transplantation, because of complications related
      to heart transplant. These complications include heart transplant rejection, infection,
      coronary artery disease, post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD; a form of
      lymphoma seen in transplant recipients), and kidney failure. Most complications stem not from
      the heart transplant itself, but from the drugs commonly used to suppress the immune system
      in order to prevent rejection. In the US, tacrolimus (TAC) and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF),
      have emerged over the past decade as the standard of care for pediatric heart transplant
      immunosuppression. While pediatric survival has improved significantly in the era of TAC and
      MMF, post-HT complications remain a major problem that limits median survival to 15 years.
      Recently, everolimus (EVL) has emerged as a potential alternative immunosuppressant that may
      prevent rejection, coronary artery disease and kidney failure more effectively than TAC/MMF
      when administered in combination with low-dose tacrolimus (LDTAC). Preliminary studies
      suggest that EVL, and its first-generation analog sirolimus, are well tolerated in children
      after HT, regardless of whether it is started in response to coronary artery disease, in
      response to chronic kidney disease, or empirically 4-6 months after transplant in an effort
      to prevent the development of these complications1. However, studies are generally limited to
      single-center experiences using historical controls and have inadequate statistical power to
      demonstrate treatment differences. This will be the first multicenter randomized clinical
      trial of maintenance immunosuppression in pediatric heart transplantation to systematically
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of EVL with LDTAC vs. TAC/MMF to prevent long-term
      complications which lead to death/graft loss. The major adverse transplant event (MATE) score
      will serve as the primary endpoint to power the trial. Because no Food & Drug Administration
      (FDA)-approved immunosuppressants currently exist for children after heart transplant (all
      prescriptions are off-label) and market incentives to support a trial are limited, the
      investigators have funded the trial through a Fiscal Year 2016 Peer Reviewed Medical Research
      Program Clinical Trial Award sponsored by the Department of Defense office of the
      Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs. It is worth noting that in contrast to
      adults, children have a substantially longer potential life expectancy if post-transplant
      complications can be minimized, making the prevention of late complications an urgent
      priority for the pediatric heart transplant community.
    
  