
    
      1.1. Background Epilepsy is a common disorder affecting approximately 1% of the population
      including nearly 2 million people in the United States. Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) is
      the most common complaint of people with epilepsy, reported in as many 50% of cases. EDS has
      long been attributed to the effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and seizures, but this
      assumption has not been adequately tested. In recent years, primary sleep disorders, such as
      sleep apnea, have been identified as potential contributors. A recent questionnaire-based
      study of 486 adults with epilepsy found a 2-fold higher prevalence of sleep disturbances in
      patients compared with age- matched controls (39% vs.18%). The presence of a sleep
      disturbance adversely affects quality of life (QOL) in people with epilepsy.

      Despite the frequency of EDS in people with epilepsy, surprisingly few have attempted to
      measure this complaint objectively. In a study presented at the 2007 Annual Meeting of the
      American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) by the investigators of this proposal, the
      prevalence of EDS among 92 epilepsy patients was assessed using three measures: self-reported
      EDS, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), a subjective screening tool used in sleep clinics,
      and the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT), the gold standard objective measurement of
      daytime sleepiness. Seventy-two percent of subjects endorsed EDS (feeling excessively sleepy
      at least a few days per week over the last 6 months), 37% had abnormal ESS scores (> 10), and
      62% had abnormal MSLTs (mean sleep latency [MSL] < 8 min). The MSL was less than 5 minutes,
      comparable to that of patients with narcolepsy, in 36% of cases. The correlation between
      self-reported EDS and the MSL was poor. However, as found in previous studies in sleep
      populations, a better correlation between the ESS and MSL was found. Among larger epilepsy
      series using the ESS, 11-28% of patients had scores greater than 10, suggesting the presence
      of EDS.

      Excessive daytime sleepiness is a negative predictor of QOL in sleep disorders patients and
      is likely the most important, overlooked complaint of people with epilepsy. To date, no
      well-designed trials have explored the impact of specific AED therapy on wakefulness,
      although the sedating effects of most of the currently available agents have been
      demonstrated through small series and clinical experience. The current study is proposed to
      objectively measure the effects of lacosamide (LCM) on sleep and wakefulness in adult
      patients with focal epilepsy.

      1.2. Investigational Agent Lacosamide ([R]-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide)
      belongs to a novel class of functionalized amino acids. It has been shown in animal models to
      have antiepileptic properties possibly by two distinct and novel mechanisms of action. Like
      many other AEDs, LCM has an effect on voltage-gated sodium channels. But unlike other AEDs,
      LCM enhances the slow inactivation of these channels. LCM also interacts with
      collapsin-response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) which may represent other novel mechanism, not
      previously recognized in AED development.

      Lacosamide 200-400 mg/day is approved in the US and in Europe in oral and IV formulations as
      adjunctive therapy in adults with focal seizures.

      2.0 STUDY OBJECTIVES Primary Objective To determine the effect of LCM on wakefulness in
      adults with focal epilepsy by comparing the change between Visit 4 and baseline in the ESS in
      subjects randomized to LCM versus placebo.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine the effect of LCM on wakefulness in adults with focal epilepsy by comparing
           the change between Visit 4 and baseline in MSL of the Maintenance of Wakefulness Test
           (MWT) in subjects randomized to LCM versus placebo.

        2. To determine the impact of LCM on sleep using ambulatory polysomnography (PSG) by
           comparing sleep efficiency (SE; total sleep time/total recording time) between Visit 4
           and baseline in subjects randomized to LCM versus placebo.

        3. To compare change in fatigue using the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) between Visit 4 and
           baseline in subjects randomized to LCM versus placebo.

        4. To compare change in health- and sleep-related QOL between Visit 4 and baseline in
           subjects randomized to LCM versus placebo.

      3.0 STUDY DESIGN This is a Phase IV, randomized, single center trial of LCM in adult subjects
      with focal epilepsy. Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria and are taking stable doses of
      1 or 2 marketed AEDs for at least 4 weeks will be randomized in a double-blind, 4:1 scheme to
      LCM 400 mg/day or placebo, respectively. At the end of the Treatment Phase, subjects will
      have the option to enter an Extension Phase whereby they will receive LCM titrated to 400
      mg/day.

      4.0 STUDY DRUG Subjects will be randomized to LCM or identically packaged placebo. A 1-step,
      back-titration of LCM 100 mg/day or placebo will be allowed in the case of an intolerable
      adverse event (AE) at the end of the Treatment Phase.

      A blocked randomization scheme will be developed and used to allocate subjects to active
      treatment or placebo in a 4:1 ratio. Blocks will be of random size, not to exceed 10, and
      will ensure appropriate balance of treatment groups at the midpoint of enrollment and study
      completion.

      5.0 STUDY PROCEDURES

      5.1 Study Assessments

      5.1.1 Sleep Apnea Scale of the Sleep Disorders Questionnaire (SA/SDQ) As part of the
      screening process, subjects will complete the SA/SDQ, a validated instrument that assesses
      the likelihood of having obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) based on variables including loud
      snoring, age, body mass index, tobacco use, and hypertension. In the original validation,
      cutoffs of 32 or higher for women and 36 or higher for men correlated well with having a
      diagnosis of OSA by PSG.

      The following procedures (subjective assessments, blood sampling and sleep testing will be
      performed at baseline (Visit 2- 2 week window) and at Visits 3 (LCM 200 mg/day) and 4 (400
      mg/day) at least 11 days but no longer than 21 days after the prior visit (at least 11 days
      after the previous dose adjustment so as to ensure a steady state).

      5.1.2 Ambulatory PSG Overnight ambulatory PSG will be performed using the Sapphire PSG ™,
      Cleveland Medical Devices, Inc. The system records electroencephalography (EEG; F3/4, C3/4,
      O1/2), electro-oculography (EOG; E1, E2), chin electromyography (EMG; 3 channels), leg EMG (4
      channels), thermister and pressure transducer, respiratory effort (RIP), snore, EKG, pulse
      oximetry, and body position. Remote PSG monitoring with video will be performed using
      DreamPort™, Cleveland Medical Devices, Inc.

      5.1.3 Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT) The MWT is a modification of the more popular
      MSLT, the gold standard objective measurement of daytime sleepiness. The MSLT is intended to
      measure physiological sleep tendency under standardized conditions. It is based on the
      premise that the degree of sleepiness is reflected by sleep latency. The MWT is intended to
      measure one's ability to maintain wakefulness under standardized, relatively sedentary
      conditions.

      5.1.4 Subjective Sleep Assessments Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS): The ESS is a
      self-administered eight-item questionnaire that measures a subject's subjective daytime sleep
      propensity. Subjects are asked how likely they are to doze off or fall asleep in 8 specific
      situations such as watching television or riding a car (never, slight, moderate, high: 0-3),
      with total scores ranging from 0-24. It has high test-retest reliability and a high level of
      internal consistency. An ESS score greater than 10 is considered indicative of EDS.

      Self-reported EDS is categorized as a response of Yes or No to the question: Have you been
      feeling excessively sleepy at least a few days per week over the last 2 weeks?

      Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS): The FSS is a validated method for assessing fatigue. It is
      comprised of 9 items that are rated according to a Likert-type scale from 1 to 7, where 1
      indicates no impairment and 7 indicates severe impairment. Responses to individual items are
      tallied to produce a total score.

      5.1.5 Seizure and Sleep Log Subjects will record sleep and wake times and quantify and
      characterize seizures in logs developed for the trial. Mean daily seizure frequency,
      excluding auras, between Baseline and Visit 4 will be calculated.

      5.1.6 Adverse Events Assessments Adverse Event Profile (AEP): The AEP is an
      epilepsy-specific, 19-item questionnaire designed to monitor the frequency of common AEs
      associated with AEDs. Subjects rate the frequency of problems or side effects on a scale from
      1 (Never) to 4 (Always or often).

      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9): The PHQ-9 is a 9-item depression scale based on the
      diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorders in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
      Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). It is used in the diagnosis of depression and monitoring of
      treatments impacting on depression. A score of 10 and higher is indicative of moderate to
      severe depression. The PHQ-9 discriminates well between individuals with and without
      depressive disorders.

      5.1.7 Quality of Life Assessments Quality of Life in Epilepsy (QOLIE-31): The QOLIE-31 is a
      31-item survey of health-related quality of life for adults with epilepsy. The survey is
      derived from a longer, 89-item instrument.

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory (PSQI): The PSQI is a self-rating questionnaire for
      measuring subjective sleep quality. A global score is produced that represents the sum of
      seven component scores, each which addresses a specific aspect of subjective sleep quality.

      Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire (FOSQ): The FOSQ is a self-administered 30-item
      questionnaire that offers a measurement of functional status as it relates to the impact of
      daytime sleepiness on daily activities. It measures the effect on activity level, vigilance,
      intimacy and sexual relationships, general productivity and social outcome.

      5.2 Subjects will have 5 or 6 visits Visit 1 (Baseline Phase - 2 weeks) Visit 2
      (Randomization, Start of Treatment Phase - at least 2 weeks after Visit 1 not to exceed 8
      weeks) Visit 3 (Treatment Phase, LCM 200 mg/day - 11 -21 days after Visit 2) Visit 4
      (Treatment Phase, LCM 400 mg/day - 11-21 days after Visit 3)

      At the completion of all study procedures, subjects will be offered the option of entering a
      4-week Extension Phase or a 2-week Taper Phase. In the Extension Phase, the investigators and
      subjects will remain blinded to the initial group assignment but all subjects will be treated
      with LCM. Subjects in the LCM arm will continue on 400 mg/day. Those in the placebo arm will
      undergo a 4-week titration schedule. All subjects will continue to maintain a seizure and
      sleep diary.

      Subjects who decline participation in the Extension Phase will undergo a 2-week Taper Phase
      whereby LCM will be tapered by 200 mg/day per week.

      Visit 5 (Final Visit for Nonextenders, beginning of Extension Phase - 0-21 days after Visit
      4) For subjects opting to enter the Extension Phase, subjective assessments only will be
      performed at least 4 days after initiation of LCM 200mg/day to ensure testing is completed
      after achieving a steady state.

      Visit 6 (Extension Phase Final Visit - 26- 42 days after Visit 5)
    
  