
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Preterm birth is a major health care concern and although survival of premature infants has
      improved, the incidence of neonatal morbidities has slightly decreased especially in cases of
      extreme prematurity. Apnea of prematurity (immature respiratory control) is a major
      complication in Neonatal Intensive Care Units occurring in virtually all infants born before
      28 weeks gestation. Intermittent Hypoxemia (IH), episodic oxygen desaturation events, is
      generally attributed to apnea of prematurity often superimposed upon suboptimal lung
      function. Intermittent hypoxemia events are common in preterm infants and may lead to both
      short-term and long-term morbidities. Typically, the incidence of intermittent hypoxemia (IH)
      increases over the first 4 weeks of life before plateauing at weeks 6-8. In addition to
      inducing oxidative stress by increasing production of reactive oxygen species, this
      hypoxemia/reoxygenation cycle is thought to induce a pro-inflammatory cascade of
      transcription factors that promotes activation of inflammatory cells resulting in multisystem
      morbidity. These morbidities include retinopathy of prematurity, cardiorespiratory
      instability, and poor neurodevelopmental outcomes. A potential morbidity that has yet to be
      investigated is acute kidney injury (AKI).

      AKI is associated with morbidity and mortality in critically ill neonates. The risk of AKI is
      higher in very low birth weight infants requiring assisted ventilation and ionotropic
      support, and in infants with congenital heart disease. Additionally, AKI occurs more
      frequently in infants who suffered severe birth asphyxia. While it has been established that
      end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) is associated with worsening sleep apnea in adults, it has
      been proposed that sleep apnea and nocturnal hypoxemia may contribute to kidney injury, the
      development of chronic kidney disease (CKD), and the progression to kidney failure. Proposed
      mechanisms of kidney disease via intermittent nocturnal hypoxemia include 1: direct
      intrarenal hypoxemia (resulting in tubulointerstitial injury) 2: an increase in oxidative
      stress, inflammatory cytokines, and systemic blood pressure (via activation of the
      renin-angiotensin system). Hence It is plausible that IH may modulate AKI in preterm
      neonates. The investigators goal is to test the hypothesis that intermittent hypoxemia is
      associated with Acute Kidney Injury in preterm infants. Investigation of relationship between
      IH and AKI may provide further insight into onset and prevention given the recent
      advancements in the detection and characterization of AKI in this vulnerable population.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      AIM 1: Test the hypothesis that intermittent hypoxemia is associated kidney injury in preterm
      infants, as reflected by a rise in serum creatinine.

      APPROACH: Premature infants with GA 23 to 31 weeks will be prospectively recruited from
      Kentucky Children's Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). High resolution oxygen
      saturation monitoring will be performed for the first 2 months of life. Creatinine levels
      will be collected as they are obtained routinely on premature infants in the NICU.
      Demographic data will be collected including gestational age, postnatal age, gender and race.
      Clinical data including respiratory support, caffeine use, vital signs and neonatal
      morbidities will be documented. Scores to predict severity of disease and mortality in
      newborns will be used. The investigators will assess the cumulative effect of IH on AKI as
      reflected by serum creatinine measurements at 1 month, 2 months, and discharge in extremely
      preterm infants.

      AIM 2: Test the hypothesis that there is rise in acute kidney injury urinary biomarkers with
      increased intermittent hypoxemia.

      APPROACH: Similar to Aim 1, premature infants with GA 23 to 31 weeks will be prospectively
      recruited from Kentucky Children's Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). High
      resolution oxygen saturation monitoring will be performed for the first 2 months of life.
      Urine will be collected daily in the first week of life and then weekly until 2 months of age
      and hospital discharge. Collecting urine is noninvasive and minimal risk. Samples will be
      de-identified and stored in the investigators research laboratory. Standardized kits to
      measure biomarkers associated with kidney injury such as albumin, β2-microglobulin (β2MG),
      cystatin C (Cys C), epidermal growth factor (EGF), neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin
      (NGAL), osteopontin (OPN), and uromodulin (UMOD) will be used. Since IH increases with age
      and persists during NICU stay, the cumulative effect of intermittent hypoxemia will be
      correlated with biomarker concentrations weekly throughout the study period and at discharge.

      Oxygen saturation will be continuously monitored upon admission with high resolution pulse
      oximeters, with 2 second averaging time and 1Hz sampling rate. Novel software will be
      utilized to analyze raw data per the following definitions:

        1. Intermittent Hypoxemia is primarily defined as a drop in oxygen saturation (SpO2) to
           less than 80% for more than 4 seconds and less than 3 minutes.

           Secondary measures for IH include:

        2. A drop in SpO2 of <85% for >4 seconds and <3 minutes duration

        3. A decline in SpO2 by >4% from baseline to <90% that lasted >4 seconds

        4. Percent time spent below above threshold, includes sustained hypoxemia (>3min duration)

        5. Number of hyperoxemic events defined as an increase in SpO2 of >95%

        6. Duration and nadir of each oxygen desaturation and hyperoxemic event

        7. Mean SpO2/day

      Sample size: There is no data available in the literature to calculate sample size. Based on
      NICU census, consent success rate, and accounting for data loss, the investigators will
      recruit a total of 50 patients for this pilot project. To maintain a balanced sample, the
      investigators will stratify enrollment by gestational age targeting 15-18 subjects in each of
      the following groups: 23-25 weeks gestation, 26-28 weeks gestation, 29-31 weeks gestation.
    
  