
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Various tumor ablative procedures and techniques have been shown to result in
           immunogenic cell death and induction of a peripheral immune response. The term ablative
           therapies applies to trans-arterial catheter chemoembolization (TACE), radiofrequency
           ablation (RFA) and cryoablation (CA).

        -  The underlying hypothesis of this study is that the effect of immune checkpoint
           inhibition can be enhanced by TACE, CA and RFA in patients with advanced hepatocellular
           carcinoma (HCC) and biliary tract carcinomas (BTC). We have already demonstrated proof
           of principle as well as safety and feasibility of this approach with anti-CTLA4 therapy.

        -  Based on the concept of PDL1-mediated adaptive resistance and the emerging role of PD1
           therapy in HCC, we would like to evaluate the combination of tremelimumab and durvalumab
           (with ablative therapies) in HCC and BTC.

      Objectives:

      - To preliminarily evaluate the 6-month progression free survival (PFS) of combining
      tremelimumab and durvalumab in patients with advanced HCC (either alone or with cryoablation,
      TACE or RFA) and in patients with advanced biliary tract carcinoma (BTC) (either alone or
      with cryoablation or RFA).

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of HCC or biliary tract carcinoma OR
           histopathological confirmation of carcinoma in the setting of clinical and radiological
           characteristics which, together with the pathology, are highly suggestive of a diagnosis
           of HCC (or biliary tract carcinoma).

        -  Childs-Pugh A/B7 cirrhosis only is allowed. If patient does not have cirrhosis, this
           limitation does not apply.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection,
           radiofrequency ablation, or liver transplantation.

      DESIGN:

      We will evaluate the combination of tremelimumab and durvalumab (with ablative therapies) in
      cohorts A1 (HCC; Barcelona clinic liver cancer staging system (BCLC) stage C; N=10), A2 (HCC;
      BCLC stages B/C; N=30) and B (BTC; N=30). The patients in cohort A1 and first 10 patients in
      cohort B will receive tremelimumab and durvalumab only (i.e. no interventional radiologic
      procedures).
    
  