
    
      Male and female (DoD beneficiaries). Age 18 years or older, who meet eligibility criteria
      will be offered an opportunity to participate via Primary Care Manager (PCM) referrals and
      posted advertisements will be utilized for recruiting subjects to the study. Some patients
      may be patients of the Principal Investigator or Associate Investigator, however, they will
      have the study staff recruit their patients to prevent any misconception of coercion or undue
      influence. When a potential subject is identified by the treating PCM, the patient will
      either be provide a contact number to the Research Staff, the Research Staff will be given
      the potential subjects contact information by the PCM, or the PCM will come and get the
      Research Staff to speak with the patient directly. Researchers will administer acupuncture
      treatments for up to 6 different migraine episodes per subject over the course of 3 months.
      This type of Acupuncture for this indication is routinely done as part of standard-of-care in
      our Family Medicine and acupuncture clinics both in conjunction with rescue medications and
      as a stand-alone therapy.

      Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization. (research only)

        -  Review past medical history in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
           (AHLTA) to verify the inclusion/exclusion criteria including previous encounter, vital
           signs review, medication list, co-morbidities, demographics, problems list, and note any
           prior acupuncture received. (research only)

        -  Record: Date of birth, age, gender, race, ethnicity, last 4 of social security number,
           name of standard of care rescue medications (over-the-counter and prescription), current
           email address (to be used for scheduling only), height (in inches), weight (in pounds),
           history of traumatic brain injury, concussion, or any mild to severe head trauma,
           medication use, history of acupuncture. (research only)

        -  Researchers will ask what the subjects expectations are regarding acupuncture's
           effectiveness for migraine. (research only)

        -  Researchers will instruct subjects not to take their over-the-counter and prescription
           headache medications until after their visit with the research staff. (Standard care)

        -  Researchers will instruct subjects to bring their over-the-counter and prescription
           headache medications with them to each visit if their symptoms do not resolve from the
           acupuncture treatment. (research only)

        -  Patient will be instructed to contact the Research Coordinator, as soon as possible,
           after onset of migraine symptoms (including prodromal symptoms) to schedule an emergent
           visit with the research staff. (research only)

        -  Patient will be given a contact card with the names and phone numbers of the research
           staff to contact when they have a migraine episode.

      Migraine Episode:

        -  Self-reported headache pain severity (0=no headache, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe)
           (Standard care)

        -  Record type and amount of rescue medications (over-the-counter and prescription) use in
           the past 7 days. (research only)

        -  Acupuncture treatments will be subject dependent, and points could include the N point
           (on scalp); various auricular points to include Shen Men, Point Zero, thalamus and
           Omega-2; body points to include Liver 2, Liver 3, Gall Bladder 20, bladder 10; and
           surface release over tense areas in the neck or shoulders. (Standard care)

        -  Researchers will document the points used. (Standard care)

           *If after 20-30 minutes these patients have not had resolution of their headache, they
           may take their standard of care rescue medication. (research only)

        -  The subject will sit for 20-30 minutes post-acupuncture(research only), and then the
           needles will be removed and the subject will be asked:

           o Self-reported headache pain severity (0=no headache, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe)
           (research only)

        -  Subject is allowed to leave and will be informed of the following telephone follow ups:

        -  2 Hours post acupuncture:

           o Self-reported headache pain severity (0=no headache, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe)
           (research only)

        -  4 Hours post acupuncture:

           o Self-reported headache pain severity (0=no headache, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe)
           (research only)

        -  24 Hours post acupuncture:

             -  Self-reported headache pain severity (0=no headache, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe)

             -  Would you use acupuncture for future pain management? (Yes or no)

             -  Would you prefer acupuncture or your rescue meds (both over-the-counter and
                prescription) for future episodes?

             -  Record type and amount of rescue medications (over-the-counter and prescription)
                used since acupuncture. (research only)
    
  