
    
      The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has brought severe consequences worldwide.
      Indonesia is one of the countries which has been affected by this pandemic. The examination,
      treatment, and monitoring of individuals with COVID-19 often requires them to be in a
      hospital isolation ward. There are a lot of factors which could negatively affect the mental
      health of such patients during their isolation, to the point that they develop significantly
      debilitating conditions.

      Several psychotherapy interventions have been known to be effective during a pandemic
      situation. The interventions include those based on techniques of relaxation, managing
      thoughts and feelings, and mindfulness. These methods could help reducing negative and
      catastrophic thoughts about the future, reducing distress level and hyperarousal, and other
      beneficial effect. However, due to the high transmission rate of SARS-CoV-2 virus (severe
      acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2), face-to-face therapy sessions are rendered
      difficult to hold under the circumstances. Thus, we conducted a pilot study to test the
      impact of a video-based psychotherapy intervention on distress and well-being in hospitalized
      COVID-19 patients in a medical isolation ward.

      This pilot study included 42 patients with COVID-19, aged 20-59. Participants watched three
      brief psychotherapy videos covering relaxation, managing thoughts and emotions, and
      mindfulness. Before and after watching the videos, patients were asked to complete the
      Subjective Units of Distress Scale (SUDS). 31 subjects experienced a significant median
      decrease in SUDS score after the intervention. The effect size was 0.485, with a 95%
      confidence interval of 0.302 to 0.634. Our brief video-based psychotherapy intervention may
      have a positive effect on reducing distress in hospitalized COVID-19 patients in areas with
      scarce resources. This study could be used as a reference for future studies regarding the
      method of choice for delivering psychotherapy intervention for patients in isolation ward
      during the COVID-19 pandemic.
    
  