
    
      Recent studies confirmed the role of immune hyperactivation in the pathogenesis of COVID-19.
      Immune cells, especially neutrophils, infiltrate pulmonary capillaries that cause acute
      fibrin deposition and extravasation into the alveolar space. This excessive accumulation of
      neutrophils constitutes NETs which makes the mucus thick and viscous. The highly viscous
      mucus lowers the patient's respiratory function and impairs ventilation supporting NETs may
      play a major role in the disease. As a mechanism, double-stranded DNA constitutes the
      backbone of NETs and Dornase alfa promotes the clearance of NETs from plasma neutralization.
      Endogenous Deoxyribonucleases (DNases), which physiologically break up this extracellular
      DNA, may become overwhelmed by a massive influx of NETs. Clinically, recombinant human DNase
      I (rhDNase, Dornase Alfa) has the identical primary amino acid sequence with the native human
      enzyme and has been approved for the management of cystic fibrosis. Daily administration of
      dornase alfa is effective in the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients improving pulmonary
      functions. The similarity of mucus secretions in COVID-19 and cystic fibrosis patients by the
      means of NETs makes Dornase alfa as a therapeutic option in COVID-19.

      Progressive COVID-19 pneumonia may be mortal if it is not treated early, causing respiratory
      failure. The most important factor leading to respiratory failure is hyaline membrane formed
      by a neutrophil trap that develops in the cavities of the alveoli. Dornase Alpha is thought
      to have an important contribution by the lysis of this hyalen membrane. In this study, it is
      aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of Dornase Alpha treatment in case of early and late use
      in COVID-19 disease.

      Patients diagnosed with COVID-19 PCR and / or radiological-clinical findings is included in
      the study, and this treatment is carried out in 2 patient groups in comparison with the
      control groups. The groups are:

        1. Newly Diagnosed Patient Group I. Dornase Alpha treated group ii. Control group

        2. Patient Group Monitored by Mechanical Ventilation I. Dornase Alpha treated group ii.
           Control group
    
  