
    
      There are over 312,000 Veterans living in the state of Oklahoma [2]. The Coffee Bunker is a
      non-profit community agency in Tulsa, Oklahoma that serves as the flagships program for
      Serving Our Service Members (S.O.S). The Coffee Bunker's mission is to offer support to
      service members and Veterans by helping them reintegrate back into their families and
      communities. The overall purpose of the present study is to work with the Coffee Bunker in
      offering support towards their mission, specifically in delivering organized parenting
      programs to service members and Veterans.

      Challenges of reintegration after a military deployment can increase levels of stress for
      Veterans, spouses, and their children. In fact, it is common for Veterans or service members
      who struggle with reintegration in their family to report feelings of isolation and lack of
      perceived control, which may impact their ability to parent effectively. The struggles of
      parents can negatively impact the functioning of the family, such that children may exhibit
      more behavioral problems and Veterans parents may be more vulnerable to mental health
      symptomology [3, 4]. Fortunately, research suggests that positive and effective parenting
      practices can mitigate family stressors [5, 6]. As such, given the stressors of reintegration
      among military families, it may be advantageous to implement an evidence-based
      psychoeducation parenting program tailored to Veterans. The goals of the parenting program
      are to assist in improving parent's sense of competence, improving parent's emotional
      regulation abilities, and lower parental stress. The current project will be evaluating
      possible benefits from an evidence-based parenting program with military families. The
      parenting program is free, and is offered by the investigators as a community service.
      Participation in the parenting program does not obligate enrollment in the study. This is
      made possible by one of the PI's (Zanotti's) Schweitzer Fellowship; Zanotti is conducting the
      parenting program along with Dr. Cromer, as a community service.

      The research portion of this study will be voluntary, and while participants will be
      recruited from the parenting program, it will be made clear that they can opt into the
      parenting program without doing any of the research measures. The research portion evaluates
      whether participation in the parenting program reduces parenting stress, increases feelings
      of parenting competence, and improves parenting practices. This study is unique in that
      evidence-based practices will be delivered in a manner that incorporates aspects of military
      culture (i.e., language and concepts are tailored to that used within military culture). The
      parenting program will incorporate mindfulness and values-based parenting principles.
      Mindfulness and acceptance and commitment therapy have been shown to be effective in treating
      service members [1] and this will be the first study that examines how learning these
      principles do or do not impact parenting stress, competence, and practices.
    
  