
    
      Patients are being referred and scheduled for screening and diagnostic colonoscopy as part of
      standard of care.

      For research purposes, participants will be randomized to one of two kinds of patient
      navigation:

        1. Standard patient navigation (Pro-PN) receiving care that they would normally receive if
           they were not participating in the study with patient navigation from the primary
           mentor's staff.

        2. Peer Patient Navigation (Peer-PN): Participants will be assisted by Latino/Hispanic
           peers who have undergone colonoscopy, and are able to discuss, first-hand, their
           personal experience undergoing colonoscopy and describe how they coped effectively with
           the procedure. Medical advice will not be given.

      Both groups will receive 3 intervention phone calls from their assigned navigators: 1) to
      schedule the colonoscopy 2) a reminder call two weeks before the procedure and 3) a reminder
      call three days before the procedure. PPN's will undergo three months of training supervised
      by Dr. Sly (who will be mentored/supervised by Dr. Itzkowitz and Professor Jandorf). Multiple
      modes of training will be used (didactic discussion, observation, role-playing, one-on-one
      sessions, ongoing feedback, rehearsal, supervision (by study investigator and mentors) via
      review of audio-tape recordings of Latino peers' navigation phone calls to the participants
      and a take-home training manual).

      Patients receiving standard patient navigation will receive the care and assessments that
      they would normally receive if they were not participating in a study. Patients in the
      Peer-PN group will be guided through the colonoscopy process by a Latino/Hispanic peer who
      has undergone colonoscopy and will provide the personal prospective of how they coped with
      the procedure.

      At some point before the colonoscopy procedure, patients will receive a phone call, during
      which a research assistant will administer a questionnaire in the form of an interview. Study
      staff will assess health care behavior, fear of colonoscopy and concerns about CRC screening,
      medical mistrust, interpersonal communication, social influence, and self-efficacy. A medical
      chart review will also be completed after the colonoscopy for all patients to assess
      completion of the examination as well as prep quality and any findings where additional
      clinical follow-up was required. Colonoscopy results will also be collected to assess quality
      of care and measure the efficacy of Peer-PN navigations compared to standard navigation,
      particularly potential differences based on study group, i.e., compliance. No other
      information outside of standard of care will be collected.
    
  