
    
      1. Recruitment: Subjects at risk for developing bronchopulmonary dysplasia will be
           recruited from the Doernbecher Neonatal Care Center (DNCC).The subjects' mother will be
           approached by the investigators and consent obtained if she agrees to participate.

        2. Medical Record and Interview: Information about the pregnancy, delivery, and neonatal
           course will be obtained from the medical record. This will include maternal body mass
           index (BMI) at first prenatal visit, maternal age and parity, birthweight, gestational
           age at birth, history of maternal betamethasone for fetal lung maturation, indication
           for preterm delivery (e.g. pre-eclampsia, preterm labor), surfactant administration,
           history of intubations and duration of mechanical ventilation in the infant, current
           level of respiratory support, use of diuretics, bronchodilators, and corticosteroids in
           the neonate. A brief interview will also be obtained from the subject's mother. The
           questions asked will involve tobacco exposure during the pregnancy and family history of
           asthma. The purpose of the data collected on the infant's mother is to help identify
           factors that may predict which premature infants will respond to albuterol.

        3. Procedures: Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) are the procedures involved in this study.
           PFTs are non-invasive, require no sedation, and are commonly used to provide standard
           medical care to preterm infants in the DNCC. PFTs involve placing a mask over the nose
           and mouth during quiet sleep. We will record flow-volume loops with passive respiration
           and measure respiratory compliance and passive respiratory resistance (Rr) using the
           single breath occlusion technique. A dose of albuterol will be given after baseline
           measurements are obtained; the PFTs will be repeated 15 minutes after administration.
           The testing will be the same for each of the three sessions, except the dose of
           albuterol will be altered each session (see below). There will be only one session per
           day, and all three sessions will occur within a 7 day period. Vital signs (respiratory
           rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation) will be continuously monitored during the testing.

        4. Study Drug: Albuterol is a bronchodilator frequently prescribed in neonatal ICUs to help
           treat the symptoms of BPD. About 50% of preterm infants in the DNCC with evolving BPD
           have shown an improvement in their PFT after 2 puffs (180 micrograms) of albuterol
           (unpublished data). The typical dosing is 2-4 puffs every 4-6 hours but the optimal dose
           in premature infants is not known. In this study, 2 puffs (180 micrograms) will be given
           on the first day of PFTs, 3 puffs (270 micrograms) the second day, and 4 puffs (260
           micrograms) on the third day.
    
  