
    
      The immunization coverage in Pakistan is still well below the desired level, leading to
      continued polio transmission, large measles outbreaks and thousands of deaths from
      vaccine-preventable illnesses. A major reason for poor childhood vaccine coverage is the lack
      of awareness among parents regarding the need for immunization in children, and the
      importance of completing the entire series of vaccines. This result in significant drop-out
      between vaccines delivered at birth and later in the infancy period. Customized short
      messaging system (SMS) text can be designed as personally tailored messages to remind and
      inquire parents regarding vaccination for their children according to the EPI schedule. We
      plan to test the effectiveness of reminders to parents/guardians on cell phones through short
      messaging system (SMS) in improving the on-time routine immunization for children in
      Pakistan. This study will be conducted in an urban- squatter settlement area, Ibrahim Haidry
      union council in Karachi, Pakistan. Our experimental plan has three components: First, we
      will conduct baseline survey of parents at our study site to explore their preferences for
      text for immunization reminders. Simultaneously, we will develop a computerized application
      for reminders scheduling. This application will contain the phone number, message
      information, language preferences and date on which the message will be sent. It will be
      interfaced with the gateway to send the message. Lastly, we will conduct a randomized
      controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of automated SMS reminders to parents in
      improving the on-time vaccination rates in children. If the result shows that the vaccines
      compliance can be increased through the SMS reminders, this program can be incorporated with
      the existing systems to collect the cell phone numbers of parents at the time of child's
      first contact with the health system and sending auto generated reminders for vaccine
      compliance at national level.
    
  