
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related deaths for both men and women in the
      United States. In 2014 the estimated number of new lung cancer cases in the United States is
      224,210. Approximately 159,260 people are estimated to die from lung cancer in 2014.
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) constitutes 80% of all lung cancer cases. The standard
      treatment for patients with NSCLC and clinically negative lymph nodes remains surgery per
      NCCN guidelines. Five year survival for patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer is
      generally greater than 50% after surgical resection with lobectomy. A significant number of
      these patients have cardio-pulmonary or other co-morbidities which preclude them from
      undergoing curative surgery. Studies have shown that majority of these patients die from
      their cancer and not from their co-morbidities. This forms the rationale for treating
      medically inoperable early stage lung cancer patients with definitive therapy.

      Treatment with radiotherapy (RT) has been the standard option for patients unable to undergo
      surgery. Radiation alone leads to slightly better outcomes but still not equivalent to
      surgery with 60-70% local failure with conventional fractionated radiotherapy over several
      weeks. The development of three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT) has allowed for
      more focused treatment while avoiding nearby normal tissue resulting in improved disease
      specific survival but overall survival is still poor.

      There is currently no data supporting the use of chemotherapy in the medically inoperable
      group either in an adjuvant setting or concurrently with RT in those with early stage lung
      cancer. In patients with unresectable Stage IIIA and IIIB NSCLC, combined chemo-RT has been
      proven to be superior to RT alone. Two randomized studies that compared concurrent versus
      sequential chemo-radiotherapy found that the concurrent approach provides superior outcomes.
      However this approach has not been studied in early stage lung cancer in the medically
      inoperable group. The medically inoperable patient cohort often does not undergo surgical
      staging, which increases the odds that they harbor occult regional disease. Chemotherapy
      given concurrently with radiation will act as a radiosensitizer and improve local disease
      control and could decrease rate of distant metastases. It is possible that the medically
      inoperable population also experience more side effects due to their co-morbidities and poor
      performance status. Hence there is a need to determine if concurrent chemoradiation is
      feasible and tolerable in the medically inoperable patients. The main side effect associated
      with concurrent chemoradiation in stage III NSCLC is esophagitis. This arises due to effect
      of radiation therapy to the regional lymph node (LN). The investigators' study population
      with early stage lung cancer has no nodal involvement. Hence, the investigators do not
      anticipate esophagitis being a major side effect in the researchers' study.

      There is recent data for adjuvant chemotherapy in the medically operable group. Data from the
      Lung Adjuvant Cisplatin Evaluation (LACE) showed with a median follow-up time of 5.2 years,
      the overall HR of death was 0.89 (95% CI, 0.82 to 0.96; P = .005), corresponding to a 5-year
      absolute benefit of 5.4% from chemotherapy. A similar trial evaluating the role of sequential
      chemotherapy after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in the medically inoperable
      population was attempted at the investigators' institution but was closed due to poor
      accrual. Hence, the investigators are looking at the role of concurrent chemo-RT in this
      population.
    
  