
    
      Colorectal cancer(CRC) kills more than 700,000 patients every year, which is nowadays the
      world's 3rd common and the 4th deadly tumor. About 50% CRC patients will finally develop
      colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM). Among the CRLM patients, 20-25% of CRC are found with
      synchronous colorectal liver metastases (SCRLM) at the first visit. Meanwhile, about 20-30%
      CRC patients suffer by metachronous colorectal liver metastasis (MCRLM) even after radical
      resection of primary tumor. It is nowadays admitted that the R0 resection of both primary and
      secondary tumors in SCRLM and R0 resection of MCRLM represents a feasible and potential
      curative treatment in patients with resectable CRLM(RCRLM). However, the treatment strategy
      for some RCRLM (tumor number≤3 and tumor size≤3.0cm), such as whether to choose hepatectomy
      or local ablation, still remains in debate. In primary hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC), local
      ablation has been proved to has similar curative effect to that of hepatectomy. Compared to
      hepatectomy, local ablation has less trauma and more rapid recovery and possible lower
      hospitalization cost. The curative effect of local ablation is mainly influenced by tumor
      site and tumor size. On the other side, some RCRLM might develop repeat recurrences even
      after "R0" resection due to the imaging undetectable micro metastasis. Thus, local ablation
      might be more suitable for some repeat recurrent CRLM. The aim of this study is to compare
      the efficacy/safety of local ablation with hepatectomy for RCRLM (tumor number≤3, tumor
      size≤3.0cm), including both SCRLM and MCRLM. Patients are randomized to CRLM resection group
      and local ablation group. The primary endpoint is overall survival. Secondary endpoints
      evaluate the rate of patients with at least one severe complication within 30 days after
      surgery/ablation and long-term clinical outcomes, in particular disease-free survival.
    
  