
    
      The Saudi Ministry of Health has implemented a national ECMO program since 2014 in three
      major cities including Jeddah, Al Madinah and Riyadh which have most of the reported infected
      cases with MERS-CoV. The Saudi ECMO program provides a rapid transportation chain system
      (Medevac system), adequate number of intensive care beds and ECMO machines, and highly
      trained perfusionists and staff.

      The investigators hypothesized that the early use of ECMO for treatment of severe acute
      hypoxemic respiratory failure, defined as a ratio of the PaO2 to the fraction of inspired
      oxygen (PaO2/FiO2 ratio) less than 80 despite optimized ventilator management, in infected
      patients with MERS-CoV, would be associated with reduced in-hospital mortality rate.

      Patient Selection:

      The investigators obtained a centralized ethics approval from the Ministry of Health to avoid
      delays and to facilitate the conduct of this timely important study. Eligible patients or
      their legal guardians were contacted to request their participation and obtaining of their
      written consent.

      Patients who are 18 years or older who received ECMO support for MERS-CoV associated
      hypoxemic respiratory failure were included. MERS-CoV infection is defined using the WHO case
      definition. A positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal
      swabs, sputum, tracheal aspirate, or bronchial alveolar lavage is sufficient to establish the
      diagnosis of infection.

      Description of Standardized National Protocol

      The participating Saudi centers had adopted a standardized protocol based on the
      evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      associated with the H1N1 virus infection using low-tidal volume, lung-protective mechanical
      ventilation as the initial strategy. A lung-protective strategy was applied using volume
      assist-control mode, pressure-controlled synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation mode
      or pressure-controlled ventilation mode, with a tidal volume of 6 to 8 mL/kg of predicted
      body weight and variable FiO2 and the positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) to achieve
      arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) from 88% to 95% or a partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) of
      55 to 80 mm Hg.Then a full spectrum of ventilator modes, including airway pressure release
      ventilation, prone ventilation and high frequency ventilation was used.

      If, despite and after the above measures, a patient cannot achieve a ratio of the PaO2 to the
      fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) (PaO2/FiO2 ratio) greater than 100 on ''safe'' settings
      (i.e. FiO2 less than 80%, peak inspiratory (Ppk) and plateau (Ppl) pressures less than 40 and
      35 cm H2O, respectively and tidal volume less than 6 to 8 ml/kg), the patient was assessed
      for eligibility for ECMO support. Veno-venous (VV-ECMO) was used for respiratory support for
      those with respiratory failure, whereas the veno-arterial (VA-ECMO) was used for those with
      cardiorespiratory failure.

      Once adequate ECMO support was instituted, the ventilator was set to low ''recruitment''
      settings. When a patient began to show evidence of pulmonary recovery, the ECMO support was
      weaned off with gradual reducing blood flow, gas flow, and FIO2 over the membrane, when the
      PaO2/FiO2 ratio was greater than 200 with an FiO2 of 50% and pressures less than 38 cm H2O.

      Selection of Historical Cohort

      The control group was identified retrospectively, patient who did not receive ECMO due to
      lack of access but who fulfill the criteria for initiating treatment will be selected.

      Data Collection:

      National database was used to identify patients who met our eligibility criteria. Trained
      research investigators collected the relevant datafor eligible patients. The investigators
      used pre-designed case report forms (CRF) to abstract data. The investigators collected data
      on: baseline characteristics including age, sex, height, weight, and ethnicity, as well as
      the presence of a number of predefined comorbidities, ICU pharmacologic interventions,
      ventilation data including days of mechanical ventilation, ventilation mode, and mean values
      of tidal volumes, positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) levels, FiO2, and PaO2/FiO2 ratio
      before, during and after the initiation of ECMO support, and the administration of antiviral
      and antibiotic medications, the type, gas flow (liter/min), blood flow (liter/min/m2) and
      duration of ECMO, circulatory support, length of ICU and hospital stays, mortality during
      hospital stay.

      In addition, the need for renal replacement therapy; tracheostomy; bacterial co-infection
      duringICU stay; ventilator-associated pneumonia was recorded.

      The investigators will document whether the ECMO treatment was initiatedatthe participating
      centeror whether the patient was transferred to an ECMO center.

      Data on eligible patients was recorded retrospectively during ICU stay. Data on hospital
      discharge or death will be recorded as well.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Descriptive data were reported as numbers and percentages for dichotomous variables; and
      median [interquartile ranges] or and mean (SD) for continuous variables. All outcome data
      from the Cohort-Controlled groupand ECMO group were compared using independent Student t
      test, Mann Whitney U test or X2 test as appropriate. P values < 0.05 were considered
      statistically significant.

      To determine the predictors of the need for ECMO and factors associated with death in
      ECMO-treated patients were entered in a multivariate stepwise backward logistic regression
      model.
    
  