
    
      This is a multi-center study at the University of Alberta and CHU Sainte-Justine for fragile
      X syndrome (FXS) patients aged 6 to 25 years inclusive. It is a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial of metformin (also known as Glumetza, Glucophage, Fortamet), a type
      2 diabetes medication that can also improve obesity and excessive appetite.

      Metformin has emerged as a candidate drug for the targeted treatment of FXS based on animal
      studies showing rescue of multiple phenotypes in the FXS model. Metformin may contribute to
      normalizing signaling pathways in FXS in the central nervous system, which may include
      activities of mTOR and PI3K, both of which have shown to be pathogenically overactive in FXS.
      In addition, metformin inhibits phosphodiesterase, which would lead to correction of cAMP
      levels, and MMP9 production, which is also elevated in FXS. Looking at the potential
      signaling pathways, metformin appears to be a good candidate for targeting several of the
      intracellular functions in neurons disrupted in FXS and, therefore, has potential to rescue
      several types of symptoms in individuals with FXS. Researchers have utilized metformin in the
      clinical treatment of over 20 individuals with FXS between the ages of 4 and 58 years and
      have found the medication to be well tolerated and to provide benefits not only in lowering
      weight gain and normalizing appetite but also in language and behavior. In this controlled
      trial, the researchers hope to further assess metformin's safety and benefits in the areas of
      language and cognition, eating and weight loss, and overall behavior.

      Each participant will be involved in this trial for a period of 4 months. This will include 3
      visits to one of the sites and 5 phone calls. At each visit, the researchers will assess
      behavioral, cognitive, and language development. The researchers will also assess the side
      effects of the study medication throughout the trial.
    
  