
    
      Background: Some adult scoliosis patients suffer significant back pain and risk increased
      curvature leading to postural collapse. The main approach for these patients according to the
      current literature is the surgical one, however, surgery is not without complications, is not
      appropriate for all patients and certain patients do not choose to undergo surgery. Despite
      the fact that scoliosis has been estimated to affect up to 68% of the population over 60,
      there is scant literature about conservative treatments for adult scoliosis; a case report
      and a case series demonstrated the effectiveness of scoliosis specific exercise to stop
      progression, while another study reported the effectiveness of a soft brace in reducing pain
      at short time. Custom fabricated rigid torso braces, similar to those commonly used for
      children are sometimes used in adult patients, however, the goal of these braces is to
      correct and/or sustain the sagittal plane of patients, no data have been published on the
      efficacy of these braces in relief of pain, and such braces are typically not well tolerated
      by adults. Recently a new brace has become available, the Peak Scoliosis Brace (Aspen Medical
      Products) designed to alleviate pain for adult patients with chronic pain secondary to
      scoliosis.

      Aim: to test the efficacy of the Peak Scoliosis Brace in reducing pain in adult scoliosis
      patients.

      Study design: prospective cohort study. Population: 20 adults with back pain secondary to
      Idiopathic Scoliosis. The sample size was calculated considering the data collected during
      the development of the brace in the US, and the first 2 patients fitted in Italy. Setting
      alpha at 0.05 and the power at 0.8, with a mean expected improvement of 2 point in the pain
      NRS, 16 patients would be necessary.

      Considering the possibility of 25% drop out the investigators decided to recruit 20 subjects.

      Statistical analysis: If data will be normally distributed, the investigators will use a
      paired t-test. Otherwise, non-parametric statistical tests will be applied.

      Protocol: patients will be evaluated at baseline immediately before starting with the brace
      and after 4 weeks and 6 months. The brace must be worn for at least 2-4 hours per day. At
      each evaluation they will be asked to fill the NRS, Rolland Morris Questionnaire and COMI.
    
  