
    
      Preoperative preparation:

        -  History taking: complete history will be taken, including personal, past and medical
           history as UTI.

        -  Examination: Included General examination (BMI will be estimated), abdominal, and
           neurological examination.

        -  Laboratory investigations:

             -  Complete urine analysis: Physical, chemical and microscopic.

             -  Urine culture at time of insertion.

             -  Complete blood count (CBC).

             -  Renal function test.

        -  Radiological evaluation:

             -  Abdominal ultrasonography.

             -  Plain KUB.

             -  Non-contrast CT (NCCT-KUB).

      How the technique will be applied?

      Technique of ureteral stent insertion:

      All patients will be in lithotomy position, and an endoscopy operating table with
      fluoroscopic imaging capability will be used. Before the procedures, all patients will have
      retrograde ureteropyelography. Then, a 0.035-inch hydrophilic guide wire will be placed into
      the renal pelvis under the guidance of flexible cystoscope.

      The ureteral stent will be inserted retrograde by using flexible cystoscope, under mild
      sedation or local anesthesia by instilling 2% xylocain gel per urethra. Patients will be
      covered by specific antimicrobial therapy according to urine and/or blood culture. This
      treatment will be continued until there was no fever and any evidence of infection
      disappeared. A Foley's catheter will be left in the bladder for 2 hours in all patients. In
      each case the type of stent will be that of 5 or 6 F, with side-holes and remain in place
      until definitive treatment of stone.

      Technique of PCN insertion:

      Percutaneous nephrostomy will be performed in the angiography suite by a urologist with the
      patient under local anesthesia. All the patients will be given non-nephrotoxic antibiotics
      pre-operatively. The patients will be placed on the ultrasound table with fluoroscopic
      imaging capability in prone position and a pillow placed under the abdomen on the affected
      side to support the kidney. Then the initial puncture site will be chosen, cleaned and
      draped. Local anesthesia was injected and a stab incision was given at the puncture site. The
      18-gauge Chiba needle will be inserted at the renal angle or at the posterior axillary line
      under ultrasound guidance into dilated pelvicalyceal system. Urine or pus drained out
      spontaneously or will be sucked with a disposable syringe and sample was sent to the
      laboratory for culture and sensitively. Then soft end of floppy J guide wire will be passed
      through the needle and needle was removed. The tract was dilated with Teflon facial dilators
      more than the diameter of the nephrostomy tube. After tract dilation a pig tail nephrostomy
      tube or a feeding tube of 8 Fr will be passed over the guide wire into the collecting system
      and secured with silk no.1. All patients were maintained on antibiotic prophylaxis after
      culture sample.

      Operative evaluation:

        -  Operative time in minutes.

        -  Fluoroscopy time in seconds.

        -  Urine culture.

        -  Use of analgesics.

        -  Success of insertion.

      Post operative evaluation (every week until definitive treatment of stone):

        -  Time to normal temperature 37.4C or less.

        -  Time to normal white blood count WBC of 10,000/mm.3 or less.

        -  Time to normal serum chemistry in case of uremic cases.

        -  Urine culture.

        -  length of hospital stay in days.

        -  Duration of diversion, The time until definitive stone treatment and specific treatment
           modality

        -  Duration of intravenous administration of antibiotics for high temperature)

        -  Quality of life (questionnaire immediately and 2 to 4 weeks postoperatively).

        -  The time until definitive stone treatment and specific treatment modality

        -  Complications were noted in immediate post-operative period and on follow up: Procedural
           failure, Injury to adjacent organs, Fever & Septicemia, Bleeding/Hematuria Painful
           Trigone irritation, PCN dislodgement or blockage, Ureteral Perforat;ion , Stent
           Migration, Stent Encrustation or Stone formation
    
  