
    
      Background:

      The past decade has seen a rise in the use of prescription stimulants not only by
      ADHD-diagnosed individual but also by normal healthy individuals for cognitive enhancement.
      This resulted in a corresponding escalation of illicit use, particularly in college students
      (confirmed by numerous survey results). In light of this trend, an important issue concerning
      the effect of cognitive enhancement on the way people think, or what could be called
      "cognitive style", was raised. Specifically, there has been concern that stimulants might
      decrease creativity in people using the drugs for cognitive enhancement(.

      Creativity has been defined as the ability to produce responses which are both novel (i.e.,
      original, rare and unexpected) and suitable (i.e., adaptive and useful according to the task
      constrains; ). Many models have been suggested to explain creativity. According to the well
      established twofold model of creativity, the creative process begins with an associative
      generation of crudely formed ideas, which is followed by an expansion and exploration of
      these ideas through a process of evaluation . Since creativity plays an important role in
      producing novel and useful ideas , it was further speculated that in case of cognitive
      enhancers continues to be more widely practiced and indeed impair creativity, the effect on
      society as a whole could be grave The question of whether stimulants might decrease
      creativity is yet to be elucidated, given that most of previous studies focused on
      ADHD-diagnosed children, with mixed results; While some of them found that stimulants
      maintained creativity, others reported it actually worsened the scores on tasks assessing
      creativity.

      Moreover, despite the increase in both illicit and prescribed stimulant use by healthy adults
      (discussed above) the study by Farah et al.(2009), is so far the only published report
      investigating stimulant effects on creativity among these individuals. The authors examined
      the effect of Adderall (a mixture of amphetamine salts) upon creativity, in 16 healthy adults
      on four tests of creativity, "two tasks requiring divergent thought and two requiring
      convergent thought (p. 542)." Only performance on the convergent tasks was affected, and the
      effect depended on baseline performance: in one case enhancing it, particularly for
      lower-performing individuals, and in the other case enhancing it for the lower-performing and
      impairing it for higher-performing individuals. This pattern of differential effect of
      stimulants based on baseline performance, has been noted in other studies of stimulants and
      cognition and is not unique to creative thought.

      Hence, the question of whether stimulants might decrease creativity in healthy adults using
      the drugs for cognitive enhancement is still open. To best of our knowledge, though MPH is a
      widely used by healthy normal individuals to enhance cognition, its effect upon creativity of
      healthy adults has not been studied before. We therefore sought to investigate the effect of
      MPH upon creativity in healthy adults.

      Participants:

      The experiment will include a group of 30 healthy adults (male and female). Participants,
      aged 21-40 years, will be recruited through an advertisement posted at the University of
      Haifa (including the website of Haifa University).

      Screening Phase:

      Potential subjects will be required to arrive at the Social and Affective Neuroscience Lab in
      Haifa University for two visits:

      On the first visit, the risks and requirements of this clinical research trial will be
      explained to each potential subject. Those volunteering to take part will read and sign the
      Informed Consent Form for participation in the clinical research trial before any
      trial-related procedures are performed

        -  Upon obtaining the signed informed consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
           reviewed to verify the subject's eligibility. Therefore all participants will be
           interviewed by psychiatrist with the Minimal Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV
           Axis I (SCID-I; First, Gibbons, Spitzer, & Williams, 1995) to exclude those with the
           presence of lifetime diagnoses of any Axis I disorder.

        -  In addition, to rule out ADHD, participants will be required to fill in the following
           questionnaires: conners ADHD Adults Rating-Scale, ASRS v1.1-18 and Wender-Utah
           self-report rating- scales, Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS) Symptom Checklist.
           Moreover, to rule out any other clinical disorder.

        -  Each participant will go through a physical examination by a physician and an ECG test
           to eliminate the risk of previously undiagnosed arrhythmia.

      In one of the visits, participants will receive a capsule containing Methylphenidate or
      placebo (prior to performing the tasks), and in the other visit they will receive a capsule
      containing placebo. Randomization will be done by the psychiatrist, so that both experimenter
      and participants are blind to the content of the capsule (The psychiatrist's contact
      information will be provided in the Informed Consent Form).

      MPH dosage will be determined according to participants' body weight: 10 mg in case weight<40
      kg; 30 mg in case weight>90 kg; otherwise 20 mg.
    
  