
    
      The patients will be recruited postsurgery. They will be randomly allocated to an
      intervention or a control group (1:1). Sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes will
      be opened sequentially after participant details are written on the envelope. Carbon paper
      inside the envelope will transfer the information to the assignment card. Two persons not
      involved in the study and without knowledge about the study protocol will perform the
      randomization procedure. The patient will not be informed about the result of randomization.

      Intervention By a short interview and/or extraction of information from the medical records
      comprehensive assessments of the risk of falls and the risk of fractures. Thereafter a
      medication review focusing on fall-risk-increasing and fracture-preventing drugs will be
      performed. The results of the assessments and the medication review will be forwarded orally
      and in written to the prescribing physicians. The recipients will be the physician at the
      ward during inhospital care and the general practitioner at three and six months after the
      surgery.

      Data collection Prescribing of drugs Data will be obtained from the medical records of
      Sahlgrenska University Hospital, the medical records of the general practitioner, the
      multi-dose drug dispensing list, if any, and the Swedish Prescribed Drugs Register
      (Läkemedelsförteckningen).

      Patient data Information on the patients during the hospital stay and the follow-up period
      will be obtained from the medical records of the hospital, the medical records of the general
      practitioner, the Swedish National Hip Fracture Register (RIKSHÖFT), and from the health care
      database in the Region of Västra Götaland. Data on other medical care contacts due to a fall
      accident will be obtained from the care database in the Western Region (VEGA database).
      Additionally, data on diagnoses will be obtained from the National Patient Register
      (Patientregistret). For deceased patients, data from the Cause of Death Register
      (Dödsorsaksregistret) will be obtained.

      Physicians attitudes A short questionnaire will be administered to the physicians at the
      hospital and the general practitioners. The questionnaire will be answered anonymously and
      will include questions on attitudes towards the intervention and its usefulness. A reminder
      will be administered two weeks later.

      Power calculation The study has a power of >80% to detect a 50% rise in the prescribing of
      fracture-preventing drugs in the intervention group, a doubling in bisphosphonates or other
      bone specific drugs and a reduction of 15% in the mean (SD) number of fall-risk increasing
      drugs. Power calculations were based on the assumption that drug treatment in the control
      group was improved by 30% for all fracture-preventing drugs and 60% for bisphosphonates when
      compared with the study performed in 2008.
    
  