
    
      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) constitutes a high-risk state for conversion to dementia,
      making the search for interventions an urgent priority. In the absence of medications or
      dietary agents that improve cognition or delay MCI progression, offering nonpharmacological
      care approaches is currently considered good practice. Despite that, there are only a few
      evidence-based cognitive interventions for individuals with MCI available in the U.S. and, to
      the best of our knowledge, none is culturally sensitive to Hispanics; a group more prone to
      Alzheimer's disease or other dementias compared to non-Hispanic Whites. The overall goal and
      primary aim of this pilot project is to translate and begin to culturally adapt an
      evidence-based compensatory cognitive rehabilitation intervention, the Memory Support System
      (MSS), for Spanish-speaking Hispanics with subjective memory/cognitive complaints or a
      diagnosis of MCI and their care partners residing in the U.S. The MSS is a
      calendar/notetaking intervention proven effective in helping those with MCI compensate for
      memory loss in day-to-day function. Translation of the MSS and other materials will follow
      international guidelines. The Spanish MSS will be piloted in a sample of 20 participants in a
      within-subject, pre- and post-intervention assessment design. Outcome measures of program
      adherence, functional memory/general ability, self-efficacy, mood, anxiety, medication
      management skills, quality of life, and caregiver burden will be administered before and
      after the intervention, as well as at 8-week post-intervention to estimate effect size for
      power analyses for use in a future between-subject random assignment multicenter clinical
      trial. Overall, this pilot project represents an important step to significantly contribute
      to the development and promotion of clinical neuropsychological interventions responsive to
      the needs of the Hispanic community.
    
  