
    
      Patients on hemodialysis for end-stage renal disease are at high risk for death from ischemic
      heart disease. It was reported that nicorandil, a hybrid compound on adenosine
      triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel opener and nitric oxide door, was potentially
      effective to prevent cardiovascular events in patients with CAD receiving hemodialysis.
      Therefore, investigators prospectively examine whether nicorandil is effective in reducing
      the incidence of cardiovascular events in patients with CAD on hemodialysis.

      The primary endpoint is a composite of cardiovascular death, sudden cardiac death, nonfatal
      myocardial infarction, hospitalization for recurrent symptomatic myocardial ischemia and
      stroke. The secondary endpoints are total mortality, revascularization therapy,
      hospitalization for heart failure, hospitalization for peripheral artery disease and newly
      onset of atrial fibrillation.

      Patient population that needs to prove the hypothesis is estimate to be 300 cases in total
      (150 cases in each group). Investigators set the parameters which are need to calculate the
      number of study patients as follows; drop out rate 10%, an event rate of the primary end
      point for two years 50%, a risk reduction rate brought by nicorandil 60%, a statistical power
      80% and two-sided significant level 0.05. Investigators referred the event rate and the risk
      reduction rate from the previous study by Ishi H et al. In this study, event rate of the
      primary end point for two years was 50% and the risk reduction brought by nicorandil was 60%.
      Event rate of the present study will be lower, because drug-eluting stents are widely used to
      prevent restenosis in the present era. Moreover, investigators include the patients underwent
      coronary bypass graft in the present study. In addition, non-cardiovascular mortality is high
      in the patients on hemodialysis. Considering all the various factors together, investigators
      estimated the study sample size.
    
  