
    
      In this multi-arm RCT, 324 community-dwelling older adults (aged 70+) with frailty and at
      high risk for mobility disability will be randomized into one of three arms (socialization,
      exercise only, multi-modal rehabilitation) stratified by sex and age. Rolling recruitment
      will occur with two waves at three sites (n=54 participants per wave) enrolled across the
      partner YMCA sites.

      Participants referred to the study by primary care, community or homecare will complete the
      screening intake form (which includes medical history and clearance for participants in an
      exercise program), or by self-referral (a screening intake form/clearance will still need to
      be completed in these cases by their family doctor). We have piloted 1) inability to rise
      from a chair OR 2) difficulty walking 400 m or climbing stairs as a good proxy of SPPB and
      frailty scores and will be utilized as an initial question for initial screening. Additional
      telephone pre-screening will assist in identifying individuals prior to an in-person
      eligibility assessment. A validated Frailty Index (operationalized via the Fit-Frailty App)
      can be administered over the phone and will provide an estimate of frailty status.

      Stratified block randomization (1:1 randomization ratio) with the allocation sequence
      generated by a computer will be used to randomly allocate eligible participants to their
      group assignment. Participants will be stratified based on their sex and age (<80 or >=80
      years). Following our procedures from our Fit Joints trial (clinicaltrials.gov/Fit Joints),
      the research assistant will confirm eligibility and informed consent and a staff member not
      affiliated with randomize the participant to one of the three groups (frailty rehabilitation
      intervention, exercise, or socialization). The proposed duration of treatment is 6-months.

      Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed at 0, 3 and 6-months at the central site
      (Hamilton Health Sciences). Healthcare utilization will be tracked (via monthly phone-call
      from research personnel) during the intervention phase and for an additional 12-months
      following the intervention.
    
  