
    
      Uveitis represents a heterogeneous group of diseases that results from ocular inflammatory
      reaction involving ocular tissue and vasculature. The inflammation usually causes pain,
      redness, photophobia and blurred vision.

      H.P Acthar Gel stimulate the adrenal cortex to secrete cortisol. Additionally H.P. Acthar gel
      is also reported to bind to melanocortin receptors. Melanocortin receptor activation has been
      shown to exert marked anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory effects in animal studies, by
      modulating pro inflammatory cytokines, followed by induction of anti- inflammatory mediators
      and subsequent leukocyte migration. Specifically melanocortins down regulate Tumor Necrosis
      Factor (TNF) alpha, Interleukin (IL) -2, Interferon gamma and T-cell proliferation and
      upregulates IL-10 and regulatory T cells. For this reason H.P. Acthar is an approved
      treatment for ocular inflammatory disease.

      Ocular inflammatory disease is typically treated with regional or systemic therapy. The
      regional therapy typically consists of topical corticosteroids or periocular or regional
      corticosteroids. Regional therapy can lead to a steroid response glaucoma, which is increased
      intraocular pressure.This pilot study aims to evaluate the possible effectiveness of H.P.
      Acthar in patients with active ocular inflammatory disease, and currently on treatment for
      glaucoma or have a history of glaucoma.

      Subjects will be treated with H P Acthar subcutaneous gel, 40 U/ml, given twice weekly x 8
      weeks, followed by once weekly x 4 weeks: a total 20 doses with the same cumulative units to
      be administered, using the approved route, with the option to do 4 additional doses if
      resolution is incomplete.

      This will be a prospective open-label, non-randomized pilot study: 12 week treatment for
      active non-infectious uveitis, endpoint assessment and safety assessment; additional 12 week
      assessment for uveitis activity/quiescence and safety assessment.
    
  