
    
      -  After confirming the diagnosis and making sure that the patient conforms to all
           eligibility criteria, the principal investigator will enroll the patient in the study.

        -  The operator will complete treatment of all cases in two visits as follows:

             1. Anesthesia will be achieved using inferior alveolar nerve block for mandibular
                premolar teeth and infiltration technique for maxillary anterior teeth with local
                anesthesic solution of 1.8 mL of 2% Mepivacaine HCl with 1:100,000 epinephrine.

             2. Caries and/or coronal restorations will be completely removed with sterile bur and
                rubber dam will then be applied.

             3. The operative field, including the tooth, the clamp and rubber dam sheet will be
                cleaned with 30% hydrogen peroxide for 30 seconds, followed by a sterile cotton
                swab with 5.25% NaOCl for the same period of time and then inactivated with 5%
                sodium thiosulphate.

             4. Access cavity will be prepared using a sterile round carbide bur size 3 and a
                sterile Endo-Z bur.

             5. The operative field and the pulp chamber will be cleaned and disinfected once again
                in the same way mentioned above.

             6. Patency of the root canals will be achieved using #10 or #15 size stainless steel
                hand K-files. Working length (WL) will be determined using an electronic apex
                locator then confirmed radiographically to be 1 mm shorter than radiographic apex.

             7. Debridement and mechanical preparation will be performed with the initial file
                along with 2 mL of 0.9% sterile saline solution and then a pre-instrumentation
                sample will be collected from the root canal.

             8. The pre-instrumentation sample (S1) will be collected as follows: a sterile paper
                point will be placed inside the root canal to soak up the fluid in the canal to a
                level approximately 1 mm short of the tooth apex. The paper point will be left in
                the canal for 60 seconds. This will be repeated using three sterile paper points.
                Paper points will then be transferred aseptically to tubes containing 20 mL of
                sterile thioglycolate broth.

                Microbiological analysis To test for the presence of cultivable bacteria, cultures
                will be inoculated in thioglycolate broth. For the identification of main anaerobic
                taxa, the root canal samples will be plated on 5% sheep blood agar, neomycin blood
                agar and phenyl ethyl alcohol agar with metronidazole (5μg, Oxoid, Basingstoke, UK)
                disc. Cultures will be incubated at 37°C for 72 hours in an anaerobic chamber . In
                addition, specimens will also be cultured aerobically on 5% sheep blood agar and
                MacConkey's agar.

             9. Mechanical preparation will be completed in a crown down technique with Protaper
                Next rotary files set on an endodontic motor adjusted at a speed of 300 rpm and
                torque of 2 Ncm. In-and-out motions will be applied with stroke lengths not
                exceeding 3 mm in the cervical, middle, and apical thirds until attaining the
                established WL. All root canals will be enlarged to size X4 (40.06). The canal will
                be irrigated and recapitulated after the use of each instrument according to the
                allocated group as follows:

                Group 1: Alternate irrigation with 1 mL antibiotic-containing solution followed by
                4 mL 2.5% sodium hypochlorite solution between each size instrument and the
                consequent one. The antibiotic-containing solution will be prepared by mixing equal
                quantities of 1.2 gm Co-amoxiclav solution and 600 mg Clindamycin solution at a
                ratio of 1:1 by volume.

                Group 2: Irrigation with 5 mL MTAD irrigating solution for 5 minutes between each
                size instrument and the consequent one.

                Group 3 (control): Irrigation with 5 mL 2.5% sodium hypochlorite irrigating
                solution between each size instrument and the consequent one.

            10. The root canal will be thoroughly irrigated with the allocated irrigant using a
                plastic disposable syringe with a gauge 30 side-vented needle reaching 1 mm short
                of the WL. The canal will then be dried using sterile paper points.

            11. Canals irrigated with NaOCl (groups 1 and 3) will be flushed with 5 mL of 5% sodium
                thiosulfate to inactivate the NaOCl followed by 5 mL 0.9% sterile saline solution.
                Canals irrigated with MTAD (group 2) will be flushed with 5 mL 0.9% sterile saline
                solution.

            12. A post-instrumentation sample (S2) will be taken as previously described and then
                the cavity will be sealed with a sterile cotton pellet and a temporary filling
                material .

            13. The patient will be instructed to record their pain level on NRS at 24 and 48 hours
                postoperatively and will be recalled after 72 hours. The patient will be prescribed
                Ibuprofen (400 mg) to be taken in case of intolerable pain.

            14. In the recall appointment, the root canal will be accessed under sterile conditions
                and will be flushed with 1mL sterile saline solution before a third sample (S3) is
                taken as previously described.

            15. Master cone fit radiograph will be taken and then the root canal will be dried
                using sterile paper points and filled with gutta percha points and resin-based
                sealer using cold lateral condensation technique.

            16. Access cavity will be sealed with a temporary filling material and the final
                restoration will be placed within one week.

            17. The patient will be asked to report any swelling, in such case, he/she will be
                appointed for clinical examination to assess the severity by a blinded assessor and
                to determine if systemic antibiotics/drainage will be needed.
    
  