
    
      The effectiveness of sharing decision-making program interventions in the early stage of HCC
      to reduce treatment decisions conflicts and improving decision-making
      satisfactionHepatocarcinoma (HCC) is a high incidence and high mortality disease.
      Hepatocarcinoma is also a very common disease in Taiwan. Treatment options are limited to
      those patients with advanced Hepatocarcinoma. However, there are many options for patients
      with compensated cirrhosis, and small liver tumors are potentially resectable. When patients
      understood the detailed assessment of the disease both doctors and patients can set the best
      treatment goals. Sharing decision-making is a patient-centered collaborative processes that
      enable individuals and their healthcare providers to make decisions together, but patient
      engagement appears to be less optimistic and there is a lack of evidence that the link
      between sharing decision-making measures and patient behavior and health outcomes. When
      decisions are made under social stress or time constraints, people may make less than optimal
      decisions when they lack sufficient information or skills. Since then the treatment does not
      match the expected results, often result in decision regrets or arguments with the medical
      team, and even evolved into medical lawsuits. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to
      explore the effectiveness of sharing decision-making program interventions in the early stage
      of HCC to reduce treatment decisions conflicts and improving decision-making satisfaction. In
      this study, investigators took the experimental design to assess the cases of early
      hepatocellular carcinoma in hepato- gastroenterology, surgery and oncology clinical in a
      teaching hospital in the eastern part of Taiwan.

      The intervention measures in this study "sharing decision-making plan" mainly includes
      sharing the decision-making talks and the decision-making assistance tools used in the
      process. According to Elwyn et.al. (2012), the decision-sharing model was proposed to
      intervene in the treatment decision-making of early liver cancer patients, including Choice
      talk, Option talk, Decision talk, and decision-making. Decision support for the process,
      where the investigator meets with the patient and its important others in the
      interdisciplinary discussion room or ward meeting room.

      Second, decision assistance tools. Decision assistance tools provide information about
      options and outcomes, and clarify personal values to help people participate in decision
      making. The aim is to supplement, rather than replace, medical staff counseling (Collins et
      al., 2009), and the quality of decision aids is very important. Satisfaction with the use of
      tools is associated with increased patient satisfaction and reduced decision-making. Patients
      can benefit from computerized decision-making tools without the need to increase physician
      involvement.

      The research tools include basic population data, clinical stage of disease, self-efficacy
      scale of hepatocellular carcinoma, Decision Decision Confidence Scale (DCS), decision
      self-efficacy scale , Decision Satisfaction Scale and Chinese Simplified-form Mandarin Health
      Literacy Scale.

      The obtained data were collected and analyzed by SPSS20.0 for Window software. The main
      statistical methods include descriptive statistics, T-test, analysis of variance, Pearson
      Product Moment correlation coefficient and Generalized Estimating Equations (GEEs) ).
    
  