
    
      BACKGROUND:

      About 25 % of all stroke cases lead to aphasia. Aphasia can include difficulties with speech
      production and comprehension, as well as reading and writing impairment. Language impairment
      affects post stroke rehabilitation in a negative manner. Quality of life is reduced in
      persons with aphasia compared to stroke victims without aphasia. Speech and language therapy
      is the main form of aphasia rehabilitation. The most updated Cochrane review indicates that
      intensive speech and language therapy is more effective than therapy of lower intensity.
      Current aphasia services in Norway do not seem to be in accordance with the national
      guidelines for treatment and rehabilitation of stroke. The capacity for aphasia
      rehabilitation at the community level is too small and there is a lack of speech -language
      pathologists (SLPs). Language training by videoconference could improve this unmet need for
      language training in post stroke aphasia. The literature within this field is however sparse
      and there is a substantial lack of studies showing the effectiveness of telerehabilitation.
      Financed by the Norwegian Foundation for Health and Rehabilitation, the investigators have
      earlier performed a feasibility study at Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital in cooperation with
      the Norwegian Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine. This feasibility study showed that
      language training by videoconference is feasible with regard to technical, practical and
      rehabilitation aspects. The feasibility study laid ground for a larger and controlled study.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The project aims at contributing with scientific evidence to the field of aphasia
      telerehabilitation. The objective of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to
      investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of speech and language training given by
      videoconference.

      DESIGN:

      The study will be conducted as a pragmatic exploratory randomized controlled clinical trial
      (RCT) with an intervention and a control group. The patients will be assessed at inclusion
      and before randomization (baseline), and at 4 weeks and 4 months post randomization. Testing
      is blinded.

      PARTICIPANTS:

      Patients will be recruited from the stroke units at Oslo University Hospital, Akershus
      University Hospital, Østfold Hospital,and Bærum Hospital. Patients, who are admitted for
      rehabilitation at Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, will also be included. In addition,
      patients earlier treated or on the waiting list at Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, will be
      invited to participate. The investigators will also try to recruit patients from other
      rehabilitation institutions, and in cooperation with SLPs in the region of Oslo, Østfold and
      Akershus. The investigators will also invite for participation through the Aphasia
      Association of Norway (user organization).

      The study aims at including 40 participants in each group, with a total number of 80
      subjects. The investigators will include patients with aphasia in all stages following stroke
      including naming impairment. Patients under the age of 16 years and patients, who are unable
      to perform five hours of speech and language therapy per week due to medical or cognitive
      reasons, will be excluded.

      INTERVENTION:

      The intervention group will receive speech and language therapy via videoconference while the
      control group will not receive any specific therapy as part of this study. Both groups will
      receive standard aphasia rehabilitation (usual care). The amount of standard aphasia
      rehabilitation (usual care) will be logged in all participants. Participants in the
      intervention group will receive speech-language training (SLT) for five hours a week over
      four consecutive weeks. The SLT will be performed by an SLP using videoconference via
      internet from Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital to the laptop in the patient's home, or
      rehabilitation/nursing ward. To secure treatment fidelity and replication for future studies,
      the investigators have used the template for intervention description and replication
      (TiDieR) checklist and guide to describe the intervention. The investigators will use the
      technical solution "Cisco Jabber Video/Acano" and the remote control software "LogMeIn", in
      the telerehabilitation that is given.

      PROCEDURES:

      The stroke units will inform potential participants about the project and refer them to
      Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital for further investigation. Potential participants, who are
      patients at Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, receive information about the project and an
      invitation to take part in the trial. For recruitment from other rehabilitation institutions,
      local speech and language therapists, and for members of the Aphasia association of Norway,
      advertising in form of a flyer and a brochure is used. After referral an ambulatory visit by
      the PhD-fellow or research SLP will be performed. Detailed information about the project will
      be provided and the research investigator will request an informed consent before carrying
      out baseline testing. Baseline assessment is blinded as it is performed before group
      allocation. The four weeks control and follow-up-testing is performed by external SLPs
      blinded to group allocation. Directly after the intervention period (four weeks), the
      participant will be visited at home or come to the outpatient clinic at Sunnaas
      Rehabilitation Hospital. The laptop will be retrieved and assessment performed. The control
      group will be tested at the corresponding time point. A further follow-up assessment will be
      performed four months post randomization in all participants. The four weeks control and
      follow-up-testing is performed by external SLPs blinded to group allocation.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      To investigate the effect of aphasia rehabilitation delivered by telemedicine, the
      investigators have chosen to look especially on naming as a measure of expressive language
      function. The investigators want to regard the prolonged effect of aphasia telerehabilitation
      on language function. Further on the investigators want to see the effect immediately after
      intervention and on other language functions than naming. The investigators also want to
      investigate whether SLT by videoconference can affect quality of life, if it is feasible and
      how persons with aphasia and therapists experience the telerehabilitation.

      For the assessment of language functioning, the Norwegian Basic Aphasia Assessment (NGA) with
      the subtests conversational interview, naming, repetition and comprehension will be used.To
      assess the ability of sentence production, the investigators will use the Verb and Sentence
      Test (VAST) subtest sentence production. Functional communication will be assessed using
      Communicative Effectiveness Index (CETI). Quality of life will be assessed using Stroke and
      Aphasia Quality of Life scale (SAQOL-39). In addition, the experiences of patients, relatives
      and therapists with the telerehabilitation services will be assessed using a questionnaire as
      well as semi-structured interviews with selected patients. There will be an interview with
      the SLPs performing the telerehabilitation.

      Primary endpoint: Naming ability four months post randomization.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Language functions other than naming (repetition, comprehension, sentence production)
           four months post randomization.

        -  Functional communication and quality of life four months post randomization..

        -  Naming and other language functions immediately after intervention.

        -  How the telerehabilitation is experienced by patients and SLPs.

        -  Feasibility of telerehabilitation with regards to ethical, technical, logistic, patient
           and data safety aspects.

      ANALYSES AND STATISTICS:

      The investigators will use an intention to-treat (ITT) analysis. The trial is a longitudinal
      study that will give continuous repeated measurements, and the data will be analyzed using
      Mixed-models. Data will be examined for differences over time and between groups. Subgroup
      analysis will be performed to explore factors considered to affect the outcome of the trial
      like differences in time since onset of stroke or demographic and stroke-related factors.
      Qualitative data collected from semi-structured interviews will be suitably coded.
    
  