
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer in the world. Partial
      hepatectomy and liver transplantation are considered to be standard curative therapies for
      HCC. When surgery is not possible, percutaneous ablation is usually considered to be
      alternative treatments for HCC . Recurrence is the most frequent serious adverse event
      observed during the follow-up of HCC patients treated for cure. Repeat hepatectomy is an
      effective treatment for HCC recurrence, with a 5-year survival rate of 19.4 to 56%.
      Unfortunately, repeat hepatectomy can be performed only in a small proportion of patients
      with HCC recurrence (10.4 to 31%), either because of the poor functional liver reserve or
      because of widespread recurrence.(15, 17, 18) Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been
      considered to be one of the most effective percutaneous ablations for early-stage HCC in
      patients with or without surgical prospects . Studies using RFA to treat HCC recurrence after
      hepatectomy have reported a 3-year survival rate of 62% to 68%, which is comparable to those
      achieved by surgery. RFA is particularly suitable to treat HCC recurrence after hepatectomy
      because these tumors are usually detected when they are small, and because RFA causes the
      least deterioration of liver function in the patients. RFA is also effective for managing HCC
      recurrence after initial treatment of RFA. Clinical data have shown that, after repeated RFA,
      the estimated 3-and 5-year overall, and disease-free survival rates for patients with HCC
      recurrence were 67.0% and 40.1% and 68.0 and 38.0%, respectively.Therefore, we considered RFA
      to be an effective treatment for HCC recurrence after curative treatment.

      The combination of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) with RFA has also reported
      to be an effective treatment for HCC. Studies have shown TACE combined RFA to have better
      efficacy than RFA for medium-sized HCC (3-5 cm) and multiple-tumor HCC, but not for small HCC
      (≤3 cm). However, to our knowledge, there have not been any prospective studies to assess
      whether TACE combined sequentially with RFA is more effective than RFA alone for the
      treatment of HCC recurrence after curative treatment. We hypothesized that the combination of
      TACE and RFA might result in better patient survival than RFA alone. Thus, the purpose of
      this study was to prospectively compare the effects of sequential TACE-RFA with RFA alone for
      the treatment of recurrent HCC. Recurrent HCC in this study was defined as new tumors in the
      remnant liver, distant from the resection or ablation site after curative treatment of RFA or
      hepatectomy.
    
  