
    
      Background Pleural empyema has a high morbidity and mortality. Until now it is not clear
      which method is best to initially drain the pus, especially in complicated effusions with
      septa.

      The objective of this study is to compare the standard treatment of simple chest tube
      drainage to early mini-invasive medical thoracoscopy. In earlier studies medical thoracoscopy
      has been a safe and effective method in pleural diseases. However there is no prospective
      data available.

      Methods We conduct a prospective randomized controlled multicenter study on 100 patients with
      complicated parapneumonic effusions with septa or empyema with frank pus. Patients will be
      randomized to receive either simple chest tube drainage or early medical thoracoscopy. The
      latter will be performed in local anaesthesia and analgosedation according to the standards
      set by the European Study on Medical Video-Assisted Thoracoscopy (ESMEVAT)-group.
      Fibrinolysis will be used routinely. In 20 patients a nested study on the intrapleural
      pharmacokinetics of linezolid as antibiotic agent will be performed.

      Follow-up will be structured on day 1, day 7, before discharge and after 3 months including
      chest radiographs and clinical and laboratory evaluations.

      Outcome Primary outcome will be medical cure without the need of secondary intervention or
      death.

      As secondary outcome we will measure duration of hospital stay, adverse events.

      Provisional agenda Start of study: October 2005 End of study: October 2007

      Potential outcome & benefit The study should clarify the role of early medical thoracoscopy
      in patients with complicated parapneumonic effusions or pleural empyema. Different authors
      have speculated that early intervention could be preferable. On the other hand, in many
      centres worldwide patients are primarily treated by a simple chest tube with or without
      pleural fibrinolysis. In case of failure of simple drainage, but this means several
      "precious" days later, a more invasive procedure is needed. At that moment tight pleural
      septa have formed, and often a surgical VATS or thoracotomy in general anaesthesia becomes
      necessary. Therefore, this pivotal study could lead to changes in the management of patients
      with pleural empyema.
    
  