
    
      Infertility affects many people in Ontario and carries a significant amount of emotional,
      physical and financial burden to those who experience it. More specifically, it impacts the
      couple's quality of life and can have detrimental effects related to marital conflicts,
      couple burnout and psychological disorders including a lack of confidence and depression.

      As part of the standard evaluation of infertility, ovulatory function assessment is a
      fundamental step. Confirmation that ovulation has actually occurred can only be determined by
      performing a serum Progesterone test or by using the gold standard, serial transvaginal
      ultrasound. However, both of these investigations require visits to a physician, specialized
      laboratory testing, and in the case of ultrasound are often prohibitive due to its high costs
      and logistical demands.

      In the female body, levels of Progesterone are low in the first half of the menstrual cycle.
      After the ovary releases an egg (ovulation) the corpus luteum produces high levels of
      Progesterone. Pregnanediol-3a-glucuronide (PDG) is the major urine metabolite of
      Progesterone. An inexpensive, home-based PDG urine test strip to confirm ovulation has
      recently been developed. The PDG test measures the presence of PDG in urine, which has been
      shown to directly correlate with the presence Progesterone in serum (blood). According to
      GLOWM (The Global Library of Women's Medicine) PDG levels in urine typically rise 24-36 hours
      after ovulation.

      Although there also exists a home-based electronic hormone monitor for measuring urinary PDG,
      it is not widely available and is very time-consuming for women. Newer methods to monitor PDG
      using a simple urinary test strip that are less time consuming would be a welcome addition to
      the evaluation of infertility. Additionally, urinary hormonal tests have been proven to be
      easy and useful adjuncts to natural fertility markers.

      The primary purpose of this feasibility study is to evaluate the use of the PDG urine test in
      a clinical setting to determine its accuracy to confirm ovulation when compared to the serum
      Progesterone test. This study will follow the use of the PDG urinary test strip over the
      course of one menstrual cycle in 25 female participants. In order to obtain participants,
      this study will use a non-probability sample using an initiation to volunteer technique for
      women in the general Ottawa area. The ultimate aim of this study is to provide information
      for the design of a larger study to determine the accuracy of the PDG urinary test strip.
    
  