
    
      Nerve blocks are used by anesthesiologists as methods of pain control or to allow for
      painless surgery on a limb, rendering a general anesthetic for surgery unnecessary. Local
      anesthetic medication is injected through a needle next to a nerve, often using an ultrasound
      machine to visualize both the needle and nerve simultaneously. A catheter, a small plastic
      tube, can be inserted next to the nerve in order to provide pain relief for hours or days
      after surgery.

      The nerves that provide sensation to the forearm, wrist and hand are the radial, median,
      ulnar, musculocutaneous and medial nerve of the forearm. These nerves originate from a
      network of nerve fibers that exit the spinal cord at the level of the neck. They are tightly
      bundled together, forming the brachial plexus, from the neck to just above the axilla,
      providing the anesthesiologist with many locations to perform a nerve block. One such block,
      known as the infraclavicular block, approaches the nerves just beneath the clavicle and has
      been performed for decades.

      This study aims to examine a new technique to block the brachial plexus, performed at a
      similar level as the infraclavicular brachial plexus nerve block. The ultrasound-guided
      retroclavicular brachial plexus block has the potential advantages of being easier to
      perform, more successful, less painful for the patient, and a better pathway for catheter
      placement. It differs from the infraclavicular nerve block in that the needle is inserted
      above the clavicle rather than below it. In addition, it will allow the anesthesiologist to
      have another approach to the brachial plexus, which can be utilized if patients cannot have
      an infraclavicular block or any other brachial plexus block due to anatomical changes, or
      infection at the sight.

      The retroclavicular brachial plexus block was first used in two patients at Brigham and
      Women's Hospital in whom the infraclavicular approach was contraindicated due to anatomical
      changes after surgery or trauma. This procedure has been found to be a reliable way to
      perform a brachial plexus nerve block and has become a routine procedure at Brigham and
      Women's Hospital for hand or forearm surgery over the past three years.

      In reviewing the literature, a similar procedure was introduced by Hebbard and Royse in 2007,
      but no patient data was reported. By assessing the procedure in a prospective study, the
      investigators will be able to describe the technique, the success rate and any complications
      in the literature to allow other anesthesiologists to potentially incorporate this block into
      their repertoire.
    
  