
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is the most common chronic disease in industrialized nations, affecting more than10
      million people in the U.S. alone. Familial aggregation and concordance rates in monozygotic
      twins have suggested a genetic component to asthma. Dr. Ober and colleagues have been
      conducting studies on the genetics of asthma and atopy in the Hutterites, an inbred
      population of European origins that practices a communal lifestyle. A genome-wide screen with
      564 markers (average spacing 6 cM) was completed in an extended pedigree of 717 Hutterites
      who were well characterized with respect to asthma, atopy, and related phenotypes. These
      individuals are descendants of only 64 ancestors who lived in the early 1700's to the early
      1800's. Evidence for linkage with bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR) by the likelihood ratio
      test extended over 30 centimorgans (cM) on chromosome 5p, with P-values as small as 0.001.
      Additional evidence for linkage at this same location was evident by the transmission
      disequilibrium test (P=0.0061). Typing additional markers in this region identified a
      critical region of 2.4 cM, corresponding to 1.5 Mb of DNA, and a high risk haplotype that is
      over transmitted to affected individuals.

      The study was conducted in response to a Request for Applications, "Positional Candidate
      Approaches in Asthma Gene Discovery" released in Ocatober, 1999.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Dr. Ober and colleagues characterized the 5p-linked BHR susceptibility locus in the inbred
      Hutterites by positional cloning and replicating these findings in outbred, ethnically
      diverse populations. They examined single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spaced about 10 kb
      apart in each gene, and assessed the evidence for over transmission to affected offspring
      with each SNP and SNP haplotypes. Associations in the Hutterites were replicated in two
      outbred samples (a Caucasian sample from Germany, and an African American sample from
      Chicago). The functional effects of associated variants were assessed by in vitro assays as
      well as by genotype-phenotype studies in outbred samples that had been evaluated for asthma
      and atopy phenotypes. Identifying asthma or BHR susceptibility loci may identify novel
      pathways in asthma pathogenesis, thereby allowing for the development of new therapies and
      intervention strategies for these common diseases.
    
  