
    
      STUDY TITLE:

      A non-interventional, controlled, open-label (blinded assessor), prospective, multicenter,
      observational registry study to investigate the clinical practices, safety and effectiveness
      of LUOTAI (Panax notoginseng) injectable lyophilized powder and soft capsules in routine
      treatment of patients with acute ischemic stroke in Vietnam.

      STUDY BACKGROUND Globally, cerebrovascular disease (stroke) is the second leading cause of
      death. According to the latest WHO data published in April 2011, stroke deaths in Vietnam
      reached 33,929 or 6.39% of total deaths. About 87% of strokes are caused by ischemia, mainly
      atherosclerotic cerebral infarction and transient ischemic attack.

      Panax notoginseng is an important medicinal plant of the Araliacease family which has been
      used in China quite extensively as an herb since the end of the 19th century. Panax
      notoginseng traditionally believed can activate blood circulation and increase blood flow,
      dilating blood vessels, improves hemodynamics. Triterpene saponins are the bioactive
      constituents in Panax notoginseng. It contains high levels of notoginsenoside R1,
      ginsenosides Rb1, Rd and Rg1. Panax notoginseng has been reported to have anti-thrombotic
      effect via inhibiting thrombosis (inhibition rate: 92.1%). Inhibition of platelet aggregation
      and coagulation in rabbit's blood induced by ADP and arachidonic acid (up to 83.7%) was
      found. Increased t-PA activity was also found and coagulation time was prolonged.

      Panax notoginseng was reported to have anti-inflammatory effects in atherosclerosis process,
      as well as inhibit inflammatory response in cerebral ischemia and infarction. Panax
      notoginseng antagonizes and attenuate delayed cerebral neuronal damage induced by blood
      reperfusion in cerebral ischemia. It was found to block neutrophil and macrophage activation,
      aggregation and infiltration induced by decreased releasing of serum interleukin-8. It can
      also reduce the quantity of Ca2+ in ischemic cerebral tissue, reduce cerebral edema and
      improve stroke symptoms.

      LUOTAI is the brand name of Panax notoginseng finished product, LUOTAI has been registered in
      Vietnam since 2012 with two kinds of formulation are available. The lyophilized powder for
      Injection and gelatin based soft capsule. They are currently being used for decreasing
      incidence of cerebral infarction or ischemic stroke, including TIA, due to thrombosis and
      atherosclerosis. It can alleviate the symptoms secondary to stroke attack. Also reduce the
      risk of stroke re-attack in patients who are recently experienced cerebral infarction or
      ischemic stroke.

      This study is conducted to accumulate effectiveness and safety data of LUOTAI products in the
      real life clinical setting. This study will be carried out in approximately 360 patients with
      acute stroke in 6 hospitals in Vietnam - Bạch Mai Hospital, 108 Military Hospital, 103
      Military Hospital, Trung Vuong Hospital, Phu Tho General Hospital, 115 Hospital in Vietnam
      where LUOTAI (and other drugs) being used as a part of their clinical practice for acute
      stroke treatment.

      STUDY RATIONALE The overall goal of this prospective study is to monitor the effectiveness
      and safety of LUOTAI therapy when administered alone or in combination with other drugs,
      compared with treatments without LUOTAI in the real life clinical practice. Selection of an
      open label, observational design to capture data is recommended for post-marketing studies.
      To overcome the bias in observational design, which is also the main and inherent constraint
      of open-label design, the study will perform blind evaluations: after three months of
      treatment, the patient's assessment using Modified Rankin Score (mRS), a widely accepted
      primary outcome parameter, will be conducted by a blind, independent physician.

      This is a non-interventional study to observe clinical routine practice. No additional risks
      expectedly to be induced to the study participants.

      OBJECTIVES AND ENDPOINTS

      Objective:

      To investigate the clinical practices, safety and effectiveness of LUOTAI in routine
      treatment for acute ischemic stroke.

      Primary effectiveness endpoint:

      Categorical shift in mRS score at 3 months (ordinal logistic regression analysis of the mRS
      on D90)

      Secondary effectiveness endpoint:

      Proportion of patients with excellent recovery at 3 months after stroke onset (mRC=0 or 1)
      Proportion of patients with functional dependence at 3 months after stroke onset (mRC=0-2);
      Ordinal NIHSS at 3 months after stroke onset; Ordinal MoCA at 3 months after stroke onset;
      Home time (number of nights among the first 90 days after stroke onset that the patient stays
      in his/her home or their relative home)

      Safety endpoints:

      Mortality AE/SAE, ADR, SADR, SUSAR

      STUDY DESIGN This is a non-interventional, controlled, open-label (blinded assessor),
      prospective, multicenter, observational registry study.

      All patients receive acute stroke care according to local treatment standard, not amended or
      influenced by the study. LUOTAI group comprises of patients who are treated with LUOTAI (and
      other concomitant medications) with dosage, dosing schedule and duration follows local
      clinical practice in accordance with the terms of the local marketing authorization. Control
      group comprises of patients who are not treated with LUOTAI. Lifestyle modifications will not
      be affected by the study.

      The included patients shall follow standard hospital practices and is not determined by the
      study plan. Therefore, randomization and blinding procedures are not applicable for this
      study. To minimize the limitation of assessment bias in observational studies, the modified
      Rankin Scale (mRS) will be assessed by an Independent Study Doctor in a single blind manner.

      Dosage, dosing schedule, duration and administration route of LUOTAI follow the local
      hospital practice in accordance with the terms of the local marketing authorization in
      Vietnam: 400mg of LUOTAI injectable lyophilized powder diluted in 250ml of 5% Glucose
      Solution or 0.9% Normal Saline for included diabetic patients, via slow intravenous infusion,
      once daily for consecutive 14 days, and followed by 200mg of LUOTAI soft capsules, three
      times a day for 65 days.

      A participant is considered to have completed the study if he or she has completed the last
      scheduled procedures on D90.

      STUDY ASSESSMENTS AND PROCEDURES No additional diagnostic, treatment or monitoring procedures
      will be available in addition to the hospital internal practice guidelines used by the
      patients enrolled in the study.

      Tests used in this study to evaluate effectiveness follow the recommendations of various
      stroke guidelines: the NIHSS, Modified Rankin Score (mRS), Cognitive impairment, IQCODE to
      assess cognitive dementia.

      Safety will be evaluated in this study through the monitoring of all serious and non-serious
      adverse events defined and graded according to CTCAE v4.01. Patients will be assessed for
      safety (including laboratory values) according to the study visit schedule. Laboratory values
      must be reviewed post-baseline compared with baseline to identify clinically significant
      changes.

      The following endpoints will be used for safety assessment:

        -  Mortality

        -  AEs, SAEs, ADRs, SADRs

        -  SUSARs to LUOTAI All adverse events, whether reported by the patient or noted by study
           personnel, will be recorded in the patient's medical record and on the Adverse Event
           CRF. After informed consent has been obtained but prior to initiation of study drug,
           only serious adverse events caused by a protocol-mandated intervention (e.g., invasive
           procedures such as biopsies, discontinuation of medications) should be reported.

      Discontinuation from LUOTAI or other medications does not mean discontinuation from the
      study, and remaining study procedures should be completed as indicated by the study protocol.
      The data to be collected at the time of study treatment discontinuation will include the
      procedures of End of Treatment Visit (D90).

      All possible actions must be taken if a participant fails to return to the clinic for a
      required study visit, and be documented in the participant's medical record or study file.
      Should the participant continue to be unreachable, he or she will be considered to have
      withdrawn from the study with a primary reason of lost to follow-up.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

        1. STATISTICAL HYPOTHESES This study will test the hypothesis that patients who used LUOTAI
           will have lower mRS score after 90 days compared to those who did not use LUOTAI. The
           categorical shift in mRS score in ordinal logistic regression analysis of the mRS on D90
           (LUOTAI versus non-LUOTAI) will be tested at 0.6.

             -  Primary Efficacy Endpoint Categorical shift in mRS score at 3 months (ordinal
                logistic regression analysis of the mRS on D90)

             -  Secondary Efficacy Endpoint Proportion of patients with excellent recovery at 3
                months after stroke onset (mRC=0 or 1) Proportion of patients with functional
                dependence at 3 months after stroke onset (mRC=0-2) Ordinal ARAT at 3 months after
                stroke onset Ordinal NIHSS at 3 months after stroke onset Ordinal MoCA at 3 months
                after stroke onset Home time (number of nights among the first 90 days after stroke
                onset that the patient stays in his/her home or their relative home)

             -  Safety Endpoint Mortality AE/SAE, ADR, SADR, SUSAR

        2. SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION Approximately 360 patients will be enrolled in order to have
           completed data of 340 patients at D90, in which it is expected that 170 patients are in
           LUOTAI group and 170 patients are in the control group.

      The sample size for this observational study is indicative. Nevertheless, the justification
      below support the sample size, number of study sites and the enrollment duration.

      The sample size of 170 patients per group will have a power of more than 80% to detect an
      ordinal odds ratio (assuming proportional odds ratios) of approximately 0.60
      (control/treatment) with ordinal logistic regression analysis.

      Bias Control Measures: Patients will be enrolled in an unbiased manner, by consecutive
      sampling at each site. Assessment of the primary outcome (mRS) will be handled by arranging
      objective, blinded outcome assessment by an independent observer. Other aspects of care than
      the administration of the study drug may vary between groups. Analyses will consider these
      potential source of variation.

      Statistical Analysis: Propensity score matching model will be used to minimize enrollment
      bias. Ordinal Logistic Regression of the modified Rankin Scale with adjustment for baseline
      factors which are retained in the Propensity Score Matching model will be used as primary
      analysis. The baseline factors are always included baseline NIHSS and age.
    
  