
    
      All patients who walked in for follow-up after hospital discharge for a primary mental health
      diagnosis were informed of the study and were invited to participate. Informed consent was
      obtained from individuals who had capacity to provide informed consent in the presence of the
      clinicians working with the participants to ensure they understood the study requirements.
      Individuals who did not have capacity to provide informed consent were not recruited to
      minimize potential risks to this vulnerable population. After providing informed consent,
      participants were asked to complete the Fagerstrom tobacco use test. Participants were then
      asked to complete sociodemographic questionnaire and the World Health Organization (WHO)
      quality of life questionnaire. This screening and recruitment continued until the number of
      participants who provided informed consent reached 100.

      Randomization/Allocation Participants were recruited in clusters of 10 for allocation into
      the intervention and control groups. The first 10 participants formed group 1, and the next
      10 participants formed group 2. Group 1 became the first intervention group, while group 2
      became the first control group. This procedure continued until all 10 groups were formed (5
      intervention and 5 control groups).

      Participants were followed up clinically for ongoing mental health care on their regular
      clinic days.

      Study intervention 5As-based brief advice was offered to the intervention group participants
      by the study team who were trained by YO. This brief advice consisted of an individual
      session lasting approximately 5 minutes for each participant immediately after their consent
      had been obtained. The focus of the 5As was to enable the therapist know the immediate
      concern of each participant and to enable adequate support when the particular issues were
      raised during the group intervention sessions. The behavioral group intervention consisted of
      6 sessions over 12 weeks and were led by 2 trained facilitators, followed by monthly group
      meetings from weeks 14 to 26. This program was adapted from the Royal Australian College of
      General Practitioners' Supporting Smoking Cessation Guide for Health Professionals17 and the
      World Health Organization's Strengthening Health Systems for Treating Tobacco Dependence in
      Primary Care training package.18

      The topics that were explored during the group sessions include:

        1. Introduction to the Program and Reasons to Quit

        2. Benefits of Quitting and Understanding Why We Smoke and Ways of Quitting

        3. Withdrawal Symptoms and Social Support

        4. Dealing with Stress and Anxiety and Coping with Depression

        5. Assertiveness Training and Anger Management

        6. Tobacco-Free Lifestyle and Dealing with High Risk Situations

      Group Session 1 (Week 1) On the first session, participants were introduced to the study
      program and specific components of the group behavioral intervention. Participants shared
      their expectations and experiences in their goal of tobacco cessation. The estimated time for
      group session 1 was 30-45 minutes.

      Group Sessions 2-6 (Weeks 2-11) Participants set their anticipated quit date on the 2nd week,
      which was their second session. During weeks 2 through 11, before the start of the session,
      feelings of participants were explored, the previous week's self-reported tobacco consumption
      or cessation attempt was recorded. The topic of each week was explored first by lecture to
      explain the topic, and then group members took turns sharing their experiences on the topic.

      Group Sessions 7-9 (Weeks 14-26) Participants continued attending the CSAT outpatient and
      ward follow-up programs during this period. Behavioral group sessions 7-9 (weeks 14-26) were
      conducted once a month by the facilitators whereby each session was begun with a round of
      discussion on how participants were feeling about their cessation attempts, including any
      challenges they had experienced. The self-reported amount of tobacco used and quit attempts
      were documented. The study team also documented the challenges raised and tried to offer
      practical and supportive therapy for the challenges.
    
  