
    
      Malignant Brain Tumors (Primary and Metastatic) Despite significant advances in the
      understanding of brain tumor biology and genetics as well as improvements in surgical
      techniques, radiotherapy administration, and chemotherapy methods, many brain tumors remain
      incurable. Many brain tumors are highly infiltrative neoplasms, and are therefore unlikely to
      be cured by local treatments such as surgery, focal radiotherapy, radiosurgery or
      brachytherapy.

      Rationale and Goals of Study The preliminary efficacy of the radiopharmaceutical,
      1H-1-(3-[18F]-fluoro-2-hydroxy-propyl)-2-nitro-imidazole [18F]-fluoromisonidazole,
      [18F]FMISO, FMISO (fluoromisonidazole), a radiopharmaceutical that directly assess tumor
      hypoxia using Positron Emission Tomography(PET) will be assessed.

      This preliminary/exploratory clinical study will investigate [F-18]FMISO in 30 evaluable
      patients with newly diagnosed primary brain tumor or brain metastasis. We expect that up to
      35 -40 total patients may be enrolled in this study. This will assure that 30 evaluable
      patients (patients who have complete imaging results and blood metabolism data available for
      data analysis). In certain patients the blood metabolism data is not acceptable for final
      analysis typically due to difficulty in drawing it rapidly enough due to the vein collapsing
      during the rapid sampling required.

      When possible we will also correlate FMISO uptake with the typical in-vitro test used to
      assess proliferation, Ki-67 (protein) and other experimental assessments of hypoxia. This
      correlation will be made whenever possible in those patients where tumor tissue is obtained
      as part of standard care.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective of Study - Synopsis The primary objective of this study is to determine the
      association of FMISO PET (positron emission tomography) uptake (hypoxic volume [HV]), highest
      tumor:blood ratio [T/Bmax]), FDG ([18F]-2 fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose) uptake, and tumor blood
      flow/perfusion determined with H2O (water) and MRI and correlate these variables with overall
      survival (OS) and time to progression (TTP) in participants with newly diagnosed primary
      brain tumors or brain metastases.

      The Hypotheses to be Tested

      Three exploratory hypotheses will be studied. These include:

        1. The first hypothesis to be tested is that increased FMISO PET uptake (hypoxic volume
           [HV], highest tumor:blood ratio [T/Bmax]) is correlated with a shorter overall survival
           and a shorter time to progression. An exploratory evaluation assessing combinations of
           PET imaging variables such as hypoxic volume [HV], highest tumor:blood ratio [T/Bmax],
           FDG-SUV, FDG quantitative parameters and blood flow as well as MR (magnetic resonance)
           perfusion and blood volume will be assessed to see if they correlate with survival and
           time to progression.

        2. A second hypothesis to be tested is that FMISO is safe and non toxic in the dose
           administered in this study in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors. This
           will be assessed in the first 10 patients enrolled in the study. Even though there have
           been numerous published studies using FMISO in humans in several different tumor types
           little human safety data has been published. Laboratory tests (except urinalysis) will
           be repeated at approximately 24 hours in the first 10 and compared to the screening
           values.

        3. A third exploratory hypothesis to be tested is that FMISO uptake (hypoxic volume [HV],
           highest tumor:blood ratio [T/Bmax]) will correlate with increased FDG uptake and
           possibly with reduced blood flow/perfusion as determined with H215O PET imaging and MRI
    
  