
    
      The Surgical Skin Incisions (SSI) is an investigator initiated, randomized, prospective
      (pilot) study comparing methods of skin closure following gynecological cancer surgery to
      evaluate:

        -  cosmesis;

        -  pain;

        -  adverse events.

      The two most common methods of skin incision closure are staples or subcuticular sutures.
      Adverse events to surgical incisions represent major and significant burdens to patients and
      the health care system; however, no data is available comparing methods of skin closure.
      Surgeons have traditionally had to use personal belief rather than data or evidence to choose
      the method of skin incision closure. This study evaluates three types of skin closure
      methods:

        -  Skin staples;

        -  Monocryl subcuticular sutures;

        -  Caprosyn subcuticular sutures.

      The objective of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of sutures and staples at 6 weeks and
      at 3 months following the operation by measuring cosmesis and pain. These are assessed by
      both the patient and the surgeon independently using linear analogue scales and by collecting
      information on analgesic medications taken by the patient. The safety of the staples and
      sutures will be expressed by the incidence of adverse events following surgery.
      Post-operative events such as wound infection, other wound complications, grade of
      inflammation, hemorrhage and other complications will be graded according to the Common
      Toxicity Criteria (CTC version 3) and recorded.

      Investigators will invite public patients with proven or suspected gynecological cancer from
      Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital and Mater Hospital (RBWH) that are booked to have
      elective surgery and that meet the selection criteria to participate in this study.

      This is a pilot study to generate data for a definitive randomized study. Ninety (90)
      patients are required for recruitment to the pilot study.

      The type of closure method patients will receive will be allocated using a randomization
      process. Three equally sized study arms of 30 patients will have their surgical incision
      closed with either surgical staples, Monocryl or Caprosyn. Additionally, patients will be
      stratified by site so as to remove selection bias.

      All tests and assessments before and after the operation are standard of care. These results
      will be recorded. No additional tests or assessments will be performed for the aim of this
      trial.

      Randomization, data management and statistical analysis will be coordinated by the Queensland
      Centre for Gynaecological Cancer. Statistical analysis will include calculating mean values
      and standard deviations for scores for each group at each assessment. Chi-square tests will
      be used to compare differences in proportions of patients who did or did not experience
      adverse events at each time point.

      Results of this trial will be presented at scientific meetings at a national and
      international level and at educational meetings with medical staff. The results of this trial
      will also be submitted for publishing. The study will generate data for a definitive
      randomized study.
    
  