
    
      This is an uncontrolled, randomized, parallel-group, open-label phase I trial in patients
      with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients were randomized into treatment group A with
      weekly administration versus treatment group B with bi-weekly administration.

      Patients in both treatment groups received a maximum of eight injections administered one by
      one once a week for eight times for treatment group A and once in a fortnight for eight times
      for treatment group B.

      The treatment was completed within seven weeks for Arm A and within 14 weeks for Arm B.
      Independently of the treatment arm they had been assigned to, all the patients were followed
      for a period covering a total of 12 or 19 weeks or until disease progression. Safety
      parameters (primary objective) and efficacy parameters (secondary objective) were recorded.
      Upon completion of the treatment, one follow-up visit took place at week 12 (group A, only)
      or 19 (group B, only).

      To protect the patients' safety, the first six patients were treated as described below:

        -  The first patient was hospitalized and kept under medical observation for 72h after
           administration of the first and second dose of the investigational product;

        -  After an observational period of 3 days following the second dose of the first patient,
           the second and the third patient were administered the first dose of the investigational
           product, hospitalized and kept under medical observation for 72h. The two patients were
           treated simultaneously or consecutively;

        -  After an observational period of 3 days after the second dose to the first three
           patients, an interim safety report was sent to the Ethics Committee;

        -  Additionally the next three patients were hospitalized, administered their first dose of
           the vaccine and kept under medical observation for 72h. The three patients were treated
           simultaneously or consecutively.

           15 evaluable patients (which were randomized to one of the two treatment groups in equal
           numbers) 5 study sites in Austria and Hungary
    
  