
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine relapse free survival of patients with previously untreated de novo or
           secondary acute myeloid leukemia treated with high dose cytarabine and idarubicin
           induction, high dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide intensification, filgrastim (G-CSF),
           melphalan, radiotherapy, autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation,
           and interleukin-2.

        -  Correlate remission rate and relapse free survival with multidrug resistance phenotype
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine stem cell content and presence of cells with leukemia specific markers in PBSC
           harvested following high dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide intensification.

        -  Correlate NK cell expansion (an increase in both proportion and absolute number) during
           interleukin-2 therapy following autologous PBSC transplantation with disease free
           survival.

      OUTLINE:

      Induction

        -  Patients receive cytarabine IV over 1 hour every 12 hours for 6 days and idarubicin IV
           over 30 minutes following third, fifth, and seventh doses of cytarabine. Beginning 12
           hours after the last dose of cytarabine, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously (SQ) each day until blood counts recover.

      Intensification

        -  Patients receive etoposide IV over 34.3 hours followed 1 hour later by cyclophosphamide
           IV over 2 hours for 3 days. Beginning 24 hours after the last dose of cyclophosphamide,
           patients receive G-CSF SQ each day until blood counts recover.

      Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested and selected for CD34+ cells. Patients
      receive melphalan IV over 1 hour on day -4 followed by total body irradiation on days -3, -2,
      and -1. PBSC are reinfused on day 0.

      When blood counts recover, patients receive high dose interleukin-2 SQ on days 1-10 followed
      by low dose interleukin-2 SQ on days 11-13. Interleukin-2 treatment repeats every 14 days for
      6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      immunologic response to 6 courses of interleukin-2 treatment may continue for 6 additional
      courses.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 100 patients will be accrued for this study over 5 years.
    
  