
    
      Sorafenib is multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It blocks path that such as Raf-1, Vascular
      Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor (VEGFR), Platelet-Drived Growth Factor Receptor-β
      (PDGFR-β), c-Jit, Flt-3. Sorafenib was known to increase life rate about processed
      hepatocellular carcinoma. So it is advised as standard treatment for liver cancer patient who
      has processed Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) disease period C.

      Sorafenib related side effect has reported such as fatigue, diarrhea, vomit, nausea,
      pruritus, depilation, Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR). Among the symptoms, Hand-Foot Skin
      Reaction(HFSR) is the most occurrence after using sorafenib and major reason of drug dose
      de-escalation, it function as decrease anti-cancer effect of sorafenib. It is known for the
      reason of Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR) occurrence is caused by tyrosine kinase inhibitive
      action, and its characteristic symptom is known as keratocyte necrosis, dermal edema,
      parakeratosis, hyperkeratosis. The level is categorized grade 1,2,3 according to the
      severity.

      The result of meta-analysis of 24 clinical trials that contained 6000 patients, Hand-Foot
      Skin Reaction(HFSR) occured 39% of sorafenib used patients and 9% of total patients had grade
      3 Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR). But prevalence rate on hepatocellular carcinoma patients who
      used sorafenib is about 51% on Japanese, 45% on Asia-pacific patient (inclusive Korean) and
      73.6% on Chinese. Prevalence rate of Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR) is different from result
      of each study, but about 50% of sorafenib used patients has had Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR)
      generally and Asian has more higher degree of prevalence rate. Therefore, prevent and care of
      Hand-Foot Skin Reaction(HFSR) on Korean hepatocellular carcinoma patients who used sorafenib
      is required.

      Urea cream is typical representative for prevention and care of Hand-Foot Skin
      Reaction(HFSR). As stability-guaranteed drug, it is relatively cheap, locally affect and has
      used for psoriasis treatment. Also it is known for curative effacement on Hand-Foot Skin
      Reaction(HFSR) after use tyrosine kinase inhibitor such as sorafenib, sunitinib.

      Therefore, it needs complementary study as double-blinded placebo-controlled trial and effect
      of urea cream on Korean patient group.
    
  