
    
      Community based studies have demonstrated similar prevalence of HF with reduced ejection
      fraction (HFpEF) and HF with reduced LV function (HFrEF) in patients hospitalized for CHF.
      Moreover, the prevalence of HFrEF is declining over the past two decades, whereas that of
      HFpEF is progressively increasing. Progressive increase in obesity and T2DM prevalence is
      likely among the principal factors responsible for the steady increase in HFpEF prevalence.

      The aims of the present study are to examine whether therapies that correct the myocardial
      metabolic abnormalities present in subjects with T2DM and diastolic dysfunction improve
      myocardial diastolic dysfunction and reduce the rate of hospitalizations in patients with
      HFpEF

      The primary objective of the study is to examine the effect of combination therapy with
      pioglitazone (15 mg) plus dapagliflozin (10 mg) versus placebo on hospitalization for heart
      failure in patients with HFpEF.

      Eligible subjects, who consent for participating in the study, will be seen by the study
      coordinator. Medical history and physical examination will be performed. Each subject will
      receive the following measurements:

      Medical history and physical examination including weight, height, waist, blood pressure and
      pulse.

      Blood tests:

      Screening: CBC, Blood chemistry, fasting plasma glucose concentration, HbA1c, renal and liver
      function, lipid profile, TSH, serum iron, iron biding capacity and ferritin.

      Plasma metabolites: ketone, lactate, bicarbonate, venous PH and plasma free fatty acid.

      Hormones: insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, NT proBNP, angiotensin II, plasma renin activity, and
      aldosterone.

      Inflammatory markers: adiponectin, hsCRP, IL-2, IL-6 and IL-12, F2-isoprostane, oxidized LDL.

      Vascular Measurements: Measurement of pulse wave velocity, and central aortic pulse pressure,
      with sphygmocor.

      Measurement of total body fat mass with Bioimpedence. Echocardiography

      Patients will be consented on the day of discharge or during the outpatient visit in the
      Cardiology Clinic. Consented patients will be referred to the CRC within one week to perform
      the echocardiography and vascular measurements. Patients will be asked to come to CRC after
      overnight fast and blood samples will be drawn for the above mentioned blood tests, after
      which echocardiography and vascular measurements will be performed.

      Randomization and Intervention:

      After completing the baseline studies, patients will be randomized into two groups to receive
      in a double blind fashion:

      Group 1: combination of pioglitazone plus dapagliflozin, or Group 2: Placebo (Beta blockers,
      ACEI, ARB, and aldosterone )

      Patients in both groups will be matched for age, gender, BMI, HbA1c, systolic BP and LVEF.
      Randomization will be made by the pharmacist at the Heart Hospital and the randomization code
      will be maintained at the hospital pharmacy. Patients will be randomized in blocks of 4 while
      the group means are matched for the above parameters
    
  