
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether olaparib plus tremelimumab has adequate safety in the study
      population. (Safety Lead-in Trial Components) II. To compare the progression-free survival
      (PFS) duration of olaparib monotherapy versus olaparib plus tremelimumab in women with
      recurrent, platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer. (Phase
      II Trial Component)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 in women with recurrent, platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer treated with either olaparib monotherapy or olaparib plus tremelimumab.

      II. To compare the overall survival (OS) of women with recurrent, platinum sensitive ovarian,
      primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer treated with either olaparib monotherapy or
      olaparib plus tremelimumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore whether conditions in the tumor microenvironment (as measured by gene
      expression signature in archived tumor samples) identify patients that benefit from combined
      olaparib and tremelimumab immunotherapy.

      II. To explore whether mutations in BRCA1/2 genes or other evidence of homologous repair
      deficiency (HRD+) is prognostic and/or predictive of response to combined olaparib and
      tremelimumab immunotherapy.

      III. To explore associations between PD1 expression in the tumor microenvironment and outcome
      and changes in circulating leukocyte populations.

      IV. To explore the correlation between tumor mutational burden and response to olaparib and
      tremelimumab immunotherapy.

      V. To explore the impact of olaparib and tremelimumab versus olaparib monotherapy on
      circulating leukocyte subsets via exploration of the immunomodulatory effects of PARP
      inhibition and the added impact of CTLA4 blockade in this patient population.

      VI. To explore cytokine/chemokine levels using a multiplex immunoassay (Olink) and correlate
      these levels with clinical endpoints.

      VII. To use cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to assess BRCA mutation status as a
      mechanism of acquired resistance to prior PARP inhibition and to compare with treatment
      efficacy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib as in Arm I. Patients also receive tremelimumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles of tremelimumab repeat every 4 weeks for
      4 doses and then every 12 weeks for up to 2 years total in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 3 months, then
      every 3 months for 2 years, followed by every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  