
    
      The objective of this study is to assess the body image of women before and after pelvic
      reconstructive surgery with and without perineorrhaphy to examine if a perineorrhaphy impacts
      postoperative body image by conducting a single-blind, randomized controlled clinical trial.
      The central hypothesis is that patients' body image will not be affected by whether or not a
      perineorrhaphy is performed.

      The target population are those patients with POP who are planning an apical prolapse repair.
      All participants will give written consent prior to their surgery. After enrollment, women
      will fill out baseline surveys, including the Body Image in Pelvic Organ Prolapse (BIPOP),
      the Pelvic organ prolapse/Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire, IUGA-revised) (PISQ-IR), the
      Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory (PFDI-20), and a Pain Visual Analog Scale (VAS) to assess
      baseline pain. Additionally, participants will undergo a Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification
      (POP-Q) examination with the addition of measurements of genital hiatus (GH) and perineal
      body (PB) lengths without strain. The other measurements involved in the POP-Q entail
      assigning numerical values to descent of different parts of the vagina. Pelvic floor muscle
      strength will be measured using a Peritron™ perineometer and Kegel strength (contraction of
      the pelvic floor muscles) using the Oxford grading scale.

      On the day of the patient's surgery, the surgeon will call a research coordinator who will
      open the next envelope in the sequence randomizing the patient to perinorrhaphy or to no
      perineorrhaphy. Randomization assignment will be generated by a computer-based randomization
      table and assigned by a research coordinator not otherwise involved in the study. Women will
      not be informed to what arm of the study they were randomized, and postoperative assessments
      will be made by individuals not involved with the patient's surgery.

      At prescribed time points post-operatively, the patients will be assessed by POP-Q, genital
      hiatus and perineal body measurements performed with and without strain, the pain VAS, the
      BIPOP, The PISQ-IR, the PFDI-20, and pelvic floor muscle strength via the Oxford scale and
      measurement by the Peritron™ perineometer.

      The investigators' aims for this study are:

      Aim #1: To determine if a patient's body image, by using the Body Image in Pelvic Organ
      Prolapse (BIPOP) questionnaire, is affected by concomitant performance of a perineorrhaphy at
      the time of pelvic organ prolapse surgery. Hypothesis: There will be no difference in body
      image scores between those with and without concomitant perineorrhaphy.

      Aim #2: To determine if Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (POP-Q) measurements are
      affected by a perineorrhaphy. Hypothesis: After a perineorrhaphy, the genital hiatus (GH)
      will be smaller, the total vaginal length (TVL) will be longer, the perineal body (PB) will
      be longer, and all others will be unaffected when compared to those in whom perineorrhaphy is
      not performed.

      Aim #3: To determine if the strength of pelvic floor muscles is improved after corrective
      pelvic organ prolapse surgery with a perineorrhaphy compared with those patients who did not
      have a perineorrhaphy, as measured by the Peritron™, a perineometer device that measures
      pelvic floor muscle contraction strength. Hypothesis: Pelvic floor muscle strength will be
      unaffected by the performance of a perineorrhaphy.

      Aim #4: To assess if those having a perineorrhaphy have higher postoperative pain both in the
      short term and long term by using a visual analog scale (VAS) both in the immediate and 6
      week postoperative period. Hypothesis: Those with perineorrhaphies will report more pain on a
      VAS both immediately and 6 weeks post-surgery.

      Aim #5: To describe if there are differences in sexual function after corrective pelvic organ
      prolapse with a perineorrhaphy compared to those who did not undergo a perineorrhaphy.
      Hypothesis: Sexual function will be improved after POP surgery repair but will be unaffected
      by the performance of a perineorrhaphy.
    
  