
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine in end-stage liver disease patients whether
      non-invasive assessment of coronary artery disease prior to liver transplant using CTA (CTA)
      and CTA-derived Fractional Flow Reserved (FFRct) is superior to current standard of care
      (SOC) cardiovascular evaluation such as formal consultation by a cardiologist,
      electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and pharmacological stress test such (e.g. Dobutamine
      stress echocardiogram and lexiscan myocardial perfusion imaging). The investigational portion
      of this study is the CTA and FFRct, which is a special x-ray scan that can identify blockages
      in the arteries and determine if blood flow is impaired. The CTA and FFRct will be done
      within 2 weeks after the standard of care evaluation.

      All 100 patients will undergo standard of care stress test plus CTA/FFRct. The referring
      cardiologist will be blinded to the results of CTA/FFRct, and will make an "initial"
      recommendation based on the standard of care evaluation. After making the "initial"
      recommendation, the referring cardiologist will be unblinded to the CTA/FFRct results and
      make a "final" recommendation. The "initial" recommendation will consist of one of the
      following: further cardiac evaluation is not needed or cardiac catheterization is required.
      The "final" recommendation will consist of one of the following: further cardiac evaluation
      is not needed or cardiac catheterization is required. All patients will receive a 1 year
      phone follow up call.

      The hypothesis is that in End Stage Liver Disease (ESLD) patients, non-invasive assessment
      for CAD using CTA/FFRct is superior to SOC cardiovascular evaluation (stress etst,
      echocardiogram, ECG). This study will look at the frequency of how often CTA/FFRct changed
      the clinical recommendation compared with the standard of care alone (Initial recommendation
      versus final recommendation).
    
  