
    
      The primary aim of this study is to compare the effect of an individualized adherence
      intervention (TI) and a structured adherence intervention (TS) to usual care on adherence to
      antiretroviral therapy in persons infected with HIV (PWHIV). The secondary aims address the
      relationship between adherence and quality of life (QOL), and between adherence and clinical
      response. The exploratory aims focus on examining the effect of self-efficacy on the
      relationship between the intervention and adherence, the effect of adherence on the
      relationship between self-efficacy and outcomes (clinical response and quality of life), as
      well as the effects of symptoms, alcohol and/or drug use, chronic interpersonal problems,
      mood, social support, optimism, perceived burden of medication regimen, perceived stigma,
      purpose in life, co-morbidity, personality, literacy, and intimate partner abuse on
      self-efficacy, and psychometric analyses of the instruments. The sample of 300 (plus 51
      dropouts) PWHIV who are taking antiretroviral therapy and without cognitive dysfunction will
      be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms. Those individuals who are deemed to be
      100% adherers (approximately 25-50) will be assigned to the control group, but will be
      followed separately as a natural history substudy and interviewed. Data will be collected at
      baseline, post-treatment, post-maintenance, post-booster, and 18 months. Electronic event
      monitors, diaries, the Self-reported Medication-taking Scale, and the ACTG Adherence
      Follow-up Questionnaire will be used to assess adherence. The Digit Vigilance Test will be
      used to assess the effect of sustained attention on adherence. QOL will be measured using the
      MOS-HIV, the Satisfaction with Life Scale, and the Perception of Illness Visual Analogue
      Scale. Clinical response will be assessed using viral load, CD4 T-cell count, AIDS defining
      conditions, and hospitalizations. Variables influencing self-efficacy (measured with an
      investigator-developed Self-efficacy Scale) will be examined: symptoms ( CRCD Symptom
      Checklist), alcohol and/or drug use (AUDIT), chronic interpersonal problems (IIP), social
      support (Interpersonal Support Evaluation List), optimism (Life Orientation Test), anxiety
      (Beck Anxiety Inventory) and Beck Depression Inventory II), perceived burden of regimen
      (visual analog scales), perceived stigma (Perceived Stigma of HIV Scale), purpose in life
      (Purpose in Life Scale), co-morbidity (CRCD Co-Morbidity Scale), personality characteristics
      (NEO-FFI), health literacy (Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults), knowledge about
      HIV medication adherence (HIV Medication Adherence Knowledge), and intimate partner abuse
      (Abuse Assessment Screen). A repeated measures model with planned comparisons will be used to
      test the hypotheses for the primary aim. Structural equation modeling will be used to examine
      the relationships identified in the secondary and exploratory aims. PWHIV who adhere to their
      therapy may live longer, require fewer hospitalizations, and have an improved QOL.
    
  