
    
      Diabetic foot ulcers are a significant and rapidly growing complication of diabetes and its
      effects on wound healing. Over half of diabetic patients who develop a single ulcer will
      subsequently develop another ulcer of which the majority will become chronic non-healing
      ulcers. Over the past decade, the outcomes for patients with ulcers have not improved,
      despite advances in wound care.These data suggest the importance and necessity of alternative
      and more effective treatment option for diabetic patients with non-healing ulcers. (Blumberg
      et al 2012). Stem cell therapy has emerged as a novel therapeutic approach for various
      diseases including wound repair and tissue regeneration. Mesenchymal stem cells(MSCs)
      represent an important stem cell population with multipotent capabilities that may have high
      utility for translational clinical applications. MSCs can differentiate into a variety of
      cell types, especially fascia originated cells, and provide soluble factors for regeneration
      of tissues and organs(Şener et al 2015). Adipose tissue is an abundant source of mesenchymal
      stem cells, which have shown an improved outcome in wound healing studies. Adipose tissue
      derived stem cells (ASCs )are pluripotent stem cells with the ability to differentiate into
      different lineages and to secrete paracrine factors initiating tissue regeneration process.
      The abundant supply of fat tissue, ease of isolation, extensive proliferative capacities ex
      vivo, and their ability to secrete pro-angiogenic growth factors make them an ideal cell type
      to use in therapies for the treatment of nonhealing wounds(Hassan et al 2014), However the
      hostile microenviroment may interfere with viability and efficiency of MSCs injection
      specially in ischemic tissue , thus increasing needs for new strategies for further
      improvement of the stem cell therapy of diabetic wounds. Curcumin loaded chitosan
      nanoparticles into collagen-alginate is a novel biodegradable and biocompatible material that
      might help a lot in regenerative efficiency in ischemic wound healing
    
  