
    
      The morbidly adherent placenta is abnormally adherent placenta to myometrium due to the
      absence of decidua basalis partially or totally in a way that prevents normal placental
      separation after delivery.

      MAP includes a spectrum classified according to the extend of trophoblastic invasion to
      myometrium into (accrete, increta, percreta).

      The greatest risk factor is previous uterine surgery mostly previous caesarian sections.

      In the last decade incidence of placenta accrete spectrum has increased in direct proportion
      with increased rates of cesarean sections up to 1 per 500 pregnancies.

      This rising incidence makes placenta accrete spectrum (PAS)one of the most serious problems
      in obstetrics with a high rate of complications peripartum and postpartum as well like
      (peripartum hysterectomy - intestinal injure- bladder injure - ureteral injure - ICU
      admission- massive blood transfusion) that may affect patients health outcome and their
      quality of life.

      Diagnosis of PAS depends mainly on the history of antepartum hemorrhage and confirmed by the
      grayscale US with high sensitivity and specificity reaching up to 90%.

      Medical service is no longer one-sided evaluated. Patient-centered care is a core in medical
      service.

      Quality of life (QOL) and health status (HS) are important categories of patient-reported
      outcomes (PROs), in which the patient's perspective is key, and that can be used to assess
      the impact of current HS and to assess the efficiency of interventions. The difference
      between these PROs is that where HS refers to self-perceived physical, psychological, and
      social functioning, QOL also incorporates patients' evaluation of functioning, i.e.
      (dis)satisfaction with the aspects of life. Since health care is becoming more and more
      patient-centered, the assessment of the patient's subjective experience is considered to be
      essential for informed clinical decision-making and health policy. Therefore, research on QOL
      and HS in postpartum women is increasing, in which multiple contributing factors and
      interventions are examined.

      The WHOQOL is a quality of life assessment developed by the WHOQOL Group with fifteen
      international field centers, simultaneously, in an attempt to develop a quality of life
      assessment that would be applicable cross-culturally.

      The WHOQOL-Bref scoring assesses four domains of quality of life with 26 items 1_physical
      health, 2-psychological health, 3- social relationships, 4- environment.

      The short form 36 ( SF-36) score is validated quality of life survey with 36 items to assess
      health outcome and quality of life through eight domains 1- physical functioning (PF), 2-role
      limitation due to the physical problem ( RP), 3-bodily pain (BP), 4- general health (GH), 5-
      vitality (VT), 6- social functioning (SF), 7- role limitation due to emotional problem (RE),
      8- mental health (MH).

      The objective of this research is to assess the quality of life in patients who had placenta
      accreta spectrum using WHOQOL-BREF scoring and SF-36 quality of life survey
    
  