
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the response rate of patients with non-germinomatous germ cell tumors treated
           with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without second-look surgery followed by radiotherapy
           with or without autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT).

        -  Determine whether additional complete responses can be achieved after high-dose thiotepa
           and etoposide with PBSCT in patients with persistently positive markers, histological
           evidence of residual malignant elements, or unresectable residual tumors after initial
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Determine patterns of recurrence in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate tumor marker response with radiographic and clinical measures of response, as
           well as findings at second-look surgery in patients with radiological evidence of
           residual disease.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction chemotherapy:

             -  Courses 1, 3, and 5: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
                etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Beginning on day 4, patients receive
                filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously (SC) for 10 days or until blood counts
                recover. Courses are 3 weeks in duration.

             -  Courses 2, 4, and 6: Patients receive etoposide IV over 1 hour followed by
                ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Beginning on day 6, patients receive G-CSF
                IV or SC for 10 days or until blood counts recover. Courses are 3 weeks in
                duration.

      Patients undergo re-evaluation. Patients with a complete response (CR) go directly to
      radiotherapy. Approximately 3 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, all patients
      with less than a CR are encouraged to undergo second-look surgery.

      After second-look surgery, patients with a CR or a partial response (PR) go directly to
      radiotherapy. Patients with less than a PR undergo consolidation chemotherapy with peripheral
      blood stem cell rescue (PBSC) followed by radiotherapy.

        -  Consolidation chemotherapy: Patients undergo PBSC collection. Patients receive G-CSF SC
           until PBSC collection is complete. Patients then receive thiotepa IV over 3 hours
           followed by etoposide IV over 3 hours on days -5 to -3. PBSCs are reinfused on day 0.
           Beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover, patients receive G-CSF SC
           daily.

        -  Radiotherapy: All patients receive radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks
           beginning after recovery from induction chemotherapy or second-look surgery or within 9
           weeks after PBSC reinfusion.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80-100 patients will be accrued for this study within 36-42
      months.
    
  