
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Therapies utilizing external compression of the leg prevent deep venous thrombosis, decrease
      lower extremity edema, manage chronic venous insufficiency, and increase healing in the
      treatment of venous stasis ulcers. In diabetic patients' feet, microcirculation is
      compromised leading to increased chances of ulcer formation. Therefore, therapies utilizing
      compression of the lower leg could be beneficial to this population as compression therapies
      have shown to increase limb perfusion. In recent decades, investigators have found that
      intermittent compression of the calf or foot can produce acute increases in arterial inflow
      to a limb. Moreover, intermittent pneumatic compression at high pressures (120 mmHg)
      increases skin perfusion and popliteal artery inflow. Compression stockings produce much
      lower pressures (around 20-40 mmHg) but still aid in ulcer healing. The commercial systems
      have used rapid compression lasting for 3 s or less, with foot and calf pressures (80-100
      mmHg). Longer compression durations (10 s at 60 mmHg) with moderate inflation rates in supine
      patients are effective in increasing flow velocity in the femoral artery, which means that
      systems do not necessarily need high levels of compression and rapid inflation periods that
      can be uncomfortable. An optimal therapy for individual patients with peripheral vascular
      disease should increase microvascular flow in the limb for the longest period possible.

      Relatively little is known about local circulation in the context of treatment of venous
      disease with compression therapies. It is known that venous disease decreases muscle and skin
      oxygenation, and that there are acute and chronic physiologic adaptations to compression
      therapies such as increases in large and small vessel blood flow and capillary growth.
      Compression pressures ranging from 20-120 mmHg are used, but there is little physiologic
      evidence to support an optimal pressure for therapy. Little previous research has looked at
      the duration of hyperemia during external compression, but for the purpose of therapy it is
      important, since a compression cycle must set to maximize periods of hyperemia. Another
      unknown is whether intermittent compression increases blood flow to a greater extent compared
      to continuous compression. The major variables in compression therapies are compression
      pressure, duration of compression, and the frequency of compression. The investigators are
      not aware of any studies to date that have examined these variables in the context of skin
      and muscle microvascular blood flow in the leg.

      Photoplethysmography (PPG) is a non-invasive optical technique that measures local
      microvascular blood flow. PPG directs light from a light emitting diode (LED) toward the
      skin; light is scattered and absorbed by the skin and deeper tissues. Green light LEDs are
      placed close to the photodetector to measure skin blood flow. Infrared LEDs are placed
      farther from the photodetector and penetrate up to several centimeters into underlying
      muscle. Blood flow changes in the tissue cause changes in the intensity of scattered light
      recorded by the photodetector. This technique has been validated in multiple studies against
      invasive methods and is considered to be the best non-invasive measurement of local muscle
      blood flow. For skeletal muscle, PPG provides equivalent results when compared with the
      invasive laser Doppler technique. However, frequent motion artifacts and local tissue trauma
      limit laser Doppler's usefulness. In patients with central venous hypertension due to heart
      failure, it is hypothesized that increases in compression-induced leg muscle microvascular
      blood flow will occur in proportion to increases in central venous pressure. It is also
      hypothesized that in patients with diabetes, increases in compression-induced foot
      microvascular blood flow will occur in proportion to increases in central venous pressure.
    
  