
    
      Recent evidence suggest that transdiagnostic interventions may be just as effective as
      traditional diagnosis specific interventions when treating symptoms of depression and
      anxiety. Brief lay-led transdiagnostic self-management interventions may therefore offer an
      efficient alternative to traditional symptom specific interventions (e.g. CBT) when targeting
      symptoms of depression and anxiety in cancer.

      The present study aim to evaluate The Anxiety and Depression Symptom Management Program
      (ADSMP) in a cancer setting (ADSMP-C). The ADSMP is a Danish adaptation of The Stanford
      University Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP) and is developed by the Danish
      Health Information Committee (In Danish: Komiteen for Sundhedsoplysning in collaboration with
      The Expert Patient Program Community Interest Company (EPPCIC), the English Health Service
      (NHS) and Stanford University.

      The ADSMP-C is a lay-led, group-based transdiagnostic patient education program consisting of
      seven 2 ½ hour weekly sessions focusing on increasing patient self-efficacy in symptom
      management of anxiety and depression concluded with a networking session. The intervention is
      highly structured and manualized. Sub-group analyses on participants with a history of cancer
      in a larger trial of ADSMP conducted by members of the study group on behalf of the Danish
      National Board of Health showed promising results. However, a larger study is needed to
      establish sound scientific evidence on the effectiveness of the program in a cancer setting.

      A total 234 cancer patients recently having completed primary treatment with curative intent
      in central Region Denmark will be randomized (2:1) to ADSMP-C or a control arm respectively.
      As a part of the recruitment procedure patients will be screened with The
      "Distress-Thermometer" at the departments of oncology at the two largest hospitals in Central
      Region, Denmark following primary treatment or at a follow-up (< 1yrs. after primary
      treatment).

      Participants completes online questionnaires (REDCap) at baseline (pre-randomization), at
      post-intervention, and at three (primary follow-up) and six months post-intervention,
      including the Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI-II) and Spielbergers State-Trait Anxiety
      Inventory (STAI-state) (primary outcomes). In addition, all participants will be interviewed
      at 7 month post-intervention. Outcome assessors, blind to group allocation, will perform
      observer-based Hamilton A6 and D6 short-form ratings at the interview (secondary outcomes).

      Data will be evaluated by mixed-effects regression analyses (intention-to-treat).

      The current study will be the first to evaluate the efficacy of ADSMP in a cancer setting.
    
  