
    
      Severe ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke are great causes of morbidity and mortality in Europe
      and worldwide. Although prevention and therapy strategies, have been successfully improved
      during the past decades, the global stroke burden - measured in disability adjusted life
      years (DALY) - is still great.

      Specifically, the improvements of intensive care treatments and neurosurgical procedures have
      lowered mortality rates, but simultaneously have increased survivors with severe disorder of
      consciousness (DoC) or persistent disabilities. As a result, an early prognosis in
      unconscious patients suffering from severe stroke in the neuro-intensive care unit (NICU)
      becomes more important for the clinician. An early reliable prognosis enables the clinician
      to empower the surrogates of an unconscious patient to make choices consistent with his
      preferences. It improves also overall patient management in the NICU and helps to identify an
      appropriate rehabilitation care. Since clinical assessment of comatose Patients is limited,
      other examinations are needed to enhance the reliability of a prognosis.

      Evoked potentials, especially somatosensory and auditory evoked potentials (SSEP and AEP) are
      well established prognostic tools in unconscious NICU patients.

      The advantage of evoked potentials over clinical assessments such as the Glasgow coma score
      (GCS) or laboratory values are that they are not influenced by intensive care interventions,
      and have a higher interrater reliability. They are also resistant to metabolic changes or
      sedation.

      Electroencephalography (EEG) is another established prognostic tool in comatose patients.
      However, both, evoked potential and EEG are highly vulnerable to artefacts and expensive due
      to high workforce requirements.

      Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is a promising strictly non-invasive, bedside
      examination. It is based on the finding that infrared light is absorbed by oxygenated and
      deoxygenated haemoglobin. Brain activation can be measured with fNIRS due to an increase of
      oxygenated haemoglobin and decrease of deoxygenated haemoglobin. Different studies show that
      brain activation as a response to peripheral somatosensory and auditory stimulation as it is
      conducted in SSEP and AEP can be detected by fNIRS. Recent studies investigated also the use
      of fNIRS in unconscious patients. However, it is unknown whether and how the brain activation
      measured by fNIRS due to sensory stimulation correlates to the measurements of evoked
      potentials in unconscious patients and if it has any prognostic value in unconscious
      patients.

      Therefore, the investigator aims to compare fNIRS with SSEP and AEP in unconscious
      neuro-intensive care patients suffering from severe hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke and in a
      control group with healthy conscious subjects. Hence, making it a potential prognostic tool
      for unconscious NICU patients.
    
  