
    
      Introduction

      1.1. Cough

      Cough is both an important physiologic component of lung defense and a cardinal indicator of
      disease. It is the second most common reason for medical visits during childhood. The
      metamorphosis of coughing from a normal to a pathologic event occurs along a gradient that
      includes frequency, character and duration.1 When considered with the age of the child, each
      of these characteristics informs decisions about diagnosis and management. For those with
      chronic cough, defined as cough lasting for more than 3 weeks2, the differential diagnosis is
      broad, including self-limited, persistent, and chronic diseases. An isolated cough in an
      otherwise healthy child may be secondary to recurrent viral bronchiolitis, post-infectious
      etiology, pertussis, cough variant asthma, post-nasal drip, or may be psychogenic in origin.
      Possible significant underlying causes of cough include cystic fibrosis, primary ciliary
      dyskinesia, immune deficiencies, chronic bronchitis, retained foreign bodies, airway lesions,
      tracheomalacia, or extrinsic compression of the airway3. Gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is
      also included in the differential diagnosis of chronic cough in children.

      Specific Aims

        1. To conduct a randomized , placebo controlled trial to test the null hypothesis that
           treatment of children with a chronic cough of more than 3 weeks' duration is not
           effected by medicine designed specifically to treat gastroesophageal reflux (GER) and
           its extraesophageal manifestations.

        2. To utilize the "gold standard population"(identified through the protocol outlined in
           specific aim number 1) to use logistic regression analysis to identify which tests
           currently employed to identify GER can be employed within a statistically sound
           predictive model.

      Patient Recruitment:

      Children ages 2 to 18 years seen at the primary care pediatricians within one of the
      Massachusetts General Hospital for Children (MGHfC) associated practices with a chronic cough
      of three weeks or greater duration will be candidates for recruitment into the study. The
      MGHfC has approximately 260 community based pediatric practices within the greater Boston
      region. Children will also be recruited from the hospital based as well as satellite clinics
      of the divisions of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Pediatric Pulmonology at MGHfC as well as
      from the division of Pediatric Otolaryngology at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary
      (MEEI).

      Children will be evaluated first by their pediatricians and then by a team of Pediatric
      otolaryngologists, gastroenterologists, and pulmonologists for identifiable causes of their
      chronic cough. These children will be excluded from entry into proposed study. Children who
      1) do not have an identifiable and treatable cause for their cough or 2) are suspected to
      have GER as a possible etiology of their cough as suggested by history and physical
      examination remain as candidates for recruitment.

      Children in whom a clear diagnosis can not be established by the above described protocol
      then generally undergo a series of diagnostic endoscopies performed by the three clinical
      services simultaneously (as is current standard at the MEEI/MGHfC Pediatric Airway, Voice,
      and Swallowing Center) that include direct laryngoscopy, bronchoscopy with culture and
      bronchoalveolar lavage, esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsy, and placement of ambulatory
      impedance and double pH probe monitoring. It is at the this point when informed consent is
      taken for these procedures that the patients and their caregivers are recruited into the
      study at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. ( the site for the office and endoscopic
      visits). The point of randomization occurs at the time of endoscopy; administration of either
      PPI or placebo begins on the day following the endoscopy and continue for the three week time
      interval until the time of the first post-operative office visit.

      Caregivers of children who are being scheduled for diagnostic endoscopy will be met by the
      P.I. (CJH) as well as by the nurse coordinator of the study who will review with them the
      Informed Consent Form and the Informed Assent Form for children over the age of 8 (as is
      standard at MEEI; informed consent forms will also be obtained from the caregivers of these
      children). A datasheet will be recorded for those caregivers who opt not to enter the study
      to identify why they did not enroll so these issues can potentially be addressed if there are
      issues with patient accrual and achieving adequate sample size.

      Primary Study Objectives:

      The primary study objectives are:

        1. To compare the cough reduction rate using either PPI or placebo in children with a
           chronic cough

        2. To compare the adverse events reported by the caregivers for their children who were
           treated with PPI therapy as opposed to placebo

      The study design is based upon a non-parametric outcome variable and permits a Wilcoxon Rank
      Sum calculation. The proposed RCT is designed to provide 90% statistical power for showing a
      significant difference in clinical outcome attributable to PPI administration assuming a 5
      point treatment difference on the summed questions from the CQ. The null hypothesis being
      tested is that there is no significant difference in the cough reduction rate between
      children with a chronic cough treated either with placebo or PPI therapy.
    
  