
    
      In this clinical trial, we also will be studying other things. We want to learn more about
      how to manage side effects patients may develop during chemotherapy. Cancer patients may
      develop side effects during treatment, such as nausea, pain, fatigue, diarrhea, constipation,
      or shortness of breath. These symptoms may be due to the cancer itself, or due to treatments
      like chemotherapy drugs or radiation therapy. Doctors and nurses often ask patients about
      their symptoms, because an important part of cancer treatment is to make patients feel as
      well as possible. If patients do not feel well, we may need to change the way we are treating
      them or prescribe therapies that will decrease their symptoms. The best way to find out how
      the patient is feeling is to ask them directly.

      We are interested in developing new ways to ask patients about how they are feeling, using
      the Internet. A special new website called STAR ("Symptom Tracking and Reporting for
      Patients") has been developed to help patients record this information, so that their doctors
      and nurses can review it during clinic appointments. This study is designed to help us see if
      STAR is a helpful way for us to keep track of information about patients' symptoms and
      quality of life.

      As part of this study, a computerized (automated) technique of determining the size of the
      patients tumor(s) before and after treatment will be used. This has been tested in the past
      and found to be more accurate. The automated technique of determining tumor size will be used
      with the routine CT scans that the patient will have as part of the study. This automated
      method of measuring the tumor(s) will allow us to know sooner whether this drug treatment is
      causing the disease to shrink.

      The information from STAR and the automated tumor measurements are going to be placed on a
      very secure Internet site. This will provide the doctor with all of the information needed to
      determine if this drug combination is working for the patient and whether to continue this
      study.

      Also, if there is a tumor sample from a biopsy done in the past, it will be analyzed for a
      protein that may be present in the lung cancer.
    
  