
    
      Radiation Therapy (RT) has been integral in the treatment of GBM since the 1970s. Studies
      showed that post-operative whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) offered significant improvements
      in median survival time, and even more so when given with chemotherapy. Even with WBRT, a
      huge volume of healthy brain tissue was unnecessarily treated with high-dose radiation;
      re-growth of tumor with WBRT remained overwhelmingly close to the original tumor site. With
      the advances in imaging techniques, like CT scans and MRIs, partial brain RT (PBRT) has
      become a common practice. PBRT is RT given only to the tumor or area of the brain where the
      cancer was removed. PBRT given with a drug called temozolomide (TMZ) is used as the standard
      of care treatment for newly diagnosed GBM after surgery.

      Current data from our institution suggests that the combination of TMZ with very low-dose
      WBRT efficiently kills GBM cells. WBRT at conventional higher doses is not given at the same
      time as TMZ since the severe toxicity risk would be too risky. However, a lower daily WBRT
      dose, than what is conventionally given to patients, should be tolerable. The randomized
      trials studying TMZ with low-dose WBRT in patients with brain metastasis did not demonstrate
      increased serious toxicities associated with TMZ.

      PURPOSE OF STUDY Why is the research study being done? The purpose of this study is to
      determine if low-dose WBRT given in combination with the standard of care TMZ regimen is safe
      and effective. The role of the low-dose WBRT would be to safely treat the microscopic distant
      GBM cells outside of the high-dose PBRT region. We will continue to target the tumor with
      focused PBRT that will bring the total tumor dose to the standard of care dose. This study
      will find out what effects, good or bad, low-dose WBRT has on you and your cancer.

      PROCEDURES How many people will take part in the study? About 47 people will take part in
      this study. Patient participation in this study is voluntary. The research will be conducted
      at UMMS.

      What will happen if I take part in this research study? Before you begin the study… Patient
      will need to have the following exams, tests or procedures to find out if you can be in the
      study. These exams, tests or procedures are part of regular cancer care and may be done even
      if Patient does not join the study. If he/she has had some of them recently, they may not
      need to be repeated. This will be up to the study doctor.

        -  History and physical with neurological examination

        -  Brain MRI with contrast

        -  Blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons of blood will be taken from the vein)

        -  Pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential

      During the study… The experimental part of this study is that the patient will receive
      low-dose WBRT. If the tests show that the patient can be in the study, and he/she chooses to
      take part, patient will receive low-dose WBRT at the same time as standard PBRT. The patient
      will receive RT once daily, 5 days a week (Monday through Friday) for 6 weeks (a total of 30
      treatments). Each treatment lasts for no more than 30 minutes. Treatment will begin 3-6 weeks
      after your last surgery.

      At the same time as RT you will take oral TMZ once a day. TMZ will be taken continuously from
      the night before the first day of RT to the last day of RT (maximum of 49 days). The pills
      should be swallowed whole and taken on an empty stomach, therefore a minimum of 2 hours after
      eating and with no food consumption for at least 1 hour after TMZ administration. The drug
      will be taken at night.

      About 4 weeks after you finish RT and TMZ, you will begin 28 day cycles of TMZ alone. You
      will take TMZ orally on the first 5 days of each cycle. Again, the pills should swallowed
      whole and taken on an empty stomach, therefore a minimum of 2 hours after eating and with no
      food consumption for at least 1 hour after TMZ administration. You should take the TMZ at
      night.

      If patient misses any dose of TMZ, it will not be made up the next day.

      The patient will be treated with post-radiation TMZ for 6 cycles unless there is evidence of
      tumor progression or treatment-related toxicity. Patients demonstrating continued benefit
      from the adjuvant treatment can continue treatment to a maximum of 12 cycles at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      If the exams, tests and procedures show that the patient can be in the study, and they choose
      to take part, then he/she will need the following tests and procedures. They are part of
      regular cancer care.

      Weekly during RT and TMZ:

        -  Patient evaluation with toxicity assessment

        -  Blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons of blood will be taken from the vein)

      Prior to starting each cycle of TMZ alone:

        -  History and physical with neurological examination and toxicity assessment

        -  Blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons of blood will be taken from the vein)

        -  Prior to cycle 1 and then every 2-3 months, a brain MRI with contrast

      Blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons of blood will be taken from your vein) will also be
      performed at about 2 and 3 weeks (days 14 and 21 (± 2days)) after starting cycle 1 and cycle
      2 of TMZ alone

      During follow-up…

      Once patient has completed all the cycles of TMZ the patient will be seen every 1-3 months
      for the first two years (years 1-2), 3-6 months for the next 2 years (years 3-4), and then
      annually starting at year 5. During these follow-up visits the patient will have the
      following tests and procedures performed:

        -  History and physical with neurological examination and toxicity assessment

        -  Brain MRI with contrast

        -  Any other test deemed medically necessary

      The doctors would like to keep track of the medical condition for the rest of the patient's
      life. Keeping in touch with the patient and checking on their condition yearly helps the
      physicians to look at the long-term effects of the study.
    
  