
    
      Study Design and Setting:

      This study is a randomized control trial at Eskenazi Hospital ED from April 2020 until
      October 2020. Eskenazi Hospital is a busy, urban, academic hospital, level 1 trauma center,
      in downtown Indianapolis. Here we serve a racially diverse, underserved population, with over
      100,000 annual ED visits. This work was approved by the Indiana University Institutional
      Review Board (protocol #2004425945).

      Selection of Participants:

      All patients presenting to the ED were screened for enrollment in this study by trained
      research personnel. All patients are required to wear facial coverings while in the ED, and
      after screening patients based on the exclusion criteria provided below, patients were
      offered enrollment in the study. Patients were randomly identified by their bed location in
      the ED via a random number generator. Patients were excluded from the study for: (1)
      pregnant; (2) prisoner; (3) not English or Spanish speaking (currently a large cohort of
      ethnic Latino/Latina/Hispanic are utilizing the ED and we can use interpreters to interpret
      for enrollment); (4) intoxicated or decompensated psychiatric illness; (5) presenting to the
      ED with a life-threatening condition; (6) allergic to standard tape and/or tegaderm. Patient
      consent was obtained if an individual agreed to participate in the study.

      Interventions:

      All patients included in this study were approached and offered enrollment in a study for
      addressing PPE. The control arm consisted of no active intervention, with the treatment arm
      placing standard surgical tape over the bridge of the nose to adhere the top of the mask to
      the bridge of the nose, thereby creating a physical barrier from removing the mask from the
      face. Patients were reevaluated at 30 minutes and 60 minutes after enrollment to assess for
      proper mask compliance.

      Measurements: Assuming 50% current compliance, 58 patients per arm were needed to have an 80%
      power to detect a 25% difference assuming a two-sided chi-square test and alpha = 0.05.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome of this trial is proper mask utilization upon reevaluation at 30 and 60
      minutes, with the mask at/under the chin, meanwhile completely covering the mouth and nose).
      Secondary outcomes of this trial were comparing the primary demographic and visit related
      covariates on initial screening, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, past medical history,
      social history, chief complaint, and disposition (admission vs. discharge).

      Analysis:

      Patient demographics and characteristics were compared between the control and treatment
      groups. To test for differences between groups, Microsoft excel statistical package was
      utilized, and the Chi-square test was used for categorical variables and the Wilcoxon test
      for continuous variables.
    
  