
    
      The nicotine metabolite ratio (NMR), a stable marker of nicotine clearance rate, is a robust
      predictor of smoking relapse. Individuals who are fast nicotine metabolizers have higher
      rates of relapse, compared to slow metabolizers, on nicotine replacement or placebo
      treatment. Nicotine exerts its reinforcing properties, in part, by binding to α4β2* nicotinic
      acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the brain. The α4β2* nAChRs are abundant and have high
      affinity for nicotine relative to other nAChR subtypes. The goal of this project is to
      identify abstinence-induced changes in neuronal nicotinic receptor availability that may
      underlie risk for smoking relapse.

      The investigators propose to utilize positron emission tomography (PET) imaging to examine
      the association of variation in nicotine metabolism with return to availability of α4β2*
      nAChRs during early abstinence. The investigators will measure α4β2* receptor availability
      using the PET radio-ligand 2-[18F]FA, administered with bolus injection, on two separate
      occasions: during smoking as usual and after 24 hours of abstinence. The proposed study will
      help us understand the neurochemical mechanisms that underlie the higher risk of relapse
      among faster nicotine metabolizers, thereby pointing to potential targets for tailored
      therapy for these smokers at increased risk.

      In addition, the investigators will invite six subjects who have completed the two PET scans
      described above to complete a third PET scan. During this third PET scan, the investigators
      plan to measure α4β2* receptor availability using the PET radio-ligand 2-[18F]FA,
      administered as bolus plus constant infusion after 24 hours of abstinence. The purpose will
      be to compare α4β2* nAChR binding potential data from the bolus 2-[18F]FA infusion protocol
      used in the main study to the bolus plus constant infusion protocol used in this third PET
      scan.

      The protocol of this third PET scan will help the investigators demonstrate the feasibility
      at the University of Pennsylvania of administering the radiotracer as a bolus plus constant
      infusion, and the feasibility of scanning for two hours (versus one hour in the current
      protocol) paradigm. This data is important pilot data for future NIH grant submissions using
      this radiotracer.
    
  