
    
      To prepare the lymphoma, MM or CLL specific T cells investigators will take 240 ml (up to 16
      tablespoonfuls)of blood from the patient. This would be drawn as 2 (two) separate blood
      collections of 120 ml (up to 8 tablespoonfuls) of blood.

      To get the kappa antibody (with CD28) to attach to the surface of the T cell, investigators
      inserted the antibody gene into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus
      that has been made for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This
      virus also helps investigators find the T cells in the patient's blood after they're
      injected. Because the patient has received cells with a new gene in them patients will be
      followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene
      transfer.

      Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to grow and accomplish
      their functions and that this may not happen if there are too many other T cells in
      circulation. Because of that, if the level of circulating T cells is relatively high or the
      patient has B-CLL, the patient may receive treatment with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine
      (Cy and Flu) prior to the infusion of the T cells. This drug will decrease the numbers of the
      patients own T cells before infusion of the kappa-CD28 T cells. Although investigators don't
      expect any effect on the tumor with the dose that the patient will receive, this drug is part
      of many regimens that are used to treat lymphoma, MM or CLL. If you are already receiving
      chemotherapy, this may not be needed.

      Patients will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV line. If s/he
      receives Cy and Flu as stated above, the T cells will be given no sooner than 24 hours
      afterwards. If the patient has recently received other chemotherapy, the T cells will be
      given at least 24 hours after their last chemotherapy. The injection will take about 20
      minutes. Investigators will follow the patient in the clinic after the injection. The
      treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital
      or Houston Methodist Hospital.

      If after a 4-6 week evaluation period after the infusion, the patient seems to be
      experiencing a benefit (confirmed by radiological studies, physical exam and/or symptoms),
      the patient may be able to receive additional doses of the T cells if they wish. These
      additional infusions would be at least 4-6 weeks apart and at the same dose level they
      received the first time or a lower dose. If the patient's circulating T cells are relatively
      high prior to any additional doses of T cells, they may receive Cy and Flu beforehand.
    
  