
    
      FMTVDM - See Appendix A.

        1. Quantitatively calibrates the nuclear camera to guarantee that the measurements made by
           the camera are accurate, consistent and reproducible. This quantification is dependent
           upon the isotope being used, the camera and the timing sequence of image acquisition.
           Such calibration is NOT currently done and it is part of the patent. Studies have
           demonstrated that the lack of this quantitative calibration has resulted in up to 1/3 of
           the data being lost for SUV and qualitative interpretation; in addition to making
           quantification impossible.

        2. The patient presents in a fasting state - to eliminate digestive processes from
           interfering with blood flow distributions - and the differences in metabolic and
           regional blood flow differences (RBFDs) are enhanced with vasodilatory agents, shifting
           blood flow and isotope towards regions of greater blood flow and metabolism; enhancing
           isotope delivery, uptake and quantification.

        3. With a now quantitatively calibrated nuclear camera - in this instance a PLANAR camera -
           or SPECT/CT or PET/CT/MRI if specifically approved - to allow imaging to be done at
           patient's bedside reducing the use of hospital resources required for transport and
           decrease potential for patient complications resulting from a transport - image
           acquisition will occur for 10-minutes following peak enhancement effect of the
           vasodilatory agent and timed injection of the isotope based upon the enhancing agent.

           Regions-of-interest (ROIs) will drawn by the nuclear technologist - either at the
           bedside or in the nuclear laboratory - to provide FMTVDM measurements using software
           already present in the nuclear camera systems. Specific ROIs will be drawn of the right
           lung (total), left lung (total), mediastinum (thymus activity), and any specific areas
           where increased tracer uptake is noted.

        4. These FMTVDM measurements including MAXIMAL COUNTS +/- VARIANCE, provide the values of
           the most active pulmonary tissue resulting from the CoVid-19 infection and inflammatory
           response; just as it has previously been used for CAD and Cancer.

        5. From these FMTVDM measurements, the pulmonary tissue and the CoVid-19 infectious process
           results are placed on a Health-Spectrum showing where in the tissue transitioning
           process the patient is. The measurements also provide information about how rapidly the
           tissue is changing. FMTVDM provides the quantitative measurement of where the patient is
           at any point in time during their course of treatment and how they compare with other
           patients.

        6. Once the FMTVDM measurements have been obtained, treatment decisions can be made based
           upon serial changes in FMTVDM. Treatments outcomes are based upon FMTVDM measurements,
           including the maximum FMTVDM and the variance in those measurements. By comparing serial
           FMTVDM results, improvement or deterioration in the patient's health and the success or
           failure of the current treatment regimen is measured, providing patient-centered,
           patient-specific, patient-oriented and patient-directed decisions. Thus saving time,
           money, resources and lives - not to mention unnecessary side effects from treatment,
           which is not working.
    
  