
    
      Chronic exertional compartment syndrome (CECS) is an overuse injury first described by Mavor
      in 1956 that typically affects young endurance athletes, classically distance runners. CECS
      occurs primarily in the lower leg, predominantly in the anterior compartment, although it has
      been reported elsewhere in the body.

      The pathophysiology of CECS is not completely understood. Similar to acute compartment
      syndrome, it is thought to result from increased pressure within the restrictions of the
      fascial planes of a muscle compartment. Exercise increases blood flow to active muscles
      causing them to expand. If constricted by surrounding noncompliant fascia, such swelling
      increases pressure within the muscle compartment. Ultimately, pressure within the compartment
      reduces blood flow leading to muscle ischemia and pain when metabolic demands cannot be met.
      Several studies have demonstrated decreased blood flow and oxygenation in the legs of
      symptomatic patients with CECS.

      Cessation of inciting activities resolves symptoms in most cases of CECS. Without this
      cessation, the prognosis for CECS is poor if treated non-operatively. Should symptoms
      continue, patients are referred for possible muscle compartment release, currently the most
      widely accepted treatment approach despite a significant number of treatment failures. To
      date, no alternative non-operative approach has successfully treated refractory symptoms.

      Recently, it has been hypothesized that botulinum toxin could reduce intramuscular pressure
      in CECS . Isner-Horoboti et al, performed abobotulinum toxin A injections into the anterior
      and anterior/lateral compartments in 16 individuals with a mean follow up of 4.4 months
      (range 3-6 months). Fifteen (95%) patients were asymptomatic after intervention with fourteen
      (88%) exhibiting normalized post-exercise compartment pressures. Using manual muscle testing,
      they determined that 11 patients displayed decreased strength though did not produce
      noticeable subjective weakness. A later case report by Baria and Sellon presented the first
      long-term follow up (14 months) of a CECS case treated with botulinum toxin injections
      (Botox) in which the patient reported continued pain relief and had resumed her active
      lifestyle without adverse effects.

      The proposed investigation will aim to build upon the results of existing studies. The
      novelty of this approach involves a differing dosage of the toxin (Botox) into a more
      targeted muscle group, specifically the tibialis anterior, while also utilizing a smaller
      dosage than in previous studies. Further, while previous studies have used manual muscle
      testing to test strength, many studies have found this method unreliable. As such, a Kiio
      force sensor will be used at multiple time points to determine weakness quantitatively.
      Lastly, the reliable and validated University of Wisconsin Running Index will be used to
      evaluate return to sport.

      After diagnosis of CECS, the participants will be referred to both physical therapy and Botox
      injection. In physical therapy, the therapist will perform strength measurements of the lower
      leg (ankle plantarflexion and dorsiflexion) which will be repeated 2 months following the
      injection. An ultrasound-guided injection of 50 units of Botox into the tibialis anterior
      will be performed. 25 units will be injected into two different spots in the muscle, one
      being more proximal and the other distal. This will be a one-time injection that will be
      monitored to see how it effects participant symptoms over the next 6 months at either a
      clinic visit (at 2 months) or telephone call (at 4 and 6 months after injection) via the
      University of Wisconsin Running Index. Two months following the injection, the participant
      will undergo repeat measurements of strength using the Kiio Force Sensor.

      Should potential participants be of childbearing potential wish to enroll in the study, a
      urine pregnancy test will be performed prior to enrollment; participants will not be enrolled
      if test is positive.
    
  