
    
      Motor Skill- and Maximal Strength Training; Importance for Technique, Work Economy and Time
      Performance in Cross Country Poling Purpose The relative use of poling in classic
      cross-country skiing has increased over the last years. (Danielsen et al 2015). As a result
      of this poling performance has become increasingly important for over all classic
      cross-country skiing performance. Poling performance with best possible technical skills,
      implying high velocity with a least possible energy cost (C) should thus be beneficial.
      Previous research (Østerås et al 2002) has shown improved work economy in poling after
      maximal strength training (MST). To the investigators knowledge, the effect of motor skill
      training (MOT) on C has not previously been investigated. In this study MOT and MST will
      therefore be investigated (in two different groups of cross-country skiers), how they may
      affect poling technique, C, lactate threshold (LT) and poling performance. The results from
      this study may give further insight and knowledge in scientific based training practice.

      The purpose of this study is thus to investigate if:

        1. MOT results in technical changes in poling?

        2. MST results in technical changes in poling?

        3. MOT improves C in poling?

        4. MST improves C in poling?

        5. changes in 1-4 improves time performance in poling?

      In order to investigate this, competitive cross-country skiers (age 16- 30) will perform a 10
      weeks training intervention. They will be randomized in one of the following three groups:
      poling specific motor skill training (10-12 x 3 repetitions maximum, RM) in specific designed
      cross country exercises 3 times per week in addition to their regular training. Further,
      maximal strength training in squat, dead lift, bench press, bench pull and pull down (2-5 x 3
      repetitions RM) 3 times per week in addition to their regular training and a control group
      who only perform their regular training. Pre- and post intervention, all participants will
      perform tests in VO2max (running), VO2max (poling), work economy (poling), video and IMU
      analyzes of poling technique, time performance test (poling), motor skill tests and maximal
      strength tests.
    
  