
    
      Introduction OLP is a chronic and inflammatory disease that frequently involves the oral
      mucosa. Clinical symptoms of OLP are various from white keratotic lesions without pain to
      erosion and painful injury (1). OLP episodic symptoms range from pain and irritation of the
      mouth that can affect the normal function and causes physical and mental pressure to
      patients.OLP can be seen in two main forms of reticular and erosive. Erosive OLP have been
      seen as injured Arytmatozo that enclosed by keratotic striae .These lesions are often follow
      by episodic symptoms of pain and irritation to severe discomfort and can cause a major
      negative impact on performance of oral system and l quality of life .So, being aware of the
      Clinical symptoms and management of these lesions are very important for the clinician.
      (4,3,2,1)

      Although, these lesions rarely are life-threatening , discomfort and pain associated with
      abnormal caloric intake lead to nervosa, dehydrated in short order and malnutrition. It also
      increases the risk of infection and reduce the quality of life in patients greatly.(2,3). The
      main treatment for symptomatic OLP is prescribing systemic or topical corticosteroids . (1,3)
      and its strong type like triamcinolone has been increasingly used in the treatment of OLP
      (4).

      Lichen planus is a chronic mucocutaneous disease and relatively common in middle-aged that
      affected 2- 0.2% of the population. Men and women are almost equally affected. In the mouth,
      white bilatera lesions sometimes cause wound The most common clinical pattern is linear (9-5)
      .There is a limited study in the frequency and clinical forms of OLP.

      It can be mention to Esmaeili etal study that patients in men and in fourth decades is most
      common and Hypertrophic and classic type are more and the type of reticular in oral lesions
      is more prevalent (10)and in another study by Khalili etal reported that the most common form
      of clinical lesion is ulcerated lesion and the average time spend 18.4 months, most commonly
      involving mucosa is the buccal and then the tongue and gums .White spots, lines Wickham and
      mucosal erythema are the most common clinical features of the lesion (11).

      There is currently no cure for OLP. The main focus of treatment is to reduce the duration and
      severity of symptoms. The most common and acceptable treatment for symptomatic OLP lesions
      and systemic corticosteroids or topical is to modulate the host immune response .In mild to
      moderate lesions the main treatment is by topical corticosteroids such as clobetasol gel,
      betamethasone gel and triamcinolone ointment (2, 3, 12). Due to the persistence of the drug
      at the site of the lesion may be used new dosage form of mucoadhesive such as tablets or
      film. Films are from mucoadhesive drug delivery systems that have been used in the
      manufacture of mucoadhesive polymers and have received considerable attention in recent years
      .The films can be attached on the oral wound healing and cause to reduce pain and
      inflammatory diseases. (4, 13)

      The Licorice plant have been used in traditional medicine for the treatment of aphthous
      ulcers, gastric ulcers, hepatitis C, cough, Asthma, Addison and skin diseases. Clinical
      pharmacology studies have shown that this herb also contains beneficial anti-inflammatory
      components, antiviral and antibacterial, antioxidant, anticancer and modifying the immune
      system is .Licorice contains a provision, glycyrrhetinic acid and glycyrrhizin which helps in
      healing wounds (14,15,16) In 2008, Martin et al. examined the effects of oral patch
      containing licorice extract (Licorice) for the treatment of aphthous ulcers and found
      positive effects on the size of the lesion and the patient's report of pain. (15) Chan et
      al., investigated palliative treatment of patients with symptomatic OLP such as steroids,
      Cyclosporine and topical retinoid in a systematic review and concluded that there are only
      weak evidence for the superiority of this treatment compared with placebo . The authors also
      expressed several studies has been faced with restrictions in which various compounds with
      potentially useful results on the OLP.

      Conducted studies were not enough strong , the control group was small, making blind about
      the researcher or patient didn't do in them or have been made errors in designing the study.
      There would be special need to statistically powerful studies in order to determine the value
      of new compounds in the prevention or treatment of mucositis .(17)

      The purpose of this study is to find a way to reduce pain and inflammation in patients with
      symptomatic OLP On the one hand and reduce the risk of infection, reduce the need for pain
      medication and ultimately improve the quality of life by using triamcinolone mucoadhesive
      films or licorice in this group of patients.

      Methods and materials:

      This study was a clinical trial and randomized as double-blind. Sampling was done randomly
      Patients with symptomatic OLP who referred to the Oral Medicine School of Dentistryin Medical
      Sciences in Isfahan University participated voluntarily.. In this study, patients with
      symptomatic OLP over 18 years both men and non-pregnant women enrolled in the study and . All
      patients were examined for dental Prophylaxis and oral hygiene and recommendations about
      compliance with oral health have been done for all patients . After filling written consent ,
      the patients were divided into two groups randomly :first group I (n = 30) will be treated
      with triamcinolone Mucoadhesive film and the second group (n = 30) will be treated with
      licorice mucoadhesive film.

      All patients underwent a complete dental examination and diagnosis of patients with oral
      lichen planus lesions initially marked by physical examination and conducted by interviewing
      with patients and then confirmed by histologic evaluation .The duration of treatment or
      recovery of lesions was two weeks as the weekly visits.

      The Triamcinolone Mucoadhesive film with 1 mg was prepared and provided to patients in one
      group. And another group was given licorice mucoadhesive film by Afnogel brand name .The drug
      dose was determined three times a day after meals and before bed time that patients put it in
      the upper part of gum after eating and washing mouth and the patient can do common function
      like talking and eating and drinking within releasing the drug.

      Severity and recovery rate of lesions were measured in each visit in accordance with the
      criteria that set in Buajeeb etal(18) from 0 to 5 degrees .The rate of pain in patients that
      created by Mucositis assessed by ruler and VAS method and it was given a number from 0 to 10
      according to the rate of pain.

      Injury or burning ,pain on waking, eating, drinking, talking, pain when swallowing, dry
      mouth, tingling or numbness after taking the studied medication and using the products
      containing caffeine, tobacco, and alcohol in the questionnaire registered by the patient .The
      compliance of patients were evaluated based on the returned mucoadhesive at the end of each
      week and based on the number of patients' visits to physicians. The patient withdrew from the
      study for any reason, pregnancy, drug interactions, compliance less than 70% patients about
      taking the medicine o has been done by referring to the doctor .All of the cases were
      collected and analyzed by the Mann-Whitney test.
    
  