
    
      South Asians living in Canada and globally have high rates of chronic diseases including
      hypertension, type 2 diabetes (diabetes) and cardiac disease (1-3). Diabetes is arguably one
      of the most pressing chronic diseases among South Asian (SA) populations as it occurs at 50%
      higher rates in SA patients than the general population, develops 5-10 years earlier, and is
      one of the principal causes of premature heart attack and death in this group (1). Despite
      the burden of diabetes in this population, diabetes management remains poor. Under the
      current health care system, SA patients are less likely to exercise, follow a healthy diet
      (4), participate in exercise programs (5), and are 24% less likely to achieve glucose, blood
      pressure and lipid targets for diabetes than the general population (6). 55-60% of SA
      patients were non-adherent to their diabetes life-saving medications, compared to 30-35%
      non-adherence in the general population (7). This large gap in diabetes care is not
      surprising given language and communication barriers between primary care providers and SA
      patients (8-10), lack of knowledge about diabetes (8-11), preference for alternative
      therapies (12-14) and fundamentally different cultural beliefs on diabetes and diabetes
      management (15-18). Although there is some preliminary evidence that culturally tailored,
      chronic disease models may improve outcomes (21-24), the current evidence base is
      insufficient to justify the system modifications required to provide culturally tailored care
      across primary care settings in Canada. We propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial
      to assess the impact of a novel culturally tailored lifestyle and medication adherence
      intervention in SA patients with poorly controlled diabetes. The study is called the Novel
      Model for South Asian diabetes Treatment (NaMaSTe-Diabetes) trial in primary care. The study
      aims to recruit 600 patients with type 2 diabetes and randomize them to either a culturally
      tailored lifestyle and medication adherence intervention (family based, culturally tailored
      diabetes self management education with ongoing peer support) versus usual care on glycemic
      control (change in A1C level) and change in blood pressure (systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure) from baseline to 6 months in SA patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes.
      The NaMaSTe trial is a multi-center individual randomized controlled trial of 600 SA patients
      with poorly controlled diabetes (A1C ≥7%) living in British Columbia, Canada.
    
  