
    
      Using content and strategy developed from the formative research phase, this randomized
      smoking cessation trial will test the impact of a tailored cessation intervention for
      socioeconomically-disadvantaged young adult (SDYA) smokers compared to a usual-care control
      on intervention engagement, self-efficacy to quit, and 30-day point prevalence abstinence at
      3-month follow-up.

      This study will take place over a 3-month period. Individuals who complete the screening
      survey and are eligible to participate will be asked to complete a 15-20 minute baseline
      survey at the start of the study. This survey will ask questions about use of mobile phones,
      tobacco use, recent alcohol and other drug use, concerns about the coronavirus outbreak and
      how it may affect personal tobacco use, and physical activity. After the first survey,
      participants will be assigned randomly to one of two study groups:

      Group A: Referral to a quit smoking hotline (quit line)

      Group B: Referral to a quit smoking hotline (quit line), plus enrollment in a web and
      text-based smoking cessation intervention.

      Participants in both groups will be enrolled after completing the following steps, in order:

        1. Providing consent to participate in the study;

        2. Confirming contact information;

        3. Completing a payment acknowledgement form that allows us to reimburse for survey/task
           completions; and

        4. Completing the baseline survey.

      To complete enrollment, participants in Group B will also be required to register for an
      account on BecomeAnEx.org and enroll in text messages on the site. Once registered, Group B
      participants will be enrolled in a text message program customized for this study and will
      need to respond to the initial message from the text message platform to initiate text
      messages.

      Participants in Group B will receive daily text messages for 3 months with content delivered
      through the Truth Initiative's BecomeAnEx digital quit smoking platform. They will also
      receive brief (1-2 minute) weekly check-in surveys related to the week's messages and smoking
      status during this time.

      At 3-months, participants in both groups will receive the 15-minute follow-up assessment.
      Participants in both groups who report quitting smoking at 3-months will be mailed a kit in
      order to take a saliva test to measure the amount of cotinine, a metabolite of nicotine, in
      their saliva. Participants who report smoking at the 3-month follow-up will not receive this
      saliva test.

      All study procedures will take place remotely, with surveys conducted online. Participants in
      Group A will be paid at least $30 for participation and up to $80. Participants in Group B
      will be paid at least $40 for participation and up to $170.
    
  