
    
      Secondary objectives

        1. To assess the performance of the SARC-F questionnaire to screen for sarcopenia ;

        2. To describe the characteristics of sarcopenic patients hospitalized in each follow-up
           care and rehabilitation unit (i.e. day hospital, full hospitalization);

        3. To identify predictive factors of sarcopenia;

        4. To determine, in the subgroup of patients hospitalized in the conventional follow-up
           care and rehabilitation unit (i.e. full hospitalization), the evolution of sarcopenia
           between admission and discharge of the following variables :

             1. muscle strength,

             2. muscle mass,

             3. functional ability,

             4. dependency.

      Conduct of research

      After receiving the written consent of the study participant, all of the following tests and
      questionnaires will be performed :

        -  SARC-F questionnaire,

        -  measurement of muscle strengh by a grip test,

        -  measurement of muscle mass by impedancemetry (ASM/size2),

        -  4-meter walking speed test,

        -  Timed-Up and Go (TUG) test,

        -  ADL (Activities of Daily Living) and IADL (Instrumental Activities of Daily Living)
           questionnaires.

      For patients in day hospital care, the study will end upon completion of these tests.

      For patients hospitalized in the conventional follow-up care and rehabilitation unit (i.e.
      full hospitalization), a follow-up visit will be scheduled within 72 hours prior to the
      patient's discharge from the service, or at 3 months of hospitalization. The following tests
      and questionnaires will be performed during this visit:

        -  measurement of muscle strengh by a grip test,

        -  measurement of muscle mass by impedancemetry,

        -  4-meter walking speed test,

        -  Timed Up and Go (TUG) test,

        -  ADL and IADL questionnaires.
    
  