
    
      In Switzerland pregnant migrant women and their families are burdened in multiple ways:
      pregnancy requires an adjustment process and women have to deal with foreign living
      conditions, limited communication or the uncertainty of their residence status. An increased
      maternal and child health morbidity and mortality in migrants is well documented. A poor
      health outcome seems also to be correlated with a limited access to obstetric and maternity
      care services for migrants. Nearly 10% of foreigners living in Switzerland for more than one
      year do not speak any of the official languages. In women native of non-EU27 and -EFTA
      countries and asylum seekers, these rate is considerably higher.

      To improve maternity care services for migrants in Switzerland several measures have been
      taken in the past, e.g. Hospitals for Equity, promotion of transcultural skills, written
      multilingual health information and interpreter services in hospitals. The availability of
      comparable measures in outpatient or home care services is rather an exception. One example
      is the midwives network "FamilyStart", an outpatient institution that offers a helpline and
      home visiting services for mothers and thier newborns. It collaborates with the National
      Telephone Interpreter Service.

      It is currently unclear how successfully midwives and other health care professionals
      communicate with allophone migrants, if they use and benefit from any of the currently
      available support measures and thus may improve the access of migrant women to maternity care
      in Switzerland.

      The study aims

        -  to describe the access and communication barriers of allophone women with different
           migration backgrounds in maternity and obstetric health services from the perspective of
           users, health care professionals and Interpreters

        -  to make prioritized recommendations on behalf of the Swiss Midwives Association and
           other professional associations for improving the quality and access of maternity care
           Services; the transcultural understanding between professionals and users; and the
           coordination between the different involved services.

      It is an exploratory study in three parts:

        1. User perspective: Qualitative assessment of the women's experiences. The participants
           have different migration backgrounds: representatives of the resident foreign population
           of Switzerland (from Kosovo or Albania with native language Albanian) and asylum seekers
           (from Eritrea with native language Tigrinya) will be interviewed.

        2. Perspective of professionals: Qualitative assessment of the health care professionals
           experiences and quantitative analysis of protocols of counseling sessions from midwives
           who have used the telephone interpreting service during a home visit on behalf of
           FamilyStart.

        3. Perspective of interpreters: Qualitative assessment of experiences of professional
           Interpreters.
    
  