
    
      Recent studies show that the incidence of reading disability can be significantly reduced by
      improving classroom instruction. Effective reading instruction in the primary grades includes
      explicit instruction in the alphabetic principle, reading for meaning, and opportunities to
      practice reading and writing. To learn more about the development of literacy skills in urban
      settings, students in 17 schools in Houston and Washington, D.C., were followed from
      kindergarten through Grade 4. Schools were selected based on similar demographics:
      predominantly African-American student population (95%) and high participation in the federal
      lunch program (85% to 100%). Each school was provided with grade-appropriate reading programs
      that focused on phonics and spelling. These programs included direct, integrated, classroom,
      and individual instruction modules.

      Approximately 1400 children and 114 teachers participated each year in this four-year study.
      The design was cross-sequential so that the majority of teachers in a grade participated for
      two years. All children participating in regular education were included in the study.
      Children below the 25th percentile on a standardized reading test were tutored individually
      by retired teachers, using materials from the classroom reading program. A variety of reading
      curricula were in place in the classrooms across these two sites. In order to help teachers
      implement these materials effectively, an ongoing research-based professional development
      model was employed, with curriculum consultants and coaches working with the teachers in the
      classroom. Researchers observed in each classroom four to six times during the year using
      on-the-minute recordings of content. Observers also completed ratings of teaching
      competencies. Teachers completed surveys of knowledge, experience, attitudes, and
      instructional strategies. A random selection of eight to ten students were assessed four
      times during the year for growth in literacy-related skills and once at the end of the year
      for achievement in reading, spelling, and writing.
    
  