
    
      Background and Purposes: Constipation among children is a global health issue. It can
      distribute a significant impact on medical, social, and economic dimensions, and can delay
      children's growth. Without proper treatments on constipation, it would reduce the cure rate
      and increase recurrence rate. Early diagnosis can improve the prognosis of functional
      constipation. Only a few studies of children constipation are available in the literature, so
      it is critical to investigate the topic of constipation among children.

      Methods: This is a quasi-experimental design study, which will enroll students in the 3rd to
      6th grades of two primary schools and their parents in Yunlin. There will be 200 children in
      the experimental group and 200 in the control group; a total of 400 students and their
      parents. Parents in the experimental group will receive health educational leaflets every
      week and students will have to record the situation of defecation once a week. No
      intervention will be given to the control group. The 4-weeks intervention is scheduled to be
      from September to November 2020, with a total of 8 weeks. Both the experimental and control
      groups will be asked to fill up a questionnaire at the before and after the intervention. The
      questionnaire includes the defecation and constipation situation of children, physical
      activity, dietary behavior, life pressure, and parents' knowledge and attitude toward
      constipation. Both groups of children have to fill out the Stool diary record sheet,
      including the intervention period and the follow-up period for a total of 8 weeks Children
      with the first and second types of the Bristol Stool Scale will be defined as constipation.

      Expected results: The study can provide the understanding of the current status of
      constipation in primary school children, parents' awareness and attitudes on
      constipation-related issues. Besides, through the study, a simple and feasible health
      educational program for parents of primary school children will be proposed, and the efficacy
      of the program will be evaluated.
    
  