
    
      Achieving dry weight (DW) is essential for the optimal health of dialysis patients. Despite
      being one of the most basic and important factors in the management of hemodialysis patients,
      there are many obstacles to achieving DW. One problem underlying optimal fluid status
      management lies in the clinical assessment used to determine DW. The current standard is
      clinical judgment which is often reactive (ie. setting a weight below which the patient
      develops hypotension or cramping) instead of goal directed (ie. trying to achieve defined
      target measures). Moreover, DW is a dynamic parameter that changes in patients over time, and
      ongoing assessment remains reactive to changes in clinical status instead of proactively
      based on monitoring of validated measures. A primary impediment to achieving DW is the
      relatively short time during dialysis limiting vascular refilling and leading to
      complications of hypotension and other adverse sequelae of relatively rapid volume removal.
      The evaluation of interventions aimed at improving symptoms and preventing complications will
      be scientifically strengthened by objective assessment of the patient's volume. Fortunately
      two objective clinically validated tools to assess volume status have emerged: bioimpedance
      (BIA) which allows assessment of the patient's hydration status and blood volume monitoring
      (BVM) which allows direct measure of the rate of vascular refilling during dialysis. These
      will be essential in understanding the impact of therapeutic interventions directed at
      improving achievement of DW.

      The next important consideration is selecting an intervention that shows promise in assisting
      patients in achieving DW. While many interventions deserve careful analysis we select
      exercise because of the additional cardiovascular benefits of exercise, and it fits into our
      outpatient program as part of achieving our overall outpatient wellness objectives. To this
      end we propose the following specific aim:

      Specific Aim: Systematically evaluate the effects of exercise on hemodynamic stability and
      achievement of dry weight by testing the following hypotheses.

      Hypothesis 1: Exercise bike riding during dialysis improves vascular refilling as determined
      by BVM.

      Hypothesis 2: Exercise bike riding during dialysis improves (leads to a reduction in) tissue
      hydration status as determined by BIA.

      Hypothesis 3: Improved intra-dialytic blood pressure stability is directly related to
      improved vascular refilling as assessed by BVM, which is in turn related to improved
      (reduced) tissue hydration as assessed by BIA.

      Hypothesis 4: Intravascular refilling (assessed by BVM) is directly related to reduction in
      tissue hydration (assess by BIA).
    
  