
    
      The specific objectives of the EMMY project are:

        1. to delineate the concept of mental wellbeing at old age and the links between welfare
           policies and such wellbeing,

        2. to support the exchange of public policies with positive impacts on mental wellbeing at
           old age through thorough analysis of existing policies and

        3. to develop a new research-based tool for assessing the mental wellbeing impact of
           welfare policies in old people.

      Theoretical and instrumental conceptualization of mental wellbeing through participatory
      focus groups and by a review of instruments used to evaluate wellbeing in the ageing
      population. A set of gender balanced focus groups with elderly people aged 80+ with different
      levels of functioning, from each of the participating countries will explore what constitutes
      wellbeing with suggestions for improvement, building on previous focus group study by Forsman
      (2013). The nature and intent of the focus group will be explained to potential participants
      in writing and verbally, and signed consent will be obtained. A manual will guide the focus
      group procedures, providing open-ended questions for the sessions, and a case report form
      documenting sociodemographic information. The focus group meetings will be digitally
      recorded, documented by field notes to pick up features of the session outside the audio
      transcripts, transcribed verbatim and translated into English. Personal data will be recorded
      anonymously using identification codes. Data extraction will be performed for qualitative
      analysis.

      Assessment the impact of welfare systems on mental wellbeing in old age, by studying their
      effect on subjective and personal wellbeing, social inclusion, empowerment, social capital,
      participation and wider structural determinants of mental health in old age.

      Welfare regimes types will be identified using refined and extended versions of the
      Esping-Andersen typology of welfare regimens (Esping-Andersen 1990, 1999, Ebbinghaus 2012)
      with quantitative data from existing comparative datasets. Analysis of mental wellbeing among
      the elderly will be based on data on individual level from European Social Survey (ESS). ESS
      has been performed in 7 rounds and includes e.g. a core module of subjective wellbeing,
      social exclusion, religion, national and ethnic identity, as well as rotating modules
      covering topics relevant to mental wellbeing e.g. personal wellbeing in 2012 round. ESS
      covers all four partner countries, as opposed to e.g. SHARE or COURAGE data sets. System
      level variables will be derived from different sources such as ESS Multilevel Data, EU
      Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC), OECD Social and Welfare Statistics,
      Social Expenditure Database (SOCX), OECD Health Statistics, Comparative Welfare States Data
      Set, and Eurobarometers. Analyses will include all European countries in the ESS and
      respondents above 70 and 80 years (7800 and 2200, respectively). Separation between "young"
      and "old" elderly as well as using the rest of the adult population as reference group will
      contribute to interpretation of finding as being age specific or general difference among
      welfare models. A separation between general and age specific welfare policies will be done.
      The influence of welfare state regimes and welfare state indicators/dimensions will be
      performed by use of multilevel regression analysis.

      Case studies of welfare models for older people will be produced in each of the participating
      countries, with a specific emphasis on mental wellbeing. A comparative analysis will produce
      a qualitative description of promising policies in terms of equity, cost, feasibility and
      acceptability. The approach will include analyses of the policy processes as well as
      contextual factors in each country through three actions: a) Case studies, based on
      comprehensive scoping reviews of existing legislations, initiatives and policies using grey
      literature; b) Development of a tool to compare existing policies and collect contextual
      information in each country; c) A qualitative evaluation of existing policies through
      structured interviews with the main stakeholders.

      A scoping review of policies will be performed by focusing on grey literature produced in the
      four Member States. These will include (as indicative examples) a review of relevant
      legislations, policies, practices, initiatives, programmes and reports of the Member States
      governments and agencies and of other national/local relevant organisations. Policies both in
      health and social domains will be included. In each country partner, local researchers will
      collate relevant materials in their countries and translate the main non-English
      documentation. The reviews will result in four case studies to: 1) describe the existing
      policies, with a specific emphasis on the effectiveness, unintended effects, equity, cost,
      feasibility and acceptability of the welfare model in relation to mental wellbeing of old
      people; and 2) identify promising good welfare policies to support mental wellbeing in the
      oldest-old.

      A tool compiled of a battery of checklists/inventories, instruments and indexes will be
      created, based on a review of existing instruments, for the comparative policy analysis and
      the description of the contextual factors/system variables. The tool will be based on
      previous developed instruments for policy analysis (e.g. WHO-AIMS and the REMAST tool,
      developed by the participant). Data will be collected with the tool using several sources of
      information: national and international statistics, published national reports and interviews
      with the main stakeholders and policy makers for welfare systems in each country. A
      structured deep interview will be created in order to collect stakeholder's views and
      opinions on existing policies and promising initiatives.

      A European tool which raises awareness and understanding of mental wellbeing among the old
      will be tested and disseminated, enabling stakeholders to identify the impact of a particular
      policy, service, programme or project may have on it.

      Welfare policies have a major impact on mental health determinants. To maximise potential
      positive impacts, reduce negative impacts on mental health and to reduce mental health
      inequalities among old people, tools are needed to demonstrate and monitor mental wellbeing
      impact of policies. Such tools also increase the accountability of policy-makers for mental
      health impact and will enable a Mental Health in All Policies (MHiAP) approach to promote
      mental health and wellbeing among old people by initiating and facilitating action within
      different non health public policy areas. The MHiAP approach can be applied at all
      administrative levels, ranging from local authorities to the EU level.

      The project will develop and disseminate a model for mental health impact assessment of
      welfare policies, intended for decision makers and stakeholder groups. The tool will target
      policy decision makers and be freely available in electronic format. Furthermore, the project
      will suggest a set of indicators to monitor policy impact on mental wellbeing of the oldest
      old. This will offer policy-makers and stakeholders a tool to compare the situation in
      different countries and to disentangle the effects of different dimensions as well as single
      indicators on the overall composite result.
    
  