
    
      In 2017, a systematic review was conducted to measure the effectiveness of physical therapy
      approach for relieving the SIJ pain linked with PS. Participants were administered with
      conservative physical therapy, Kinesiology taping and sacroiliac joint manipulation in group
      A, group B and group C respectively. They have concluded that Sacroiliac joint manipulation
      was more effective as compare to the rest of the physiotherapy approach in lowering the SIJ
      pain associated with piriformis syndrome.

      In 2014, an experimental study was conducted to compare the effects of nerve mobilization
      technique with conventional physical therapy approach. Pre and post treatment data was taken
      from the respective participants. The results of this study concluded that there is a
      significant differences in the outcome measures of both groups and nerve MOBS were proven to
      be more effective in relieving the sciatic nerve radiating pain associated with inflamed
      piriformis muscle in PS.

      A study in July, 2012 was conducted to compare the effects of two possible physical therapy
      treatments in lowering the low back pain threshold associated with piriformis syndrome. These
      two techniques were METs and SCS. Their results concluded that both Muscle energy technique
      and Strain counter strain were proved to be equally effective in the management of functional
      disability and pain in low back associated with chronic PS.

      An RCT was conducted in 2011, to measure the effectiveness of two possible manipulation
      methods which can be applied in patients with chronic piriformis syndrome. According to this
      study, manipulating the of SIJ along with lumber manipulation is more effective as compare to
      the SIJ manipulation alone to regain the total piriformis length for patients with Chronic
      PS.

      Another study was conducted by Gopal Nambi and colleagues in Saudi Arabia. It was concluded
      that Program comprises of Post Isometric Relaxation is more effective as compare to
      conservative physical therapy in alleviating the pain, improving hip ROM and functional
      improvement in participants with PS.
    
  