
    
      The study is divided into the following five stages--screening period, treatment period, end
      of treatment / withdrawal treatment, follow-up after treatment, survival follow-up.

      Screening period Subjects should be informed and signed an informed consent form prior to
      screening assessment. Screening should be performed within 28 days prior to dosing. After the
      investigator confirms compliance with the inclusion criteria and does not meet the exclusion
      criteria, the subject may be enrolled in the study drug.

      Treatment period At this stage the subject will be treated with CM082 and JS001 until disease
      progression, intolerable toxicity, the investigator or subject decides to quit, is lost to
      follow-up, begins using other anti-tumor treatments or dies.

      During the trial, subjects received a safety assessment every 4 weeks; tumor assessments were
      performed 6 weeks after the first visit and every 8 weeks after the first tumor assessment.
      Tumor progression will be evaluated simultaneously according to RECIST criteria and iRECIST
      criteria. Subjects identified as confirmed progressive disease(iCPD) according to iRECIST
      criteria should discontinue treatment.

      End of treatment / withdrawal treatment End of treatment(EOT)visit evaluation should be
      performed as soon as possible after the subject has discontinued the test drug. Anyone who
      discontinues treatment or withdraws from treatment for reasons other than progression of the
      disease should perform a safety assessment as soon as possible, while continuing to perform a
      tumor assessment at the same frequency as the treatment period until disease progression or
      initiation of other anti-tumor treatments. However, subjects who have terminated treatment
      due to disease progression need only undergo a safety assessment and no longer have a tumor
      assessment. If the subject terminates treatment due to toxicity or other reasons at the last
      visit and does not continue taking the test drug afterwards, the visit is considered to be
      the end of treatment/exit treatment visit.

      Follow-up after treatment For subjects who completed the trial or withdrew their informed
      consent, all adverse events (AEs) and concomitant medications must be recorded up to 30 days
      after the last dose of the trial, and all new AEs were issued within 30 days of the last
      trial dose. For subjects who started using other anti-tumor therapies, AEs that were not
      severe and that the investigator considered unrelated to the test drug were no longer
      recorded.

      Survival follow-up Subjects with disease progression or other anti-tumor treatments will no
      longer undergo safety and tumor assessment, but continue to collect data on overall survival
      and follow-up treatment at telephone follow-up every 12 weeks until the patient dies or loses
      visit.

      Note: Patients who discontinue treatment due to disease progression (except for patients
      withdrawing informed consent, loss of follow-up, death) should continue to follow the tumor
      assessments according to the original frequency (no safety assessment). Once disease
      progression has occurred or other anti-tumor drugs have been used, a telephone survival
      follow-up is performed every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  