
    
      Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) affects over 40% of men over the age of 60 (Kirby RS,
      2000). For patients with significant obstructive symptoms which are not helped by medical
      therapy, surgical intervention is instituted. Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP),
      an endoscopic procedure where prostate tissue is sequentially removed with an electrocautery
      loop, remains the gold standard to which other surgical therapies are compared.
      Unfortunately, TURP is associated with significant patient morbidity such as blood loss and
      dilutional hyponatremia, especially when resection times are prolonged (Mebust WK et al,
      1989).

      Because of the long resection times and increased morbidity risks involved in patients with
      extremely large prostate glands, open simple prostatectomy was traditionally employed in
      place of TURP to remove the obstructing adenoma tissue. However, the patient could still
      expect a prolonged hospital stay and a high likelihood of post-operative transfusion.

      Many alternative surgical treatments for BPH have been developed in an attempt to minimize
      the morbidity profile of the more traditional surgical approaches. New generation holmium
      (2140 nm wavelength) and KTP (532 nm wavelength) lasers now offer a minimally invasive
      alternative to BPH treatment broadly termed laser prostatectomy. Within the category of laser
      prostatectomy, two distinctly separate techniques have been developed. The first, laser
      ablation, involves the vaporization of obstructive prostate tissue. Effective ablation can be
      achieved with either the holmium or KTP laser. Previous groups have reported favorable
      outcomes with minimal associated morbidity when treating smaller prostates with the laser
      ablation technique (Hai MA and Malek RS, 2003).

      The properties of the holmium laser also enable it to cut soft tissue while maintaining
      hemostasis, such that it can be utilized for dissecting entire prostatic lobes away from the
      prostatic capsule. This procedure has been termed holmium laser enucleation of the prostate
      (HoLEP), and it can be performed on even the largest of glands to duplicate the results of
      open simple prostatectomy with much less morbidity (Gilling PJ et al, 2000 and Moody JA and
      Lingeman JE, 2001).

      We have performed both holmium and KTP prostate ablations and have had extensive clinical
      experience with the HoLEP procedure. Our impressions of the various laser prostatectomy
      procedure outcomes appear to substantiate the findings of the aforementioned studies.
      However, extended follow-up of patients undergoing laser prostatectomies and documentation of
      their outcomes and associated complications must be done in order to support the initial
      conclusions of the previous investigators.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      To review the outcomes of our population of patients with BPH who have undergone laser
      prostatectomy. We hypothesize that the long-term improvements in voiding parameters achieved
      by these new laser procedures will compare favorably and perhaps be better than results
      previously reported for TURP or, in the case of larger glands, open simple prostatectomy. In
      addition, the adverse events/complication profile of the laser procedures should be better
      than those of the traditional treatments. Once all retrospective data has been reviewed, we
      will continue to collect outcome data on a prospective basis.
    
  