
    
      Why is this clinical problem important?

      Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is a major health problem in Australia, with a prevalence
      of 15% in males aged over 65 years. The direct health care cost of PAD in Australia was $180m
      in 1994, of which 78% was associated with hospitalisations. PAD is also a marker for advanced
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) involving coronary, cerebral, renal and aortic vessels; with a
      2-3 fold increased risk of CVD-related mortality. In 2006-2007, 25,813 hospitalizations and
      2,163 deaths were a result of PAD (Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 2009). The
      ageing Australian population and the prevalence of PAD increases (Australian Institute of
      Health and Welfare 2009), the national annual health expenditure on cardiovascular disease is
      likely to increase, greatly exceeding the 5.4 billion dollars spent in 2000-01 (Australian
      Bureau of Statistics 2006). The most frequent symptom of mild to moderate PAD is intermittent
      claudication (IC), defined as walking-induced pain and cramping in one or both legs (most
      often calves) that is relieved with rest. The primary and most effective treatment for people
      with intermittent claudication is focused on improving walking ability and functional status.

      What is already known about the effect of exercise in intermittent claudication?

      The beneficial effects of exercise training as a treatment have been confirmed in several
      randomised controlled trials. The optimum form of exercise still hasn't been elucidated. The
      mechanisms of improvement of claudication with exercise are largely unknown. Although
      exercise stimulates an ischaemic-reperfusion (I-R) insult, repetitive exercise may produce an
      adaptive response to this I-R insult. Other potential themes include effect of exercise on
      stimulating or inhibiting angiogenesis and/or muscle protein synthesis.

      Although the principal cause of IC is reduced blood flow to the lower limbs relative to
      increased demand during exercise, the pathophysiology of IC is not completely understood. For
      example, limb haemodynamics does not closely correlate with clinical presentation or the
      limitations in peak exercise performance. Haemodynamic measures of the severity of PAD, such
      as the ankle-brachial systolic blood pressure index (ABI) and blood flow by strain gauge
      plethysmography, are poor predictors of exercise capacity in patients with IC.

      Cross-sectional studies indicate that inflammation is associated with the presence,
      progression and severity of PAD. This may explain the excess cardiovascular mortality, (at
      least 50% at 10 years), seen in these patients. The effect of exercise on claudication has
      been most studied with inflammatory markers in peripheral blood.

      What is the importance of measuring protein expression in muscle tissue?

      While peripheral blood bio-markers help in understanding the systemic manifestations of
      claudication, it does not reflect what is happening in the muscles and microcirculation. Most
      of the changes in protein expression are too subtle to be detected in peripheral blood. The
      ease of acquisition does not correspond to ease of interrogation. The dynamic range of
      proteins in serum makes analysis very challenging because high abundance proteins tend to
      mask those of lower abundance; whilst a small number of proteins including albumin, Beta
      2-macroglobulin, transferrin, and immunoglobulins may represent over 90% of serum proteins11.

      The protein complement of a cell or tissue is dynamic and reflects the age, life-cycle, and
      conditions the cell is subjected to or a specific disease state. It is clear that in most
      diseases, proteins are subjected to numerous changes including post-translational
      modifications and/or proteolytic cleavage; equally in certain diseases, there is alteration
      of protein expression. Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) is the molecule encoding the
      chemical blueprint for a protein. Yet the micro arrays examining differential expression of
      mRNA will not provide information on post-translational modification, therefore the only way
      to assess the impact of the proteins is at the protein level.

      Some studies have investigated the difference in histochemical and biochemical
      characteristics of skeletal muscle between patients with PAD and healthy age-matched
      subjects. Most of the studies into muscle biopsy from patients with PAD have demonstrated
      alterations in muscle fibre type distribution, denervation and alterations in muscle
      metabolism with no insight into protein expression12, 13, 14. There is considerable evidence
      that the metabolic status of skeletal muscle is perturbed in patients with PAD as compared
      with age-matched healthy controls. Amongst the earliest observations was the unexpected
      finding that the expression and activity of several mitochondrial enzymes are increased in
      skeletal muscle from limbs with PAD. The skeletal muscles in patients with IC, do change with
      exercise but the current evidence does not shed light on the mechanisms of change or if the
      change is the same in all patients. We do already know that some patients improve with
      exercise while others do not. A question thus arises as to whether there exists a
      bio-diversity in these patients' response to exercise.

      Armstrong et al studied disturbances in calcium homeostasis of skeletal muscle and suggested
      that they might play a key role in the development of exercise-induced muscle damage. Some of
      the immediate muscle changes after exercise have been attributed to protein degradation is
      initiated by non-lysosomal cysteine proteases, such as calpain. The elevation in
      intracellular calcium post-exercise can activate the calpains. Muscle tissue expresses three
      distinct calpains, including the well-characterized ubiquitous calpains - m- calpain,
      μ-calpain and n-calpain. Wang et al have concluded, in animal studies, that the increased
      levels of the protease m-calpain, promotes muscle injury whereas the calpastatin protein
      expression might execute a protective function for muscle injury. This has not yet been
      investigated in human studies. It can be hypothesised that the levels of calpastatin and
      m-calpain are important in explaining the variable response to exercise in IC and why some
      patients improve and others do not.

      There is some conflicting evidence on the benefit of exercise. Tsai et al have found that the
      normal training effect on the glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) gene expression was completely
      eliminated by both acute and chronic ischemia at the pre-translational level. In addition,
      the chronic ischemia-induced muscle atrophy was seen to be more severe in the
      exercise-trained rats than in the untrained rats. This result suggests that for individuals
      with impaired microvascular conditions, exercise training might not be beneficial in
      maintaining muscle mass. Thus the effect of exercise training in human subjects with IC
      (ischaemia) is yet to be elucidated.

      We know that all subjects differ in their capacity for exercise and patients with
      intermittent claudication are no different. Patients undergoing exercise for intermittent
      claudication, would be different in terms of their expression of proteins due to exercise.
      For this reason, patients would act as their own controls by means of a biopsy from an
      unaffected muscle of each individual.

      An open ended mass spectroscopy examination of proteins in the exercising skeletal muscle
      would give an insight into the mechanistic pathway of the exercise effect in intermittent
      claudication.

      What is the relation between protein expression and inflammation in the exercise with
      intermittent claudication?

      The clinical model of exercise inducing an ischaemia-reperfusion type injury has been
      substantiated by evidence of markers of inflammation. Neutrophils are the first cells to
      begin accumulating in the tissue at the injury site, destroying necrotic tissue through
      phagocytosis while working in conjunction with resident macrophages from the muscle tissue
      itself. Neutrophil presence has been documented in muscle after various types of eccentric
      exercise. A study looking at neutrophil function in exercising claudicants showed increased
      neutrophil activation manifest by increased expression of the neutrophil adhesion receptor
      cluster of differentiation antigen IIb (CD11b) and degranulation manifest by an increase in
      plasma neutrophil elastase. This occurred immediately after exercise in these patients with
      intermittent claudication. Whether this equates to a trend to predict outcomes is still not
      clear.

      The protease m-Calpain is chemotactic factor for neutrophils and may play a role in the local
      and systemic inflammatory response. Such adaptations in cellular inflammatory responses have
      been reported earlier by Kunimatsu et al. Together with Calpastatin, these proteins may hold
      a key in the link between local muscle damage, repair and inducing a systemic inflammatory
      response.

      Chemical modification of proteins may play a role in the pathogenesis of disorders ranging
      from diabetes to atherosclerosis and ischemia-reperfusion injury and perhaps to the aging
      process itself. Advanced Glycosylation End products (AGEs) are the end products of
      glycosylation reactions in which a sugar molecule bonds to either a protein or lipid molecule
      without an enzyme to control the reaction. The formation and accumulation of AGEs has been
      implicated in the progression of age related disease, in particular cardiovascular disease.
      They have a range of pathological effects, including inhibition of vascular dilatation by
      interfering with nitric oxide (Endothelium Derived Relaxation factor), binding macrophage and
      endothelial cells to induce the secretion of inflammatory cytokines and enhancing oxidative
      stress. We hypothesise that exercise stimulates glucose uptake by the endothelial cells
      increasing the synthesis of AGE's. It remains to be determined whether exercise again
      enhances or reduces this process.

      The aim of this study is to examine inflammatory biomarkers, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      Neutrophil elastase and Advanced Glycated End-products with proteins known to influence
      tissue damage or repair (Calpains and Calpastatin) to determine the effect of different forms
      of exercise on this process, in order to determine

        1. Is exercise appropriate for all patients? i.e.

             1. Do all patients respond with a pro inflammatory response? and

             2. Does exercise produce an adaptive response to this in all patients? or

             3. Does exercise stimulate an I-R insult in some patients that is not reduced by
                exercise training?

             4. What is the local tissue response to exercise in terms of tissue damage or repair
                (as measured by protein analysis)

        2. What is the best form of exercise for these suitable patients?

        3. Is there a biodiversity in patients' response to exercise in terms of

             1. Systemic inflammatory response (based on IL-6, Neutrophil Elastase & AGE's)?

             2. Local response (based on protein analysis)?

        4. Does the physiological response to exercise in these patients reduce the risk of CVD
           related morbidity/mortality?

           a. As evidenced by changes in cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) outcome parameters
           and endothelial function.

        5. Is impaired endothelial function reversible? a. As measured by flow-mediated dilatation.

      The combined use of data from systemic blood and local muscle tissue would help to
      characterise the metabolic and functional consequences of age associated PAD changes in
      skeletal muscle. It would also help to identify a mechanistic pathway by which exercise
      exerts its effect on the patient with intermittent claudication.
    
  