
    
      Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) may lead to series of complications including retinal ischemia,
      macular edema (ME) and so on. Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) can be classified as branch
      retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) and central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Retinal vein
      occlusion with macular edema (RVO-ME) is the main cause of RVO induced vision impairment.
      Intravitreal injection of Ranibizumab (0.5mg) has been proved to be a safe and effective
      method for the treatment of RVO-ME. Although multiple injections of anti-vascular endothelial
      growth factor (anti-VEGF) drugs are beneficial to the therapeutic results of RVO-ME, they may
      also increase the risk of systemic or ocular complications and at the same time increase the
      economic burden of patients to a certain extent. Different studies have shown that anti-VEGF
      therapy with low frequency injection (2-5 doses) is also effective for RVO-related ME.
      However, there are still different views on which option is better. Meanwhile, the effect of
      laser photocoagulation in the non-perfusion area of the retina, and whether the number of
      subsequent anti-VEGF injections can be reduced accordingly, is still uncertain. Therefore, in
      this study, different treatment regimens will be applied and the effects will be observed at
      1-6 months. After 6 months, anti-VEGF therapy and/or laser photocoagulation will be used to
      explore whether laser photocoagulation can maintain the therapeutic effect or reduce the
      injection number of Ranibizumab. This study intends to explore the therapeutic effects of
      different treatment regimens on RVO-ME, and meanwhile to investigate the dynamic changes in
      retinal morphology, microcirculation and visual function during RVO treatment by means of
      angiography-optical coherence tomography (angio-OCT), microperimetry, electroretinogram (ERG)
      examination and other methods.
    
  