
    
      Background:

        -  Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is highly responsive to but not curable by standard
           chemotherapy, and also responds well to investigational agents called recombinant
           immunotoxins which are being developed by the Laboratory of Molecular Biology (LMB).

        -  The investigators on this protocol are studying molecular and clinical aspects of HCL,
           and how they compare to normal or to other disorders, including chronic lymphocytic
           leukemia (CLL) non-Hodgkin s lymphoma (NHL), and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

        -  Recombinant immunotoxins are fusion proteins containing a bacterial toxin connected to a
           targeting ligand, like a single-chain antibody or a growth factor. Recombinant
           immunotoxins currently under clinical development in the LMB include BL22 and a high
           affinity variant, HA22, targeting CD22, LMB-2, targeting CD25, and SS1P, targeting
           Mesothelin.

        -  LMB-2, BL22 and HA22 are being tested in purine analog resistant HCL.

        -  Other LMB trials include LMB-2 for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic
           leukemia (CLL), and adult T-cell leukemia, and HA22 for non-Hodgkin s lymphoma and CLL.

      Objectives:

      - To allow the collection of a variety of clinical samples, including blood, urine,
      lymphopheresis samples, and other tissues, to better understand the disease processes which
      are being studied, or to determine eligibility and/or optimal timing for clinical testing.
      Specific projects planned may include:

        -  studying antibodies made against immunotoxins

        -  quantifying tumor antigens by flow cytometry and other methods

        -  testing how well recombinant immunotoxins and other agents kill tumor cells ex vivo

        -  molecularly characterizing malignant B-cells by sequencing their immunoglobulin
           rearrangements and other genes.

      Eligibility:

        -  Samples which are easily obtained, including blood and urine, may be obtained from
           patients and normal volunteers.

        -  Samples requiring procedures, including bone marrow biopsy/aspiration, leukopheresis,
           and any procedure done because of medical need, may be obtained from patients.

      Design:

        -  Patients or normal donors are consented for the protocol and samples are obtained.

        -  This protocol does not involve treatment, although patients may also be on therapy or
           protocol treatment.
    
  