
    
      This is a prospective, observational study of 1,000 subjects with known or suspected cancer
      confirmed through pathology reports and/or clinical/radiographic data and 2,000 subjects with
      no known cancer. De-identified blood samples and clinical data will be collected from
      subjects to validate a classification algorithm for a new version of the CancerSEEK assay.

      Potential participants will be asked questions to confirm their eligibility by a nurse
      navigator, study staff member, or physician to document screening including date of upcoming
      therapy or surgery for cancer patients if one has been scheduled, before providing informed
      consent to participate in the study. Study procedures outside of the pre-screening for
      eligibility will not be performed prior to the subject providing consent. Informed consent
      will be carried out in accordance with applicable federal regulations and International
      Council for Harmonisation (ICH)/Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. Prior to signing the
      informed consent form (ICF), potential participants will confirm that they understand the
      study and that they have no questions about the study.

      The ICF may be offered by paper or electronically with the option to also review a paper copy
      provided by the nurse navigator or study coordinator either face-to-face on a tablet or via
      email. Potential participants will be given a phone number to call with any study specific
      questions. Copies of all signed consent forms will be stored centrally in a secure
      environment, and signed consent forms will thereby be available for verification by Thrive or
      its designee at any time.

      Once the subject completes the survey, study staff will complete the blood draw and collect
      height and weight data. For some participants, their contact information and unique study
      identifier (ID) will be sent securely to a third-party vendor who will contact the subject
      within 24 hours to schedule the blood draw and height and weight measurements at a location
      convenient to the subject.

      For all subjects, study staff and the third-party vendor performing the blood collection will
      verify the following before performing the blood draw and height and weight measurements:
      participant identity and age against a form of identification, that consent to participate
      has been given, that the participants in the cancer arm are still treatment naïve, and that
      they do not have a fever that could be caused by an infection. The blood collection vendor
      will ensure all required data are captured and included with the blood sample, that the
      sample is collected and packaged according to laboratory manual specifications, and that the
      sample is shipped to the indicated processing lab with the required expediency. Following all
      study visits, study staff and third party vendor staff will complete a visit checklist
      confirming all of the study activities that occurred.

      Subjects in the Cancer cohort will be identified via nurse navigation, study staff or
      oncology physicians in local offices. The nurse navigator or study staff will verify
      eligibility through chart review and pre-screen, approach the subject about the study
      opportunity, and present the informed consent form. For participants enrolling
      electronically, participants will be presented with a secured tablet device on which the
      subject will watch a brief video about the study, read the informed consent and provide
      electronic consent. Some participants may also have the option of having the video, informed
      consent and survey emailed to them. Upon consent and enrollment, subjects will be assigned a
      unique subject study ID, which will be used to track the subject, their data and their
      biospecimen throughout study operations. Consented subjects will then be directed to complete
      a survey via the tablet device, email or paper. Participants will be allowed to skip
      questions in the survey or select the answer option "prefer not to answer." Subject data will
      be tracked in real-time by central study staff to ensure desired tumor type diversification
      and communicate enrollment strategy changes to the nurse navigators and study staff.
    
  