
    
      Radiotherapy is an essential therapeutic tool for pelvic malignancies such as uterine cervix,
      uterine corpus, prostate, testicular, urinary bladder and rectal cancers. According to
      reports, the estimated number of new cases of malignant pelvic tumors in China in 2015 alone
      exceeded 500,000. Chronic radiation proctitis (CRP) is an unavoidable and commonly observed
      side effect, occurs 3 months later and in 5-20% of patients after pelvic malignancy
      radiation. Hematochezia is the most common symptom for more than 80% of CRP patients, which
      is a persistent, irreversible and progressive symptom, and will probably give rise to anemia.
      In clinic, the treatment for intractable bleeding of CRP is very difficult.

      Non-surgical treatment is the first choice to the treatment of CRP to avoid the occurrence of
      serious complications. Conventional oral medication for the treatment of bleeding CRP is very
      few and has little effect. At present, no oral medication has been found to significantly
      alleviate and control refractory bleeding of CRP. Therefore, it is an urgent problem to
      screen out a drug that is more effective, safe and highly compliant for the treatment of
      hemorrhagic CRP.

      Thalidomide has anti-inflammatory, immune regulation, anti-angiogenesis and other effects. A
      large number of studies have shown that thalidomide can be used to treat Crohn's disease,
      ulcerative colitis, radiation cystitis, etc., and it can treat moderate to severe of IBD
      patients can inhibit inflammatory response, improve clinical symptoms, promote intestinal
      mucosal repair. Further, recent studies have proved that thalidomide can be used to treat
      intestinal bleeding due to vascular dysplasia. And a case report from Gut described that
      refractory bleeding of CRP of a 78-year-old woman were significantly alleviated after taking
      thalidomide.

      Therefore, for the patients of CRP with intractable bleeding, a prospective, open clinical
      trial planed to carry out to observe the safety and effectiveness of thalidomide in treating
      hemorrhagic CRP.
    
  