
    
      The Boston Keratoprosthesis (KPro) is a collar-button shaped device made from a specialized
      clear plastic material. This device is used to replace a diseased and opaque cornea with a
      clear window so that vision can be improved. KPro surgery is an alternative to a traditional
      corneal graft and is used when a traditional corneal graft has failed or has a very poor
      probability of success.

      During KPro surgery, the KPro needs to be incorporated into a corneal graft before it is
      sutured to the patient's cornea. The corneal graft serves as a support to the KPro and helps
      to re-establish vision. The corneas typically used as carriers for the KPro are fresh corneas
      provided through donors. These fresh corneas are also used in traditional corneal
      transplantation, without KPro implantation.

      Due to shortage of fresh corneas in the province of Quebec, this project is interested in
      evaluating if corneas that have been previously frozen can act as carriers to the KPro. The
      frozen corneas cannot be used in traditional corneal transplantation surgery because they are
      not transparent. However, they can act as a support to the KPro, as in this case, it is the
      KPro and not the corneal graft that re-establishes vision. The use of frozen corneas for KPro
      surgery has the potential to improve access to corneal donor tissue and improve the
      wait-times for KPro surgery.

      37 patients were be recruited from the Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM),
      Notre-Dame Hospital between October 2008 and November 2009. Participants were divided into 2
      groups: the first group will receive a KPro in a fresh corneal carrier graft while the second
      group will receive a KPro in a frozen carrier graft. The use of a fresh or frozen corneal
      graft depended on the availability of fresh tissue on the morning of surgery. 19 patients
      received a fresh carrier graft and 18 received a frozen carrier graft.

      Patients were followed on postoperative day 1, week 1 and 2, month 1, 3 and 6 and every 1 to
      3 months thereafter up to 2 years. At each follow-up visit, a complete ophthalmological
      examination was performed, including best-corrected Snellen visual acuity and slit lamp
      assessment for leaks, tissue necrosis, melts, extrusion, inflammation, retroprosthetic
      membrane formation and infectious endophthalmitis.

      The current study aims re-consent patients previously enrolled in this study to prospectively
      evaluate the long-term outcomes of KPro surgery using either a fresh or frozen carrier graft.
      IRB approval was obtained from the CHUM. Written informed consent from the concerned patients
      will be obtained for this extension study during their routine visits at the CHUM
      Ophthalmology department.

      Patients in this study will continue their routine follow-up at the frequency determined by
      their surgeon, which may vary from every 3 to 6 months.

      Outcome measures include surgical feasibility, level of preoperative and postoperative visual
      acuity (VA), retention of the device and complications as stated above. Outcomes will be
      compared at 5 and 10 years.
    
  