
    
      The study will investigate an online compassion-based self-help intervention with email
      guidance with people with skin conditions who are experiencing depressive symptoms. As the
      study aims to investigate a novel intervention, the study will be an acceptability and
      feasibility study that uses a pre-post design. Participants with skin conditions will be
      recruited from the general population using online methods (social media and advertisements
      on skin condition charities/organisations websites). Participants will complete baseline
      measures using Qualtrics and then be able to commence a six-week online intervention,
      consisting of a dedicated website containing six self-help sessions to work through. Regular
      guidance will be provided by the researcher via email. The self-help exercises in the current
      study will consist of a number of exercises derived from Compassion Focused Therapy
      (CFT)/Compassionate Mind Training, such as using soothing rhythm breathing, compassionate
      imagery and compassionate writing. Explicit feedback will be sought from participants at the
      end of each session, and at the end of the intervention overall. Engagement with the website
      will be monitored via user logins and this will be used to calculate the retention rate for
      the intervention. Post-intervention measures will be collected one week after the end of the
      intervention. All participants will be provided with signposting information relating to
      mental health and skin conditions, and advised to see their GP if they require any further
      support with their physical or mental health.

      Intervention The guided self-help intervention will consist of six online sessions of
      self-help information for participants to work through, plus activities to carry out
      in-between sessions. The intervention will consist of psycho-education material,
      self-monitoring, and compassion-inducing exercises from CFT. The self-help exercises in the
      intervention will be evidence-based as being effective for depression: the compassion-focused
      imagery exercises and the letter-writing exercise will be based on those used in published
      studies. Other exercises, such as thought monitoring and relapse prevention planning, are
      commonly used in cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and, as CFT is an adapted form of CBT,
      will be included in the current self-help intervention. The session content and homework
      exercises will build on previous sessions and homework, so there will be a clear sense of
      progression through the intervention. In addition, imagery and written homework exercises
      will be alternated, to provide variety and keep participants engaged in the intervention.
      Examples relating to skin conditions will be given throughout the self-help materials. Expert
      feedback regarding the content of the website has been sourced through personal contacts and
      social media. Feedback has already been gathered from three people with skin conditions.
      Changes to the website deemed necessary based on their feedback have been made.

      Data analysis strategy Text responses from participants' feedback on the intervention overall
      will be analysed using content analysis to identify helpful aspects of the intervention and
      areas for improvement. Quantitative data (outcome measures and acceptability ratings) will be
      screened for outliers and missing values, and descriptive statistics will be conducted for
      all variables. The data will be tested for the assumption of normality. Paired t-tests will
      be used to test for differences in participants' psychological outcome measures before and
      after the intervention. This information will also be used to calculate effect sizes (dz) for
      changes in scores on each outcome measure. Intention-to-treat and completer analyses will be
      carried out.
    
  