
    
      Implementation of colorectal screening programs has been shown to decrease, the incidence of
      colorectal cancer due to the early detection and removal of pre-cancerous colonic polyps.
      Colonoscopy is therefore one of the most common medical procedures performed in the United
      States with 14 million procedures performed in 2003. Aside from screening, colonoscopy is
      also essential for other aspects of colorectal cancer management including post-resection
      surveillance and palliative treatments. Use of computer simulation models showed that the
      demand for colonoscopy in the United States exceeds current capacity regardless of screening
      strategy. The incidence of colorectal cancer has been increasing in Hong Kong and has been
      associated with progressive increase in the colonoscopy waiting times in the public health
      care system. The progressive increase in the demand for colonoscopy therefore poses a
      significant burden on the healthcare systems of all developed countries. Methods to increase
      the capacity and efficiency of the colonoscopy service are needed.

      Non-attendance rates of gastrointestinal endoscopy appointments may range from 12% to 27% 5-6
      and results in inefficient use of healthcare resources, delay in diagnosis and an increase in
      waiting times. Adams et al. conducted a prospective cohort study which showed that younger
      age, long waiting times and referral from a non-gastroenterologist were significantly
      associated with non-attendance. In an another prospective cohort study, Sola-Vera et al. also
      showed that the waiting time and source of referral were independent predictive factors for
      non-attendance 7. Studies on gynecological endoscopy non-attendance revealed that predictors
      of non-attendance include unemployment, current smokers, younger age, long follow up periods,
      lower social class, lower education levels and lack of understanding of the endoscopic
      procedure 8-10.

      Telephone reminders have been used to improve non-attendance rates; Adams et al. had
      decreased the non-attendance rate from 12.2% to 9% after introduction of telephone reminder 1
      week prior to the examination. The Mayo clinic open-access endoscopy system, which
      incorporates a standard telephone reminder 3-7 days prior to the procedure, has a
      non-attendance rate of only 4.1%.
    
  