
    
      This will be a Phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study
      in subjects with moderate-to-severe seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR). The study will begin
      with a 7-day, single-blind, placebo lead-in period (Day -7 to Day 1). Subjects will be
      instructed to take placebo lead-in medication twice daily (1 spray per nostril),
      approximately every 12 hours. On Day 1, subjects who satisfy the symptom severity
      requirements and continue to meet all of the study inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      randomized in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to receive 1 spray per nostril twice daily of MP29-02,
      azelastine hydrochloride, fluticasone propionate, or placebo nasal spray.

      Efficacy will be assessed by the change from baseline in the subject-reported 12-hour
      reflective Total Nasal Symptom Score (TNSS). On Days 1 through 14, subjects will rate the
      instantaneous and reflective TNSS symptoms of sneezing, nasal congestion, runny nose, and
      nasal itching; the instantaneous and reflective total ocular symptom score (TOSS) symptoms of
      itchy eyes, watery eyes and eye redness; and the symptom of postnasal drip, twice daily (AM
      and PM) in a diary prior to the dose of study medication. Symptoms will be scored on a 0 to 3
      scale (0 = no symptoms, 1 = mild symptoms, 2 = moderate symptoms, 3 = severe symptoms), such
      that the maximum daily symptom severity score will be 24 for the TNSS and 18 for the TOSS.
      Additional secondary efficacy variables will include reflective individual nasal and ocular
      symptom scores, as well as change from Baseline to Day 14 in the Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality
      of Life Questionnaire (RQLQ).

      Subjects ≥ 18 years of age will complete the RQLQ on Day 1 (prior to dosing) and Day 14.
      Subjects will return to the clinic on Day 7 for an interim evaluation. After completing the
      2-week double-blind treatment period, subjects will return to the clinic on Day 14 (or at
      time of early termination) for an end-of-study evaluation. Safety and tolerability
      assessments will be made on Days 7 and 14. Tolerability will be evaluated by subject-reported
      adverse events (AEs), nasal examinations, and vital signs assessments.
    
  