
    
      Tension-type headache (TTH) and migraine has been found to coincide with cervical pain,
      musculoskeletal dysfunction and/or temporomandibular disorders (TMD). The possible interplay
      between these three symptoms/disorders, headache, neck pain and TMD, have not been studied
      completely, only in sections. Earlier studies have revealed an association between different
      headache types and neck pain and discussed the possible role of the cervical muscles.
      Patients with TTH and (chronic) migraine exhibit lower muscle strength in the neck extensor
      muscles compared to healthy controls. Patients with neck pain show a decrease in motor
      control of the jaw, without having any other signs of TMD. Similarly, studies in patients
      with TMD have only found an indication for poorer neck muscle function while patients with
      TMD also show a decrease in bite force and force steadiness compared to healthy controls. It
      is however, unknown if bite force and force steadiness are similarly impaired in patients
      with headache and/or neck pain.

      Muscle tenderness increases with increasing headache frequency and intensity in TTH while
      this association is not present in migraine patients. Tenderness has a significant influence
      on the neck muscle function in TTH patients and there is a negative correlation between Total
      Tenderness (TTS) and muscle force. There is currently, however, no clear understanding of the
      influence of tenderness on the function of jaw muscles in TTH patients.

      The current project will increase the investigator's understanding of the interplay or
      dependency between the function of the jaw and neck muscles in TTH patients. If a comorbidity
      of TMD or neck pain make TTH patients more prone to dysfunction of jaw and neck muscles, this
      may lead to a subgrouping of these TTH patients. Together with the muscle function deficits
      discovered in the current case control study, this may suggest a targeted treatment for TTH
      to be tested in a follow up randomized control study.
    
  