
    
      Intervention:

      PRP Injection Group(PRP-inj-G) - This group included 49 patients (40 females and 9 males).
      Their age ranged from 20 to 60 years.

      PRP Preparation: 16 ml of blood was obtained from each patient using special PRP kits (GD
      medical pharma, Dutch company). The blood was collected on citrated tubes with a mixing ratio
      of 9:1 by volume. Tubes underwent 1st centrifugation at speed of 3000 rpm (704g) for 3
      minutes (to separate red blood cells from plasma). Plasma was then removed by syringe and
      then placed into another sterile tube with no anticoagulant and then underwent 2nd
      centrifugation at speed of at 4000 rpm (1252g) for 15 min. The supernatant platelet-poor
      plasma was then removed leaving 2 ml of PRP pellets in the sediment, and suspend the PRP
      pellets by gentle shaking of the tube. PRP is activated by adding 200 μl of 0.025 calcium
      chloride(Dhurat and Sukesh, 2014).

      Ultrasound-Guided Injection: Proper preparation with an antiseptic solution of skin overlying
      the point of injection was performed guided by ultrasonography (Siemens Acuson P300 machine).
      With the palm facing upward and the wrist joint in slight extension, the MN will be
      recognized at the inlet of the CT(Wu et al., 2017). The injection was guided by ultrasound
      with the use of the ulnar in-plane technique(Lee et al., 2014). Ulnar artery was identified
      by the means of Doppler imaging, and a 25-gauge needle was introduced from the ulnar side of
      the wrist between CT and MN. Then the entire CT was scanned to confirm that the injection had
      dispersed through the proximal to the distal area of the CT. All patients were observed for
      30 minutes post-injection for the possibility of dysesthesia or bleeding(Wu et al., 2017).

      PRP injection: A 25-gauge needle was gently introduced one cm proximal to the distal
      wrist-flexion crease just to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus tendon and 2 ml of PRP was
      injected into the CT.

      Steroid injection Group(St-inj-G) - included 49 patients (41 females and 8 males)with their
      age ranged from 20 to 60 years. A single injection of methylprednisolone acetate 40 mg/ml
      using a technique similar to that described for the PRP injection

      Post-injection care for both groups:

        -  Some patients may have minimal to moderate discomfort after injection. So, to control
           pain, patients should apply ice on the injection site and also modify activity as
           tolerated.

        -  Rest for one day.

        -  The patient immediately returns to work two days after injection.

        -  Pain medication in the form of paracetamol only was allowed for the next 3 months if
           needed. The patients were instructed to stop analgesics 48 hours before the visit to
           allow proper symptoms assessment.
    
  