
    
      1. Downstaging phase

           Patients that will be considered eligible for the study will undergo downstaging
           procedures according their stage of disease and to Center's policies. Length and
           intensity of downstaging will be center specific and not centrally pre-determined, but
           should be inferior to 18 months. Downstaging procedures will be stopped when, according
           to the Investigators' judgement, the best possible tumor response has been achieved: at
           this timepoint a radiological evaluation of tumor response according to modified RECIST
           (mRECIST) criteria will be performed. Patients that have achieved a Complete or Partial
           Response (PR or CR) will proceed to Bridging Phase, while those with a Stable or
           Progressive disease (SD or PD) will drop-out from the study.

        2. Bridging phase

           Patients that achieved PR or CR after downstaging will receive systemic therapy with
           sorafenib for three months. After three months radiological response will be assessed
           according to mRECIST criteria. If a sustained response will be demonstrated patients
           will proceed to randomization. PD during bridging phase will cause drop-out from the
           study.

        3. Randomization and study period

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio, using computer generated list stratified by
      Center and by compliance to sorafenib treatment (based on whether ≤50% or > 50% of the
      standard dosage (800 mg/day) has been administered).

        1. The experimental group (Group 1 - transplant strategy) will be enlisted for
           transplantation and will undergo liver transplantation within 8 months unless major
           medical or oncological contraindications should occur.

        2. The control group (Group 2 - non-transplant strategy) will continue with sorafenib until
           progression. Then they may be treated with either medical or locoregional/surgical
           therapies according to best practice and Centers' policy, excluding transplantation.
    
  