
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide in combination with
      conventional chemotherapy in two separate cohorts of patients with 1) relapsed or refractory
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 2) age >= 60 with untreated AML and recommend starting doses
      for phase II studies of this combination of agents.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of these combinations of agents in
      regard to organ specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility.

      II. To document the therapeutic response of these combinations of agents in patients with
      poor risk AML.

      III. To conduct pharmacodynamic studies to investigate the potential mechanism of
      lenalidomide activity in this trial.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

      INDUCTION:

      COHORT I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, cytarabine
      intravenously (IV) continuously over 96 hours on days 5-8, and idarubicin IV over 1 hour on
      days 5-7.

      COHORT II: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, cytarabine IV continuously over
      24 hours on days 5-11, and idarubicin as above.

      Patients with residual disease on day 18 undergo a second course of induction therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION:

      COHORT I: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-14, idarubicin IV over 1 hour on days
      5-6, cytarabine IV continuously on days 5-7. Treatment continues for 1 course in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients 2 receive 4 courses of consolidation therapy comprising lenalidomide PO
      QD on days 1-14 and cytarabine IV every 12 hours on days 5, 7, and 9. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  