
    
      Though survival of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has considerably improved
      over the past few decades, relapsed ALL remains a leading cause of mortality in children with
      cancer. Risk has been defined by the International (I) Berlin, Frankfurt, Münster (BFM) Study
      Group (SG) based on duration of first remission, immunophenotype of malignant clone, and site
      of relapse. Patients classified as high risk (HR) by these criteria have poor response rates
      to standard induction therapy, high rates of subsequent relapse and require an allogeneic
      hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) for consolidation of 2nd remission. Over
      the last decade members of the I-BFM-SG have investigated the use of different combinations
      of conventional cytotoxic agents. Even with allo-HSCT, none of these approaches have improved
      outcome above 40%. Therefore, for HR patients there is a need to investigate the curative
      potential of new agents combined with systemic therapy. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib
      has shown synergistic activity with acceptable toxicity when combined with corticosteroids,
      anthracyclines and alkylating agents in adult patients with cancer as well as with
      dexamethasone, doxorubicin, vincristine and polyethylene glycol (PEG) asparaginase in
      children with refractory or relapsed ALL. In the I-BFM-SG International Study for Treatment
      of High Risk Childhood Relapsed ALL (IntReALL) HR 2010 study, the potential of Bortezomib
      combined with a modified ALL relapse protocol 3 (R3) backbone as induction regimen for HR
      patients to improve complete 2nd remission (CR2) rates will be investigated in a randomized
      phase II design. Induction is followed by conventional intensive consolidation. After
      termination of the trial patients may be subjected to an investigational window, before all
      of them receive allo-HSCT.
    
  