
    
      Sleep apnea (OSA) is a condition in which the air passage in the throat closes or partly
      closes during sleep and repeatedly interrupts breathing. The standard treatment of sleep
      apnea is continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), but it is not suitable for all patients.
      Another treatment is to use an oral appliance in your mouth when you sleep. The appliance
      covers the upper and lower teeth and pulls the lower jaw forward, opening the airway and
      allowing normal breathing.

      Oral appliance treatment does not treat sleep apnea effectively in all patients. To identify
      patients for whom oral appliance therapy will work, Zephyr Sleep Technologies has invented a
      remotely controlled device that tests various positions of the lower jaw. This commercially
      available device, MATRx, is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-cleared motorized
      positioner that is used in an overnight sleep study performed in the hospital or clinic.

      During the test, temporary dental impression trays cover the upper and lower teeth. These are
      attached to a small motor that slowly and gently pulls the lower jaw forward under the
      control of a technician who determines when the best position is reached. Knowing the best
      position and the likelihood of therapy success allows the dentist to build an oral appliance
      with confidence.

      To eliminate the need for an overnight in-hospital study, Zephyr Sleep Technologies has
      invented a new investigational device that allows us to decide if patients are likely to
      benefit from oral appliance therapy from the comfort of the patient's own home. An
      investigational device is one that is not cleared by the U.S. FDA. Like MATRx, the patient
      sleeps with a motorized positioner that moves the lower jaw. However, the new device (MATRx
      plus) is automatically controlled by a computer, rather than a sleep technician, making it a
      feedback controlled mandibular positioner.

      We have previously carried out four research studies leading to the development of this
      feedback controlled mandibular positioner. The first study showed that the
      technician-controlled positioner was able to accurately identify patients who were suitable
      for oral appliance therapy. This study also identified the amount of jaw protrusion needed to
      provide therapeutic relief of the patients' sleep apnea. This trial resulted in the placement
      of the MATRx device on the market. The other three trials showed that the feedback-controlled
      software used by the new positioner was very accurate and was able to identify successful
      candidates in a home setting.

      No serious or permanent problems or risks were identified in any of the research studies.
      Participants reported minor tooth and gum discomfort on the morning following the test and
      other minor issues, including excess saliva and being unable to sleep. Since other studies
      were designed to establish the safety and efficacy of the device, the purpose of the present
      research study is to collect data regarding the use of the device in its intended commercial
      setting, i.e., the dentist's office.
    
  