
    
      This is a retrospective, single-institution, study conducted from January 2010 to November
      2019. Grade of hemorrhoidal disease was assessed according to Goligher's classification.
      Patients with grade II, resistant to conservative treatment, grade III and IV hemorrhoidal
      disease that underwent the HAL-RAR technique, were included in the study. Patients with grade
      II disease presented a small degree of prolapse. Non-surgical techniques, such as rubber-band
      ligation or injection of sclerosing agents, were not performed prior to the HAL-RAR operation
      since this is not a common practice in our institution. Conservative treatment for grade II
      hemorrhoids included diet rich in fiber, lifestyle modifications (increased fluid intake,
      improved anal hygiene, avoiding staining and constipation), the use of phlebotonics and other
      topical ointments that contained a combination of local anesthetics, corticosteroids and
      antiseptics, designed to relieve symptoms of pruritus and discomfort.

      The study was reviewed and approved by the institution's ethics committee. Detailed informed
      consent was obtained from all patients before the operative procedure. Exclusion criterion
      included age <18 years, pregnancy, coagulation disorders, patients with major comorbidities
      (American Society of Anesthesiologists [ASA] ≥3), psychiatric conditions preventing
      collaboration and follow-up, other concomitant anorectal disease (rectal prolapse, anal
      fissure, anal stenosis, perianal fistula or abscess, fecal incontinence) and previous pelvic
      radiotherapy. Preoperative clinical assessment and classification for all patients included
      complete medical history particularly underlining hemorrhoidal disease-related symptoms,
      physical examination, proctoscopy, and rigid sigmoidoscopy. Further investigation was
      performed when necessary.

      Demographic data, degree of hemorrhoidal disease, length of hospital stay, perioperative and
      postoperative data were recorded. Clinical assessment and surgery were performed by two of
      the authors trained and experienced with the technique. Patients did not receive a solid diet
      after 10:00p.m. the night before surgery. Preoperative preparation included one or two
      phosphate enemas before the procedure. Antibiotic prophylaxis was not considered mandatory
      and was not administered. The severity of pain was self-evaluated by the patients using a
      visual analogue scale (VAS) with 0 indicating the absence of pain and 10 the worst possible
      pain. Data about analgesic consumption was also recorded. Postoperatively, intravenous
      Paracetamol 3gr and Parecoxid 80mg was administered daily, and in cases of severe pain
      Tramadol 500mg was given upon request. Patients were discharged when adequate pain control
      was achieved. They were examined by the surgeon to rule out early complications and ensure
      the outcome of the operation. Patients were advised to avoid prolonged straining and heavy
      physical activity for 1 month and to consume at least 2 liters of water per day and a diet
      rich in fiber, supplemented by the oral consumption of stool softeners. After discharge, oral
      analgesics were prescribed that consisted of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and oral
      narcotics. Patients were followed-up on postoperative day 1 and 8, and at 1, 6 and 12 months
      and evaluated with a proctologic examination. A patient directed diary card to assess the
      resolution of symptoms was implemented. Recurrence was evaluated after physical examination
      and defined as relapse of symptoms such as bleeding or prolapse often daily requiring manual
      reduction. The main outcome of the study was recurrence. Secondary outcomes included
      postoperative complications, postoperative pain and patient-assessed resolution of symptoms.
      Continuous variables are presented as median values and range, and categorical variables, as
      numbers and percentages.

      Surgical technique The operation was performed, with the patient in the lithotomy position,
      under general or spinal anesthesia according to the patient's preference in consultation with
      the anesthesiologist. Perianal block was not offered as an alternative. The region is then
      treated with an antiseptic solution. After lubrication with xylocaine gel, the anal canal is
      dilated to a width of two fingers to allow insertion of the proctoscope. The HAL proctoscope,
      equipped with a doppler transducer (HAL II Doppler, A.M.I., Feldkirch, Austria) which is
      orientated just below the proctoscope's lateral ligation window, allows the identification
      and the selective ligation of the hemorrhoidal artery. In addition, a built-in light source
      provides illumination for easy placement of sutures under direct vision. As the submucosal
      terminal branches of the superior hemorrhoidal artery are best identified with the Doppler
      signal 2cm above the dentate line, the proctoscope was inserted 5-6 cm above the anal verge
      for best localization. The operation started and ended at the 12 o'clock position. The
      proctoscope was then rotated clockwise in search of the 6 main terminal branches, usually
      located at 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 o'clock. Once identified, the proctoscope was slowly
      withdrawn distally until the best Doppler signal was obtained. Arterial ligation was then
      performed with a "Z" suture using 2-0 polyglycolic acid and 5/8-inch needle. A knot-pusher
      was used to secure the suture. The lateral ligation window in the proctoscope's lumen was
      used to calculate the exact depth of the transfixed sutures. By inserting the tip of the
      needle holder inside the pivot hole before suturing, it ensured a maximum depth of 6mm,
      primarily involving the mucosa and submucosa, avoiding the perforation of the entire rectal
      wall. Eradication or significant reduction of the Doppler signal when tying the suture
      confirmed the successful arterial ligation. The proctoscope was rotated clockwise at the same
      level to locate further arteries. Once a full rotation had been completed, the procedure was
      repeated 15mm below the first series of sutures. The number of arterial ligations ranged from
      6 to 10. After completion of the arterial ligation the RAR procedure, known as mucopexy, was
      performed where hemorrhoidal prolapse was detected. Using the same proctoscope, the outer
      sleeve is removed, in order to expand the operating window and expose a wider rectal mucosal
      area. The prolapsing tissue comes under direct vision inside the proctoscope's lumen. RAR is
      carried out with a continuous suture along the longitudinal axis in a proximal-to-distal
      direction in the lower part of the rectum with the same 2-0 polyglycolic acid and 5/8-inch
      needle. The continuous suture of the mucosa and submucosa can be performed repeatedly
      according to the size and extent of the prolapse and must always entrap the site of the
      hemorrhoidal artery with suture above and below. It is important to ensure 5mm distance
      between each suture, to avoid tissue ischemia and ensure sufficient venous outflow from the
      hemorrhoids. The continuous suture ends up to 1cm proximal to the dentate line, sparing the
      anal canal, avoiding postoperative pain. After securing the continuous suture the redundant
      rectal mucosa/submucosa that prolapses is repositioned to its original anatomical location.
      The number of RAR performed ranged from 1 to 5, while special attention was given to stay
      above the dentate line.
    
  