
    
      A prospective single-centre pilot study will be conducted to investigate this topic. Fifteen
      patients, with a history of previous ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) resulting in
      myocardial scar and elected to CRT implant at the OUH, will be enrolled in this study.

      Compared to standard practice, additional research investigations will be a baseline visit
      for eligibility assessment, informed consent and pre-CRT implant cardiac MRI, a
      three-dimensional electroanatomical map reconstruction of the CS venous system during the
      standard CRT implant and the evaluation of the acute haemodynamic response (AHR, percentage
      increase of LV-dP/dT max) of MPP over conventional single-site LV pacing during the CRT
      implant.

      The cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be performed in each patient 1-2 weeks
      before the CRT implant during the baseline visit. It will provide information regarding
      presence and location of myocardial scar and anatomy of the CS venous system.

      A de-novo CRT implant will be performed under fluoroscopic guidance as per standard care. All
      subjects will be implanted with a regulatory approved St. Jude Medical CRT device compatible
      with MPP feature (models n° CD3271-40(Q), CD3371-40(Q), CD3371-40C(QC) or newer) and St. Jude
      Medical quadripolar left ventricular lead (Quartet 1458Q or newer). The choice of the right
      ventricular and right atrial leads will be left to the operator. After implant of the right
      ventricular and right atrial leads, a CS venogram will be then performed as per standard
      practice (see intervention section for more details).

      A three-dimensional electroanatomical map of the CS venous system will be constructed with
      Precision mapping system and a Biotronik Vision wire (Biotronik Se & Co. KG, Berlin, Germany)
      by using the CS venogram as a guide. The map will be merged with the correspondent cardiac
      MRI images in order to locate the myocardial scar in respect to the CS branches. This will
      allow the identification of two target CS branches for the study measurements, one located in
      the peri-infarct region and one located in the remote myocardium.

      A Certus PressureWire will be then introduced into the LV. A PhysioMon software (Radi Medical
      Systems, Uppsala, Sweden) will be used for electronic calculation of the LV-dP/dTmax from
      every heartbeat for a period of at least thirty seconds to ensure steady-state conditions.
      The baseline LV-dP/dTmax will be measured during ventricular spontaneous rhythm.

      A St. Jude Medical quadripolar left ventricular lead will be sequentially placed in the
      "peri-infarct" CS branch and in the "remote myocardium" CS branch. In each site the
      percentage increase in LV-dP/dTmax (Acute Haemodynamic Response, AHR) produced by both
      conventional single-site and MPP LV pacing to will be measured. All 4 poles of the
      quadripolar lead will be used in turn for conventional single-site LV pacing, 3 different
      configurations will be used in turn for MPP. The LV-dP/dTmax will be recorded for each pacing
      configuration in order to identify the MPP and the single-site LV pacing configurations
      producing the best AHR (best percentage increase of LV-dP/dTmax).

      The AHR produced by the best MPP configuration in peri-infarct region will be compared with
      the AHR produced by the best MPP configuration in the remote myocardium. Moreover, the
      percentage increase of LV-dP/dTmax produced by the best MPP configuration over the best
      conventional single-site LV pacing in the peri-infarct region will be compared with the same
      measurement obtained in the remote myocardium.

      The decision about the final position of the LV lead and the activation of MPP feature after
      the CRT implant will be left to operator preference.
    
  