
    
      The current study seeks to improve the management of patients suffering from massive
      irreparable rotator cuff tears. Despite several available surgical options, no level 1
      evidence or randomized clinical trials have been performed in this patient population to
      date. Arthroscopic partial rotator cuff repair (PRCR) is arguably the gold-standard surgical
      option with the longest record of use. The new technique of superior capsular reconstruction
      (SCR) has also emerged with early biomechanical and case series showing promising results.
      SCR has quickly made its way into clinical practice in North America. Despite this, the
      effectiveness, cost, and safety profile has not been established for this procedure. As such,
      patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears are in need of high level evidence to
      support surgical decision making, particular with regards to the proliferation of SCR
      surgery.

      This pilot study is a randomized, controlled, double-blinded trial comparing superior
      capsular reconstruction using dermal allograft with arthroscopic partial repair in patients
      with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. In this study, "double-blind" includes study
      patients and outcome assessors. Randomization will occur intra-operatively once a tear is
      determined to be irreparable.

      This trial will be conducted at 7 sites and involve 7 surgeons. Surgeons must meet
      eligibility requirements to participate (shoulder or sports fellowship-trained, minimum of 3
      SCR procedures, and 25 arthroscopic rotator cuff repair procedures in the past year). A
      member of the local research team will pre-screen consults of eligible patients. Full
      eligibility will be determined during the primary appointment with an orthopaedic surgeon.
      Baseline data will be recorded following informed consent. Postoperative outcomes will be
      measured during regularly scheduled clinic visits (3 months, 6 months, and 1-year
      post-surgery).

      Prior to surgery, patients will have informed consent for both procedures, with randomization
      to be performed intraoperatively. Based on initial arthroscopic assessment of the shoulder,
      patients that have a confirmed irreparable tear will be randomized into one of two groups:
      arthroscopic partial repair or superior capsular reconstruction. Surgical techniques will be
      standardized. Allocation will be concealed using a centralized 24-hour computerized
      randomization system that will allow Internet-based allocation. A random number generator
      will be used to create a 1:1 allocation scheme for randomization of the patient into one of
      the two treatment groups. The post-operative therapy regimen will be the same for each group.
    
  