
    
      Obesity rates in 3-5 year-old American children have increased dramatically in recent
      decades. Concurrent with this alarming trend, time spent by young children in preschool
      settings has increased and their time spent in unstructured play has decreased. Recent
      studies have shown that children in preschools are engaged primarily in sedentary activities.
      Nonetheless, few interventions designed to increase PA or decrease sedentary behavior have
      been evaluated in preschool children. The proposed investigation tested a multicomponent
      intervention designed to increase physical activity energy expenditure (PAEE) in 3-5 year-old
      children. Sixteen preschools were randomly assigned to intervention or control groups. 500
      children, in two annual waves of ~250 children, participated in the measurement protocol at
      baseline and after exposure to the intervention for 9 months. Child-level measures included
      moderate-to-vigorous PA, sedentary behavior, and PAEE measured by accelerometry; height,
      weight and waist circumference; and demographics. The intervention consisted of four
      components: Move IN (physical education and other indoor activity programming), Move OUT
      (recess and structured outdoor activity), Move to Learn (PA in classroom, academic lessons),
      and enhancing the social environment to promote PA. The study's intervention coordinator
      worked with the preschool directors, teachers, and assistant teachers to facilitate
      intervention implementation by providing training, materials, and ongoing support and
      feedback. An extensive process evaluation documented the extent to which the intervention was
      implemented. Effects of the intervention on PA, sedentary behavior, PAEE, and weight status
      were determined. In addition, the study examined factors that associate with change in
      physical activity, sedentary behavior, physical activity energy expenditure and body mass
      index during a school year in preschool children.
    
  