
    
      Background and study aims:

      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or minor neurocognitive disorder is a syndrome defined as an
      intermediate stage between cognitively intact and clinically diagnosed dementia. The
      progression rate from MCI to dementia ranges from 10 to 15% each year, and over 50% of the
      MCI population will develop into severe cognitive impairment or dementia in 5 years.MCI
      involves functional decline that may include decrements in engagement in meaningful
      activities and one's own sense of confidence/mastery, and it is associated with depressive
      symptoms, poor satisfaction with family communication, and declining physical function.
      Therefore, early detection of the individuals who manifest MCI and provide appropriate
      interventions may help reduce the burden of their caregivers and the medical expenses of the
      health-care system. Previous studies found that acupressure or aromatherapy has emerged as an
      important therapeutic approach for individuals with MCI. However, the intervention effects of
      combining acupressure or aromatherapy remain to be determined. Furthermore, whether
      acupressure and aromatherapy should be administered simultaneously is an important question
      to pursue. The overall goal of this study is to determine and compare the intervention
      effects acupressure,aromatherapy, and combining acupressure and aromatherapy in individuals
      with MCI.

      Who can participate? Individuals with MCI (≥60).

      What does the study involve? The participants will receive acupressure, aromatherapy,
      combining acupressure and aromatherapy randomly. Intervention frequency will be 5-6 times per
      week for 6 months. All participants will received pretreatment test, post treatment test, and
      a 1-month follow-up test.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? The possible benefits include
      improvement in cognitive, and daily functions. There are no risks for participating.

      Where to conduct the study? The investigators anticipate recruiting a total of 120
      participants from nursing homes from multiple areas in NanJing,china.
    
  