
    
      In the proposed research, investigators plan to conduct a longitudinal study on a cohort of
      5,000+ men and women ages 55 years or older to address issues related to healthy aging. The
      study population consists community-based middle to old aged men and women in the catchment
      area of 7 hospitals (2 in the north, 2 in the middle, 2 in the south and 1 in the east, about
      half urban half rural). In this proposed study, investigators will recruit the subjects in
      the catchment area of the above 7 hospitals and expand data collection to include more
      interviewer-administered data, physical examinations and blood and urine specimens.

      In addition, the cohort will be followed annually for mortality and morbidity and will be
      re-examined every five years.

      For this newly proposed study, in order to systematically address issues related to healthy
      aging, specific aims are grouped into five inter-related areas of emphasis (five component
      projects). The five component projects are:

      A. Factors that may influence physical functioning and its changes in older persons.

      B. The benefit of healthy lifestyles on cardiovascular disease risk profile, quality of life
      and physical functioning in older persons.

      C. Individual and macro-level risk factors of cardiovascular disease in older persons.

      D. Neuropsychiatric disorders in the elderly: risk factors and impact on health.

      E. Genetic and environmental factors for frailty/successful aging and related chronic
      diseases in the elderly.

      The proposed starting date is on March, 2008. The first nine months will be devoted to the
      development of protocol, manual of operation, pilot testing, central training, and dress
      rehearsal. The baseline examination will begin in November, 2008 and will last for 4 years.
      The examination will consist of three parts, a home visit, a clinic examination and the Heart
      Rate Variability. The home visit will include interviewer-administered questionnaires
      (informed consent, contact/follow-up information, sociodemographic data, health
      condition/medical history, family disease history, physical functioning, geriatric
      conditions, mental health, cognitive function, social and health environments, lifestyles and
      quality of life, etc.) and physical assessment (peak flow test, grip strength, and physical
      performance measures). It is estimated that the home visit will take up to 2 hours. The
      clinic examination will include urine collection, blood pressure, phlebotomy, Primary Care
      Evaluation of Mental Disorders (high risk people only), anthropometric measures (body height,
      weight, and circumference measures of waist and hip), body composition, visual test, clock
      drawing test, the Digit-Symbol Substitution Test, EKG, Heart Rate Variability (HRV), Ankle
      Brachial Index(ABI), Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA), physical examination, three
      mobility tests (single leg stance, timed up and go, and six-minute walk test), and a brief
      questionnaire. The clinic examination is estimated to take approximate 2.5 to 3 hours.
      Quality of the data collection will be continuously monitored. Two rounds of Heart Rate
      Variability (HRV) measurements will be conducted. During each round, the HRV will be measured
      twice with a total duration of about 40 minutes. Those who have installed pacemakers will be
      excluded from investigators HRV examination. The first round of HRV test will be conducted
      during the clinic examination, and the second round will be performed about one week later.
      It is estimated that about 60 participants will need to be enrolled in the HRV test, and each
      participant needs to complete four times of HRV measurement. This repeated measurement of HRV
      will allow us to test whether the reliability of investigators HRV measurement is acceptable
      with an intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of at least 0.6 (α=0.05, 1-β=0.8). The HRV
      test will be stopped when at least 60 participants are enrolled at Taipei site. The
      responsible investigators and the co-investigators are experienced in the corresponding areas
      of research. They have been collaborating successfully on various projects for many years.
      During the study, the investigators will meet via conference call or face-to-face meeting
      twice a month to discuss issues related to the examination, quality of data, scientific
      direction, data analyses and manuscript preparation. The proposed study will provide a unique
      opportunity to enhance investigators understanding of the cardiovascular disease risk factor
      profile, physical and mental performance and functioning, frailty, quality of life, and
      morbidity and mortality in a representative cohort of older people in Taiwan. It will provide
      an opportunity to assess the effects of healthy lifestyles on the prevention of chronic
      illnesses, disability, and quality of life in older ages. This study of the effects of
      healthy lifestyles in middle and older ages on overall health among older persons, as
      investigators propose, has particular societal relevance given the marked growth in numbers
      of older persons in the Taiwanese population, and their extensive chronic disease-related
      morbidity, disability, loss of independence, large health care costs, and mortality. Positive
      results from this study will inform policy regarding the allocation of resources for
      promoting healthy lifestyles so that the aging population can compress the onset of morbidity
      and disability, maintaining high quality of life and reducing health care costs.
    
  