
    
      Background - The investigators contend that for Veterans with SCI to stand enough to impact
      health outcomes, the standing device must enhance utility while integrating into their
      everyday life; at home, at work, and in the community. For this integration to occur, the
      investigators believe the standing device must fulfill the following criteria: 1. Easy
      access, 2. Straightforward standing mechanism, 3. Mobility in both seated and standing
      positions, 4. Natural intuitive propulsion, 5. Stability, and 6. Independent operability. The
      Minneapolis Adaptive Design & Engineering (MADE) Program has recently developed a mobile
      manual standing wheelchair (MMSW) with all these features. Based on initial in-lab pilot
      testing, Veterans who trialed the device demonstrated excellent functional mobility and
      stability in both seated and standing postures. User feedback received during this initial
      testing also indicated these unique mobility and stability features offer potential new
      utility for Veterans with SCI.

      Research Questions (Objectives) - The purpose of this project is to extend testing of the
      MMSW to home and community environments of 48 Veterans with SCI to see if mobility in
      standing affects utility and standing time.

      Relevance to VA - There is a mounting body of literature showing significant adverse health
      consequences associated with excessive time spent in a seated position. Any person who has an
      underlying condition which impairs their ability to stand or walk is at increased risk for
      seating related adverse health consequences. There are an estimated 1.7 million people in the
      United States who have enough impairment that they use seated mobility devices (wheelchairs
      and scooters). Specifically, people with spinal cord injuries (SCI) are particularly prone to
      complications from excessive sitting, because many are unable to stand without some type of
      support. According to the VA's Corporate Data Warehouse, the VA provides care to 17,886
      Veterans with SCI/D each year and estimate that over 7,000 of these Veterans have paraplegia.
      Excessive sitting after SCI is believed to contribute to pressure injuries, worsening pain,
      osteoporosis, joint stiffness, spasticity, and worsening bowel and bladder function. Until
      recently, there have been few practical options for safely supporting these individuals while
      standing or walking. Although there is now a growing list of assistive devices available to
      support standing and walking in SCI, relatively little attention has been given to
      determining how often such devices are used or how often they would need to be used to
      optimally promote the various potential health-related outcomes, nor which devices are most
      likely to achieve these changes.

      Number of Research Participants (Sample Size) - Forty-eight participants (24/group) will be
      randomized. Each of the two study sites will be expected to screen up to 390 participants to
      reach the target of 48 randomized over both sites.

      Participating Sites - Minneapolis VA Health Care System, VA Palo Alto Health Care System

      Duration of Participant Intake (Study Duration) - This project is projected to be a total of
      four years. The two study sites will have a start-up period of between three to six months
      and will recruit for approximately three years. The remaining six to nine months will be used
      for dissemination of study results and study close-out.

      Treatment (follow-up) - The intervention being tested is two months of home and community use
      of a manual standing wheelchair (mobile or non-mobile in standing).

      Endpoints - The primary outcomes for this study are utility and standing dose.

      Utility - The utility of the study wheelchairs and the current standing device (when
      applicable) will be assessed using the Wheelchair Outcome Measure (WhOM). The WhOM focuses on
      ICF constructs of participation and body function. It will be slightly modified to ask users
      to provide participation goals in the home and community in the context of standing
      devices/wheelchairs as opposed to wheelchairs alone. The WhOM collects activities that are
      goals for participation and then has the participant rank the importance and satisfaction
      with each activity. These rankings allow a quantitative score to be calculated for
      comparison.

      Standing dose - Acceleration data from data loggers will be downloaded and placed on a secure
      server for further analysis. These data will be visually inspected to determine a threshold
      for distinguishing sitting and standing postures. These values may vary depending on the
      mounting on each standing device. After mounting with each system, the participant will go
      through a sit-to-stand movement and data will be uploaded to ensure the system is detecting
      movement. This initial movement will also be used to determine an appropriate threshold for
      standing/sitting. In addition to overall standing time, the investigators will examine
      frequency of standing bouts and time per standing bout as these are relevant for future
      pressure injury prevention. The investigators will also monitor movement of the wheelchair
      during both sitting and standing to understand how often the mobility feature of the MMSW is
      used during the study.
    
  