
    
      Population-based cohort study, predominantly prospective based, on the same population as our
      previously study comparing short-term outcome after CME with conventional colon resections.
      The COMES database combines the prospectively registered colon cancer database in Hillerød
      (CME data), and data from the national database of the Danish Colorectal Cancer Group (DCCG)
      covering patients undergoing conventional resection (non-CME) in the other three centers. The
      medical records of all the patients in the non-CME group (control group) were reviewed by
      colorectal surgeons from Hillerød. Data audit for all CME patients was performed by various
      co-authors employed at the other centers. A similar audit of data for non-CME patients having
      postoperative complications or recurrence was performed by the co-author representing the
      department treating the specific patients. Follow-up data were registered prospectively in
      the medical records of the participating departments during patient follow-up.

      Continuous data are presented as median and interquartile ranges, and categorical data as
      frequencies and proportions. Kruskal-Wallis test and Fisher's exact test were used as
      appropriate. Death is a competing risk to recurrence and time-to-event analyses were
      performed as competing risk analyses obtaining the cumulative incidences for recurrence or
      death using the "cmprsk" R-package.

      Unbiased estimation of marginal or population-averaged treatment effects in observational and
      non-randomized studies can be obtained through different propensity score methods. Inverse
      Probability of Treatment Weighting (IPTW) uses the propensity score to weight each patient's
      data based on the inverse probability of receiving the treatment actually received. IPTW
      gives unbiased estimates of average treatment effects in time-to-event analyses if no
      differences in observed baseline covariates exist between the treatment groups. To account
      for baseline differences between patients in the two groups, stabilized weights truncated at
      the 0.99 interval were calculated using the "IPW" R-package. The following baseline
      covariates will be used: age, sex, ASA score, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, tumor morphology,
      perineural invasion, extramural venous invasion, tumor stage, and serosal invasion. All
      covariates used and UICC stage, two-way interactions, and squared terms of continuous
      covariates will be assessed for balance between the CME and the non-CME group after IPTW
      using the "cobalt" R-package. Absolute mean differences in mean (using standardized mean
      difference) and proportions (using raw mean difference) below 0.1, and variance ratios
      between 0.5 and 2 will be accepted. Graphical inspection of the distribution of covariates
      will be also performed.

      The cause-specific hazards and overall survival will be analyzed using Cox regression. Binary
      outcomes were analyzed using logistic regression. Lymph node yield will be analyzed using
      linear regression after logarithmic transformation. Number of metastatic lymph nodes will be
      analyzed using negative binominal regression. All analyses of primary and secondary outcomes
      will be performed after IPTW. The 95% confidence intervals for the estimates from the
      original Cox regression IPTW analyses will be constructed after 1000 bootstraps with
      replacement, and a robust sandwich estimator will be used for the logistic regression
      analyses in order to ensure correct variance estimation.

      All available data will be used. Model assumptions will be checked. A p-value below or equal
      to 0.05 will be considered significant. All analyses will be performed using R statistical
      software, version 3.5.1 (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).
    
  