
    
      Background and significance:

      Buspirone and Melatonin Combination for the Treatment of Post-TBI Depression Traumatic brain
      injuries (TBIs) are common (1.7 million cases each year in the US), and major depressive
      disorder (MDD) occurs in up to 33% of TBI patients. Post- TBI depression is associated with
      anxiety, aggression, fatigue, distractibility, anger, irritability, and rumination. The
      current research group conducted a pilot clinical trial, which investigated the novel
      treatment combination of buspirone (15 mg/day) and melatonin (3mg), in a small outpatient
      cohort with MDD. Compared to the placebo group, the B+MEL group demonstrated significant
      improvements in depressive symptoms, at buspirone doses significantly below the recommended
      therapeutic range for anxiety and recommended dose (40-60 mg) for MDD. Compared to placebo,
      B+MEL was associated with a significant antidepressant response on the Clinical Global
      Impressions- Severity (CGI-S, p=0.046) and -Improvement (CGI-I, p=0.04) scales, and on the
      Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (IDS, p=0.034). B+MEL was also superior to the pooled
      buspirone and placebo populations (CGI-S, p=0.009; CGI-I, p=0.021; IDS, p=0.031). This
      treatment combination has never been studied in patients with post-TBI depression. Depression
      following TBI may be phenomenologically and neurobiologically distinct from MDD, and the
      neuroanatomical and biopsychological mechanisms underlying B+MEL response in post-TBI
      depression are currently unknown. The goal of the proposed pilot research project is to
      generate pilot data that would serve as a base for an R01 application for a study that will
      fill this critical gap.

      Buspirone and Melatonin Combination and Its Effect on Cognition The current research group
      compared the effects of B+MEL, buspirone, and placebo on the self-rated Cognitive and
      Physical Functioning Questionnaire (CPFQ). The CPFQ cognitive dimension score favored the
      B+MEL combination treatment, compared to the pooled buspirone and placebo groups (p = 0.050).
      In another randomized, double-blind, SPCD clinical study by the current research group,
      treatment with NSI-189 - a compound shown to stimulate neurogenesis in in vitro and in vivo,
      was associated with improvement in cognition, objectively measured by the dimensions of
      memory (p=0.002) and attention (p=0.048), compared to placebo in MDD patients. The etiology
      of cognitive impairment in post-TBI depression is complex, and the cognitive changes in
      response to this novel treatment combination has not been investigated. A possible mechanism
      of B+MEL action could be the promotion of neurogenesis. Although studying neurogenesis is
      beyond the scope of the current research, we speculate that a treatment stimulating
      neurogenesis may contribute to cognitive improvements in post-TBI depression. Hence, we will
      investigate the effect of B+MEL on cognitive measures of verbal memory, executive
      functioning, and speed of information processing, in post-TBI depression pre and
      post-treatment.

      Resting State Functional Connectivity in Depression and in TBI MDD is characterized by
      altered resting state functional connectivity (rsFC) between distinct neural networks. A
      recent study compared rsFC in TBI with co-morbid depressive symptoms, relative to TBI without
      depressive symptoms. The results demonstrated increased rsFC between the amygdala and parts
      of the DAN, salience, somatomotor, and visual networks. Meta-analyses investigating
      fMRI-based rsFC in MDD demonstrated decreased rsFC within the frontoparietal control network
      (FPCN), and increased rsFC within the default network (DN). Increased rsFC between the FPCN
      and DN, and decreased rsFC between the FPCN and dorsal attentional network (DAN) may reflect
      increased attentional bias toward ruminative thoughts. Decreased rsFC between the affective
      network (AN) and medial prefrontal cortex may reflect impaired emotional regulation and
      arousal. Altered rsFC between the ventral attentional network (VAN) and posterior regions may
      reflect impaired salience detection in MDD. Changes in rsFC have been detected in response to
      different treatments, such as medication and cognitive behavioral therapy, for depression.
      Altered rsFC in post-TBI depression is associated with cognitive impairments. A neuroimaging
      study measuring rsFC in post-TBI depression has not been performed in the context of the
      novel B+MEL combination treatment. The proposed research is novel with respect to design,
      technology, and its multi-level integration probing psychological and neurobiological
      constructs assumed to be critically implicated depression following TBI. Furthermore, it may
      provide valuable insight regarding rsFC biomarkers implicated in the effective treatment of
      post-TBI depression.

      Specific Aims Specific Aim 1: Assess the changes in depressive symptoms following Buspirone +
      Melatonin combination (B+MEL) in post-TBI depression.

      Hypothesis 1: The B+MEL treatment combination will be associated with improvements in
      depressive symptoms (changes in HAM-D scores pre- to post-treatment).

      Specific Aim 2: Assess the changes in cognitive symptoms following Buspirone + Melatonin
      combination (B+MEL) in post-TBI depression.

      Hypothesis 2: The B+MEL treatment combination will be associated with improvements in
      measures of verbal memory, executive functioning, and speed of information processing pre- to
      post-treatment.

      Specific Aim 3 (exploratory aim): To assess neuroimaging changes in fMRI resting state
      functional connectivity in outpatients with post-TBI depression treated with the B+MEL
      combination.

      Hypothesis 3: The B+MEL treatment combination will show pre- to post-treatment resting state
      functional connectivity increases within the frontoparietal control network (implicated in
      cognitive control of attention), decreases within the default network (implicated in
      internally oriented and self-referential thought), and decreases between the frontoparietal
      control network and the default network.
    
  