
    
      NAFLD is the most common liver disease in the United States and is also a common cause of
      abnormal liver tests in the United States. NAFLD includes mild as well as a more severe
      nonalcoholic fatty liver disease involving liver cell inflammation and damage, called
      Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH). NAFLD is usually discovered because of abnormal liver
      tests or from a liver ultrasound or CT scan in persons with normal liver enzymes. Liver
      biopsy may show a mix of fat, inflammation and scarring in the liver. Patients with NAFLD do
      not drink large amounts of alcohol that can cause this type of liver damage. NAFLD is thought
      to be related to obesity and diabetes. Unfortunately, there is very little information about
      important features of NAFLD. These include biochemical, genetic and other features that may
      help to predict disease progression. The few known risk factors include high blood sugar and
      lipid levels. Patients with NAFLD often have resistance to the normal action of insulin, a
      hormone which is important for processing sugar and fat. Increased resistance to insulin
      leads to fat in the liver. Currently, there is no proven treatment for NAFLD. Several studies
      in animals suggest that diets containing high levels of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
      (PUFA) will decrease the amount of liver fat.

      It has long been known that omega-3 fatty acids have several health benefits. For example, a
      diet rich in these fatty acids reduces the amount of certain fats ("triglycerides") in blood,
      and might improve the action of the important hormone insulin. Omega-3 fatty acids are
      contained in certain plant oils (such as canola oil and linseed oil) and marine fish (such as
      salmon). The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of dietary supplementation with
      ω-3 polyunsaturated vs monounsaturated fatty acids on intrahepatic fat content in patients
      with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease as determined by magnetic resonance spectroscopy
    
  