
    
      This is a clinical trial for subjects with hematologic malignancies ( acute myelogenous
      leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's or Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or myelodysplastic
      syndrome) who are in need of a donor stem cell transplant, and for whom an umbilical cord
      blood transplant is thought to be the best option. For allogeneic transplant donors, we
      typically try to use related family members, such as brothers or sisters, or volunteer donors
      who are 'HLA matched', i.e. share similar proteins on their cells. This study is for subjects
      for whom such a matched sibling donor or a matched unrelated donor is not available.

      This study tests a new method of bone marrow transplantation called combined haplo-identical
      cord (haplo-cord) transplantation. In this procedure, cells from a related donor who shares
      half of the HLA proteins ( haplo-identical)are collected from the blood, as well as cells
      from an umbilical cord, and then both are transplanted. It is hoped that by using cells from
      a haplo-identical relative, subjects will have a faster recovery and require fewer
      transfusions. Over time the haplo-identical cells from the relative are replaced by the cells
      from the cord blood. The combined transplantation of haplo-identical stem cells and cord
      blood has previously been used in approximately 60 subjects with very encouraging results.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of haplo-cord transplant (
      "investigational" arm) with the more commonly used procedure in which only the cells
      contained in one or two umbilical cords are infused ("standard" arm). Subjects will be
      randomly assigned into either the haplo-cord group or the umbilical cord group.

      If randomized to the haplo-cord group, a family member will undergo a stem cell collection.
      In both arms, subjects will receive a "conditioning regimen" prior to transplantation. The
      conditioning regimen consists of chemotherapy, which is meant to destroy the cancer cells and
      suppress the immune system to allow the transplanted cells to grow. Subjects will remain in
      the hospital until the stem cells are fully recovered, which is usually 4 to 6 weeks after
      the transplant. Subjects will have bone marrow aspiration and biopsy at 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 2
      months, 6 months and 1 year after the transplant and then yearly thereafter. Participation in
      the study will continue for up to 5 years after transplantation.
    
  