
    
      The aim of this study is a comparative assessment of the safety and efficacy of different
      doses and dosing regimens of Runihol drug tablets, enteric coated, produced by "NTFF" POLYSAN
      "(Russia) and placebo tablets, enteric coated, produced by" NTFF "POLYSAN" (Russia), when
      administered to patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and metabolic syndrome.

      Design: a multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled comparative
      study in parallel groups.

      The study will be performed on the outpatient basis under the supervision of the
      physician-researcher who will be in charge of screening and the whole course of study drug
      therapy.

      The study consists of the following periods:

        -  Screening - preliminary examination of the eligible patients (duration 14 days).

        -  The period of therapy - the use of the study drug Runihol®, tablets, enteric coated,
           produced by "NTFF" POLYSAN "(Russian) or placebo tablets, enteric coated, produced by"
           NTFF "POLYSAN" LLC (Russia), during 84 days (12 weeks).

      Following screening, patients who meet the inclusion criteria and have no criteria for
      exclusion will be randomly assigned into three study groups in the proportion of 1: 1: 1):

        -  Group I: treatment with Runihol®, 1 tablet 3 times a day, and placebo tablets, 1 tablet
           three times a day, for 84 days (12 weeks).

        -  Group II: treatment with Runihol®, 2 tablets 2 times a day, morning and evening, and
           placebo tablets, 2 tablets once a day, in the afternoon, for 84 days (12 weeks).

        -  Group III: patients will receive placebo tablets, 2 tablets 3 times a day, for 84 days
           (12 weeks).

      Patient assessment will be carried out in the course of 6 visits.

      Screening:

      Visit 0 (-14 day ... Day 1) - Screening: preliminary evaluation of patients.

      Period of treatment:

      Visit 1 (Day 1) - evaluation of the patient based on the results of physical examination,
      assessment of vital signs, complex laboratory (clinical and biochemical blood tests, PTI,
      insulin resistance index calculation, the determination of homocysteine in the serum /
      plasma, general urine analysis) and instrumental (ECG ) investigations; randomization, the
      appointment of therapy, assessment of concomitant therapy, instructions to fill the patient's
      diary, registration of AEs.

      Visit 2 (Day 15) - evaluation of the patient based on the results of physical examination,
      assessment of vital signs, laboratory complex (clinical and biochemical blood tests, PTI,
      determination of homocysteine in the blood serum, the total urine analysis) and instrumental
      (ECG) studies; control of intake of study medication / placebo, evaluation of concomitant
      therapy, checking patient diary, registration of AEs.

      Visit 3 (Day 29) - evaluation of the patient based on the results of physical examination,
      assessment of vital signs, laboratory complex (clinical and biochemical blood tests, PTI,
      determination of homocysteine in the serum / plasma, total urine analysis) and instrumental
      (ECG ) investigations; control of intake of study medication / placebo, evaluation of
      concomitant therapy, checking patient diary, registration of AEs.

      Visit 4 (Day 57) - evaluation of the patient based on the results of physical examination,
      assessment of vital signs, laboratory complex (clinical and biochemical blood tests, PTI,
      determination of homocysteine in the serum / plasma, total urine analysis) and instrumental
      (ECG ) studies; control of intake of study medication / placebo, evaluation of concomitant
      therapy, checking patient diary, registration of AEs.

      Visit 5 (Day 85) - evaluation of the patient based on the results of physical examination,
      assessment of vital signs, laboratory complex (clinical and biochemical blood tests, PTI,
      determination of homocysteine in the serum / plasma, insulin resistance index calculation,
      the total urine analysis) and instrumental (ECG, ultrasound of the abdomen) investigations;
      control of intake of study medication / placebo, evaluation of concomitant therapy, checking
      patient diary, registration of AEs.

      The study is expected to include, and randomize at least 162 patients (men and women aged 18
      to 65 years) with clinically or histologically confirmed diagnosis of non-alcoholic fatty
      liver disease (code ICD-10: K76.0: Fatty degeneration of the liver, not classified elsewhere)
      in the form of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and metabolic syndrome, provided with written
      informed consent to participate in the study, the relevant criteria for inclusion in the
      study and no criteria for exclusion; data collected will be used for further analysis of
      safety and efficacy .

      In view of possible dropout of patients at screening and during the study a total of 204
      patients are planned for inclusion.
    
  