
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Improve donor chimerism levels in patients with inherited nonmalignant disorders
      undergoing hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) using a reduced intensity conditioning
      regimen either through the addition of Campath (alemtuzumab) or a slightly higher dose of
      total-body irradiation (TBI).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Decrease the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)
      through use of marrow as the stem cell source and Campath.

      II. Assess disease response following HCT.

      III. Immune reconstitution following HCT.

      IV. Incidence of infections.

      V. Overall survival.

      VI. Percent of patients with cluster of differentiation (CD)33/CD19 donor chimerism > 50%.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients with no life-threatening viral or fungal infections within 1
      month before the planned hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) receive alemtuzumab
      intravenously (IV) over 6 hours on day -10 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on
      days -4 to -2. They also undergo low-dose TBI on day 0. Patients with hemophagocytic
      lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), immune dysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked
      (IPEX) syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, or life-threatening viral or fungal infections within 1
      month before the planned HCT receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -4 to
      -2 and undergo 2 low doses of TBI on day 0.

      HEMATOPOIETIC CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo HCT on day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine IV or orally (PO) 2-3 times daily beginning
      on day -3 and continuing until day 100 followed by a taper until day 180. They also receive
      mycophenolate mofetil IV or PO 3 times daily beginning on day 0 and continuing until day 40
      followed by a taper until day 96.

      After completion of HCT, patients are followed up at day 84, at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months
      post-transplantation, and then once a year for 3 years.
    
  