
    
      Muscle fatigue is caused by biochemical changes that modify the mechanics of muscle
      contraction, which result in negative changes in the performance of the contraction. Several
      resources are studied in order to mitigate this situation, among them we can mention the Low
      Level-Laser Therapy (LLLT), which has demonstrated positive effects in the treatment of
      muscle disorders and fatigue prevention. The effects of LLLT are being studied in healthy
      individuals with fibromyalgia and athletes, currently studies are being performed on spastic
      muscles with post-stroke patients (post-stroke). The objective of this study is to evaluate
      the effects of LLLT on brachial biceps muscle fatigue in healthy individuals and individuals
      with spastic hemiparesis. A double-blind, cross-sectional, comparative, randomized,
      double-blind clinical trial will be conducted. Phase I will consist of 30 healthy individuals
      and Phase II will be composed of 30 post-stroke individuals. The study will consist of three
      groups (Control Group, Placebo Group and LLLT Group) and all individuals will go through all
      groups, following the criteria of randomization. The protocol consists of LLLT application in
      the dominant side brachialis muscle in healthy subjects and on the hemiparetic side of
      post-stroke individuals, prior to performing the Isometric Maximum Voluntary Contraction
      (IMVC) for 50 seconds in the isokinetic dynamometer. The pain intensity will be evaluated
      through the Visual Analog Pain Scale, the myoelectric activity through the surface
      electromyography associated with the evaluation of the muscular torque through the isokinetic
      dynamometer. The local temperature will be evaluated by infrared thermography and blood
      lactate concentration by means of the lactimeter, which will be measured at four different
      times, prior to the application of the laser (basal collection) and 3, 15 and 25 minutes
      after IMVC.
    
  