
    
      Background: Frequent physical symptoms are common in general population with over 90 percent
      of population reporting symptoms at some level. In some cases they become persistent
      diminishing work ability and daily functioning and associate with increased healthcare usage
      and sick leaves independently of other somatic or psychiatric comorbidity. Persistent
      physical symptoms (PPS) challenge health care systems as it is estimated that up to 4-30
      percent of primary health care visit are due to PPS without clear medical explanation.
      Psychosocial, patient-involving treatments, such as cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy (CBT),
      that support individuals' abilities managing with the PPS and health behaviors have shown
      promising effects in treating PPS but so far, evidence-based treatments have resulted only in
      small to moderate effect sizes. The acceptability of these treatments among symptomatic
      individuals is also low - presumably because of the stigma related to the ambiguity of the
      PPS´ status as a medical condition. A stronger orientation to personalized treatment
      protocols are needed to improve the treatment efficacy and applicability.

      This study will assess the effects of an Ehealth intervention based on relational frame
      theory and acceptance and commitment therapy on PPS with two focus groups, among participants
      with indoor air associated disabling symptoms or persistent, chronic fatigue.

      Methods: Using a randomized controlled design (RCT) with two parallel groups in 1:1 ratio,
      the investigators will compare ACT/RFT-based web program enhanced with individual case
      formulation with treatment as usual. The web program intervention includes 6 modules that
      each ask to complete the module and included training in two weeks. Participants will be
      asked to complete outcome questionnaires at baseline before the interview for inclusion,
      after the interview (randomization) and at 3, 6- and 12-months' follow-up after the
      randomization. The intervention group receives also a questionnaire four weeks after the
      beginning of the web program. In addition, ecological momentary assessments are also
      conducted to provide real time data on functioning and national registers are used to obtain
      information of health-care use and social benefits to complete patient reported outcomes.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to either the intervention or to TAU. The primary
      outcome will be health related quality of life. The secondary outcome measures are symptoms,
      illness perceptions, psychological flexibility and work ability. Further, the investigators
      will assess whether any effect of intervention on the primary outcome is mediated by the case
      formulation. Data collection begins in August 2020 and will continue until 2022.
    
  