
    
      The case-matched controlled design, exploratory evaluation study will look at how exposure to
      a care coordination tool impacts quality and performance indicators associated with oncology
      care from the perspective of patients, caregivers, and providers.

      Geisinger research staff will recruit lung cancer patients and their caregivers across three
      Geisinger locations: Geisinger Medical Center (GMC), Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center
      (GWV) and Geisinger Community Medical Center (GCMC). GMC will serve as the intervention site
      and GWV and GCMC as control sites.

      Eligible participants will be identified by the study staff through the electronic health
      record as well as through clinical staff and approached in the oncology clinic as part of a
      schedule office visit and/or treatment. For the purpose of study awareness, informational
      flyers will be available to patients in the exam rooms, waiting rooms, and through Oncology
      Care's Multi-Disciplinary clinic. Participants will asked to identify a caregiver who will
      participate in the study as well, however this is not required.

      Case dyads enrolled at the intervention site (GMC) will be asked to complete a survey when
      they join the study and at the end of the study. Participants will also be asked to enroll in
      the care coordination tool, a health information solution that integrates the patient,
      caregiver, and clinical data to enhance communication and improve quality of care and
      performance outcomes. Patients will also be asked to give permission to the study team to
      access their health information via the e electronic health record. Participants will be in
      the research study for about 8-10 weeks.

      Control dyads enrolled at the control site (GWV and GCMC) will be asked to complete a survey
      eight weeks after consenting to participate. Patients will be asked to give permission to the
      study team to access their health information via the electronic health record. Participants
      will be in the research study for about 8-10 weeks.

      The study will also enroll oncology care providers within the Medical Oncology or Radiation
      Oncology departments at GMC and who have patients enrolled in the study. Providers will be
      asked to participate in a 30-minute interview to get their feedback and insights on the care
      coordination tool.
    
  