
    
      Definition:

      Neonatal sepsis is a systemic response to infection documented by positive blood culture in
      the first month of life. [1]

      Classification:

      It may be categorized as early-onset or late-onset.

      Early-onset sepsis is associated with acquisition of microorganisms from the mother.
      Transplacental infection or an ascending infection from the cervix may be caused by organisms
      that colonize the mother's genitourinary (GU) tract; the neonate acquires the microorganisms
      as it passes through the colonized birth canal at delivery. Of newborns with early-onset
      sepsis, 85% present within 24 hours, 5% present at 24-48 hours, and a smaller percentage
      present within 48-72 hours. Onset is most rapid in premature neonates. [2]

      Late-onset sepsis occurs after 3 days of life and is acquired from the caregiving
      environment.[3] Pathophysiology:[10] Neonates are particularly vulnerable to infection as a
      result of lower non-specific immunity (inflammation) and specific (humeral), such as low
      phagocytosis, chemotaxis response delay, minimal or absence of immunoglobulin A and
      immunoglobulin M (IgA and IgM), and low levels of complement.

      Sepsis in the neonatal period can be obtained before birth through the placenta from the
      maternal blood stream or during labor for ingestion or aspiration of infected amniotic fluid.

      Sepsis early (less than 3 days) obtained in the perinatal period, infection can occur from
      direct contact with the organism from the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract maternal.
      The most frequent infecting organism is group B streptococcus (GBS) and Escherichia coli,
      which is present in the vagina. GBS emerged as a highly virulent microorganisms in the
      neonate, with a high mortality rate (50%) in infants exposed to Haemophilus influenzae and
      Staphylococcus negative coagulation are also often seen in early-onset sepsis in infants with
      very low birth weight.

      Advanced Sepsis (1 to 3 weeks after birth) primarily nosocomial, and organisms that attack is
      usually staphylococci, Klebsiella, enterococcus and pseudomonas. Coagulation negative
      staphylococci, commonly found as the cause of septicemia in infants of low birth weight and
      very low birth weight. Bacterial invasion can occur through such Gated umbilical stump, skin,
      mucous membranes of eyes, nose, pharynx, and ear, and internal systems such as the
      respiratory system, nervous, urinary, and gastrointestinal.

      Postnatal infection, derived from cross-contamination with other babies, personnel, or
      objects in the environment. Bacteria commonly found in water sources, a humidifier, sink
      pipes, suction machines, most equipment respiration, and arterial and venous catheters
      inserted used for infusion, blood sampling, monitoring of vital signs.

      The process begins with the invasion of the pathophysiology of bacterial sepsis and systemic
      contamination. The release of endotoxin by bacteria cause changes in the function of the
      myocardium, changes in uptake and utilization of oxygen inhibition of mitochondrial function,
      and progressive metabolic chaos. In sepsis sudden and severe, complemen cascade caused much
      death and damage cells. The result is a decrease in tissue perfusion, metabolic acidosis, and
      shock, disseminated intravascular coagulation resulting (DIC) and death.[11]

      Patients with immune disorders have an increased risk for serious nosocomial sepsis.
      Cardiopulmonary manifestations of gram-negative sepsis can be replicated by injection of
      endotoxin or Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF). Barriers to employment TNF by anti-TNF monoclonal
      antibody greatly weakens manifestation of septic shock. When the bacterialcell wall
      components are released in the bloodstream, cytokine-activated, and can further lead to more
      physiological mess. Either alone or in combination, bacterial products and pro-inflammatory
      cytokines trigger a physiological response to stop the invaders (invader) microbes. TNF and
      other inflammatory mediators increase vascular permeability and vascular tone imbalance, and
      the imbalance between perfusion and increased metabolic needs of the network.[12]

      Shock is defined as a systolic pressure below the 5th percentile for age or defined with cold
      extremities. Capillary refilling the late (more than 2 seconds) is seen as a reliable
      indicator of a decrease in peripheral perfusion. Peripheral vascular pressure in septic shock
      (heat) but be very up on a further shock (cold). In septic shock tissue oxygen consumption
      exceeds oxygen supply. This imbalance is caused by peripheral vasodilatation in the
      beginning, during further vasoconstriction, myocardial depression, hypotension, ventilator
      insufficiency, and anemia.[13]

      Septicemia shows the emergence of a systemic infection of the blood caused by the rapid
      multiplication of microorganisms or toxic substances, which can cause huge psychological
      change. These substances can be pathogenic bacteria, fungi, viruses, and rickets. The most
      common cause of septicemia is a gram-negative organisms. If the protection of the body is not
      effective in controlling the invasion of microorganisms, septic shock may occur, which is
      characterized by hemodynamic changes, imbalance of cellular functions, and multiple system
      failures.
    
  