
    
      This study will evaluate an innovative, multi-modal palliative care intervention that
      addresses the lack of advance care planning (ACP) and unmet psychosocial needs commonly
      experienced by patients with metastatic cancer. Up to half of adults with metastatic cancer
      report elevated anxiety or depression symptoms, which can cause withdrawal from daily
      activities and future planning and have been linked to non-adherent health behaviors in other
      disease populations. However, little is known about the extent to which anxiety or depression
      influence ACP completion in palliative care. In addition, metastatic cancer triggers
      patients' fear of dying and threatens their sense of meaning. The current approach aims to
      optimize two core palliative care outcomes - ACP and psychosocial well being - in outpatient
      oncology settings and to build the evidence base for primary palliative care interventions.
      This new multimodal intervention, which is based on extensive pilot data, uses a primary
      palliative care approach and focuses on patients with elevated anxiety or depression
      (anx/dep) symptoms.

      The intervention is based on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), an evidence-based
      approach to reduce distress and promote behavior change through theorized mechanisms that
      include cultivating acceptance of internal experience and aligning behavior with personal
      values. A pilot study for adults with metastatic cancer and elevated anx/dep symptoms
      conducted by the current research team, leveraged ACT to design and refine the multi-modal
      ACT intervention (M-ACT) in response to patient and provider feedback. M-ACT helps metastatic
      cancer patients to live meaningfully and face the future no matter what their health status,
      supports their engagement in ACP and addresses their psychosocial needs.

      To facilitate future scalability, M-ACT uses a novel multi-modal delivery structure
      comprising both in-person group sessions led by existing on-site clinical social workers and
      self-paced, personalized online sessions completed at home, which efficiently increase
      intervention dose without increasing patient travel or provider demands. The current
      randomized controlled trial will rigorously evaluate the ability of M-ACT to increase ACP
      (primary outcome) and improve psychosocial outcomes (secondary). This study also will
      evaluate the relationship between anx/dep symptoms and ACP to inform the critical clinical
      question of whether anx/dep symptoms should be addressed concurrently with ACP. Finally, the
      study will explore mechanisms that may explain how M-ACT influences ACP and the targeted
      secondary outcomes.

      The study will enroll patients with stage IV solid tumor cancer (N = 240), randomized in a
      1:1 ratio to M-ACT or usual care for a 4-week intervention period. Outcomes will be assessed
      at baseline, mid-intervention (to assess mechanisms), 1-week post-intervention, and 2-month
      follow-up.

      Note: Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the in-person group component of M-ACT has currently
      been shifted to an online group format.
    
  