
    
      This study is a single centred, single-blinded, prospective randomised split-mouth clinical
      trial conducted at University of Malaya. The ethical approval for the present study was
      obtained from the institutional Medical Ethics Committee (DF CD1608/0059P). Written informed
      consents were obtained from all participants prior to the study. Cone beam computed
      tomography (CBCT) (Kodak 9000) images was used to assess the trabecular alveolar bone volume
      fraction (BV/TV) at micro-osteoperforations (MOPs) sides. The rate of orthodontic tooth
      movement was assessed by comparing the available space between control and MOP sites in three
      different interval groups. Twenty-four participants were selected according to the study
      selection criteria. Inclusion criteria was (1) aged 18 years and above at the start of the
      treatment, (2) molar relationship either Class I, < ½ unit Class II or Class III, (3)
      extraction of all four first premolar teeth as part of orthodontic treatment, (4) maximum
      anchorage required using mini-implant, (5) no systemic disease, (6) good oral hygiene and (7)
      no periodontal disease. Participants were excluded if they had significant vertical skeletal
      discrepancies, systemic diseases requiring long-term antibiotic use, phenytoin, cyclosporin,
      anti-inflammatory drugs, bisphosphonates, systemic corticosteroids or calcium channel
      blockers, poor oral hygiene for more than visits or active periodontal disease.

      Sample size calculation

      G*Power software (version 3.1.9.2) was used to calculate the total sample size of 24 using t
      tests to achieve a power of 80% and a level of significance of 5% (two sided), for detecting
      an effect size of 0.60 between pairs. However, 30 samples were selected to compensate for any
      dropouts during the study.

      Demographic characteristic

      Twenty-four participants were stratified in 3 study groups (4, 8 and 12 weeks) based on
      frequency intervention intervals. Ethnically, there were 11 Malay samples (45.8%), 10 Chinese
      samples (41.7%) and 3 Indian samples (12.5%). Gender and ethnic distribution was not equal
      within the study groups due to the limited sample size, as a result gender variance was not
      assessed in the present study.

      Micro-osteoperforations and canine retraction

      The lower dentition was bonded with preadjusted edgewise brackets (3M Unitek, 0.022" x 0.028"
      slot in MBT prescription), and the first and second molars banded (3M Unitek, 0.022" x 0.028"
      slot in MBT prescription). Mini-implants were inserted in the keratinised gingiva between the
      second premolars and first molars bilaterally for both indirect and direct anchorage
      purposes. Canine retraction was done one month after insertion of a stainless-steel working
      archwire (0.018 x 0.025-inch SS) (GAC PAK Stainless Steel ACCUFORM®), using power chain (3M
      Unitek Alastik TM elastomeric chain), with a force of 140-200 grams (measured directly using
      a Correx Force Tension gauge, Haag-Streit Diagnostics, Switzerland), engaged from the canines
      to the mini-implants. The distance of canine movement was recorded every four weeks with
      digital callipers accurate to 0.01 mm, for a period of 12 weeks.

      Micro-osteoperforations were performed according to the scheduled intervals of the three
      different groups. At the experimental site, three micro-osteoperforations were made directly
      at the buccal cortical bone of extracted first premolars sites, at equidistance from the
      canine and second premolar under local anaesthesia. The MOPs were 2 mm apart in vertical
      direction and 3 mm depth. The first MOP were placed starting at the horizontal level of the
      cervical margin of the canine tooth and extending apically. Orlus Extra Thread mini-implant
      (1.6 mm width, 6 mm length) with a rubber stopper at a measured length (depth of
      micro-osteoperforation at 3 mm and soft tissue thickness was taken into consideration) was
      used to perform MOPs. Group1 received four sessions of MOPs, group 2 and group 3 received two
      sessions of MOPs. At the 12th week following MOP application, CBCT scans of the left and
      right mandibular quadrants (both control and intervention side) were acquired.

      Radiographic evaluation of trabecular bone volume fraction

      CBCT (Kodak 9000, Carestream) exposure parameters were 70KV, 8mA, 10.8s and voxel size of 76
      µm. The DICOM® (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) format of CBCT images were
      converted into BMP (Bitmap image) files using ImageJ software (Version 1.50i) before
      analysing the trabecular bone volume fraction (BV/TV) in CT Analyser software (version
      1.11.0.0 copyright Sky Scan).

      Blinding

      Both the observers (orthodontic postgraduate students) were blinded to the frequency of MOP
      whilst analysing the bone volume fraction (BV/TV) using CT analyser software as CBCT files
      were labelled by random numbers.

      Image Analysis

      In CT Analyser, a region of interest (ROI) was identified between canine and second premolar
      teeth. The top slice of the ROI started from a slice apical to the cemento-enamel junction of
      canine. The bottom slice of the ROI was determined by subtracting 14.8mm from the Z-position
      of the upper slice on the axial view of CBCT image. A polygonal tool was used to mark the ROI
      at the top and bottom layers. Then a dynamic interpolation was applied to create an adaptive
      ROI. Then, the ROI was binarized using the threshold values obtained from the control side of
      each patient (Figure 4). The range of threshold values was determined by checking the
      threshold value of the cortical bone in the binary histogram. After binarization, the
      percentage of bone volume (BV/TV) was calculated.
    
  