
    
      Chronic low back pain (LBP) is associated with poor health, lower quality of life, high
      costs, and is highly prevalent in veterans. Both chiropractic care and exercise have modestly
      reduced pain and/or improved function in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of patients with
      chronic LBP. However, effects may not apply similarly to all populations. For example, there
      are no RCT data on chiropractic care for older (age >70) patients with chronic LBP, though
      with increased spinal arthritis, comorbidities and frailty, such patients may require
      modified chiropractic techniques and likely differ in response to chiropractic treatment.
      While a recent systematic review of RCTs predicted that a home exercise program that was
      individualized, high-dose, therapist-directed, and incorporated stretching and strengthening
      would be a meaningful treatment for chronic LBP, it also could provide a robust comparison
      group for other chronic LBP treatments. The combination of such a regimen and chiropractic
      care is predicted to have additive benefits for chronic LBP but this premise hasn't been
      directly tested. To further our aim of improving the health of chronic LBP patients, we plan
      an RCT in veterans with chronic LBP, to compare the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and
      cost-utility of a tailored education/exercise (E/E) intervention alone vs. E/E plus
      chiropractic care. The demographics and medical complexity of the veteran population provide
      a great opportunity to test the appropriate role of chiropractic care for such patients with
      chronic LBP and to advance chronic LBP research and clinicalcare.

      Subjects will be recruited primarily from patients attending Minneapolis VAMC clinics with
      complaints of chronic LBP. Thirty eligible veterans will be randomized to E/E alone vs. E/E
      plus chiropractic care. All participants will receive E/E instruction in four 1-hr individual
      sessions over 8 weeks, including an individually designed, high dose, therapist-directed home
      exercise program. Chiropractic care will be delivered by chiropractors and follow standard
      protocols, with up to 12 sessions over 12 weeks. Participants randomized to E/E alone also
      will attend 10 weekly "time and attention" visits so that their contact with providers is
      comparable to that received by participants who also receive chiropractic care. Each "time
      and attention" session involved a 5 minute exam, 5 minutes of hot pack application to the low
      back, and 5 minutes of light massage to the low back. During these visits, participants did
      not receive SMT, mobilization or other active chiropractic treatment. The recruitment goal is
      to generate the potential to randomize 6-10 participants/month. Recruitment feasibility will
      be assessed by tracking the number of patients who make initial inquiries, undergo screening
      and in-clinic evaluation, and are randomized. Further, reasons for nonparticipation and
      disqualification will be examined and described. Participant adherence to interventions will
      be defined as completing >3 of 4 education sessions, >20 hrs of home exercise, and >80% of
      recommended chiropractic visits or nonchiropractic follow-up exam/interviews. Adherence with
      clinic visits will be assessed with provider treatment logs. Home exercise compliance will be
      tracked by questionnaire. Participant adherence to data collection will be defined as >90%
      follow-up rates at each time point and assessed by tracking questionnaire completion rates.
      Descriptive data for the distributions of the primary and main secondary efficacy outcome
      measures will be used to calculate sample size and generate power tables for the full-scale
      trial.
    
  