
    
      This will be a single-site, open-label study, investigating the use of MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy for treatment-resistant combat-related PTSD. This study will consent up to 50
      current-era combat veterans for study and the first 10 participants who meet criteria will be
      eligible to receive study medication. Any patient who drops out before the third Experimental
      Session will be replaced. Dropout rates will be recorded. In this protocol, enrollment is
      defined as the time the participant signs informed consent. Time from initial
      screening/enrollment to collection of the primary endpoint will last approximately 12-18
      weeks. To assess durability of treatment, participants will be assessed approximately 12
      months after the last MDMA session for the long-term follow-up. The study will consist of a
      prescreening/screening/enrollment period, three pre-experimental (preparatory) dose
      psychotherapy sessions (spaced approximately one week apart), three experimental dose therapy
      sessions, nine integrative follow-up sessions, one assessment of primary endpoint, and a
      long-term 12-month follow-up assessment. Psychiatric medication tapering will occur after
      eligibility confirmation (after completion of baseline CAPS-5, prior to Experiential
      Sessions) to allow for appropriate medication washout.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effectiveness of MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy in combat-related treatment resistant PTSD. Effectiveness will be measured by
      evaluating the change in CAPS-5 scores from baseline to the primary endpoint. Primary
      endpoint will be collected 2 months after the third Experimental Session with MDMA. To access
      long-term effectiveness, CAPS-5 will also be collected at the long-term follow-up.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Assess changes in self-reported PTSD symptoms as measured with the PTSD-symptom
           checklist at screening and baseline, during most face-to-face visits, at the primary
           endpoint, and during the long-term follow-up.

           a. Life Event Checklist (LEC) for PCL-5 will be administered at baseline (screening),
           primary endpoint, and long-term follow-up.

        2. Assess depression symptoms with the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) at baseline
           (screening), primary endpoint, and long-term 12-month follow-up.

        3. Assess changes in alcohol consumption.

             1. The AUDIT-C (Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test) will be used to measure
                baseline alcohol use over the past year prior to study entry (at screening) and at
                long-term follow up.

             2. Alcohol use starting after study screening will be monitored based on participants
                self-report. Participants will be directed to keep a Drinking Diary throughout the
                study measuring the number of standard alcoholic beverages consumed per day.
                Drinking Diary for each participant will be collected weekly until their last
                psychotherapy visit. Participants will continue to record weekly alcohol use on
                their own until collection at the primary endpoint.

        4. Assess changes in drug consumption.

           a. Drug Use Disorders Identification Test (DUDIT) will be assessed at baseline
           (screening) and at long-term follow-up).

        5. Assess changes in self-reported sleep quality via the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
           (PSQI) from baseline (screening) to primary endpoint and long-term 12-month follow-up.

        6. Assess changes in posttraumatic growth via Post Traumatic Growth Inventory (PTGI) scores
           from baseline (at screening) to primary endpoint and long-term 12-month follow-up.

        7. Healthcare utilization will also be assessed by retrospective chart review.

      Twelve months after the final Experimental Session, the long-term effects of MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy on symptoms of PTSD will be assessed via CAPS-5 and PCL-5 with LEC, alcohol use
      via AUDIT, drug use behaviors via DUDIT, depression via BDI-II, self-reported sleep quality
      via PSQI, post-traumatic growth via PTGI, suicidality via C-SSRS, and response to research
      participation via RRPQ (Reactions to Research Participation Questionnaire).

      Participants will also be assessed for suicidality at every face-to-face visit.
    
  