
    
      The project goal explores how best to meet the needs of underserved communities to improve
      engagement in the advance care planning (ACP) process, which is defined as a complex and
      ongoing process that involves discussions with loved ones and/or clinicians, and/or may
      involve completion of an advance directive document. This national project involves two
      components: 1) a community outreach program, Community Game Days; and 2) a research project.
      The community outreach component seeks to provide an effective, evidence based ACP
      intervention to 50 underserved communities (defined as those with poor access to healthcare
      systems due to economic, cultural or linguistic barriers). Of these, 15 African American
      communities across the United States will be selected for participation in the research
      aspect of the project which seeks to assess the program's impact on and to learn about the
      unique needs of African American populations with regard to ACP. A highly integrated,
      collaborative approach will be used, bringing together a national organization concerned
      about end-of-life care (the Hospice Foundation of America (HFA) and a university-based
      academic research team (led by Dr. Lauren Van Scoy at Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
      Center through her research program, Project Talk).

      The project teams will organize and support a 14-month long community outreach project that
      will bring an end-of-life conversation game, "Hello," to 50 communities across the United
      States. The game has been found to stimulate substantive, enjoyable and meaningful
      end-of-life discussions among participants. Further, over 70% of participants who played the
      game went on to perform additional ACP behaviors.2-4 That body of research is limited,
      however, by a primarily Caucasian or South Asian Indian demographic. It is well established
      that African Americans have historically low rates of ACP completion when compared to
      Caucasians and that they often receive overly aggressive and unwanted care at the
      end-of-life.5,6 Thus, learning how best to engage the African American population in ACP
      activities is critical. Thus, this research project aims to determine whether and to what
      extent this priming activity yields similar results in African American communities. The
      research team will conduct mixed methods research on the impact of the game on the
      performance of subsequent ACP behavior as well as explore the broad needs of African American
      communities with regards to ACP.

      Fifteen of the 50 qualified locations who can demonstrate through a screening process the
      ability to attract a majority African American audience will be selected to participate in
      the research aspect of the project which will involve: 1) pre-game questionnaires to assess
      population characteristics and readiness to engage in ACP, 2) post- game questionnaires to
      assess satisfaction, realism about the conversation game and readiness to engage in ACP, 3)
      post-game focus groups to further explore opinions about the game, the value of priming
      activities, and the broad needs of the community for encouraging ACP, and 4) 3 month
      follow-up phone interviews to assess ACP behaviors that have been performed and perceived
      impact of the priming activity. Participants from the additional 35 sites can opt-in to
      participate in a 3 months follow-up phone call. As the trial progressed, the time-frame for
      follow-up phone interviews was extended to 3 - 9 months.

      Upon completion of this project, this collaboration is expected to have reached up to 1000
      African American individuals and 1,500 other underserved individuals and provided them with
      an enjoyable and rich experience that facilitates communication about end-of-life issues. The
      research data is expected to provide a significant contribution to the field by yielding
      information about the needs of 15 African American communities as well as to yield data
      related to the impact of the priming activity (the game) on ACP behaviors in this
      traditionally underserved group.
    
  