
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the efficacy of bevacizumab and cetuximab as first-line treatment for
           metastatic colorectal cancer, as measured by percentage of patients who remain
           progression-free at 6 months.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate adverse events, confirmed response, duration of response, time to disease
           progression, time to treatment failure, and survival of patients treated with
           bevacizumab and cetuximab.

        -  To evaluate adverse events, confirmed response, duration of response, time to disease
           progression, time to treatment failure, and survival of patients who are refractory to
           dual-agent bevacizumab and cetuximab and are subsequently treated with modified FOLFOX7
           chemotherapy and bevacizumab with or without cetuximab.

        -  To evaluate quality of life parameters in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To estimate the direct medical resource utilization and costs.

        -  To assess the reliability of FDG-PET as a measurement of early treatment response, as
           measured by percentage of patients who are progression-free at 6 months.

        -  To identify circulating angiogenesis biomarkers.

        -  To assay the activity of pro-angiogenic factors in plasma angiogenic assays.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study*. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0-1 vs 2) and number of metastatic sites (1 vs > 1).

      NOTE: *Participating site must be PET-qualified.

        -  First-line therapy: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and cetuximab IV
           over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease proceed to
           second-line therapy.

        -  Second-line therapy: Patients are randomized* to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (modified FOLFOX7 with bevacizumab only): Patients receive bevacizumab IV
                over 30-90 minutes, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2
                hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Arm II (modified FOLFOX7 with bevacizumab and cetuximab): Patients receive
                bevacizumab and modified FOLFOX7 as in arm I. Patients also receive cetuximab IV
                over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Randomization occurs prior to receiving first-line therapy.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for translational studies. Samples are
      analyzed for circulating endothelial cells and endothelial progenitor cells via flow
      cytometry; angiogenic activity of serum/plasma in angiogenesis-dependent diseases via
      endothelial proliferation assay and matrigel tube formation assay; and circulating
      angiogenesis biomarkers (i.e., free VEGF, soluble FLT-1, and KDR) via ELISA.

      Quality of life is assessed periodically using the UNISCALE, Skindex-16, and Skin Assessment
      Questionnaires.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  