
    
      Levator ani syndrome (LAS) is described as a dull, aching pain of a patient's pelvic floor
      musculature. There is no known cause for the syndrome, yet pelvic floor muscle spasm and
      increased anal resting pressures have been hypothesized to result in the syndrome. LAS is
      commonly seen in patients with constipation, specifically outlet dysfunction constipation.
      Treatment for the syndrome involves a combination of bowel management, medications, and
      pelvic floor physical therapy (PT). Pelvic floor PT uses a variety of methods to help
      patients with LAS, including biofeedback and massage. The literature and the investigators
      experience shows that these pelvic floor PT approaches do not resolve all LAS symptoms.

      Diazepam (Valium®) is used to treat levator ani syndrome in conjunction with other treatments
      to help relax the pelvic floor muscle group (levator ani). Diazepam has U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) approval for use as a muscle relaxant. Investigators at Swedish Colon &
      Rectal Clinic are using diazepam intervention as a means for patients to gain relief from
      pain.

      The work proposed aims to provide the first prospective, randomized, comparative study of the
      efficacy between administering diazepam rectally and administering the medication orally
      after pelvic floor PT treatment. Currently, other ways of administering diazepam have not
      been studied in the setting of the LAS condition. The Investigators performed a retrospective
      chart review last year and found some promising results for the efficacy of rectal and oral
      routes of diazepam for LAS. The Investigators want to determine if the route of administering
      diazepam as an adjunct to pelvic floor PT influences rectal pain relief for LAS patients.

      Primary Objective: Compare the pain scores of participants with LAS after administering
      diazepam rectally or orally following six weeks of physical therapy.

      Secondary Objectives:

      1. Measure and compare the drowsiness levels of participants using rectal diazepam or oral
      diazepam. 2. Measure and compare the sleep quality of participants using rectal diazepam or
      oral diazepam.

      All participants with the LAS diagnosis will initially receive 6 weeks of pelvic floor PT.
      After these six weeks, participants without effective pain relief will be randomized to one
      of two arms: rectal or oral diazepam administration. Participants will be dispensed 30 10 mg
      diazepam tablets to take daily (oral or rectal) for 4 weeks. Participants will be asked to
      complete 3 electronic questionnaires (VAS pain scale, Likert drowsiness scale, and Pittsburg
      Sleep Quality Index) each week while on the 10 week trial. Investigators plan to enroll 100
      participants over approximately 5 years.
    
  