
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer and the second leading cause of
      cancer-related mortality in the United States when both sexes are combined. Given that the
      time interval between the appearance of a pre-malignant adenoma and its progression to
      invasive carcinoma is approximately 5.5 years for polyps >10 mm and 10-15 years for smaller
      polyps, colorectal cancer is an ideal disease for screening because there is sufficient time
      to detect and remove pre-malignant adenomas. However, even though screening has been shown to
      decrease colorectal cancer mortality, only about 60% of people over the age of 50 have had
      the recommended screening tests.

      First introduced in 1994, computed tomography colonography (CTC) is a validated colorectal
      cancer screening exam by the American Cancer Society. It is a low-radiation dose CT scan of
      the colon that is performed after bowel preparation and gas insufflation of the colon. CTC
      has several advantages over optical colonoscopy including less invasiveness, no need for
      sedation, improved patient comfort, and the ability to identify extracolonic findings. The
      performance of CTC for polyp detection compares favorably to that of optical colonoscopy and
      CTC is rapidly gaining acceptance as a screening and diagnostic technique.

      For accurate diagnosis in CTC, the colon must be adequately cleansed and any residual stool
      and fluid must be tagged so that they do not obscure polyps or masses. Patients often find
      bowel preparation to be the most onerous part of the screening process because it is
      inconvenient and uncomfortable. Many bowel preparations for CTC and optical colonoscopy
      require ingestion of large volumes of laxative solutions that can lead to nausea, abdominal
      pain and diarrhea. Additionally, for CTC, currently the most widely used tagging agents are
      hyperosmolar iodinated and barium based agents such as diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate
      sodium solution (Gastrografin; Bracco Diagnostics, Monroe Township, NJ), a hyperosmolar ionic
      iodinated contrast agent. These hyperosmolar agents can also lead to nausea, abdominal pain
      and diarrhea, and can even result in dangerous electrolyte balances from rapid fluid shifts.
      Changing the current bowel preparation regimen to improve patient comfort, convenience, and
      safety would most likely increase patient compliance with CTC.

      Iohexol (Omnipaque; GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, WI) is a low-osmolar non-ionic iodinated
      contrast agent that is approved by the FDA for oral use. It is routinely used orally for CT
      scans of the abdomen and pelvis, and has been used experimentally in CTC. Iohexol is better
      tolerated by patients and has a better safety profile than hyperosmolar iodinated and barium
      based contrast agents.

      Study Hypotheses

        1. Oral iohexol in conjunction with a minimally cathartic agent results in adequate bowel
           preparation for CTC.

        2. Oral iohexol provides effective tagging of residual stool and fluid in standard
           screening and diagnostic CTC and same-day CTC following incomplete optical colonoscopy.

        3. Oral iohexol is well tolerated by patients in terms of taste, ease of preparation, and
           side effects.
    
  