
    
      This randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase 2, single site, pilot study will evaluate the
      developmental impact of combined medication and behavioral treatment (COMB) versus placebo
      and behavioral treatment (BEH) in children with comorbid ASD +ADHD, who are between 36 and <
      132 months of age. The active medication treatment will be an orally dissolvable, extended
      release amphetamine preparation (Adzenys-XR-ODT) administered from weeks 0-~11 and carefully
      titrated to the optimal dose using an algorithm that considers adverse events and improvement
      in attention symptoms with a flexible dose range of 1.55mg - 18.6mg/day. The target dose is
      12.4mg/day. A placebo, matched to the active medication, will be titrated and adjusted using
      the same algorithm in the BEH arm. The provided behavioral treatment will be eight ~ hour
      long parent child therapy sessions of ESDM influenced parent coaching.

      Approximately 48 participants will be randomly assigned to either the COMB or BEH treatment
      arms. To account for possible differences in attrition due to potential poor tolerability of
      Adzenys-XR-ODT, participants will be randomized in a 7 COMB to 6 BEH ratio. Treatment
      assignment will be provided by the Data Management and Analysis Core (DMAC)using computer
      generated algorithms.

      The primary analyses will compare changes in outcomes between weeks 0 and 11 weeks.
      Exploratory analyses will explore changes between weeks 0 and 24.

      The primary outcome measure is change in amount and quality of joint engagement between the
      child and the parent during a semi-structured, 6 minute parent child interaction task (PCIT),
      which reflects the core symptom domain targeted by P-ESDM: social communication.

      Our key secondary outcomes will be changes in 1) the mean of the interview version of the
      VABS-3 socialization subscale and communication subscale standard scores and 2) clinician
      ratings of ADHD symptoms using the preschool ADHD-RS.

      We will also assess the safety and tolerability of Adzenys-XR-ODT compared to placebo.
    
  