
    
      Introduction Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic inflammatory mucocutaneous autoimmune
      disease mainly affecting stratum basal of the epithelium. It is T-cell mediated immunological
      disease that mostly occurs bilaterally on buccal mucosa while tongue and gingiva are other
      commonly involved sites while palatal mucosa and floor of the mouth are rarely affected
      (Roopashree MR, 2010, Torrente-Castells et al., 2010, Alves et al, 2010). The prevalence of
      OLP in general population is 0.1-4% (Sugerman et al., 2002) mainly affecting the middle-aged
      and elderly people (Ingafou et al., 2006) and female: male ratio 2:1 (Shen et al., 2012).

      It has six clinical forms: keratotic, reticular, papular, plaquelike white patches, erosive,
      atrophic, and bullous (Shen et al., 2012). Reticular and erosive form are most common (Alves
      et al, 2010). Keratotic reticular, papular, plaque like white patches often present with no
      complaints (Oczko et al, 2011), while erosive, atrophic, and ulcerative lesions are a painful
      or present with a burning sensation, and thus make eating, speaking, and swallowing difficult
      (Thongprasom et al., 2007). Histologically, a subepithelial infiltration in the form of dense
      band of lymphocytes, increased numbers of intraepithelial lymphocytes and the liquefaction
      degeneration of basal keratinocytes is seen in OLP (Payeras et al., 2013).

      Several predisposing factors have been identified which may cause or progress OLP which
      include immunity, infection, genetics, stress and endocrine. Recent researches showed an
      increased activity of prolidase and oxidative stress in OLP patients, causing disturbance in
      the antioxidant defense system (Batu et al, 2016, Ergun et al, 2011). Although the exact
      cause is still not clear, facts show that an immunological process is involved in OLP which
      is activated by an unknown antigen that change the basal keratinocytes of the oral mucosa and
      these alterations cause the cell immune response to attack the keratinocytes. (Ismail et al.,
      2007, Payeras et al., 2013). This antigen may be intrinsic or extrinsic, or both. Evidence
      shows that bacteria can be one of the etiologic factors of OLP. An association has already
      been found between OLP and infection, such as Ebstein Barr virus, Hepatitis C virus,
      Helicobacter pylori and Candida Albicans. A study also pointed out the allergy to various
      antigens coming in direct contact with oral cavity to contribute to the etiology of OLP. (D.
      Wray, 2000) As the etiology is not known therefore there is no definitive treatment for OLP
      and the mainstay of therapy for improving the life of these patients is symptomatic topical
      treatment. Topical treatments which have been tried for the symptomatic OLP include topical
      corticosteroids (TCSs), including betamethasone, clobetasol, dexamethasone and triamcinolone;
      topical calcineurin inhibitors (TCIs) such as pimecrolimus, tacrolimus or ciclosporin;
      retinoids such as tretinoin; photochemotherapy; amitryptaline; thalidomide; amlexanox and
      traditional medicines such as curcumin, selenium-ACE combined with itraconazole, glycyrrhiza
      glabra and aloe vera.

      In a study both tacrolimus 0.1% ointment and pimecrolimus 1% cream were found equally
      effective for the treatment of OLP (Vohra et al., 2016). Similarly another study showed that
      Clobetasol propionate (0.05%) was found more effective than triamcinolone acetonate (0.1%)
      and tacrolimus orabase (0.03%) for the management of OLP. This study also found that
      triamcinolone 0.1% is superior to tacrolimus 0.03% in terms of effectiveness for the
      treatment of OLP.(Sivaraman et al., 2016) According to another study both triamcinolone and
      curcumin paste were found almost equally effective in reducing the pain and improving the
      appearance of OLP lesions (Kia et al., 2015). In another study it was concluded that
      combination of Selenium-ACE, corticosteroid and antifungal is a better treatment regimen for
      the treatment of erosive ulcerative OLP than a capsule of 100 mg Itraconazole plus
      dexamethsone mouthwash or dexamethasone alone (Belal, 2015). In another similar study
      cocktail of clobetasol, ketoconazole and amitryptiline was found more efficacious than
      diluted dexamethasone, nystatin and Diphenhydramine elixir (Javadzadeh et al, 2008). In a
      comparative study tacrolimus 0.1% cream was found more effective than 0.05% clobetasol
      propionate cream in reducing pain and healing of OLP lesions (Hettiarachchi et al., 2016).
      Both thalidomide and dexamethasone were found almost equally effective in another trail (Wu
      et al., 2010). In a trail of comperison between amlexanox paste and dexamethasone paste both
      were found equally effective at the end of 7 days in terms of reduction in clinical signs
      (erosion) and symptoms like pain and burning sensation (Fu et al., 2012). Some herbal
      medicines have also been tried like Glycyrrhiza glabra and Aloe vera, in a trail to compare
      the efficacy of 1% Glycyrrhiza glabra In orabase with 0.1% Triamcinolone Acetonide both were
      found almost equally effective in reducing the pain and improving the appearance of OLP
      lesions (Najafi et al., 2016) and in another trail both Aloe Vera Mouthwash and Triamcinolone
      Acetonide were found almost equally effective in reducing the pain and in reducing the size
      of OLP lesions (Mansourian et al., 2011) So steroids remained the mainstay of treatment for
      OLP but evidence points towards the involvement of bacterial and fungal infections in the
      pathogenesis of OLP as according to a recent study disbiosis was found in the buccal surface
      mucosa of patients of OLP, as certain bacterial species were found in greater no in buccal
      mucosa of OLP patients so they concluded that an association exists between bacterial
      disbiosis of buccal mucosa and OLP (He et al., 2017). Similar studies showed that antibiotics
      relieved symptoms of OLP effectively (Backman & Jontell, 2007; Carbone et al, 1999). OLP is a
      disease which reduces the individual's resistance and changes the candida albican's role from
      commensalism to parasitism which is among the normal flora of oral cavity or candida may
      secondarily infect the OLP lesions and exacerbate the signs and symptoms (santosh gowdru
      shivanandappa, 2012). In a study 62% of OLP patients were found allergic to different
      allergens which come in contact with mucosa in daily life so they found that association
      exists between OLP and allergy (D. Wray, 2000). According to another study mast cell
      hyperplasia was seen in OLP patients which suggests their role in pathogenesis of OLP (Ankle
      R et al, 2007) The most used therapy is TCSs however its effectiveness is limited due to
      opportunistic oral infections in patients with OLP. Adjunct antibiotic therapies have been
      used to aid in symptomatic relief and improved response has been observed as compared to TCSs
      alone. however none of the combined therapies have used antifungal as an additive in their
      local applications, as candida is one of the opportunistic organisms that colonizes affected
      sites. Role of allergy mechanisms have also been discussed.

      Rationale Evidence of involvement of bacterial and fungal infections and allergy in the
      pathogenesis of OLP suggests the need for the use of antibiotic, anti fungal and
      antihistamine for the topical treatment of OLP and there is a gap in literature. That's why
      current trail is being done to evaluate the efficacy of topical doxycycline, nyastatin and
      promethazine along with dexamethasone for the symptomatic relief of OLP.

      Hypothesis Dexamethasone, Doxycycline, Nystatin and Promethazine combination topical rinse
      are more effective for the treatment of OLP than Triamcinolone alone Objective To compare the
      efficacy of Dexamethasone, Doxycycline, Nystatin and Promethazine combination topical rinse
      with Triamcinolone rinse as topical treatment of Oral Lichen Planus.

      Operational Definitions • Oral Lichen Planus: Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic
      inflammatory mucocutaneous autoimmune disease mainly affecting stratum basal of the
      epithelium.

      Subjects and Methods Study Type Randomized control trail (Parallel arm study). Study Setting
      Department of Oral Medicine & Diagnosis and Department of Dermatology. Madina Teaching
      Hospital Faisalabad.

      Duration The study will be completed in 3 months after the approval of synopsis. Study
      Population Patients of oral lichen planus visiting Department of Oral Medicine & Diagnosis
      and Department of Dermatology. Madina Teaching Hospital Faisalabad.

      Sampling Technique Purposive Sampling, (Inclusion/exclusion criteria based)

      Sample Selection Inclusion Criteria

        1. Histopathologically proven patients of OLP of all age groups complaining of symptoms
           such as pain, burning sensitivity to hot and spicy food.

        2. Who have signed informed consent. Exclusion Criteria

        1. Patients who have taken any medication for OLP within 4 weeks before the start of study.

        2. Pregnant and lactating women.

        3. History of lichenoid reactions to beta blockers, dapsone, oral hypoglycemics, NSAIDS,
           pencillamine, phenothiazines, sulfonylureas, gold salts or amalgam fillings.

           Sample Size All consecutive OLP patients will be evaluated according to
           inclusion/exclusion criteria and at least 32 subjects will be enrolled they will be
           randomly divided into study and control groups.

           The sample size is calculated by the following formula keeping the power of study equal
           to 90% and level of significance equal to 0.05. The sample size should be 16 in each
           group.

           [p1(1 - p1) + p2 (1 - p2)] n = × cp,power (p1 - p2)2 (Whitley and Ball, 2002) Desired
           Level of Significance = 0.05 P1= proportion 1= 70% (0.7) P2= proportion 2= 30% (0.3) Cp,
           power = 90% =10.5 Sample size in each group = 16 Randomization Randomization will be
           done by allowing each patient to pick a sealed envelope from a box containing 40
           envelopes of which 20 are of study and 20 are of control group.

           Study Variables Socio-demographic/Medical parameters • Age (years), • Gender (male /
           female), • Education (no-education / secondary / University), • Income (<10000.00- /
           10-20000.00 / >20000.00),

           • Smoking (never / former / current),

           • Systemic conditions (CVD / DM / Hepatic / Rheumatoid Arthritis etc),

           • Medications

           • Oral hygiene habits (brushing, floss, dental visit)

           Oral parameters

             -  Dimensions of lesion will be measured by with the help of a UNC-12 probe (HDL®
                Pakistan).

             -  Color of lesion will be recorded by standardized pre and post treatment
                photographic record.

             -  Pain or burning sensation will be evaluated by visual analogue scale (VAS).

             -  Clinical response (improvement of lesions and symptoms) will be assessed by
                criteria given by (Escudier et al., 2007).

           Data Collection Method and Instruments After approval from the ethical review committee,
           patients will be included in the study. Written informed consent will be obtained from
           all patients prior to the study as a part of ethical practice. 40 patients of
           symptomatic OLP will be enrolled in the study after evaluation through punch biopsy and
           other inclusion and exclusion criteria to compensate the loss to follow up as the actual
           size calculated from the formula was 32. They will be randomly divided in to study and
           control group each containing 20 patients. At baseline visit after recording the
           socio-demographic and oral parameters data the local irritant factors in the oral cavity
           which can aggravate the OLP will be removed by doing basic oral procedures like scaling
           and root planning restorations, rounding of sharp cusps and replacement of any ill
           fitting appliances in both the groups.

           Study group will be given a cocktail containing dexamethasone, doxycycline, nystatin and
           promethazine and will be advised to rinse with 1 and half teaspoon of this cocktail 3
           times a day for 2 minutes for the period of 8 weeks and do not eat or drink anything 30
           minutes after its use. Study group will also advised to apply triamcinolone orabase
           containing 0.1% triamcinolone on lesions 3 times a day for the period of 8 weeks. The
           control group will be advised to apply only triamcinolone orabase 3 times a day for 8
           weeks with the same protocol. Assessment of dimension of lesions, color, pain and
           burning sensation and improvement of lesions and symptoms will be done at baseline and
           after 4 and 8 weeks.

           Statistical Analysis The data will be coded and entered using SPSS ver 20. All the
           numerical variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation while the
           categorical variables will be reported as frequencies and percentages. the comparison of
           efficacy between two groups will be done through chi-square test.

           For all analysis a p-value of > 0.05 will be considered significant with a confidence
           level of 95%

           Ethical Considerations:

           Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be informed about the aim of study,
           risks, benefits and a consent form will be signed by them. Study will be approved by
           Institutional Review Board (IRB), The University of Faisalabad.
    
  