
    
      It has been shown that the same medication causes different responses in different
      individuals. In addition to environments, diets, and physical conditions, the genetic
      variations play an important role in the various responses. For instant, genetic variations
      in drug-metabolism enzymes may be responsible to different abilities in drug metabolism. Some
      people have higher drug-metabolizing enzyme activity for certain drug and may need higher
      dose to reach the effective therapy; some are poor in metabolizing the same drug, and may
      cause adverse drug reactions. Genetic variation also may cause different functions of the
      cell transporters. The most notable example is that some tumor cells have a kind of
      transporters called p-glycoprotein which can pump out the anti-tumor drugs to extracellular,
      and it turns the tumor cells become resistant to the drugs. Hence, if we can elucidate the
      gene variation of each individual, we can give each individual different therapy based on
      their genetic variations. This approach is called 「individualized medicine」.

      In order to reach the goal of individualized medicine, many studies have been focused on
      drug-metabolizing enzyme genetic variations between races or ethnicities. Especially, single
      nucleotide polymorphism provides a very important basis to clinical medication. N-
      acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) is one kind of drug-metabolizing enzymes and its single nucleotide
      polymorphisms have remarkable effect on drug-metabolism. Only 10~30 % are slow acetylators in
      Asian population, but 40~70% are found in Caucasian population. Cytochrome P450 (CYP450,CYP)
      is another important drug-metabolizing enzyme family. Among the family, the CYP2C9, CYP2C19,
      and CYP2D6 play key roles on drug metabolism. Many literatures showed that all the three
      enzymes have various distributions of SNPs in different races. It indicates that different
      races may have different abilities in drug-metabolizing enzymes. Therefore, it is important
      to provide a strategy to overcome the difficulties in individualized medicine.

      In the previous studies, scientists often take Chinese as the representatives of Asian people
      and the Minnan/ Hakka or so-called Han people as the subjects when study the Taiwan
      ethnicity. The genetic variations in the Taiwan aborigines are poorly investigated. It has
      been showed that remarkable genetic variations in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) between
      Taiwan aborigines and Minnan/ Hakka by Lin ML and her colleagues. They are highly homogenous
      within each tribe, but diversified among the different tribes due to long-term isolation.
      Therefore, we expect to establish a database of genetic variations in drug-metabolism enzymes
      among these groups in order to use as the basis for clinical medication. This study includes
      seven groups, and each of them has 50 independent samples for drug-metabolizing enzyme
      genetic polymorphism analysis. The important enzymes, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and NAT2, etc.,
      are studied in this project. ABI 7900HT instrument and traditional polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) - restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) both are used for SNPs analysis, and
      gene sequence also would be used to confirm the results.
    
  