
    
      This is the first clinical study of ALB 109564(a), a tubulin inhibitor, interfering with
      tubulin polymerization, primarily targeting microtubules that compose the mitotic spindle,
      resulting in metaphase arrest. The motivation for the development of ALB 109564(a) is to
      create a molecule that will provide greater anti-tumor activity than other licensed vinca
      alkaloids, without increasing the level of toxicity often associated with such therapies.

      The objectives of the proposed study are: (1) to determine the safety and tolerability,
      including the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT), of ALB 109564(a)
      administered intravenously every 3 weeks to subjects with advanced, treatment-refractory
      solid tumors; (2) to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ALB 109564(a); and (3) to document any
      observed anti-tumor activity.

      The starting dose of 1.2 mg/m2 once every 3 weeks is expected to ensure a safe first-in-human
      dose and allow increases of 50% with the first several subject cohorts. The first cohort will
      enroll 3 subjects, and the subsequent 3-subject cohorts will proceed according to a modified
      Fibonacci scheme. The standard dose increase, in the absence of dose limiting toxicity, will
      be 50%. However, once 1 subject experiences a DLT, or 2 or more subjects within a cohort
      experience ≥ Grade 2 drug-related adverse events, all subsequent dose escalations will occur
      at approximately 25% increments. In the case that the dose escalation increment is decreased
      to 25% following 2 or more subjects with ≥ Grade 2 drug-related events, the increment can
      subsequently be reset at 50% if, in the 2 successive cohorts, no DLTs are observed, and no
      more than 1 subject per cohort experiences a ≥ Grade 2 drug-related AE. DLT and MTD
      determinations will be made according to the first treatment cycle (single dose plus 3-week
      follow-up). The MTD will be declared as the highest level at which none of the original 3
      subjects or no more than 1 of the expanded 6-subject cohort experiences a DLT. At the MTD
      level, subjects will be enrolled into two parallel groups: Group A, those with solid tumor of
      unrestricted tumor type, and Group B, those with primary tumor type of soft tissue sarcoma.
      Up to a total of 24 subjects will be enrolled at the MTD.

      Subjects who tolerate treatment will be eligible to continue receiving treatment to a maximum
      of 12 cycles on the same 3-week schedule per the Investigator's medical judgment. Subjects
      whose disease has not progressed after 12 cycles of treatment with ALB 109564(a) may continue
      receiving treatment on the same 3-week cycle, with the same protocol assessments, contingent
      upon the Investigator's judgment and the Sponsor's approval.

      The actual enrollment of subjects will be determined by the safety experience and the number
      of dose-escalation cohorts required to achieve the MTD. The projected enrollment is
      approximately 60 subjects for a total study duration of approximately 2 years.
    
  