
    
      Step 1: Participant enrollment. This will involve recruiting youth to participate in the
      pilot study. Participant recruitment strategies will include: social media, online, event-
      and venue based, participant referral, and walk-ins at study clinics. Participant enrollment
      will be completed by study team.

      Step 2: Intervention implementation. Following participant recruitment and enrollment in the
      study. Study participants will be assigned to one of the 5 youth participatory interventions
      focused on expanding the uptake of HIV self-testing and key HIV prevention services. The
      pilot intervention implementation would occur for 6 months. Nigerian Institute of Medical
      Research (NMIR) will provide local training on HIV prevention to the five participatory
      interventions following their existing guidelines.The participatory interventions will be
      conducted in the locations of the five teams who emerged as winners from the innovation
      boot-camp. These participatory interventions will only provide HIV self-testing kits and
      instructions of how to perform the test to participants. They will also provide referral
      coupons to youth friendly centers for sexually transmitted infections (STI) screening and
      treatment and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) awareness and initiation for at-risk youth. The
      referral coupons are intended to provide study participants information on trained youth
      friendly centers that are involved with the research. The referral coupons give the study
      participants access to other sexually transmitted infections (STI) screening and treatment
      and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) awareness and initiation at these health facilities. The
      intervention only provide participants with the HIV self-testing kits and then refer them to
      youth-friendly health facilities for other testing services. The intervention does not
      involve monitoring HIV self-testing procedure, the investigators will only be asking for
      self-reported HIV testing and other sexually transmitted diseases testing.

      Step 3: Baseline data collection. After allocation of participants into the intervention,
      study team will collect baseline data on HIV testing history, sexual behavior history, youth
      participation experience, and other related outcomes will be collected (survey questionnaire
      attached) from recruited participants. Participants mobile phone numbers will also be
      collected as tracking information for follow-up and retention in a coupon format. The mobile
      phone numbers would be used to contact study participants through text messages and phone
      calls. These contacts would serve as reminders for participants to participate in follow-up
      data collection. The mobile phone service charge would be covered by the research. No other
      personal identifiers will be collected and no biological specimens will be collected at
      baseline. The investigators will obtain informed consent before proceeding with any data
      collection.

      Step 4:Health facilities training. For the purposes of this research study, the Nigerian
      Institute of Medical Research team would provide training to youth-friendly health centers
      currently working with the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research based on the World Health
      Organization guidebook for youth-friendly health services (handbook is attached).The training
      would be to ensure that these health facilities are trained to provide youth friendly
      services to participants who be referred to receive STI screening, STI treatment and PrEP
      awareness and initiation. Following the training, the NIMR research team would in charge of
      collecting data to record record participants HIV self-testing uptake as well as uptake of
      STI screening, STI treatment and PrEP awareness and initiation.

      Step 5: Follow up surveys at 3 and 6 months: At 3 and 6 months post intervention
      implementation, study team will collect similar baseline data from study participants. The
      follow-up survey will assess HIV testing, sexual behavior history, youth participation
      experience and other related outcomes will be collected (survey questionnaire attached) from
      recruited participants.
    
  