
    
      Aging causes responsible endothelial changes, in part by a decrease in the blood flow of the
      skeletal muscles of the elderly. Reduction of muscle mass / function (Sarcopenia) and
      Diabetes Mellitus are frequent pathologies in the elderly. L-Arginine is a semi-essential
      amino acid precursor to nitric oxide synthesis (NO), an important vasodilator and protector
      cardiovascular.

      Seventy-five women were allocated into three groups: twenty-five healthy young (HY) recruited
      among University students, and fifty women elderly, this was stratified in twenty-five
      healthy elderly (HE) control and twenty-five with hyperglycemia (HG) elderly from the
      ambulatories of the Geriatric and Diabetology at the State University of Rio de Janeiro
      (UERJ) and private supplementary health program. To control group was considered absence
      cardiovascular risk factor except advanced age. Participants were subjected to screening
      phase before being eligible for the study by telephone, which comprised of individual
      clinical history. All subjects signed the written Informed Consent Form enclosed in the
      protocol approved by Ethics Committee from the State University of Rio de Janeiro according
      to Helsinki Declaration.

      The subjects elected for research made 4 visits to the Biovasc laboratory for data
      collection. First day: the protocol was explained and agreement from the voluntary obtained,
      followed and anamnesis and physical exam that included measure at-rest blood pressure, weight
      and height. Moreover, women examined after 6 hours fasting the microcirculation function
      using nailfold vidiocapilaroscopy (NVC), followed of the measure of forearm blood flow (FBF)
      and vascular reactivity by venous occlusion plethysmography (VOP). Second day: Venous blood
      sample collection after 12 hours fasting. In sequence, they realized whole-body dual-energy
      X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to calculate the body composition main measure lean and fat mass.
      After, was delivered a box with 14 sachets content 5g L-arginine supplementation, and it was
      recommended to ingest with water 30 minutes before breakfast during 14 days. Third day:
      Return after the supplementation to realize measurement weight, and exams NVC and VOP. Fourth
      day: blood sample were taken after 12 hours fasting under effect of the L-arginine.
    
  