
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of cetuximab and
      RO4929097.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Safety and tolerability of the combination of cetuximab and RO4929097. II. Exploratory
      analyses of anti-tumor effect with the combination. III. Laboratory correlatives exploring
      response rate with notch receptors and ligand expression, correlation of response and
      toxicity profiles to expression of EGFR pathway components, and evaluation of serum and
      tissue markers of gamma-secretase inhibitor activity.

      IV. Pharmacokinetic studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway
      inhibitor RO4929097.

      Phase I dose escalation: In this part of the study, the investigators are trying to find out
      what is the highest tolerated dose of RO4929097 that can be safely combined with cetuximab.
      The investigators will be testing two different cetuximab doses. One is the standard dose
      (Arm A) and one is a little less than the standard dose (Arm B). Everyone will get treated
      with cetuximab and R04929097 in this part of the study.

      Phase I dose expansion: In this part of the study, the investigators will take the highest
      tolerated dose found in the phase I part of the study and test a small number of people with
      colorectal cancer to see if there is any activity with the combination of drugs. Everyone
      will get treated with cetuximab and RO4929097 in this part of the study. This part of the
      study will be restricted to patients whose tumors do not have a mutation in the K-ras gene.
      RO4929097 is an investigational anti-cancer agent that has not yet been approved by the Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in colorectal cancer. Cetuximab is FDA approved for
      metastatic colorectal cancer.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  