
    
      This study aims to compare two techniques for controlled hypotension during FESS. In both
      cases, the patients will be evaluated during the preoperative anesthetic visit, and will be
      given care by an anesthesiologist during the perioperative period.

      Patients who are scheduled for an elective FESS operation will be included in the study.
      During the preoperative anaesthetic visit, patients who do not meet any of the the exclusion
      criteria will be offered to participate in hte study. Patients accepting to contribute tot he
      study will be randomised into one of the two groups via closed envelope technique.

      A pilot study with 20 patients resulted in similar means and slightly different standard
      deviations of mean blood pressure. This pilot study showed that 44 patients in each group are
      sufficient to obtain 80% power with an alpha error of 0.05 and beta error of 20%. To
      compensate for missing/inconsistent data, or allow for better matching of the demographic
      variables, 3-5 additional patients will be recruited.

      The anesthesiologist in charge of the patient will not be blinded to the groups, and will be
      responsible for maintaining the hypotension (and patient safety) with either remifentanil in
      one group, or tramadol and metoprolol in the other group. Systolic, diastolic, and mean blood
      pressures, and heart rate will be recorded into a spreadsheet every three minutes during the
      anaesthetic and surgical period. The data will be recorded via an excel form, which will
      validate the entries upon entrance. The accuracy and completeness of registry data will be
      verified by a third investigator, who will compare the registry data to the medical monitor
      records at the end of each operative day.

      The surgeon will be blinded to the groups, and will be responsible for scoring the surgical
      vision and bleeding with the intraoperative bleeding score. The study drugs will be
      administered via the same type of infusion pump to facilitate the blinding process.

      Any adverse event will be reported in the patient chart and study records.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using R and Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) programs. Demographic variables (age, gender, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) score, comorbidities) will be analysed using descriptive statistics.
      Study variables such as duration of operation, variance of the hemodynamic parameters, amount
      of bleeding, bleeding score, occurrence of adverse events will be analysed with the
      appropriate statistical tests.
    
  