
    
      Subjects and Methods Adult patients with a distant binocular visual acuity of ≥ 0.8 (≥ 16/20;
      habitual correction) and healthy control subjects will be included in this explorative study
      after informed consent.

      The study will be subdivided in the following (three) parts:

      Part 1: Validation of the Aalen driving simulator set-up (ten patients with incipient to
      moderate cataract, i.e. opacities of the human lens of varying localization and of various
      degree of expression in at least one eye and ten age- and gender-correlated
      ophthalmologically healthy control subjects will be enrolled) Part 1.1.: Comprehensive
      ophthalmological/optical examination (Aalen University of Applied Sciences) including a
      detailed ophthalmological and medical history.

      Part 1.2.: Baseline driving simulator test under mesopic conditions with/without glare under
      simulated static/simulated driving conditions (Aalen University of Applied Sciences) Part
      1.3.: Baseline on road test under mesopic conditions with/without glare, under on road
      static/on road driving conditions (Aalen University of Applied Sciences) (If possible, the
      sequence of Part 1.2. and Part 1.3. will be randomly assigned.)

      Part 2: Advanced driving simulator test (twenty patients with incipient to moderate cataract,
      i.e. opacities of the human lens of varying localization and of various degree of expression
      in at least one eye and twenty age- and gender-correlated ophthalmologically healthy control
      subjects will be enrolled. Subjects being enrolled in Part 1, will be asked to participate
      also at Part 2 and Part 3.) Part 2.1.: Comprehensive ophthalmological/optical examination of
      all (newly) enrolled patients and subjects who have not already been examined in Part. 1.1.
      (Aalen University of Applied Sciences).

      Part 2.2.: Advanced driving simulator test under photopic and under mesopic simulated driving
      with and without glare (Würzburg Institute for Traffic Sciences = WIVW) in order to
      investigate the influence of glare on the driving behavior

      Part 3: Representative driving simulator test (The [altogether fourty] subjects, enrolled in
      Part 2, will be enrolled in this part of the study.) Driving simulator test under photopic
      and mesopic conditions in oder to investigate glare on representative driving situations.
      Driving performance will be evaluated highly-standardized and partially automated on
      different parameters of operational and tactical driving behavior (S.A.F.E., Würzburg
      Institute for Traffic Sciences = WIVW).

      Pass/fail rates are specified as described in the related manuals of the instruments. With
      regard to visual acuity measurements and assessment of mesopic contrast vision without/with
      glare, results are rated according to DIN 58220 - Part 3/ISO 10938: If less than three out of
      five subsequent presentations of an eight-position LANDOLT C (with two oblique and three
      horizontal/vertical gap locations in random sequence) are correctly identified, the session
      is rated as failed. Overlooking/missing reactions to obstacles (pedestrian [display dummy
      with dark clothing]/wild boar at the right roadside) are rated as failed.

      For mesopic contrast vision testing, single LANDOLT optotpyes (visual acuity level 0.1 =
      2/20) with the contrast levels (1:2, 1:5 and 1:23, respectively, according to AULHORN/HARMS)
      are presented via the Optovist Instrument (Vistec, Inc., Manching/Germany) or via the head up
      display (HUD) of the simulator vehicle/on road vehicle.

      Photopic and mesopic contrast vision tests (without glare) are repeated once in order to
      assess the test retest variability of the related test procedure.

        1. LANDOLT C chart for presentation of high contrast optotypes according to DIN 58220 -
           Part 3/ISO 10938 (Visus GmbH, Stuttgart/Germany)

        2. Assessment of low contrast visual acuity using FrACT (Freiburg Visual Acuity Test,
           internet version 3.8.1)

        3. Assessment of photopic contrast sensitivity, using the MARS Letter Contrast Sensitivity
           Test (The Mars Perceptrix Corporation, NY 10514-2523,USA)

        4. Assessment of mesopic contrast sensitivity, using the OPTOVIST (VISTEC, Manching/FRG)

        5. Judgment of intraocular straylight, using the C-Quant (Straylight meter, OCULUS,
           Dutenhofen/FRG)

        6. Classification of human crystalline lens opacities, using the BQ 900 slitlamp
           (HAAG-STREIT, Köniz/CH), digital photography with dilated pupils, applying the LOCS III
           score

        7. Densitometry of the crystalline lens, using the Pentacam HR (OCULUS Inc.,
           Dutenhofen/FRG)

        8. Digital Fundus Photography with dilated pupils (WX3D fundus camera, KOWA Optimed
           Deutschland GmbH, Düsseldorf/FRG)

        9. Aalen driving simulator: Two high performance VELVET planetarium projectors (Fa. ZEISS,
           Jena/FRG), AUDI A4 (AUDI Inc., Ingolstadt/FRG) with digital display and re-equipped
           (BFFT, Gaimersheim/FRG) with externally controllable head up display (HUD) for
           presentation of LANDOLT Cs with varying contrast levels, SILAB virtual reality
           environment (WIVW, Veitshöchheim/FRG), two mobile glare sources (LED arrays)

       10. Aalen on road parcours: AUDI A4 (AUDI Inc., Ingolstadt/FRG) with digital display, with
           externally controllable head up display (HUD, VW AG, Wolfsburg/FRG)) for presentation of
           LANDOLT Cs with varying contrast levels and equipped with dual brake (VEIGEL GmbH + Co
           KG, Künzelsau/FRG)
    
  