
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the antineoplastic efficacy of irinotecan sucrosofate (irinotecan liposome) in
      combination with bevacizumab in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer, as
      measured by the objective response rate (ORR).

      SECONDARY EFFICACY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall best response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer who have received
      treatment with irinotecan liposome in combination with bevacizumab.

      II. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CBR) for irinotecan liposome in combination with
      bevacizumab in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer.

      III. To calculate the duration of response (DOR) for irinotecan liposome in combination with
      bevacizumab in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer.

      IV. To calculate the duration of stable disease (duration of SD) for irinotecan liposome in
      combination with bevacizumab in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer.

      V. To calculate the time to response (TTR) for irinotecan liposome in combination with
      bevacizumab in women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer.

      VI. To measure median progression-free survival (PFS) in women with recurrent, platinum
      resistant ovarian cancer who have received treatment with irinotecan liposome in combination
      with bevacizumab.

      VII. To measure 16 week progression-free survival (PFS-16) in women with recurrent, platinum
      resistant ovarian cancer who have received treatment with irinotecan liposome in combination
      with bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY SAFETY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the toxicity profile of irinotecan liposome in combination with bevacizumab in
      women with recurrent, platinum resistant ovarian cancer according to National Cancer
      Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) and irinotecan sucrosofate IV over 90 minutes
      on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  