
    
      Microcatheters are commonly used during most arterial embolization procedures. SEQURE®
      (Guerbet, France) is an innovative reflux-control microcatheter for peripheral embolization
      procedures which relies on flow dynamics as the foundation of its' mechanism of action. It
      can optimize the delivery of calibrated microspheres of specific sizes.

      The device presents as a regular microcatheter with a non-tapered internal lumen for delivery
      of embolics (typically in suspension with contrast media), and 2 radiopaque markers (placed
      at a distance of 11 mm) at the tip (distal marker being at 0.5-1 mm from the point of exit).

      Near the distal atraumatic tip, between the two markers, it has side slits (approximately 50
      µm in width) which allow contrast media to exit radially in addition to the standard fluid
      flow through the distal tip of the catheter. The contrast media that comes out of the
      side-holes creates a turbulence in the space surrounding the slits, between microcatheter and
      vessel, which acts as a fluid barrier in that given portion. This fluid-dynamic barrier
      redirects the beads that tend to upstream reflux back to their flow-directed trajectory,
      preventing the beads from migrating in non-target areas, and thus eliminating, or strongly
      reducing, undesired non-target embolization (NTE).

      Moreover, SEQURE® allows for haemodynamic arrangement to be preserved, by favoring and
      maintaining unaltered the natural blood flow. Under fluoroscopy, the radial flow of contrast
      media exiting through the side holes in the SEQURE® microcatheter can be seen, giving the
      physician indication of the vessel flow dynamics.

      Lesions were identified and then treated supra-selectively with the microcatheter, with the
      embolic materials infused in a slow and controlled manner, in order to reduce reflux into
      non-target branches

      HYPOTHESIS:

      The use of 100 micron-TANDEM ® spheres will be studied with the synergistic effect of being
      administered through SEQURE® microcatheter anti-reflux protection system, which may allow the
      administration of the maximum doses of doxorubicin, avoiding the undesired oclussion of
      collateral arterial segments (SYNERGIC EFFECT) in a prospective study in patients with
      hepatocellular carcinoma early-intermediate stage.

      PATIENT SELECTION:

      Between October 2020 and December 2021, and expected number of 30 patients will be treated.
      The diagnosis of Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) will confirm in accordance with the American
      Association for the Study of Liver Diseases guidelines and HCC staged according to Barcelona
      Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) system.

      DEB-TACE is indicated according to clinical practice guidelines referred above.

      TECHNICAL PROCEDURE:

      The embolization will be performed using TANDEM ® spheres (each cc of spheres can be loaded
      with up to 50 mg of doxorubicin. The maximum dose of doxorubicin used per procedure was 150
      mg, corresponding to 3 cc of spheres) and SEQURE ® microcatheter in a super-selective
      tumour´s arterial position avoiding undesired arterial branches. The procedure will consider
      super-selective when the micro-catheter tip reached the tumour feeding artery. Each cc of
      microspheres will mix with 7-10 cc of non-ionic contrast medium. Embolization endpoint is
      considered vascular stasis or 150 mg of Doxorubin administered.

      OBJECTIVES AND END-POINTS:

      Efficacy:

        -  Technical success will be defined as a composite outcome measurement: ability to place
           the microcatheter inside the required vascular segment and qualitative assessment of
           microspheres deposition in the target tumour.

        -  Time to Progression (TTP) [Time Frame: 6 months]. Time at which progression is first
           observed in a tumor assessment according to mRECIST as assessed by CT or MRI.

        -  Objective Response Rate (ORR) and Disease Control Rate (DCR) [Time Frame: Assessed at 1,
           3, and 6 months after first treatment]. ORR is defined as a complete or partial response
           among the total number of cases and DCR is defined as a complete, partial response or
           stable disease among the total number of cases , according to mRECIST evaluated by CT or
           MRI. Time to retreatment included as consequential secondary objective.

      Safety:

        -  Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) [Time Frame: Assessed at 1, 3, and
           6 months after first treatment. The incidence of emerging AE and SAE will be summarized
           according to standardized qualification criteria [Journal of Vascular Interventional
           Radiology (JVIR) SAE], including pancreatitis, cholecystitis, clinical presentations,
           postembolization syndrome (PES), etc.

        -  Non Target embolization (NTE) by thorough angiographic assessment of the whole liver
           vasculature after TACE, as well as Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) performed
           immediately following embolization (within 30 minutes from the end of procedure) to
           evaluate off-target distribution.

        -  Health-Related Quality of Life questionary (HRQOL): pre-treatment and post-treatment
           quality of life assessment using the specific questionnaire for functional assessment
           for cancer treatment (FACT-G).

      DATA COLLECTION AND FOLLOW-UP:

      The information will be collected through the electronic database of the patient (includes
      laboratory data). Patients will be evaluated starting from the date of inclusion as
      candidates for TACE treatment, and followed up for 6 months (unless patients are lost to
      clinical follow-up or death occurs). Mortality data are obtainable by searching the
      electronic history of the patient.

      Changes in the serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase
      (ALT), Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bilirubin, albumin and patients' complete hematological
      profile, as well as serum lipase and amylase levels within the 1st week post-TACE to detect
      pancreatitis, will be evaluated at the following time-points: pre-embolization, at one month,
      three months, and six months. Computed tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      with contrast will be performed at the same time-points as just indicated; modified Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( m-RECIST) will be used, and images will be assessed by
      two experienced radiologists (any discordant interpretation will be solved through team
      consensus). All serologic toxicities would be classified according to common terminology
      criteria for adverse effects. On this scale, severe hepato-toxicity (grade 3) is classified
      as the increase of up to 5 times the normal limit of AST, ALT, FA or the increase of
      bilirubin level to over 3 g/dl.
    
  