
    
      For triage of emergency patients at the Emergency Department of the University Hospital Basel
      the emergency severity index (ESI) is used. At decision point "D" in the ESI-algorithm vital
      signs such as respiratory rate, heart rate and oxygen saturation are needed.

      According to the guidelines the respiratory rate is visually counted for one minute
      (WHOrecommendation) by a triage nurse.

      Simultaneously in addition to the visual counting, it is planned to measure the same vital
      sign as part of our study also through a camera-based prototype application (CBPA) and
      capnography as a gold standard.

      Hence the triage process is not prolongated through our study, only completed and a guideline
      compliant procedure is ensured which is only performed in a relatively low percentage in the
      ED of the University Hospital Basel. Clinical decisions are exclusively based on the actual
      clinical standard of visual counting and are not influenced by the measurements of our study.

      For the capnography, which were considered as the most accurate method, the patient wears a
      nasal sample line (Philips® Heartstart MRx mit Philips® Smart CapnoLine™PlusO2Long Oral/Nasal
      Sample Line).

      The CBPA system consists of a notebook (HP Zbook 15 G3, S/N: CND705IXT6), USB-camera with
      lens (Tamron CCTV lens, CE 4402789484; UI3060 camera, 20170329-E347840), USB-harddrive
      (Western digital R/N D8B, S/N: WXA1E661J0XJ) to save the signals and an implement
      camera-based algorithm for extraction of breathing signals. The camera is pointing towards
      the torso of the patient to display it on the screen in a real-time application. The software
      is able to detect the respiratory-specific chest movements and generates a respiratory wave
      on the computer. From the configuration and frequency of these respiratory waves the software
      calculates the respiratory rate. No videos are recorded.

      The data is acquired in a standardised protocol and stored coded in an Access®-database. To
      prevent potential bias the vital signs will be written down in the following order: 1. RR by
      visual counting 2. RR by CBPA 3. RR by capnography. The measurements take place in rooms of
      the ED which are designated to triage emergency patients.

      As possible confounders sex, age and BMI are registered.
    
  