
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study examines how social and physical features of neighborhoods interact with individual
      factors to influence disparities in health, an important but understudied area of research.
      This project will create a rich new database where individuals' socioeconomic status (SES)
      and health indicators are linked with characteristics of their specific neighborhoods and
      their subsequent mortality. Thus, it builds on an important exiting data base to create a
      contextual-level database with information about mortality.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Few studies have examined how social and physical features of neighborhoods interact with
      individual factors, e.g., health behaviors and socioeconomic status (SES), to influence
      disparities in health. The investigators propose to test the independent and interrelated
      effects of the neighborhood social environment (e.g., neighborhood SES, social
      disorganization, Hispanic concentration, crime rates), neighborhood physical environment
      (e.g., housing conditions, availability of goods and services such as licensed alcohol
      distributors, fast food restaurants, grocery stores, gun shops, educational resources,
      recreational facilities, banking/lending institutions), and individual risk factors in
      predicting all-cause and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in women and men. They will
      conduct a prospective mortality follow-up study of 8,847 white (non-Hispanic) and Hispanic
      women and men who participated in the Stanford Heart Disease Prevention Program (SHDPP), also
      referred to as the Stanford Five-City Project. This population-based CVD study included a
      random sample of women and men aged 25-74 who participated in one of five cross-sectional
      surveys (1979-1990) and were from four socioeconomically diverse California cities. The SHDPP
      is recognized for its comprehensive and well-standardized survey and physiologic measures
      that include SES (education, income, occupation), CVD risk factors (e.g., smoking, high
      cholesterol and saturated fat), psychosocial factors, and other health-related measures. The
      investigators propose to match survey data to death records for all-cause and CVD mortality
      endpoints, and link geocoded addresses to census data and archival data for measures of the
      neighborhood social and physical environment. This work would create a new database where
      individuals' SES and health indicators are linked with characteristics of their specific
      neighborhoods. Based on their empirical findings, they will identity neighborhoods currently
      at high and low risk for mortality, then conduct focus groups and map neighborhood
      environments (e.g., social, physical, and service features) to create a geographic
      information system (GIS). These two activities will hopefully extend their empirical
      findings, generate new hypotheses, and guide the development of their Community Outreach and
      Education Program (COEP). The COEP will build on their collaborative partnerships with
      members of the study cities, health advocates, and health agencies that serve low SES and
      medically under served populations. With the involvement of these partners, they will
      integrate their empirical findings with knowledge from existing studies and disseminate
      results via the Internet, media, targeted mailings, and programs offered by the California
      State and local county health departments in the four study cities.
    
  