
    
      This study aims to investigate a two-phase rebreather system (Revoxa Oxygen Rebreather
      device) among hospitalized patients requiring oxygen therapy. This system can deliver a high
      fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) using a very low flow oxygen source with reduced or no
      aerosolization. This could provide effective respiratory support with reduced waste and risk
      of spreading of infectious particles. Such a device could also be used in field hospitals and
      other makeshift care centers in the event of a surge in demand, because it obviates the need
      for the type of high-flow oxygen infrastructure that is typically limited to hospital
      settings.

      This is a prospective comparative study of sequential interventions to evaluate the ability
      of the Revoxa Oxygen Rebreather device (RO) to improve and maintain oxygen saturation at
      satisfactory levels compared to conventional low-flow supplemental oxygen delivery (COD) via
      nasal cannula or face mask. Prior to conducting study procedures in the patient population,
      feasibility of trial procedures will be determined among 3 healthy adults (Group A). The
      initial procedural test in a healthy sample will not be included in the endpoint assessment.
      Following initial trial conduct in a healthy sample, 20 adult patients requiring supplemental
      oxygen will be recruited: adults with non-severe hypoxemia (Group B), followed by enrollment
      of adults with hypoxemia of any severity not requiring mechanical ventilation (Group C).
      Baseline measures of oxygen saturation, oxygen flow rate, vital signs (respiratory rate,
      heart rate, and blood pressure), and patient self-reported dyspnea and comfort will be
      recorded prior to initiating treatment. Following baseline measurement, either conventional
      low-flow oxygen delivery or oxygen via the Revoxa Oxygen Rebreather device will be initiated
      for 20 minutes, followed by the other modality for 20 minutes. To avoid any bias that may be
      introduced by a fixed sequence of device utilization (eg. COD, then RO), the order in which
      devices are used will be determined quasi-randomly based on whether the patient is enrolled
      on an odd numbered day, or an even numbered day. Vital signs, supplemental oxygen, and
      self-reported dyspnea measures are captured during both treatment regimens. Participants may
      verbally withdraw at any time by contacting one of the clinical or research staff. At that
      point, all data collection relating to the withdrawn study participant will be terminated. If
      the participant wishes, all existing data will be deleted (with the exception of the signed
      consent form and data related to the consent withdrawal - including the reason for the
      withdrawal). Additional participants will be recruited to maintain an adequate sample size in
      the event that participants are withdrawn from the study.
    
  