
    
      Following the announcement and evolution of breast cancer, but also in response to primary
      treatment, some symptoms appear to directly compromise the psychic and/or physical sphere of
      the individual. Current rehabilitation programs are not sufficiently oriented to solve most
      of these symptoms. Hippotherapy is an emerging specialized rehabilitation approach, performed
      on a specially trained horse by accredited health professionals (e.g. medical doctors,
      physical therapists, occupational therapists, psychomotricians, speech-language pathologists,
      clinical psychologists). The horse is an excellent collaborator in situations of physical and
      psychic disability, whether temporary or consolidated. It provides human support for
      impairments (anatomical or physiological), activity limitations, and participation
      restrictions as defined by WHO. Hippotherapy has a direct action on the sensorimotor
      capacities of the individual but also on his cognitive abilities, i.e. attention, memory,
      psychomotricity, emotion, perception, sequencing of complex movements, self-experience,
      psychic temporality. Overall, the strong solicitation of the sensory and motor spheres
      promotes and interacts with the mechanisms related to the execution of tasks in the cognitive
      domain through the interactions of several neural networks. A randomized simple-blinded
      controlled trial on hippotherapy versus conventional care will be carried out. After giving
      their informed consent, patients will be enrolled in the trial. The 6-months program includes
      1-week daily sessions of hippotherapy by the end of the initial cancer treatment followed by
      three short 2-days sessions with an interval of 2 months between each. The study will focus
      on 86 patients. Recruitment will be done over a 48-months' period. A battery of
      self-administered questionnaires will allow to study both the functional and psychological
      outcome. The primary end point will be quality of life, whereas body image, fatigue, anxiety,
      depression and cognitive performances will be the secondary end points.
    
  