
    
      Dilation and evacuation (D&E) is the most common method of second trimester abortion in the
      United States. Cervical preparation prior to the procedure is essential in order to allow
      passage of operative instruments and pregnancy tissue safely through the cervix and to
      decrease the risk of complications. In the second trimester, cervical preparation is
      typically achieved with placement of osmotic dilators prior to the procedure. Women have
      described the pain of osmotic dilator insertion as moderate to severe yet there have been few
      studies aimed at addressing pain during osmotic dilator insertion. A lidocaine paracervical
      block is commonly used for pain control during other gynecologic procedures including
      procedures involving cervical dilation like dilation and curettage. One randomized controlled
      trial found that use of a paracervical block with 1% lidocaine decreased pain with osmotic
      dilator insertion compared to a sham block. Because the dilators slowly expand after
      insertion, there is continued discomfort for several hours after placement. Research has
      shown that pain after osmotic dilator insertion peaks at 2 hours post-insertion with use of a
      lidocaine paracervical block and a local anesthetic is not sufficient to provide lasting pain
      relief. Systemic medications, such as gabapentin and narcotic analgesics have been studied to
      treat post-insertional dilator pain, however these treatments have not been shown to be
      effective.

      There are many adjunct treatments to optimize the duration of local analgesia from a
      peripheral nerve block. Buprenorphine, a partial mu-opioid receptor agonist, is a high
      potency, lipophilic opioid and has a high binding capacity for the mu-opioid receptor.
      Because of the high binding capacity, buprenorphine has the longest duration of action of all
      opioids. When administered perineurally in combination with a local anesthetic, buprenorphine
      has been found to drastically increase the duration of analgesia at several anatomic sites,
      including axillary and subclavian brachial plexus blocks and infragluteal sciatic nerve
      blocks. With the addition of buprenorphine at doses of 0.15 - 0.3mg, there is significant
      prolongation of the anesthetic sensory blockade up to three times the duration of the local
      anesthetic alone. The use of perineural buprenorphine is well established for postoperative
      analgesia. Buprenorphine itself also has local anesthetic properties. Buprenorphine blocks
      voltage gated sodium channels and inhibits C-fiber action potentials, thereby contributing to
      an analgesic effect. Buprenorphine not only prolongs the duration of local anesthetic effect
      but also improves the analgesic properties when administered in a perineural block.

      The addition of buprenorphine to a perineural local anesthetic has not been studied in a
      paracervical block. This study will be the first trial to assess the efficacy of
      buprenorphine to provide analgesia for a gynecologic procedure. This medication has the
      additional benefit of providing long lasting pain relief for procedures that cause continued
      discomfort after the end of the procedure. The investigators hypothesize that the addition of
      0.15mg of buprenorphine to a lidocaine paracervical block will improve pain during osmotic
      dilator insertion and provide continued pain relief several hours after osmotic dilator
      insertion. If this intervention proves to provide better pain control than a lidocaine
      paracervical block alone, it would be an intervention for women during a painful clinic
      procedure.

      A total of 114 women undergoing D&E who require cervical preparation with osmotic dilators
      will be randomized to one of two study groups: (1) paracervical block with 20mL of 1%
      buffered lidocaine or (2) paracervical block with 20mL of 1% buffered lidocaine plus 0.15mg
      of buprenorphine. Participants, clinicians performing the procedure, and study personnel
      administering questionnaires will be blinded to study assignment. Participants will rate
      their level of pain on an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) during the insertion of osmotic
      dilators and at several time points after insertion. The primary outcome is to compare the
      median pain score at the time of osmotic dilator insertion in women randomized to a 1%
      lidocaine and buprenorphine paracervical block compared to a 1% lidocaine paracervical block
      alone. Secondary outcomes are to compare the median pain score 2 hours after osmotic dilator
      insertion; to assess overall narcotic and ibuprofen use after osmotic dilator placement and
      before dilation and evacuation procedure; to assess opioid related side effects; and to
      determine patient satisfaction with pain control during and after osmotic dilator insertion.

      Primary Hypothesis: The addition of buprenorphine 0.15mg to a paracervical block using 1%
      lidocaine will be associated with a lower median pain score on the NRS at time of osmotic
      dilator insertion compared to women who receive a lidocaine paracervical block alone.

      Secondary Hypothesis: The addition of buprenorphine 0.15mg to a paracervical block using 1%
      lidocaine will be associated with a lower median pain score on the NRS 2 hours after osmotic
      dilator insertion compared to women who receive a lidocaine paracervical block alone.
    
  