
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune syndrome that causes pervasive
      immune dysregulation in all cells of the innate and adaptive immune system. Most patients
      with SLE require glucocorticoid treatment at some point of the disease course, but the
      specific effects of glucocorticoids that lead to therapeutic benefit in this condition are
      not well understood. In addition, the glucocorticoid dosing regimens that are administered to
      patients with SLE in clinical practice are arbitrary and not based on detailed knowledge of
      the effects of glucocorticoids at different doses on cells of the immune system. This study
      aims to improve our understanding of the effects of glucocorticoids on the immune system of
      patients with SLE, and to test for possible differences in these effects at a range of
      clinically relevant doses.

      A consistent outcome of glucocorticoid exposure is a significant reprogramming of a cell s
      transcriptional state. The exact changes, however, vary substantially across cell types.
      Studies of specific cell populations, therefore, are necessary to gain a realistic view of
      the transcriptional effects of glucocorticoids. Given that cell composition and molecular
      behavior are known to differ among pathological states, the study of patients with SLE is
      necessary to identify the effects of glucocorticoids that are most likely to be responsible
      for their clinically beneficial effects in this condition.

      In this study, participants with SLE, ages 18-80 years, will be randomized to receive a
      single intravenous infusion of 1 of 2 doses of the glucocorticoid methylprednisolone (1 mg/kg
      or 250 mg). Blood will be collected at baseline (within 45 days before infusion), immediately
      before the infusion, and again at 2 and 4 hours after the start of the infusion. Blood
      samples will be processed for isolation of hematopoietic cell subsets, including neutrophils,
      B cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, monocytes, natural killer cells, and plasmacytoid
      dendritic cells. Laboratory studies will be performed on the purified cells, with the goal of
      understanding the human response to glucocorticoids in vivo at the level of RNA (eg, RNA
      sequencing [RNA-seq], small-RNA-seq, real-time polymerase chain reaction), DNA (eg, chromatin
      immunoprecipitation sequencing, methylation analysis, DNA sequencing, genotyping), and
      protein (eg, flow cytometry, mass spectrometry). At each time point, serum methylprednisolone
      levels will be measured and flow cytometry for standard cell-lineage markers will be
      performed.
    
  