
    
      Sarcopenia, decrease lean body mass (LBM) is the well-known parameter which negatively
      related to physical activity, morbidity and patients survival. Aging and decreased blood
      androgen level are well known risk factors of sarcopenia in male population.

      Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is commonly performed in advanced or recurred prostate
      cancer patient and lead to accelerating decreasing blood androgen level. The previous studies
      defined the sarcopenia after ADT by calculated the (muscle component area) / (total body
      area) on computed tomography (CT) scan. However, CT scan is not recommended for routine
      follow up examination of ADT patients thus this measurement of sarcopenia has limitation on
      clinical usage.

      This study using Inbody 320 for measure body composition. Inbody 320 based on multi-frequency
      Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis(BIA) method that calculated specific body component by
      differences in impedance indexes of fat, muscle and extracellular body fluid. Inbody
      measurement show precision accuracy and safety on body composition measurement, thus it
      frequently used in studies of obesity, nutrition and sports fields.

      We calculating the total skeletal muscle mass (SMM), skeletal muscle index(SMI), relative
      skeletal muscle mass index (RASM), fat body mass (FBM), body mass index (BMI), body fat
      percentage, body water content, and edema value by Inbody 320 in the patients who treated by
      ADT in prostate cancer patients. Enrolled patients check the body composition parameters at
      the baseline (before ADT) and after ADT 3,6,12,18,24 months.

      We prospectively measuring the 2 years changes of body composition and sarcopenia after ADT
      treatment. Patients characteristics (Age, underlying disease), Prostate cancer status (PSA
      level, Gleason grade group, initial treatment), ADT methods characters (timing, type) and
      oncological outcome (Recurrence, Metastasis, Castration resistance) were measuring in the
      cohort population.

      Post hoc analysis were performed in the timing (initial, salvage or adjuvant) or type (LHRH
      agonist, Antiandrogen or surgical castration) of ADT for development of sarcopenia. Sub-arm
      analysis were performed for assessing that effect of presence of sarcopenia on oncological
      outcome and functional outcomes after ADT.
    
  