
    
      Successful perioperative pain management is one of the main goals of the whole anesthetic
      practice. Kidney Surgeries, especially those involving the renal pelvis warrant special
      analgesic considerations. This is due to the sensitivity of the renal pelvis to pain. Its
      sub-diaphragmatic position affects deep breathing and coughing. Which renders adequate
      analgesia an important factor for maintaining good respiratory force and depth postoperative
      and reduces respiratory complications like atelectasis.

      The Use of a single mode of analgesia in these settings , like the use of parenteral opioids
      for example, provides significantly less analgesic effect and more complications including
      respiratory depression , PONV (postoperative nausea and vomiting ) , constipation , urine
      retention …etc.

      The use of regional techniques as a part of multimodal pain management in these procedures
      provides superior analgesia and less complication rates.

      This is added to high expectations of an easier perioperative course of PCNL (percutaneous
      nephrolithotomy) being and endoscopic procedure that does not involve a big skin incision.
      These expectations also include a short hospital stay. However PCNL is usually associated
      with significant pain and discomfort postoperatively. Various studies have been studying
      effects of integrating local and regional techniques in the perioperative pain management.

      For Regional and local procedures of analgesia; Studies of Single Shot technique and catheter
      techniques has long been ongoing for many regional techniques for example like Pravertebral
      block and adductor canal block . These studies are conducted to determine the efficacy and
      adversities each technique.

      Alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists such as clonidine have been shown to increase the duration of
      peripheral nerve block . Dexmedetomidine is a more potent and selective α-2-adrenoceptor
      compared to clonidine . Peri-neural dexmedetomidine was evaluated in animal studies where it
      prolonged the duration of sensory and motor blocks of local anesthetics without any evidence
      of neurotoxicity for up to 14 days after initial administration . The use of
      perineuraldexmedetomidine prolong the duration of of sensory block, provide effective acute
      pain control after surgery and reduce the need for rescue analgesia in several nerve blocks
      like upper limb extremity blocks,Paravertebral block), tranversus abdominis plane (TAP) block
      and Erector spinae plane block.

      Erector spinae plane block (ESPB) is a relatively novel procedure. The limited number of
      studies available show promising results as regards the efficacy of pain management in trunk
      surgeries and renal interventions. However the studies that clarify the different
      applications of ESPB, including the efficacy of a single shot versus a continuous block with
      an indwelling catheter, are lacking.
    
  