
    
      1. Background

             -  The standard extent of pulmonary resection for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
                is still lobectomy. However, recent advances in imaging technology and staging
                modalities and the widespread use of computed tomography (CT) screening have
                greatly increased the probability of detecting small-sized tumors, especially with
                ground-glass opacity (GGO) feature. Adenocarcinoma with GGO feature generally has a
                good prognosis due to its minimally invasive nature. Many studies have shown that
                these pathologically less invasive subtypes are associated with better prognoses
                compared with other subtypes such as acinar, papillary, micropapillary, and solid
                predominant invasive adenocarcinoma.

             -  This recent change in the disease pattern of NSCLC from locally advanced and solid
                tumors to early and less invasive tumors with GGO features have led to a resurgence
                of interest in sublobar resection. Several retrospective studies have been
                conducted to compare the early and late outcomes including long-term survival
                between patients who underwent lobectomy and those who underwent sublobar
                resection.

             -  Multiple reports have suggested that small-sized peripheral lung adenocarcinoma can
                be treated by sublobar resection, yielding survival rates similar to those of
                lobectomy. Lobectomy is considered to be too much for these less invasive tumors
                and sublobar resection would be sufficient for these tumors. If sublobar resection
                is equivalent to lobectomy in terms of their oncologic efficacy for the surgical
                treatment of NSCLC, the potential benefits of sublobar resection include (1) the
                preservation of vital lung parenchyma and pulmonary function, which may lead to
                improved early morbidities and mortalities and then late quality of life and (2) a
                chance for a second resection with a subsequent primary NSCLC.

             -  However, when considering the published evidence for sublobar resection, its
                interpretation needs to be cautious. Since most studies were non-randomized, there
                may also have been selection bias in terms of preoperative patient risk factors
                (intentional vs. compromised sublobar resection), tumors of various histological
                subtypes or different tumor size in the study arms. Therefore, the results from two
                randomized trials of lobectomy versus sublobar resection for small-sized lung
                cancer currently ongoing in Japan (Japan Clinical Oncology Group [0802]) and in the
                United States (Cancer and Leukemia Group B [140503]) need to be awaited.

             -  Based on these clinical circumstances and the published evidence, the investigators
                developed the decision-making algorithm regarding the surgical treatment for
                clinical stage IA NSCLC.

        2. Hypothesis The investigators hypothesized that selection of surgical procedure according
           to the pre-defined institutional decision-making algorithm will not compromise the
           treatment outcomes including overall survival and disease-free survival in patients with
           clinical stage IA non-small cell lung cancer.

        3. Purpose The purpose of this study is to determine the outcome of participants with
           clinical stage IA NSCLC treated by 3 types of surgical resection (wide wedge resection,
           segmentectomy, or lobectomy) according to the institutional decision-making algorithm

        4. Study plan The investigators are planning to enroll 1,000 participants who meet the
           pre-defined eligibility criteria over 5 years.
    
  