
    
      Cumulative evidence indicates that a single bout of exercise has beneficial impacts on short-
      and long-term memory in young adults. From a physiological perspective, acute exercise leads
      to changes of heart rate variability (HRV), which is associated with memory retrieval
      process. From a psychological perspective, acute exercise increases the arousal level and
      thus facilitates cognitive processing including memory storage and retrieval. Such HRV-
      and/or arousal-based effects of exercise on memory could be differed by the time of day in
      young adults based on their circadian rhythms of HRV; sleep-wake transition led to rapid
      changes of HRV. Moreover, young adults prefer afternoon or evening to morning, showing less
      wakefulness and lower memory performance in the morning relative to afternoon. Based on the
      potential physiological and/or psychological mechanisms, exercise could impact young adults'
      memory differently by the time of day. Few studies, however, tested the effects of exercise
      on memory based on the time of day; rather, a recent study found null effects of
      exercise-induced arousal on implicit and explicit memory performance in college students in
      the morning.

      The investigators here aim to 1) determine the extent to which the time of day moderates how
      moderate-intensity cardiovascular exercise impacts verbal-auditory and visuo-spatial short-
      and long-term memory in young adults, and 2) consider potential physiological and
      psychological markers that may mediate exercise's effects on cognitive performance.
      Specifically, the investigators will conduct a mixed-design randomized experiment to compare
      the effects of a single session of moderate-intensity cardiovascular exercise on cognitive
      performance at two times of day - in the morning (7 - 9 AM) and late afternoon (3 - 5 PM).
      Participants in each of two groups (morning versus afternoon) will complete two sessions of
      cognitive tests - at baseline without exercise and after an exercise intervention, while
      their emotional states, arousal levels, and heart rate (HR) will be measured at baseline,
      before, during, and after the exercise and memory sessions. The hypotheses are 1) acute
      exercise in the morning will be more beneficial for short- and long-term memory than an equal
      volume of exercise in the afternoon; 2) resting HRV and changes in perceived arousal and
      emotional states will be associated with memory performance following the exercise
      intervention. The rationale for the hypotheses is that cognitive benefits of exercise can
      differ by the preference for the time of day, so it is important to investigate such
      interactions to inform recommendations of the timing of exercise for young adults in academic
      settings. Moreover, exploring the role of psychophysiological markers in mediating exercise
      effects on cognition help to further understanding of the benefits of exercise for brain
      health.
    
  