
    
      Laparoscopic surgery is becoming more popular due to smaller incision, faster recovery, less
      postoperative pain, and earlier returns to normal activity . However post-laparoscopic
      shoulder and upper abdominal pain may upset the patient more than the pain at the incision
      site. The incidence of shoulder pain after laparoscopic gynecological surgery varies from 35%
      to 80% and could be so severe at 24 hours after laparoscopic hysterectomy as well.

      The mechanism of post laparoscopic shoulder and abdominal pain attributes to the insufflated
      co2 in the abdominal cavity and become entrapped between the liver and the right diaphragm
      causing irritation of the phrenic nerve, diaphragm and referred pain in the C4 dermatome. On
      the other hand, the prolonged exposure to residual CO2 dissolution leads to intra-abdominal
      acidosis and consequent peritoneal irritation and abdominal pain.

      As long as the retention of CO2 is the key factor in the laparoscopy-induced shoulder and
      abdominal pain, many strategies have been evolved to alleviate different types of pain in
      patients undergoing laparoscopic surgeries such as usage of low-pressure pneumoperitoneum
      (8-10 mmHg) that result in reducing the intensity of postoperative pain in comparison to
      standard high-pressure pneumoperitoneum (12-15 mmHg). Although this low pressure may impair
      visualization and jeopardize the surgeon's comfort during surgery, this method is proven to
      be safe and feasible.

      One of the maneuvers that have been proposed is an intraperitoneal normal saline infusion
      (IPS) that increases intraperitoneal pressure to enhance the removal of residual CO2, as well
      as offers a physiologic buffer system to wash out excess CO2.

      Pulmonary recruitment maneuvers (PRM) has also a potential beneficial effect on alleviating
      post-laparoscopic pain by mechanically increasing intraperitoneal pressure to accelerate the
      elimination of residual CO2.

      Because these variable techniques are mediated through different mechanisms, the
      investigators hypothesize that combination of two different maneuvers may be ideal and more
      effective in reducing post-laparoscopic shoulder and abdominal pain than any single or
      standard maneuver in patients undergoing laparoscopic gynecologic surgeries.
    
  