
    
      The cognitive, emotional and physical effects of TBI are well documented in the literature.
      Specifically, reduced cognitive functioning and depression, which are much more prevalent
      than in the general population, represent key challenges in the rehabilitation of persons
      recovering from TBI. Aerobic exercise has been shown to improve cognition and mood in the
      general population. Although the positive effects of exercise have been known for some time,
      only recently have some of the mechanisms underlying these effects been defined. One
      hypothesized mechanism was that exercise elevates the levels of BDNF and VEGF in the CNS.
      Although research examining the effects of aerobic exercise in individuals with TBI is
      limited, exercise has been effective in improving cognition and depression in individuals
      with other medical conditions, such as cancer, multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, dementia,
      chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and the elderly.

      The effects of aerobic exercise on patients with TBI will be examined in this clinical trial,
      using a crossover design with a wait-list control. The classic crossover design has been
      modified to examine the effects of an additional 8 weeks of exercise, for a total 16-week
      intervention, in one group. Participants will be randomized into one of two conditions: Group
      A - immediate eight weeks of intervention followed by monitoring or Group B - monitoring
      followed by 8 weeks of intervention. In addition, the participants in Group B will serve as
      their own controls to determine if another 8 weeks of exercise, for a total of 16 weeks, is
      necessary for cognitive improvement.

      Each person will undergo individual interviews and testing/ questionnaires aimed at measuring
      cognition, mood, fatigue, and life satisfaction. Blood will be drawn 2 or 3 times to monitor
      BDNF and VEGF levels. Assessment of cognition, mood, fatigue and life satisfaction will occur
      at four time points for both groups.

      It is hypothesized that aerobic exercise will result in improved cognition and mood from both
      subjective and objective perspectives. In addition, we will explore the effect of post-TBI
      exercise on community participation and life satisfaction and explore personal and injury
      characteristics that mediate effectiveness of aerobic exercise in individuals with TBI.
    
  