
    
      Background:

      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major public health problem; 5-year survival with widespread
      metastatic disease is less than 5%. Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or
      up-regulation of the gene occurs in 60-80% of cases. Therapies targeting EGFR, like
      cetuximab, have shown activity in the treatment of solid tumors like CRC.

      Cetuximab is Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of EGFR-expressing
      CRC, but clinical responses to cetuximab are seen in only 10% of EGFR-expressing CRC. Recent
      data strongly implicate KRAS (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) mutations as a
      mechanism of resistance to anti-EGFR antibody therapies such as cetuximab.

      Another major pathway implicated in colon carcinogenesis is the vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) pathway, which is involved in angiogenesis and is a validated target for
      therapy in CRC. BAY 43-9006 is both a Raf kinase inhibitor and an inhibitor of VEGF receptor
      (VEGFR2) tyrosine kinase.

      We hypothesize that the combined inhibition of EGFR, VEGFR2, and the Ras-Raf pathway will
      demonstrate promising clinical activity in CRC; furthermore, in patients with mutant KRAS,
      combination of cetuximab with a drug that inhibits Raf kinase and acts downstream of Ras
      mutations, could restore tumor sensitivity to cetuximab.

      Objectives:

      To determine the rate of response (CR (complete response) +PR (partial response) +SD (stable
      disease) for 4 months) and toxicity profile of combination of BAY 43-9006 and cetuximab in
      previously treated EGFR-expressing metastatic CRC in patients with mutant KRAS.

      To evaluate BAY 43-9006 pharmacokinetics & pharmacogenomics (CYP3A4/5).

      To evaluate for this combination treatment pharmacodynamics in tumor biopsies, effect on
      tumor vascularity, and effect on angiogenic cytokines.

      Eligibility:

      Adults with histologically or cytologically documented, measurable, EGFR-expressing
      metastatic CRC, which has recurred or progressed following at least one prior Fluorouracil
      (5FU)-based combination chemotherapy regimen administered for the treatment of metastatic
      disease.

      Patients must be KRAS mutation-positive

      Design:

      BAY 43-9006 will be administered 400 mg by mouth twice daily. Cetuximab will be administered
      as 400 mg/m^2 loading dose (week 1) followed by 250 mg/m^2 intravenous (IV) weekly.

      Optional PET (positron emission tomography) /CT (computed tomography) imaging with
      (89)Zr-labeled, EGFR-targeting antibody panitumumab may be performed to evaluate radiation
      dosimetry, safety, and tumor distribution prior to and following treatment with study agents.

      Patients will be evaluated for response every 8 weeks using the Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumor (RECIST) criteria.

      This trial uses a phase II optimal design targeting a response rate as defined above of 20%
      in patients with mutant KRAS. Up to 49 patients may be treated.

      Patients will be stratified by tumor KRAS status (wild type vs. codon 12/13 mutation in
      KRAS).

      Optional correlative (89)Zr-panitumumab PET/CT imaging may be performed in up to 20
      participants. For the first 5 patients, (89)Zr-panitumumab will be administered at baseline
      (within 10 days prior to starting cetuximab). PET/CT imaging will be performed up to 4 times:
      2-6 hours following (89)Zr-panitumumab injection, 1-3 days following injection, 7-8 days
      following injection, and at the end of cycle 1/beginning of cycle 2, to obtain human
      dosimetry calculations.

      If uptake into tumors is shown to be measurable in these first 5 patients, up to 15
      subsequent

      patients will be administered (89)Zr-panitumumab before cetuximab infusion (within 10 days
      prior to starting cetuximab) and have one PET/CT scan prior to the initial cetuximab infusion
      and a second (89)Zr-panitumumab infusion and scan at the end of cycle 1/beginning of cycle 2
      (not shown in schema).

      A diary will be provided for subjects to record taking study medication and side effects.
    
  