
    
      Background Rationale:

      Surgical repair and nerve grafting are currently the standard treatment for nerve laceration.
      However, even with that, the functional outcome in patients with proximal nerve cut is often
      poor. In those cases, the surviving axons in the proximal nerve stump have already reached
      their capacity limit to sprout and to reinnervate. Therefore, no further reinnervation can
      occur even with surgery unless regeneration and extension of the proximal stump can somehow
      be enhanced. Unfortunately, although many attempts, none were shown to be effective in the
      clinical setting.

      Post-surgical electrical stimulation:

      Recent studies demonstrated that electrical stimulation applied directly to an injured
      peripheral nerve resulted in marked improvement of nerve regeneration. Preliminary data
      suggesting that electrical nerve stimulation could possibly enhance nerve regeneration has in
      fact been known for some time. Accelerated rate of regeneration was found in animals that
      received electrical stimulation for as little as 1 hour. Furthermore, preferential growth of
      the regenerating sensory axons into the appropriate nerve branch was also accelerated with
      electrical stimulation.

      Since these studies showed that as little as one hour of electrical stimulation was effective
      in accelerating nerve regeneration, it opens the possibility of applying this to humans. The
      intervention is safe and of minimal discomfort. Furthermore, the use of electrical
      stimulation as a clinical treatment modality is already well accepted. In a recent study, the
      investigators applied this to patients with severe median nerve compressive injury in the
      carpal tunnel following surgery. The procedure was well tolerated with no adverse event
      observed in any of the 21 subjects after 1 year of follow up. In fact, compared to the
      control subjects who received surgery alone, those in the treatment groups showed quicker
      resolution of their symptoms and more vigorous motor nerve regeneration.

      The problem of prolonged denervation:

      Prognosis following severe trauma to nerves in the upper arm and forearm, if left untreated,
      is extremely poor. Current conventional treatment is through primary nerve repair and by
      inserting a nerve graft (most commonly using the sural nerve) to restore nerve continuity.
      However, even with that, the extent of reinnervation is often far from complete. The glacial
      rate of nerve regeneration, at no more than 1 mm a day, can easily leave the target intrinsic
      hand muscles deprived of nerve innervation for a year or more. The long period of
      denervation, coupled with a lack of active movements can lead a whole host of negative
      consequences including muscle fibre fibrosis, contracture, secondary joint derangement and
      not infrequently, pain. Equally important is the Schwann cells' ability to support trophic
      support and nerve growth guidance also gradually declines. Therefore, a more effective
      treatment is urgently needed. A recent approach is by doing a distal nerve transfers. That
      shortens the distance of reinnervation greatly. However, the outcome following this transfer
      or with primary suture repair following acute median or ulnar nerve laceration is relatively
      poor. Another closely related common trauma to the hand is laceration of digital nerves where
      recovery of sensory functions following primary nerve suture is equally poor. To potentially
      further expedite the reinnervation, the investigators proposed to additionally stimulate the
      proximal nerve stump immediately following the nerve transfer and/or the nerve repair.
      Whether this novel approach will indeed further expedite the reinnervation and improve hand
      function following nerve laceration is not known at this point. This will be the first human
      application study to address that question.

      Hypothesis/Research Question/Objectives:

      Investigators hypothesize that nerve regeneration in the nerves in the arm and digital nerve
      in the hand can be significantly enhanced when they are combined with post-surgical
      electrical stimulation. Furthermore, the improved nerve regeneration with post-operative
      electrical stimulation will result in a significant improvement in hand functions compared
      with surgery alone.To test these hypotheses, the objectives of this study are to: 1) quantify
      the functional and physiological consequence of severe nerve injury in the arm, and 2) to
      compare the outcome of conventional nerve surgery alone versus nerve surgery followed by
      post-operative electrical stimulation.

      Basic Study Design:

      Subjects Patients with severe trauma to the nerves in the upper limb resulting in complete
      axonal loss will be recruited. These patients will be randomly assigned to either nerve
      repair/transfer alone or nerve repair/transfer followed by one hour of low frequency
      electrical stimulation. The patients will be followed at 3 month intervals for 2 years.

      Post-surgical outcome including electrophysiological evaluation will be done by an
      independent physician who is not part of the investigation team. Therefore, the testers will
      not be aware of whether the subjects are in the conventional surgery group or in the
      surgery+electrical stimulation group.

      Interventions

      Once all the baseline studies have been completed, the subject will be randomized to one of
      two groups:

      i) Surgery followed by sham stimulation for 5 seconds. Nerve repair/transfer surgery will be
      performed by a peripheral nerve surgeon.

      ii) Surgery followed by 1 hour of electrical stimulation. Electrical stimulation will be done
      by inserting a pair of fine wires insulated all around except over the most distal 1 cm at
      the tip through the incision site. Tips of the fine wires will be seated over the proximal
      nerve stump to depolarize the axons. These fine wire electrodes will be connected to a
      portable electrical stimulator (model SD9, Grass Instruments, Providence, RI, USA).
      Continuous 20 Hz electrical stimuli will be delivered at an intensity of 1.5 times of motor
      threshold for an hour. At this low intensity, there should be little if any discomfort with
      the stimulation procedure. In a previous series of carpal tunnel syndrome patients carried
      out at University of Alberta, this was found to be totally safe and well tolerated. The fine
      wires will be removed once the stimulation protocol is completed.

      Methods of outcome evaluation

        1. Sensory nerve conduction study to measure the sensory nerve action potential amplitudes.

        2. Motor nerve conduction study to measure the compound muscle action potential amplitudes.

        3. Motor unit number estimate. The 'multiple point stimulation' technique will be used.

        4. Light touch and pressure sensation. This will be tested using the Semmes-Weinstein
           Monofilaments and McKinnon-Dellon Disk-Criminator.

        5. Hand function tests. This will be tested using Moberg Pick-Up Test, Purdue Pegboard
           Test, Jamar dynamometer for grip strength, Pinch dynamometer for key, tripod and
           tip-to-tip strength.

      Post intervention evaluations:

      Following the intervention, all the baseline parameters will be reevaluated every 3 to 6
      months for 2 years. The timing and nature of the evaluation procedure will be identical in
      all the patients.

      Statistical Considerations in the study design Since this will be the first human application
      study for nerve laceration on a novel technique, its results will be valuable in guiding
      future full scale studies. The rationale for proposing a total 80 subjects in this study is
      based on a recently completed study on using post surgical electrical stimulation to enhance
      nerve regeneration in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. In that randomized controlled
      study, a similar sample size was used and the investigators found a significant improvement
      in nerve regeneration in the treatment group compared to controls. Based on motor unit number
      estimation, the primary outcome used, the treatment group showed a statistically significant
      improvement compared to the control group.

      Data Analysis:

      Statistical analysis of changes in the outcome measure parameters within each subject will be
      done using paired t-test. A p <0.05 will be considered significant. Differences in treatment
      outcome between the two groups will be done using independent t-test with the treatment
      method being the independent variable.
    
  