
    
      The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) was declared a global pandemic in March 2020. Early research
      from China has suggested that children may experience less severe clinical symptoms than
      adults, and infected children with minimal or no symptoms may be an underrecognized source of
      community disease transmission. COVID-19 infections in children were occurring very early in
      the epidemic but the impact of COVID-19 infection among children remains unclear. The number
      of COVID-19 infections in children and parents in Canada is unknown and studies have not
      evaluated the symptom severity of COVID-19 in children and parents, risk factors for
      infection and severe disease, and whether current preventive efforts are effective. Using
      TARGet Kids!, Canada's largest children's cohort study, the researchers will conduct an
      observational study to evaluate key epidemiological characteristics of COVID-19 among parents
      and children, as well as to determine the spectrum of disease severity, risk factors for
      COVID-19 infection and severe disease, effectiveness of social isolation recommendations,
      risk to family members with a COVID-19 infected family member, and potential new strategies
      to prevent COVID-19 infection and minimize disease severity. Parents of 1082 existing TARGet
      Kids! participants will be asked to provide a nasal swab from themselves and their child
      weekly during the pandemic in addition to a respiratory tract symptom checklist. Preventive
      efforts (e.g. social distancing), parent-reported illness, laboratory-confirmed infections
      and healthcare encounters (e.g. emergency department visits, hospitalizations and ICU care)
      will be measured. Children will subsequently be followed through the TARGet Kids! cohort
      study over the next 6 months and long term, with interim analyses at 3 months. By
      understanding every stage of COVID-19 infection from prevention to transmission in the
      community and home, to outpatient and hospital care utilization, the researchers will rapidly
      develop new interventions to prevent COVID-19 transmission and minimize disease severity
      among children and their families.
    
  