
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are common, especially in young individuals
      participating in rolling and jumping activities. After injury, many people undergo ACL
      reconstruction (ACLR) surgery. The aim of this study is to examine the effects of plyometric
      training on biceps femoris longus (BFl) and vastus lateralis (VL) muscle architecture (fiber
      length, penation angle and muscle thickness) in individuals with ACLR. Individuals who have
      undergone ACLR in this study, which is designed as a parallel group randomized controlled
      study, will be randomly placed into two different groups, the training group and the control
      group. Imagery ability, self-efficacy and motivation will be evaluated with various
      questionnaires and scales in order to compare the homogeneity of the groups. Measurements of
      muscle architecture will be taken bilaterally from BFl and VL muscles by means of an
      ultrasound device. Functional performance will be evaluated with the International Knee
      Documentation Committee score and the single leg jump test. Following the initial
      evaluations, individuals in the training group will receive plyometric training consisting of
      ten different exercises for 8 weeks, 3 sessions per week. In this training, individuals will
      not participate in a real plyometric training. Volunteers will watch videos to be prepared
      (action observation) and imagine them performing those exercises (motor imagery). Except for
      one session that will be applied every two weeks, all other trainings will be given on the
      basis of telerehabilitation via distance education tools. Cognitive fatigue at the beginning
      and end of the session; at the end of each session, the technical quality and efficiency of
      the training will be evaluated. Evaluations of muscle architecture and functional performance
      will be taken again from the individuals in the control and training groups at the end of the
      4th and 8th weeks. The received ultrasound images will be calculated through the MicroDicom
      software. In-group and between-group comparisons will be analyzed using the Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences program and appropriate tests.
    
  