
    
      Obesity is a major public health issue because of its high prevalence and many health
      consequences. Obesity is driven by a dysregulation of the body's energy regulatory systems
      and is life-shortening. Obesity during the critical adolescent period increases risk of
      diabetes, cardiometabolic disease, all-cause mortality, and adulthood obesity. Rates of
      obesity-related cancers are increasing in younger populations. In addition to poorer health,
      individuals with obesity during adolescence are at risk for lower productivity, income, and
      likelihood of employment in adulthood, making obesity treatment and prevention important for
      reducing disparities. Despite consensus on the need for multi-component interventions for
      obesity, rates continue to climb for adolescents, youth of low-income backgrounds, and youth
      of racial/ethnic minority backgrounds. Clinicians cite lack of time and tools to help
      patients lose weight as barriers to weight counseling, and thus need practical, effective
      interventions they can feasibly disseminate from a busy clinical setting.

      Self-weighing, grounded in behavior change theory, is effective for weight loss in adults.
      Self-monitoring is grounded in Social Cognitive Theory (SCT), which describes behavior change
      as happening with reciprocal interactions with one's environment, creating external and
      internal self-reinforcement. Self-monitoring is one such interaction that improves
      self-awareness through proximate self-measurement, and improves self-efficacy, self-control,
      and self-reinforcement. Self-weighing (SW) is a form of self-monitoring for weight loss that
      is grounded in SCT. Daily SW in adults has been associated with increased exercise and
      cognitive restraint, and reduced snacking, television watching, and consumption of sweets.

      The investigator found no data on patient and parent perspectives on connecting scales to the
      EHR for daily weights in adolescents with obesity seeking obesity treatment.

      99 patients age 12 to <18 years old with obesity (BMI >/=95th percentile), to be randomized
      to one of three treatment interventions:

        1. Usual Care

        2. Usual Care plus advice to weigh daily on simple scale

        3. Usual Care plus advice to weigh-daily on an EHR-connected scale

      Survey data collected at baseline, 2, 4, 6, and 12-weeks, and qualitative interviews at 12
      weeks, will assess acceptability, safety, self-efficacy, and BMI. Recruitment will also be
      assessed (% eligible patients who consent). In order to understand real-world feasibility of
      this intervention, the clinic staff will work with patients to connect the scales to Epic.
    
  