
    
      Unobtrusive bed monitoring devices have gained popularity in the area of voluntary sleep
      quality monitoring for wellness purposes. Most of these devices rely on the measurement of
      ballistocardiographic forces caused by the acceleration of blood when the heart pumps it to
      aorta, forces caused by respiration movements and other movements of the person being
      monitored. A thin film-type force sensor placed under the bed mattress, between the matrices
      or under the bed sheet is often used for measuring these forces. While proven to provide
      adequate reliability and accuracy for wellness monitoring of healthy people, unobtrusive bed
      monitoring solutions have not yet been widely deployed in hospital patient monitoring even
      though there would be much use for such technology e.g. in regular hospital wards where
      currently the amount of patient monitoring is very limited.

      If proven operational in this application, bed monitoring technology would provide tremendous
      benefits in both clinical and home monitoring scenarios. Wrist worn pulse plethysmography
      (PPG) devices have increased their popularity as heart rate monitors, referred as optical
      heart rate monitors (OHR) for sports and wellness in recent years and their ability to
      measure average heart rate during movement and beat-to-beat heart rate while at rest
      accurately with healthy people has been shown.

      The objective of the study is to collect ECG and movement data measured with a wearable ECG
      monitor and simultaneously record data with unobtrusive bed sensor and wrist worn PPG device.
      Data recorded with the bed and wrist sensors and vital parameters calculated from that or
      provided by the monitoring devices directly will be compared with the reference.

      The purpose of the study is to gain knowledge about the feasibility of unobtrusive bed and
      wrist monitoring devices for patient monitoring. The collected data will directly provide
      information on the accuracy of the current algorithms of the monitors. Besides this
      evaluation, the collected data will be used in developing new algorithms for detection of
      cardiac problems.

      The study includes collection of data from vascular patients referred to surgical operation
      in Tampere University Hospital. Data collection takes place at vascular surgical ward where
      one dedicated research bed is equipped with bed monitoring devices. Another group of subjects
      is formed by healthy volunteers.
    
  