
    
      Settings: Cambodia, Côte d'Ivoire, Uganda, Vietnam. Design: Multicentre, two-arm, unblinded
      randomized controlled superiority trial.

      Objective: To compare the 24-week risk of death and occurrence of invasive bacterial
      infection between two experimental strategies in HIV-1 infected adults who start ART with a
      CD4 count <100/mm3: (i) continuous extensive TB screening during follow-up each time the
      patient present with symptoms, versus (ii) systematic empirical TB treatment started 2 weeks
      before ART initiation.

      Trial strategies:

      At inclusion, participants will be randomized 1:1 in two strategies of TB testing and
      treatment: extensive TB screening, or systematic empirical TB treatment.

      Extensive TB screening (arm 1): In this arm:

        -  TB screening point-of-care tests (Xpert MTB/RIF®, urine LAM) and chest X-ray will be
           used extensively at randomisation (in all patients) and during follow-up (in patients
           with signs or symptoms suggestive of TB);

        -  Only patients who meet standardized criteria for TB at inclusion or during follow-up
           will receive a standard TB treatment (2ERHZ/4RH);

        -  ART (tenofovir(TDF)-lamivudine (3TC)/emtricitabine(FTC) or zidovudine (AZT)-lamivudine+
           efavirenz) will be started immediately after randomization in patients not put on TB
           treatment, and 2 weeks after initiation of TB treatment in others.

      Systematic empirical TB treatment (arm 2): In this arm:

        -  TB screening point-of-care tests will not be used;

        -  All patients will start a 6-month standard TB treatment (2ERHZ/4RH) at randomization;
           ART (tenofovir-lamivudine/emtricitabine or zidovudine-lamivudine+ efavirenz) will be
           started 2 weeks after TB treatment initiation.

      Both strategies will apply to the first 24 weeks in the trial (intervention period).

      From week-24 to week-48, the choice of TB tests and the prescription of TB treatment will be
      left upon the decision of the investigator in both trial arms.

      Inclusion time: 24 months. Follow-up: each patient will be followed 48 weeks. Statistical
      analysis: the primary analysis will be intention to treat. It will compare the 24-week
      probability of death or invasive bacterial infection between arms.

      Sample size: 1050 participants. This will allow demonstration of a 40% reduction in the
      24-week probability of death or invasive bacterial infection in arm 2, compared to arm 1 (α
      5%; 1-β 80%).
    
  