
    
      Study Description:

      This is a phase 2, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial in persons with
      C7-T12 motor level SCI, AIS grade A, B or C, 6 months or later after injury. The trial will
      test the hypothesis that a Home-Based Multimodality Functional Recovery and Metabolic Health
      Enhancement Program that addresses multiple pathophysiologic factors in SCI and includes
      hybrid exercise (Functional electrical stimulation - leg cycling, FES-LC plus arm ergometry),
      and an androgen will be more efficacious than hybrid exercise plus placebo in improving
      aerobic capacity, function, metabolism, and wellbeing.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      • To determine whether the multimodality intervention is more efficacious in improving peak
      aerobic capacity, and muscle mass and strength than placebo plus hybrid exercise alone.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine whether the multimodality intervention is more efficacious than placebo
           plus hybrid exercise in improving metabolic health, as reflected in fasting glucose,
           hemoglobin A1C, insulin sensitivity, fat mass and distribution, plasma lipids, and
           inflammation markers.

        -  To determine the efficacy of the multimodality intervention in improving self-reported
           physical function (using SCI-FI CAT) and wellbeing (mood, anxiety, pain, loneliness and
           life satisfaction)

        -  To assess safety by structured monitoring of adverse events, and determining the
           proportion of participants experiencing injury, erythrocytosis, or other
           androgen-related or exercise-related adverse events.

      Endpoints: Primary Endpoint:

      Our primary outcome is peak aerobic capacity because it is an excellent marker of overall
      health, physical function, and mortality. Aerobic capacity is closely related to metabolic
      health, insulin sensitivity and cardiovascular outcomes. It can be measured accurately in SCI
      patients and would be expected to improve with the proposed interventions.

      Secondary endpoints. Whole body skeletal muscle and fat mass and intraabdominal fat will be
      assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), using the Dixon method for separation of water/
      fat signals.

      Maximal voluntary strength and muscle fatigability in the upper extremity will be assessed
      using the 1-repetition maximum in chest press.

      Computer Adaptive Technology (CAT) version of Spinal Cord Injury - Functional Index (SCI-FI)
      will be used to assess self-reported function and mobility. SCI-FI is specific for persons
      with SCI that assesses functional capacity in basic mobility, ambulation, self-care, and fine
      motor function, and wheelchair ambulation. The CAT version of SCI-FI is psychometrically
      robust across a range of disability levels, and has high test-retest reliability, internal
      consistency, construct validity, and precision.

      Measures of Metabolism: Fasting glucose, A1C; insulin sensitivity using hyperinsulinemic
      euglycemic clamp in 30 randomly selected subjects. IL-6 and hsCRP as inflammation markers;
      and plasma lipids, apolipoproteins B, C and A, and lipoprotein particles as markers of
      atherogenicity - all measured in the Brigham Research Assay Laboratory. Visceral fat will be
      assessed using Dixon MRI technique.

      Wellbeing: We will assess mood, anxiety, pain, loneliness and life satisfaction as measures
      of wellbeing. Mood will be assessed using Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), a 9-item
      scale that assesses mood and depressive symptoms. We will assess anxiety using GAD-7.
      Modified Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), a validated measure of pain in SCI, assesses pain
      intensity (sensory dimension) and interference with function (reactive dimension).
      Satisfaction with Life Scale is a 5 item scale that assesses happiness with life. Loneliness
      will be assessed using the Three-Item Loneliness Scale.

      Study Population: This proof-of-concept trial will enroll 88 community dwelling men and women
      with SCI, 19 to 70 years of age, C7-T12, AIS A, B or C, 6 months or later after a SCI.

      The trial plans to randomize 88 eligible subjects at a single trial site.

      Phase:

      Phase 2

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      This is a single site study that will take place at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in
      Boston, MA.

      Description of Study Intervention:

      The Home-Based Multimodality Functional Recovery and Metabolic Health Enhancement Program
      includes hybrid exercise training at home consisting of concurrent FES-LC plus arm ergometry
      plus testosterone undecanoate (an androgen). Testosterone injections will be administered by
      study staff in the research clinic or by a visiting nurse in the participant's home. The
      control group will receive hybrid exercise plus placebo injections.

      Study Duration:

      Approximately 54 months

      Participant Duration:

      Approximately 32 weeks (14 weeks for screening, baseline studies, 16 weeks of intervention,
      and up to 2 weeks of end of study assessments)
    
  