
    
      Despite advances in systemic chemotherapy, patients with stage IV NSCLC will die from their
      disease. The median survival of all patients is 8-16 months, with a one year-survival rate of
      33%. Chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment of advanced disease. Based on available data
      from randomized trials, current treatment recommendations are to treat with one of several
      effective cisplatin-doublets which have resulted in median survival of 16 to 18 months.
      Second line chemotherapy is able to improve outcome in patients who have had prior cisplatin
      therapy. Although these important milestones represent improvements in the care of patients
      with metastatic NSCLC, outcome has not been able to be further improved by substituting one
      active drug for another in a platinum-based doublet, treating patients with more than four
      cycles of chemotherapy or by using cisplatin-based triplets. It is clear that if we are to
      improve outcome of NSCLC patients, we will need to develop drugs with novel mechanisms of
      action that perhaps will inhibit major cellular signaling pathways affecting survival,
      proliferation and angiogenesis. One new compound, BAY 43-9006, was designed to inhibit Raf
      and is also known to inhibit other kinases including VEGFR2, VEGFR3, PDGFR-beta, Flt3, c-KIT,
      and p38(1). BAY 43-9006 has shown in vitro activity against NSCLC cell lines NCI-H460 and
      A549 with tumor growth inhibition of 27% to 68%. In addition, BAY 43-9006 has shown activity
      in the H460 NSCLC xenograft model. In NSCLC, the proliferation signaling of the
      Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway is increased due to the frequent (30%) presence of K-ras mutations in
      the tumor. Mutations in K-ras have been associated with malignant transformation of normal
      epithelium and constitutive activation of p21 and its downstream effects on cellular
      proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. Clinical observations have shown that tumors with
      K-ras mutations tended to be smaller but more poorly differentiated, and associated with a
      significantly worse three-year mortality rate. As mentioned above, other pathways significant
      to the malignant potential of NSCLC, particularly those involved in angiogenesis, may also be
      affected by BAY 43-9006. The in vitro and in vivo data support the clinical investigation of
      BAY 43-9006 as an inhibitor of the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK downstream proliferation effects. The goal
      of this phase II trial is to determinate if BAY 43-9006 is active in NSCLC, and to measure
      the BAY 43-9006 biological effects on the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway. To achieve these goals,
      patients with relapsed or recurrent NSCLC will be given BAY 43-9006 (four weeks cycle of
      400mg PO BID). A series of correlative studies will be done during treatment to measure
      biological and clinical effects of BAY 43-9006. These studies will include analyses of tissue
      and blood samples as well as correlative imaging studies.
    
  