
    
      It is based on the hypothesis that the application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
      at 1 Hertz or 5 Hertz in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) implies
      a neuroprotective effect against the progression of the disease, resulting in a clinical
      improvement (attenuation of symptoms and signs, as direct measures of the therapeutic effect)
      and a biochemistry improvement (decrease of serum oxidative stress molecules and acute phase
      reactants, as indirect measures).

      Along with the traditional techniques for measuring biochemical magnitudes, proteomic
      techniques would allow the identification (and subsequent validation) of molecules that are
      clearly different in situations of stability-relapse, presence-absence of therapeutic
      response, better-worse evolution. These molecules (in isolation or considering their
      characteristics together) could be useful as therapeutic targets or as useful biomarkers for
      diagnostic or prognostic use.

      The main goal is to demonstrate the therapeutic effect of TMS in patients with MS by means of
      measurement of clinical changes according to the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS).
      Consequently, the specific objectives are:

        -  To determine the consequences of the administration of TMS (1 Hertz/5 Hertz) in patients
           with MS, paying special attention to its clinical impact according to the MSFC scale
           (Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite).

        -  To assess the effect of the application of TMS (1 Hertz/5 Hertz) on fatigue in people
           with MS, according to the FIS scale (Fatigue Impact Scale).

        -  To observe the effect of the application of TMS (1 Hertz/5 Hertz) on the degree of
           depression, according to the Beck scale.

        -  To study the impact of TMS (Hertz/5 Hz) on cognitive changes in patients with MS, in
           relation to the BRB scale (Brief Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological Test).

        -  To identify the changes induced by the application of TMS (1 Hertz/5 Hertz) on
           neurochemical biomarkers, oxidative damage, acute phase reactants and in differential
           expression proteomic profiles, in patients affected by MS.

        -  To establish the possible associations between the parameters studied and the likely
           changes that may be observed in them after TMS therapy.

      DESIGN:

      Phase II clinical trial, unicentric, controlled, randomised, single blind. The patients
      included will be assigned under the 1:1:1 randomization formula, constituting three groups
      for the present study: 30 patients treated with natalizumab + white (placebo) + 30 patients
      treated with natalizumab + TMS (1 Hertz) + 30 patients treated with natalizumab + TMS (5
      Hertz).

      SELECTION OF SUBJECTS:

      PATIENT SAMPLE TO STUDY.- 90 patients diagnosed with RRMS, who meet all the inclusion
      criteria and do not present any of the exclusion criteria that are established below and from
      which clinically evaluable results can be obtained.

      VARIABLES TO STUDY:

      Patients will be evaluated by:

        1. Clinical activity of the disease: Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS).

        2. Comprehensive clinical assessment of the disease: Multiple Sclerosis Functional
           Composite (MSFC).

        3. Cognitive function: Brief Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological Test (BRB).

        4. Assessment of fatigue: Fatigue Impact Scale (FIS).

        5. Depression assessment: Beck depression scale.

        6. Radiological: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) with and without contrast.

        7. Complete blood count(with formula and count of red, white and platelet series) and
           Biochemistry (glucose, lipid profile, total proteins, albumin, transaminases, CK and
           LDH).

        8. Biomarkers of oxidative damage: lipoperoxidation products and plasma carbonylated
           proteins.

        9. Redox state of glutathione (glutathione (GSH), glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and GSH/GSSG
           ratio).

       10. Levels of neurotrophic factors (BDNF and NGF).

       11. Cytokines: TNFalpha.

       12. Studies of proteomics with "equalisation" and further bioinformatic analysis.

      POPULATIONS AND JUSTIFICATION OF THE CHOICE OF NATALIZUMAB AS A BASAL MEDICATION:

      The feasibility analysis will be done by intention to treat, and will include all patients
      for whom investigators have some feasibility data.

      Patients in the three RRMS groups are treated with natalizumab. It could have been decided to
      recruit those treated with another pharmacological therapy (such as alemtuzumab, being a more
      modern monoclonal antibody); however, natalizumab offers us four advantages:

      i) Its idiosyncrasy of administration (intravenous) leads to the patient going to the
      hospital and undergoing a blood analysis, which facilitates obtaining the sample needed in
      the present study.

      ii) It is the drug with which a greater number of patients with RRMS is currently being
      treated in our hospital, which makes it possible to maximise the possibilities of
      recruitment.

      iii) Regarding the previous point, considering patients under the same treatment
      (pharmacological) allows us to homogenise the characteristics of the three groups of the
      sample recruited, which increases the internal and external validity of results.

      iv) To the above the investigators can add that natalizumab is the drug with which the
      research group has the most experience.

      POSSIBLE LOSS OF PATIENTS: RETIREMENT CRITERIA AND ANALYSIS OF ANTICIPATED WITHDRAWALS AND
      ABANDONMENTS:

      A withdrawal is defined as the situation in which a subject included in the Clinical Trial
      ends his/her participation in it before completing the protocol in its entirety,
      independently of the circumstances that motivate the termination. Patients will interrupt
      their participation and will be removed from the clinical trial in any of these situations:

      i) Presence of a serious adverse event since the patient's recruitment. ii) Clinical
      conditions of the patient that prevent his/her continuity. iii) Other reasons: protocol
      violation, lack of cooperation, revocation of informed consent, loss of follow-up.

      The date and reason why a subject interrupts his/her participation in the Clinical Trial must
      be recorded in the Data Collection Notebook. The circumstance of the interruption should be
      notified immediately to the monitor and if this has been a Serious Adverse Event.

      The patient has the full right to leave the study at any time and any patient can be removed
      from the study for any reason beneficial to his/her well-being. According to the standards of
      Good Clinical Practice (GCP), all patients who leave the study before the foreseen time will
      be recommended the best alternative treatment.

      CONTINGENCY PLAN:

      This has been planned from a preventive point of view. Therefore, before starting it was
      assumed up to 20% loss of patients' follow-up in the calculation of the sample size.

      ETHICAL, SOCIAL, LEGAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT IMPLICATIONS:

      The proposed clinical trial will be conducted in accordance with the protocol following the
      standard procedures established at the participating hospital. Said trial will be carried out
      according to the recommendations for Clinical Trials and product evaluation in human research
      phase, which appear in the Declaration of Helsinki, reviewed in the successive world
      assemblies (WMA, 2008), and the current Spanish Legislation in the field of Clinical Trials
      (RD 1090/2015). The International Conference on Harmonization (ICH-GCP) standards
      (CPMP/ICH/135/95) will be followed. The Clinical Research Ethics Committee (CEIC) of Córdoba
      has already reviewed and approved the protocol and informed consent in December 2017, as well
      as the completion of the present clinical trial itself. Before carrying out any of the
      procedures specified in the protocol, the participating subject must sign and date the
      informed consent document approved by the CEIC.

      In order to guarantee the confidentiality of the trial data, the original data will be kept
      in the hospital and will only be accessed by the researcher and his/her team of
      collaborators, the trial monitor and the CEIC of Córdoba, which is the body that would
      protect the present essay. The researcher will allow the audits and inspections of the
      Spanish or European Health Authorities.

      The content of the data collection notebooks and the confidentiality of the data of each
      patient will be respected at all times. Appropriate procedures will be followed to ensure
      compliance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/99 of December 13 on the Protection of
      Personal Data. The documents generated during the study, will be protected from uses not
      allowed by people outside the investigation and, therefore, will be considered strictly
      confidential and will not be disclosed to other people.

      Note 1: DESCRIPTION OF THE TREATMENT:

      By means of the magnetic stimulator with the coil located in the primary motor cortex the
      investigators induce a cerebral electric current that is able to obtain a motor potential in
      the first dorsal interosseous bone (PID) of the left hand. The investigators will measure
      muscle stimulation by placing conventional surface electrodes connected to a device of evoked
      potentials. It is a Compound Muscle Action Potential (PAMC) that represents the sum of the
      action potentials of all the individual muscle fibres underlying the electrodes. For this,
      the electromyograph is programmed with the following parameters: A) Sensitivity: 50 uV; B)
      Frequency filter: between 2000 Khz and 1 Hz; C) Scan speed 10 ms / div; D) Digitised
      preamplification signs, and v) Surface electrodes are placed: active in the eminence of the
      dorsal interosseous muscle and reference in the dorsal bony prominence of the second finger.

      The procedure will depend on the group to which the patient has been assigned. In groups 2
      and 3, the investigators will place the probe from 8 to 3 centimetres in front of the vertex
      (Cz) medially and perpendicular to the craniocaudal axis.

      Note 2: DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE:

      The intervention procedure consists of two steps:

      First step: OBTAINING THE MOTOR EVOKED THRESHOLD AT REST: Each patient, regardless of to the
      group to which they belong will have his/her threshold evoked motor calculated at rest, by
      stimulation of the right motor cortex, evoking electromyographic responses (EMG) in the
      contralateral muscles, called motor evoked potentials (PEM).

      Second step: ADMINISTRATION OF THE TRANSCRANIAL MAGNETIC STIMULATION: To calculate the motive
      threshold as the percentage of the same to which the treatment will have to be applied, a
      'Rapid2 Magstim' device (Magstim Co.®, Whitland, Carmathenshire, Wales) equipped with a coil
      in eight of 70 mm, will be used. The selection of the specific point of stimulation in the
      somato-sensory area (SMA) will be sufficiently anterior to prevent the propagation of the
      impulse from triggering the muscular contraction of the shoulders, trunk and lower limbs. The
      treatment will be administered for 5 consecutive days, with 3 weeks of rest, between each
      stimulation. To complete a treatment period of 14 months (based on previous studies of the
      group in RRMS patients treated with natalizumab). In the case of the placebo group (patients
      with RRMS treated with natalizumab and placebo coil) patients will be stimulated with an
      inactive probe, the perception being indistinguishable.

      The stimulation with TMS (or administration of placebo) will be carried out every day in the
      same time slot for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks, during a period of 14 months.
    
  