
    
      Multiple myeloma with plasmacytoma is a disease with significantly short overall survival.
      Cancer cells in plasmacytoma has inferior response compared to cancer cells in bone marrow in
      multiple myeloma. It is revealed that genetic difference such as CCND1 overexpression and RAS
      mutation exists between plasmacytoma and intramedullary plasma cell myeloma, implying
      different treatment strategy should be applied to overcome poor prognosis of this distinct
      disorder.

      Even in the era of potent IMiDs and proteasome inhibitors, median overall survival of
      multiple myeloma patients with plasmacytoma is less than 5 years. Moreover, relapse in a form
      of soft tissue plasmacytoma is frequently observed after triplet combination treatment in
      multiple myeloma. Hence, multiple myeloma with plasmacytoma is a disease where unmet medical
      need still exists.

      Biologically, plasmacytoma is characterized by high plasma cell proliferation, angiogenesis
      gene profile, and adhesion molecule changes mimicking solid tumor . Responsiveness to
      chemotherapy used in myeloma including IMIds5 and proteasome inhibitor6 is obtuse in
      plasmacytoma. Only small fraction of young patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy followed
      by autologous stem cell transplantation may overcome adverse prognostic impact of
      plasmacytomas . Even it is recommended that VTD-PACE would be used as the first line
      treatment for plasmacytomas.

      In summary, cancer cells in plasmacytoma bear biologic characteristics of solid tumor cells
      and do respond to high-dose chemotherapy. And this phenomenon is very similar to lymphoma for
      the following reasons. Like lymphoma, 1) plasmacytoma express tumor antigen strongly (CD38 or
      CD138), 2) they form a solid mass, and 3) respond to cytotoxic chemotherapy in a
      dose-response manner.

      Considering the success story of rituximab in lymphoma, we conjecture that daratumumab may
      work excellently to control plasmacytoma. Hence, we propose a treatment regimen consists of
      DCEP chemotherapy and daratumumab.
    
  