
    
      Individuals with high functioning autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are not developing the
      skills necessary to successfully transition from adolescence to college, employment, and
      independent living.

      Daily living skills have been linked to positive adult outcome in individuals with ASD.

      Despite the importance of daily living skills to adult outcome, adolescents with high
      functioning ASD have impaired daily living skills.

      A complex set of environmental, individual, and family factors likely affect the ability of
      adolescents with high functioning ASD to acquire critical daily living skills.

      There are currently no evidence-based daily living skills intervention packages for
      adolescents with high functioning ASD that would prepare them for independence in adulthood.

      The pilot RCT will consist of running 4 cohorts of 16-20 high functioning adolescents with
      ASD (IQ>70) and their parents in a STRW treatment group or social skills control group. Once
      an eligible cohort of 16-20 adolescents with ASD has been recruited, adolescents will be
      randomly assigned to either the STRW group or control group using a stratified randomized
      block design with IQ as a strata variable (IQ<85 and IQ>85) to ensure balanced group
      assignment for each cohort. Approximately 8-10 adolescents with ASD and their parents will
      participate in each STRW group. Thus, across 4 cohorts, the goal will be to enroll at least a
      total of 72 adolescents in the study, 36 in the STRW group and 36 in the control group across
      Years 1-3.

      To test Aim 1: Initially a two-sample t-test will be used to test the difference on the
      change scores in the Vineland-3 DLS domain and GAS (post-treatment and baseline) between the
      STRW and control groups. Although this is a randomized study it is possible that some of the
      demographic variables might be differentially distributed between the groups. In this case,
      the initial analysis will be followed by a general linear regression analysis where cohort
      will be treated as the main effect and other differentially distributed variables will be
      added to the model as possible confounders in order to investigate the independent effect of
      the intervention group on outcome.

      To test Aim 2: The within-subject change between post-treatment and 6-month follow-up for
      each individual receiving the intervention will be calculated and a paired t-test will be
      conducted to evaluate this change (post-treatment and 6-month follow-up).

      To test Aim 3: Exploratory analyses will be conducted to examine the relationship between
      progress in DLS and executive functioning, social skills, and parenting and family factors. A
      regression analysis will be used to estimate and examine this potential relationship. In this
      model the change score (post-treatment and baseline) will be modeled as a function of each of
      the measures of executive function, social skills and parenting and family factors. This will
      allow us to characterize the response profile.
    
  