
    
      The process of manipulation of the airway during laryngoscopy, endotracheal intubation, and
      extubation is usually associated with exaggerated hemodynamic response including tachycardia,
      hypertension as well as increase intraocular and intracranial pressure[1,2]. The exact
      mechanism to these hemodynamic responses may be due to the release of catecholamine in the
      blood by stimulating the sympathetic nervous system during these stressful periods. Acute
      hemodynamic changes during extubation may lead to life-threatening myocardial ischemia,
      arrhythmias, pulmonary edema, acute heart failure, or cerebrovascular hemorrhage in high-risk
      patients and this can increase morbidity and mortality of the patients [3].

      Respiratory complications after tracheal extubation are three times more common than
      induction of anesthesia and intubation [4], as intratracheal tube induces laryngeal
      irritation that transmitted through rapidly acting receptors which are located throughout the
      trachea, involved in the cough reflex and subsequently lead to coughing and bucking that
      frequently occur during extubation and may lead to negative pressure pulmonary edema as well
      as, laryngeal edema and sore throat [5, 6].

      Various techniques have been applied to attenuate the hemodynamic responses and coughing
      during emergence and extubation. They include deep extubation, administration of intravenous
      (IV) short-acting narcotics, calcium channel blockers, and dexmedetomidine [7,8], as well as
      lidocaine which is considered one of the commonly used drugs either through IV route,
      endotracheal tube (ETT) cuff, or laryngotracheal route[1,9]. Concern about the use of these
      drugs includes respiratory depression, delayed emergence from anesthesia, postoperative
      nausea and vomiting, sedative effects, and short action time [10].

      Bupivacaine is a kind of sodium channel blocker local anesthetics used as topical anesthesia
      that suppresses cough by inhibiting the progression of the action potential in the tracheal
      touch-sensitive Aδ fibers (cough receptors)[10]. The plasma protein binding of bupivacaine
      exceeds 90%, whereas lidocaine protein binding is 65- 75%, [11] and it is well known that the
      duration of local anesthetics is influenced by their protein binding characteristics, as the
      affinity for plasma proteins corresponds to the affinity for protein binding at the sodium
      channel receptor site, that results in prolongation of the presence of the anesthetic effect
      at the site of action [12, 13].

      the investigators hypothesize that usage of topical bupivacaine may have an impact on
      decreasing incidence of coughing and alleviating hemodynamic response during awake extubation
      and emergence from general anesthesia in post-thyroidectomy patients.
    
  