
    
      The University of Vermont Health Network is a five hospital network that serves primarily a
      rural population of approximately 1 million people in Vermont and upstate New York. The
      primary aim of this prospective, longitudinal, pragmatic, non-randomized clustered,
      non-blinded, controlled trial is to examine whether PT treatment stratified to match the
      patient's risk factors based on the STarT Back Tool is more effective than the current
      treatment in primary care for non-specific low back pain (LBP) in improving short- (6 months)
      and long-term (12-month) patient outcomes (disability).

      To do the risk stratification, investigators will use the STarT Back Tool which is designed
      for primary care settings and is validated for non-specific LBP (acute flare-ups or chronic
      pain). The tool is designed to identify the prognostic risk (low, medium, high) for
      progression to chronic LBP. In addition, the tool assists clinicians in decision making to
      ensure that low risk patients are not over treated or medicalized, that 'at risk' patients
      get access to the right provider early on and that enhanced care is given for complex cases.
      Thus, the tool assists in matching the 'right patient to the right treatment' at the 'right
      time' which is critical given the high prevalence and cost of LBP.

      Patients with a primary diagnosis of LBP (acute flare-up or chronic) who are seen in any of
      the six Family Medicine sites will complete the STarT Back Tool and the Modified Low Back
      Pain Disability Questionnaire (mODI). With the non-randomized, cluster design, three of the
      Family Medicine sites are identified as "Participating Sites" and three are identified as
      "Comparator Sites." Patients with low back pain from "Participating Sites" who are stratified
      as medium- or high-risk patients will be referred to physical therapy (PT) for a matched
      (i.e., stratified-specific treatment). Those patients who are identified as low-risk will be
      retained in Family Medicine for management using advice, reassurance, patient education,
      NSAIDs (no imaging or specialist referral is encouraged). Patients with low back pain from
      "Comparator Sites" will be managed according to current care practices in Family Medicine.
      Using the mODI, the investigators will compare the two study arms at short- (6 months) and
      long-term points (12 months).
    
  