
    
      Objective & Hypothesis: The objective of this prospective study is to determine the
      prevalence of MRSA and community acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA) in adult patients (>17yrs old)
      presenting with skin or soft tissue infections to the emergency departments (EDs) of an
      academic health care setting in London, Ontario. Secondary objectives will include the
      identification of demographic and clinical variables associated with MRSA, characterization
      of MRSA antimicrobial susceptibilities and genotypes, and determining the effects of
      treatment on MRSA colonization. We believe that the prevalence of MRSA and CA-MRSA in London,
      Ontario will be lower than rates recently published by academic hospitals from the United
      States. The hypothesis of the study is that patients presenting to the Emergency Departments
      in London, Ontario with skin and soft tissue infections will have a 10% prevalence of
      CA-MRSA, but certainly the prevalence may be much higher.

      Purpose: Results from this research may be used as part of the guidelines for empirical S
      aureus treatment in the region, thus reducing possible morbidity and mortality from delayed
      or suboptimal treatment of CA-MRSA infections. This information, along with an improved
      understanding of risk factors associated with MRSA infection in a Canadian setting, has the
      potential to change the practice of physicians who are considering empiric antibiotic therapy
      for skin and soft tissue infections.

      This study will focus on the epidemiology of patients with skin or soft tissue infections
      presenting to the adult emergency departments (EDs) at the London Health Sciences Centre
      (LHSC) and the Urgent Care Center at St. Joseph's Health Centre (SJHC). By using a comparison
      group of non CA-MRSA infections, the proportion of CA-MRSA with relation to the total MRSA
      and methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) in the region will be investigated.
      The study will also investigate the risk factors in the CA-MRSA population including:
      demographics, housing history, contact with the health care system, past CA-MRSA infection,
      asymptomatic CA-MRSA colonization, colonization/infection of close contacts, involvement in
      contact sports/team sports, hygienic body shaving, chronic skin disorders, recurrent/recent
      antibiotic use, IV drug use, contact with incarcerated individuals, and chronic disease.

      Through follow-up visits at one and three months involving nares and throat swabs of patients
      initially testing positive for MRSA the effects of treatment on MRSA colonization will be
      determined. Furthermore, a follow-up questionnaire will be administered to all patients at
      one month to determine complication rates for patients colonized with MRSA versus those not
      colonized.

      The current recommendations for antibiotic treatment of unknown S. aureus infection are based
      on clinical judgment, and therefore an understanding of regional incidence and susceptibility
      of CA-MRSA are essential for empiric treatment. Through the microbiological analysis of the
      cases, laboratory parameters and antibiotic susceptibility of CA-MRSA presenting to LHSC will
      be established. As well, the clinical characteristics of these patients will be documented to
      aid clinicians in recognizing patients presenting with CA-MRSA.

      Experimental Design: This study will be a prospective prevalence study involving adult
      patients (>17years old) with skin and soft-tissue infections presenting to the Emergency
      Departments of LHSC (University Hospital and Victoria Hospital) as well as to the Urgent Care
      of SJHC. These departments have a combined approximate total of 150,000 visits per year. The
      study has an expected enrollment of 152 patients from July 2008- July 2009. The study will
      continue until three months after the last patient has been enrolled so that follow-up nasal
      and throat swabs may be obtained, if applicable.

      n = Z2 P (1-P) / d2 n = 1.962 * .10 (1- .10) / 0.052 n = 3.8416 * .10 * .90 / .0025 n = 138

      While the investigators do not anticipate a problem with non-response or missing values, to
      take this into consideration, we will over-sample the above sample size by 10%. Therefore, we
      will recruit at least 152 patients to the study. Therefore, assuming 80% power, an estimated
      prevalence of 10%, and a precision level of 5%, 152 patients are needed to be 95% confident
      that the true proportion of MRSA in adult patients (>17yrs old) presenting with skin or soft
      tissue infections will be between 5% and 15%.

      Written, informed consent will be obtained from all patients that meet the study inclusion
      criteria.
    
  