
    
      1. The research can be started only after approval by the Medical Ethics Committee of the
           Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University.

        2. According to the "Consensus on Diagnosis and Treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease"
           formulated by the Beijing Conference in 2018 as a standard, patients with clear
           diagnosis of UC are collected.Other diagnostic criteria include Vitamin D deficiency (<=
           20ng / ml). Exclusion criteria included pregnancy, breastfeeding, liver and kidney
           dysfunction, concurrent autoimmune diseases, and use of antiepileptic drugs or drugs
           metabolized by liver cytochrome P450 enzymes.

        3. Assess disease activity of UC participants based on the "Moya score".

        4. General information about participants with UC is collected.

        5. Detection of Fok I gene polymorphism using Snapshot technology.

        6. The level of serum 25 (OH) D of participants is detected.

        7. Serum C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, albumin, calcium and
           phosphorus levels are measured.

        8. Develop a treatment plan for all participants.

        9. Participants are divided into two groups, one group is given oral Vitamin D drops 400IU/
           d, and the other group do not intervene.

       10. The disease activity is re-evaluated in the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th months, and the
           above serum indexes are re-evaluated.

       11. Follow-up for 12 months. By comparing the above indicators, observe that in the Han
           population:

             1. Can Vitamin D drops supplementation increase serum 25 (OH) D levels in patients
                with UC?

             2. Can Vitamin D drops supplementation improve the condition of patients with UC?

             3. Whether Fok I gene polymorphism affect the efficacy of Vitamin D drops
                supplementation therapy?

             4. Whether the effects of Vitamin D drops on UC patients is affected by factors such
                as disease site, disease activity, treatment, etc ..

       12. Through statistical analysis, comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness and safety of
           Vitamin D drops supplementation in Han patients with UC, and its relationship with Fok I
           gene polymorphism, providing a theoretical basis for further "precise treatment"
           intervention in inflammatory bowel disease.
    
  