
    
      Second trimester abortion comprises <10% of all induced abortions in the United States but
      there is still an important need to provide this service to women. Prior to dilation and
      evacuation (D&E), adequate preparation of the uterine cervix is an important part of
      preventing complications of the procedure. Commonly, this is done using osmotic dilators that
      are placed into the uterine cervix but cervical preparation can also be achieved using
      medications alone. Mifepristone is commonly used for this purpose but its use is regulated
      and often restricted due to the REMS (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy) program. The
      objective of this pilot study is to test the feasibility of using ulipristal, an oral
      medication similar to Mifepristone, as a medical form of cervical preparation prior to
      surgical abortion.This is a prospective cohort study investigating the use of ulipristal
      acetate (UPA) for pharmacologic cervical preparation with adjunct misoprostol prior to second
      trimester surgical abortion among women who are 16 to 18 6/7 weeks gestational age. Due the
      mechanism of action of UPA as a selective progesterone receptor modulator (SPRM) being
      similar to that of mifepristone, a medication known to be effective for cervical preparation,
      the investigators seek to describe the use of another SPRM for this same purpose. The
      investigators will conduct a pilot study assessing the feasibility of using UPA for cervical
      priming and report descriptive measures of its use. Per clinic protocols, patients over
      16-weeks gestation attend a consult and cervical preparation appointment the day prior to
      their procedure. Eligible patients will be offered enrollment. Subjects will receive UPA 90mg
      one day prior to their procedure and no osmotic dilators. All subjects will receive
      pre-procedure misoprostol (600mcg 90 minutes prior to procedure). The investigators will
      observe patients through their planned procedure and report descriptive measures of its use.
    
  