
    
      The design uses a repeated cross-sectional design, with multiple age-group samples for
      multiple outcomes [since each set of outcomes can only be assessed in the relevant age group
      for the outcome; e.g., exclusive breastfeeding is only assessed in children 0-6 months of
      age]. These include:

        1. For the evaluation of behavior change intervention only:

             -  0-6 months for breastfeeding outcomes

             -  6-23.9 months for complementary feeding outcomes (in the behavior change
                intervention evaluation)

             -  24-48 months for child anthropometric outcomes (related to the behavior change
                interventions).

        2. for the substudy on behavior change and micronutrient powder interventions combined -
           6-23.9 months for anemia and anthropometric outcomes

      A community-based random sample of children 0-6 months, 6-23.9 months, 24-48 months old was
      surveyed at baseline (April-June 2010). The original anemia sub-study design had proposed
      surveying children 6.23.9 months of age for the MNP intervention in April-June 2013 and for
      the behavior change intervention in April-June 2014. Based on program implementation
      timelines, the endline survey dates were extended by one year such that the above age groups
      were then sampled and surveyed in community-based surveys in April-June 2014.

      Infant feeding practices will be assessed using before-after intervention-comparison area
      group differences between 2010, and 2013 and 2014. Specifically, breast feeding will be
      assessed in children 0-6 months of age (sampled separately) and complementary feeding will be
      assessed in children 6-23.9 months of age (sampled separately).

      Stunting will be assessed in the sample of children 24-48 months of age using before-after
      intervention-comparison group differences between 2010 and 2014.

      In addition, the investigators will evaluate the processes through which the programs roll
      out using a mix of qualitative and quantitative research methods. Qualitative research
      methods will help to understand drivers of promotion and sales of MNPs by frontline health
      workers, as well as household level determinants and dynamics related to enabling purchase
      and use of the MNP and adhering to behavioral recommendations. Quantitative surveys of
      frontline health workers will help document their awareness about IYCF, MNPs, training, and
      sales, while quantitative surveys of the households will help document household level
      awareness, purchase and use of MNPs and awareness and adherence to IYCF practices for
      children in the target age range.
    
  