
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Describe the pathologic response rate in chemotherapy-naive women with locally advanced
           breast cancer (stage IIIA or IIIB) after 6 courses of sequential neoadjuvant therapy
           with epirubicin hydrochloride and a combination of docetaxel with capecitabine .

        -  Describe the adverse events of sequential epirubicin hydrochloride and a combination of
           docetaxel with capecitabine in this patient population.

      Secondary

        -  Identify by transcriptional profiling the differential expression of candidate gene
           products that confer chemosensitivity to epirubicin hydrochloride, docetaxel, and
           capecitabine.

        -  Correlate the differential expression of known genetic polymorphisms of intracellular
           regulators involved in the metabolism of epirubicin hydrochloride, docetaxel, and
           capecitabine with adverse events and tumor response.

        -  Assess individual patient variation in clinical (toxicity and/or activity), in
           pharmacologic (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters), and/or biologic (correlative
           laboratory study results) responses to epirubicin hydrochloride, docetaxel, and
           capecitabine due to genetic differences in proteins involved in drug response
           (transport, metabolism and/or mechanism of action).

      OUTLINE: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2
      weeks for 3 courses. Beginning 2 weeks after last dose of epirubicin hydrochloride, patients
      receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14.
      Treatment with docetaxel and capecitabine repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses. Patients then
      undergo surgery.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline for pharmacogenetic studies. Tumor tissue samples are
      collected at baseline and periodically during treatment for correlative laboratory studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  