
    
      Viral infection is one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality in patients who receive
      bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from unrelated or mismatched donors. This increased risk of
      infection relates to a number of factors including the immunosuppressive regimens these
      patients receive, delayed immune recovery and the greater genetic disparity between donor and
      recipient that result in defective interactions between antigen presenting cells and immune
      system effector cells. In most cases viral infection post BMT results from reactivation of
      latent virus and CMV, EBV and adenoviruses (Ad) are the commonest viral pathogens causing
      disease after transplant.

      The incidence of Ad infection is >25% for patients at risk in the first 100 days after
      transplant 1 2. In the transplant population, adenovirus is recoverable from many sites and
      may cause hemorrhagic cystitis, pneumonitis, nephritis, hepatitis, colitis and pancreatitis,
      often with severe morbidity and a mortality approaching 60%3. The most frequently used drug
      for the treatment of adenoviral infections is Cidofovir. But while there are occasional
      reports of responses to Cidofovir, no approved antiviral agent has proven efficacy for the
      treatment of severe Ad disease, nor are there any prospective randomized, controlled trials
      of potentially useful anti-Ad therapies 4. With the increasing use of so-called
      submyeloablative or reduced intensity, highly immunosuppressive conditioning regimens, higher
      rates of Ad infections/reactivation have been observed due to prolonged immune suppression.
      The onset of Ad disease/reactivation has recently been reported to occur at a median of 18
      days post-transplant (range -7/>+100) 2.

      As viral complications in these patients are clearly associated with the lack of recovery of
      virus-specific cellular immune responses, reconstitution of the host with in vitro expanded
      CTLs is an effective approach to prevent and treat these diseases. Adoptive immunotherapy
      with in vitro expanded CTLs has proved effective in preventing and treating diseases related
      to Epstein Barr virus (EBV) infections 5; 6 and cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivations7 in
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients. A promising strategy to generate
      donor-derived Ad-specific CTL is the infection of monocytes that direct the CTL response to
      viral capsid antigens8. This approach allows exposure to all proteins in the Ad protein coat,
      leading to presentation of multiple, undefined antigen epitopes. Hence, the investigators now
      plan to use a recombinant Ad vector for infection of donor-derived monocytes. These infected
      monocytes will then be used as antigen presenting cells (APC) to generate Ad-specific CTL in
      vitro. For the expansion of the Ad-specific CTL, the second stimulation will use irradiated,
      Ad-infected monocytes and subsequent stimulations will use donor-derived Lymphoblastoid Cell
      Lines (LCL) transduced with the Ad vector as an APC 9.

      The investigators propose to evaluate this approach for the prophylaxis of Ad reactivation
      and disease in the recipients of matched unrelated donor or mismatched family member bone
      marrow allografts, who are at high risk for this complication. Initially, the investigators
      will give the donor-derived Ad-specific CTLs to patients in a dose escalation study to
      determine their safety and immunologic and virologic efficacy.
    
  