
    
      Investigations description Throughout the experiment test subject will be safely attached to
      a fixation mechanism at its center of gravity (hip). This mechanism comprises a climbing
      harness connected to two lateral vertical guides by two magnetic connection plates at the
      level of the hips. The test subject will lie down on the floor on a plate equipped with foam
      pads to create a comfortable lying surface. This mechanism allows free postural movement in
      microgravity phase and also supports the test subject´s lying position during 1,8g- phase. At
      any stage of the experiment the test subject will be able to exit the fixation alone, by
      using one hand only.

      The harness can be moved vertically by a linear sliding system and springs in the vertical
      guides. Springs will remain compressed during the 1g/2g-phase and lift the subject with the
      reduction to microgravity.

      At the beginning of the weightlessness phase of each parabola, the sliding system will push
      participant's body up to about 30cm above the floor. After he has reached the free floating
      position, he will be asked to perform a short effort (crouching or stretching) and then to
      relax and stay still.

      Once free floating, three video cameras with wide angle lenses will record body movements
      from front, side and top view. By electronically synchronizing the cameras the produced
      images can be used for three-dimensional analysis. Additionally three-dimensional force
      sensors at the hip fixation will be used to evaluate the quality of microgravity provided
      during the parabolic flight.

      Experimental protocol Before flight subjects will be familiarized with the setup and the
      protocol. For each flight day, 3 subjects will be studied. The procedure will be the same for
      the 3 subjects and on all 3 days.

      The subject rests calm at the bottom until microgravity phase starts. As described above a
      spring forced linear sliding system will push his body mass up to about 300mm. After the test
      subject has reached its free floating position without any contact to the surrounding area
      (bottom), he will perform a short effort (crouching or stretching). From now on the subject
      should relax and is not allowed to move his muscles intentionally. At the end of microgravity
      phase, the sliding system will allow a soft landing on the foam pads.
    
  