
    
      In mouse models and in patients, expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR4 on various
      cancers has been correlated with aggressive biological behavior, including increased rates
      and certain sites of metastasis, and decreased survival. Plerixafor (Mozobil ; Genzyme;
      Cambridge, MA) has been identified as a specific inhibitor of CXCR4, and it is currently
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration as a stem-cell mobilizing agent in combination
      with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and
      multiple myeloma. Our group has recently shown that plerixafor can be labeled with the
      positron-emitting radionuclide copper-64(64Cu) to form 64Cu-plerixafor, which can be used to
      visualize CXCR4-positive tumor xenografts in mice using small-animal positron emission
      tomography (PET). Determining CXCR4 expression in tumors using 64Cu-plerixafor and
      PET/computerized tomography (CT) scanning could be useful in predicting tumor behavior and
      responses to current and experimental therapies, including therapies targeting CXCR4, which
      could lead to more effective personalized cancer treatments.

      This study s primary objective is to evaluate 64Cu-plerixafor as an imaging agent for
      quantifying CXCR4 expression in subjects (greater than or equal to 18 years of age) with
      cancer; at least 1 detectable solid tumor of greater than or equal to 1.5 cm in diameter
      found outside of the vertebral bodies, liver, gallbladder, kidney, and bladder; and tissue
      sample(s) of the tumors obtained since the first detection of the current
      occurrence/recurrence of disease. The secondary objectives are to correlate 64Cu-plerixafor
      standardized uptake value in the target lesion with the level of CXCR4 expression detected
      via immunohistochemistry and to calculate human dosimetry for 64Cu-plerixafor.

      Tumor samples from less than or equal to75 subjects recruited from the National Cancer
      Institute and the Georgetown University Hospital will be evaluated for CXCR4 expression via
      immunohistochemistry. With the exception of subjects with adrenocortical carcinoma,
      evaluation of tissue for expression of CXCR4 will be required before PET scanning. Subjects
      who meet the eligibility criteria will continue onto the study. Five subjects with
      adrenocortical carcinoma and/or CXCR4-positive tumor samples will be administered an initial
      intravenous infusion of 64Cu-plerixafor (up to 8+0.8 mCi; 0.48+0.048 rem; not to exceed 5 g
      64Cu-plerixafor) at Day 0. They will then undergo an initial low-dose transmission CT scan
      followed by 3 consecutive torso PET scans as soon as practical after the infusion, and 2
      additional PET/CT scans at 4 hours +/- 1 hour and 24 hours +/- 3 hours post-infusion. Human
      dosimetry will be calculated based on these results, and the dose may be adjusted, not to
      exceed the calculated limit of a total effective dose of 5 rem, or the radiation exposure
      limit for each organ. The remaining subjects will be administered 64Cu-plerixafor at the
      same, or a newly calculated dose, and will undergo 1 PET/CT scan between 1 and 4 hours
      post-infusion, depending on the dosimetry results. All subjects will undergo an assessment at
      the NIH or by phone on study Day 14 3. Additionally, blood will be collected 3 more times at
      Day 7 2, Day 14 3 and Day 21 3 to measure blood cell counts, and urine collected once more at
      Day 7 2.
    
  