
    
      Liver and kidney tumors represent a major health problem because most patients are unsuitable
      for curative treatment with surgery. Thus, percutaneous ablation, using radio frequency (RF),
      is preferred : an interstitial electrode that delivers alternative current is placed into the
      tissue. Consequently, the development of an accurate and completely non-invasive method based
      on MR guided HIFU treatment is of particular interest since the energy source is located
      outside the body. There is no incision. For the patient, it provides a treatment option with
      reduced trauma and improved quality of life, and for the society, it provides reduced
      hospitalization time and reduced costs.

      MRgHIFU has already been tested clinically in tumors of immobilized tissues as uterine
      leiomyoma. However, several technological challenges exist to apply it for treatment of the
      liver or the kidney especially challenges related to the motions of these organs. In order to
      improve the therapeutic efficiency and the safety of the intervention, real time mapping of
      temperature and thermal dose appear to offer the best strategy to optimize such interventions
      and provide clinical therapy endpoints. Among imaging modalities, MRI Proton Resonance
      Frequency based method appears to be the ideal tool for temperature mapping.

      One major drawback of PRF thermometry is its high sensitivity to motion. Therefore motion
      correction is necessary to use PRF thermometry in mobile organs such as the liver or kidneys.
      To correct artefacts generated in temperature maps by periodical organ motion, a new
      technique was developed in the IMF lab of Bordeaux University Hospital.

      The primary outcome of this study is to evaluate the precision of multiplanar MR imaging with
      real time motion compensation in hepatic or renal tumour patient.

      Secondary outcomes are :

        -  Characterization of 3d movements of the tumour and test if imaging is improved when the
           imaging plan contains the main axis of movement.

        -  Ballistic: we need to identify all anatomical structures which are in the way of the
           HIFU beam in order to define the types of tumour suitable for future treatments

        -  Another outcome is to define what modifications are needed in order to treat patients
           such as depth of treatment, power level. We also need to see the target, ribs, and the
           transducer in order to evaluate the number of transducer elements to be turned off
           during treatment.
    
  