
    
      Shoulder surgery has evolved over the past decade with many procedures now done on an
      outpatient basis. Multimodal pain management strategies and regional anesthesia have greatly
      contributed to this transition and newer strategies continue to evolve. Uncontrolled pain can
      often lead to readmissions, prolonged hospital or ambulatory stays and an overall negative
      patient experience. Despite improvements in regional anesthetic technique and newer longer
      acting medicines such as liposomal bupivacaine, the duration of pain relief is often only
      over the course of 72 hours postoperatively. Post-operative pain beyond 72 hours is largely
      inflammatory in nature. As such, biologic approaches to reduce surgical tissue damage-induced
      inflammation is an attractive therapeutic addition to surgical procedures. These approaches
      are especially relevant in light of the current opioid epidemic plaguing the United States.

      Flowable, placental-derived connective tissue matrix (pECM) is a potential option to
      supplement damaged tissue prone to inflammation as it introduces nascent, hydrated components
      of the inflammatory phase, including structural proteins and growth factors, which allow for
      efficient repair. Derived from relatively immune-privileged tissue, placental-derived pECM
      elicits little or no immune response in recipients. They have been shown to greatly reduce
      inflammatory cell influx and inflammatory cytokines present in dermal and mucosal surgical
      sites post-operatively. Moreover, placental-derived pECM reduces expression of prostaglandin
      E2, a potent pain mediator, in vitro. In the orthopedic space, ECM has been used effectively
      to reduce pain following spinal fusion and for treatment of knee arthritis. Taken together,
      biologic therapies directed at modulating inflammation and associated pain is an increasing
      area of interest with far reaching implications.

      The purpose of the current study is to prospectively analyze two groups of patients treated
      for rotator cuff repair with and without a flowable pECM to determine if a significant
      reduction in pain and opioid consumption as measured in morphine equivalent units is
      demonstrated within the first 6 weeks of surgery. Furthermore, patients will be compared in
      regard to early range of motion and patient reported outcomes to determine if a difference is
      present when the ECM is utilized within the first 6 months of surgery. This is the first
      double blinded prospective series in the shoulder literature to date looking at a pECM graft
      for pain reduction and improved range of motion perioperatively.

      Study Objectives

      Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, the aim of this study is to assess
      modulation of post-operative pain and narcotic use when a placental-derived extracellular
      matrix is injected into the bed of the repair following outpatient rotator cuff repair
      surgery. Furthermore, this study aims to determine if the addition of pECM influences patient
      reported outcomes and influences early postoperative range of motion.

      Primary Aims & Objective

      Aim 1a: To assess post-operative narcotic consumption (measured in morphine equivalent units)
      between patients treated with flowable placental-derived pECM compared to those patients
      undergoing rotator cuff surgery.

      Hypothesis: Narcotic consumption (measured in morphine equivalent units) will be reduced in
      patients treated with an extracullar matrix graft as compared to those patients undergoing
      rotator cuff surgery without.

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, narcotic use will be measured
      for 12-hour increments for a total of 7 post-operative days (PODs) then once on POD 14, 21,
      28, and 42. . Consumption will be measured by the number of tablets ingested and converted to
      morphine equivalent units and compared between the two treatment groups.

      Aim 1b: To determine if flowable placental-derived pECM decreases patient-reported
      post-operative VAS pain in patients undergoing outpatient rotator cuff surgery

      Hypothesis: There will be a decrease in VAS pain for up to 6 weeks post-operatively among
      participants who receive pECM, as compared to the control group (no pECM).

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, post-operative
      patient-reported VAS pain (on a scale of 0-10) will be collected 2 times per day (every 12
      hours) for 7 post-operative days (PODs); then an average score collected on POD 14, POD 21,
      POD 28, and POD 42. Scores will be averaged and compared between the two treatment groups for
      the first 7 days, 2 week, 3rd week, 4th week and 6th week postoperatively.

      Secondary Aims & Objectives

      Aim 2a: To assess patient-reported outcomes and early range of motion (measured in morphine
      equivalents) in patients treated with flowable placental-derived pECM compared to patients
      injected with saline control.

      Hypothesis: There will be improved patient reported outcomes and early range of motion
      measured at 6 weeks and 3 months and 6 months postoperatively in patients receiving and
      extracellular matrix injection following outpatient rotator cuff surgery.

      Objective: Utilizing a prospective randomized controlled trial, patient reported outcomes as
      measured by American Shoulder and Elbow Score, Simple Shoulder Test and SANE scores and range
      of motion (External rotation, internal rotation and forward flexion) will be collected
      preoperatively and at 2 weeks (external rotation), 6 weeks (all)) , 3 months (all) and 6
      months (all) postoperatively. Scores and range of motion measurements will be averaged and
      compared for differences between the two groups.

      Study Design

      The study design is a randomized double-blind randomized controlled trial.

      Research Design

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups (see Intervention
      Description). Patients will randomly select one of 70 sealed envelopes the day of surgery.
      Patients will be blinded to the medication utilized as well as the treating surgeon (PI). A
      consecutive series of patients will be enrolled to prevent selection bias. A single surgeon
      will be performing all procedures to minimize variability. Upon completion of the surgery, a
      spinal needle will be loaded into the substance of the rotator cuff tendon under direct
      arthroscopic visualization. The surgeon will then leave the room and the envelope will be
      opened by the circulating operating room nurse. If the patient is in the treatment group, 2cc
      of an extracellular matrix graft be opened and then injected with a 22g spinal needle already
      placed into the bed of the repair by the physician assistant. Those patients that are in the
      control group will have the needle removed and no injection administered. The envelope will
      be then sealed with the patient's name and treatment group to allow for data analysis upon
      completion of the study.

      Data Collection will occur post-operatively for 6 months. Data will be collected at 20
      timepoints, in total for pain and opioid consumption. For the first seven days, data will be
      collected at 12-hour time intervals beginning the first evening of the surgery (POD0) at 8pm
      then at 12-hour intervals for the next 7 days (POD7). Data will be collected using PatientIQ,
      an application that uses text message or email to collect information. The day of surgery
      (POD0) the first text will occur at 8pm. Patients will then be notified by text alert 2 times
      per day (8am and 8pm) asking to rate their pain on a scale of 0-10 (VAS) beginning on POD 1
      thru POD 7. Patients will also respond to the number of pain pills taken in the slotted time
      span. All patients will be prescribed the same narcotic regimen (oxycodone IR) barring any
      allergies encountered. Patients who fail to respond to the text alert will be notified by the
      data collection system and contacted via phone by study personnel. Patients lacking
      smartphone technology will all be notified via telephone and also asked to keep a personal
      log to capture the information needed.
    
  