
    
      Cape Town is a striking example of the need for women-specific substance abuse treatment, as
      it is experiencing a devastating level of methamphetamine use (7% of the adult
      population),especially among women of childbearing age. The use of methamphetamine (hereafter
      referred to as "meth") is higher in Cape Town than anywhere else in the country.
      Consequently, there has been a critical need to develop and test a woman-focused intervention
      that reduces meth use in a highly vulnerable population of South African women.

      Since 2001, the Women's Health CoOp (WHC; PI Wechsberg; RO1s DA011609S; AA014488; HD058320)
      has successfully adapted an evidence-based intervention to reduce sex- and drug-risk
      behaviors in drug-using South African women. However, with a rapid rise in meth use, the
      Western Cape is experiencing a new drug epidemic. A previous WHC study data indicated that
      the WHC had limited success in reducing the use of this among women. Alarmingly, among WHC
      participants, a greater proportion of pregnant than non-pregnant women reported using meth
      (n=24/26=92%; n=238/356=67%; p=.01). These findings are underscored by a lack of a focused
      and intensive treatment for meth-using pregnant women who live in impoverished townships.
      Thus, this project responded to PA-09-021 International Research Collaboration on Drug Abuse
      and Addiction Research (R21) by developing treatment options for meth use among pregnant
      women and using the long collaboration between WHC staff and local treatment providers to
      develop our first project to treat meth use in pregnant women.

      The goal of this project was to develop and initially evaluate an efficacious, comprehensive,
      culturally sensitive, women-centred model of care for pregnant South African women by
      adapting and refining PI Jones' Reinforcement-Based Treatment (RBT) model, at the same time
      integrating into it the HIV prevention components of Co-I Wechsberg's Women's Health CoOp
      (WHC) model, yielding an integrated treatment and prevention model, RBT+WHC.

      The study had two sequential aims: Aim 1: Adapt and pretest a comprehensive drug abuse
      treatment model, RBT, which integrated the evidence-based WHC HIV prevention model, to
      produce a comprehensive, culturally sensitive, woman-focused intervention for meth-using
      pregnant Coloured women, RBT+WHC. Aim 2: Conduct a small-scale randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) with pregnant Coloured women to determine the acceptability, feasibility, and initial
      efficacy of the RBT+WHC model relative to a psycho-educational control condition in terms of
      their respective impact on maternal outcomes, including (a) meth use, (b) frequency of
      unprotected sex acts, and (c) number of prenatal care visits; and neonatal outcomes including
      (d) length of hospital stay, (e) birth weight, and (f) gestational age at delivery. About 300
      women were screened for the study but only 32 were found to eligible and completed the study.

      The public health impact of this project was far-reaching. RBT+WHC aimed to fill a critical
      gap in substance use treatment research in a social structure where women are
      disproportionately disenfranchised from receiving healthcare compared with men. Furthermore,
      this initial study laid the foundation for a full-scale RCT to examine the impact of RBT+WHC
      on an array of maternal and neonatal outcomes, within the population of pregnant Coloured as
      well as Black and White South African women.
    
  