
    
      Tumor cells from subjects with high-risk neuroblastoma will be obtained at the time of
      presentation and initial diagnosis, during routine surveillance of bone marrow disease
      status, or at the time of surgical resection of disease during primary chemotherapy. The
      tumor cells will be irradiated to prevent the possibility of tumor growth. Autologous
      neuroblastoma tumor cells will be used to treat neuroblastoma following the completion of
      primary or salvage chemotherapy when peripheral blood lymphocyte counts have recovered to >
      500 CD3+ cells/mm3. This preceding chemotherapy may or may not have included bone marrow or
      peripheral stem cell rescue. Therefore, following the achievement of best response with
      chemotherapy, vaccine will be administered for 6 months. Vaccine modified for secretion of
      IL-2 will be used.

      Vaccine therapy will commence after complete recovery from the side effects of primary or
      salvage chemotherapy, as long as the subject has an absolute CD3+ lymphocyte count and an
      absolute neutrophil count greater than 500/mm3. A vaccine consisting of 0.3 x 10 8
      cells/patient will be given per injection, based on data from the Phase I studies. Injections
      will be given twice monthly for two months, then monthly for four months, for a total of
      eight vaccine injections over six months. The immune effects of the vaccine, toxicity of
      treatment, and anti-tumor effects will be periodically assessed. Further evaluation will be
      done annually.

      The first and second vaccine injection sites will be "punch biopsied" one week after the
      injection. Several x-rays and various types of scans will also be taken to assist with
      monitoring the status of the neuroblastoma. Complete details of the evaluations required by
      this study are included in.

      Subjects may receive supportive care for any acute or chronic toxicity from the injections,
      including blood product support, antibiotics, and other appropriate intervention.
      Pneumocystis carinii prophylaxis initiated during chemotherapy may be continued during
      vaccine therapy for as long as deemed appropriate by the investigator. As well, subjects may
      receive concurrent therapy with cis-retinoic acid at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      An adenoviral vector is being used to transduce the cells ex-vivo. Subjects will not be
      treated with the viral vector.
    
  