
    
      The lung in acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS) is a heterogeneous viscoelastic system,
      in which areas with different time constants coexist, causing tidal volume to be distributed
      unevenly within an anatomically and functionally reduced lung. The administration of a
      disproportionately high tidal volume for this lung predisposes to the over-distension of the
      better ventilated alveoli and to the injury by tidal opening and closing of the alveoli more
      unstable. In this sense, using low tidal volume and homogenizing the lung by means of the
      prone position have proven beneficial in ARDS.

      Tidal volume, driving pressure, inspiratory flow and respiratory rate have been identified as
      responsible for mechanical ventilation-induced lung injury (VILI). These factors together
      represent the mechanical power, the insulting energy which is repeatedly applied to a
      vulnerable lung parenchyma.

      Although most of the information focuses on understanding how the ventilator produces lung
      damage and/or amplifies the existing one, the pulmonary factors that predispose to VILI have
      been less studied. Acute respiratory distress syndrome can adopt different morphological
      phenotypes, with its own clinical and mechanical characteristics. Understanding how each
      subgroup of ARDS responds to the protective ventilatory strategy could help to personalize
      treatment.

      Objectives: To compare the risk of VILI in two groups of ARDS with different morphological
      phenotypes (focal and non-focal), ventilated with the same protective strategy.

      Design: Patients with ARDS were ventilated under the same conditions of both tidal volume
      (TV) and plateau pressure (PPlat). Positive End Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) was adjusted to
      reach 30 cmH2O of PPlat. A CT was performed in inspiration and expiration. Transpulmonary
      pressures (TP) were measured and lung volumes calculated (Volume Analysis Software,Toshiba,
      Japan). Stress was defined as TP at the end of inspiration (TPinsp) and strain: tidal
      volume/End Expiratory Lung Volume Patients were classified into focal and non-focal according
      to the distribution of aeration loss in CT. Mann - Whitney U test was used to compare
      variables and Pearson correlation coefficient to compare its correlation. Significant: p
      <0.05
    
  