
    
      The purpose of this comprehensive prospective clinical study is to compare and contrast two
      different but well-established multimodal chronic widespread pain rehabilitation programmes,
      i.e. one at a conventional county council hospital (CC) and one involving integrative care at
      a private non-profit hospital (IC), in terms of changes in health-related outcomes, ranging
      from DNA stability to health economy, in patients with chronic pain. Notably, for the first
      time, differences can be seen and correlations made between CC and IC outcomes with relevance
      for clinical care development and implementation of multimodal interventions for people with
      chronic pain.

      The overall aim of the present prospective clinical trial is to achieve a better
      understanding of the possible effects of, and useful measure for evaluating, two different
      multimodal treatment interventions for pain.

      More specifically, the aims of this trial are to explore two different, but well-established
      multimodal pain rehabilitation programmes. The investigators will specifically investigate 1.
      If chronic pain impacts on patients' telomerase activity and telomere length over time; 2. If
      multimodal rehabilitation can be linked to positive changes in telomerase activity and
      telomere length after rehabilitation, and if these changes can be correlated to: Clinical
      diagnosis, pain characteristics (e.g. intensity, duration, frequency and spread of pain),
      co-morbidities (e.g. anxiety, depression and catastrophizing), time lost from work/sick-leave
      and self-rated health and stress, and; 3. If and how the two programmes and their treatment
      components differ in outcomes over time.

      The project outcomes will be of great relevance for clinical rehabilitation development and
      the implementation of multimodal interventions for people with chronic pain. Given that the
      most significant demographic and clinical factors associated with pain help-seeking are
      increasing age, female gender, pain severity and disability, we will also address such issues
      including gender differences when relevant.

      Specific work packages (WP): WP1 - Genomics (telomerase activity and telomere length); WP2 -
      Patient-reported outcomes ("existential" validated questionnaires regarding depression,
      anxiety, stress, quality of life, pain, mindfulness, spirituality/religiosity); WP3 - Health
      care experiences (interviews); WP4 - Registry data (drugs, health care, sick leave,
      return-to-work, morbidity, mortality); WP5 - The design of treatment programs; WP6 -
      Standardized and exploratory statistical analyses of differences and correlations between the
      collected data and the conventional and integrated care programs. WP7 - Implementation of the
      results problematized through the participation of representatives of the patient and care
      provider organizations.
    
  