
    
      The overall goal of the intervention is improvement in both immunization coverage rates and
      timeliness among the study participants through introducing simple silicon bracelets as
      childhood vaccination reminders and trackers.

      An individually randomized, three-arm parallel group design randomized control trial will be
      conducted with equal allocation to evaluate the impact of the Alma Sana bracelet and simple
      silicon bracelet by comparing the variables of interest (coverage and timeliness rates of
      (pentavalent-3/PCV-3/polio-3 and Measles 1) between treatment groups and the Control Group.

      Study Procedures:

      A consent form will be used to seek consent from caregivers accompanying the child to screen
      the child for the study. Among those who provide consent, a screening form will be used to
      identify the eligible participants. After screening, seeking consent from primary caregivers
      (mother and/or father) they will be randomized into the treatment groups (to receive the
      bracelet) or to serve as a control. The randomization sequence will be created using Stata
      version 13 with a 1:1:1 allocation using random block sizes of 3, 6, 9 and 12. The allocation
      sequence will be concealed from the study staff responsible for screening and enrolling
      participants in serially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes. After randomization, each child
      will be assigned a unique study ID (a sticker containing the study ID will be pasted on the
      child's government issued EPI card).

      Details of the procedures in the intervention and control groups are outlined below:

      Intervention group A and B: Children in both the intervention groups (A and B) will receive
      the two different bracelets to be placed on the child's wrist. Additionally, mothers will be
      provided instructions explaining the use of the bracelet and helping them decode the symbols
      to enable them to use the bracelet to remind themselves of their child's vaccinations.
      Children will receive the scheduled EPI vaccine by the vaccinator who will then punch a hole
      in the child's bracelet to denote vaccine administration. The child's vaccine data will be
      recorded in the EPI card and EPI register as per routine.

      All participants (irrespective of whether they are in the treatment group A or B or control
      group) will receive the routine EPI vaccinations as per Pakistan's EPI Immunization schedule
      (one dose of BCG and polio soon after birth, 3 doses of Pentavalent/Polio/PCV at 6, 10 and 14
      weeks, and 2 doses of Measles vaccine and 9 and 15 months of age) and the vaccinator will
      record the child's immunization data in the EPI immunization card as well as EPI register.
      The difference between the intervention and standard care is only the provision of bracelets
      which provide an additional source (apart from the EPI cards) to record and track
      vaccinations.

      Control group: Children in the control group will receive the scheduled EPI vaccine from the
      vaccinator. The child's vaccine data will be recorded in the EPI card and register as per
      routine.

      Data collection will be done using the following documents over 5 total visits:

        1. Enrollment Form: At the child's first visit to the center, the field worker will note
           the name and age of the child along with the immunizations received during the visit in
           addition to basic demographic information in the enrolment form. This information, along
           with basic biographic information is recorded routinely by vaccinators in their
           government issued permanent medical registers. An immunization visit typically takes
           between 10 and 15 minutes, not including any time spent waiting to be seen by the
           vaccinator.

        2. Follow-up Form: For the follow up visits by the caregivers to get the subsequent
           vaccinations (3 - 4 visits), field workers will be based at the participating EPI
           centers throughout the follow-up period. Each follow-up visit takes about 10-15 minutes
           of the caregivers time, not including any time spent waiting to be seen by the
           vaccinator. Each child in the study is provided a unique EPI number by the EPI staff as
           per routine and also a study ID by a field worker. The linkage between the EPI number
           and the ID number will be maintained after data collection is complete. The field
           workers will use these IDs to identify the study participants when they come for
           follow-up visits. At each follow up visit, the field worker will record the vaccine
           administered and date for each child in the study, including verifying data on past
           immunizations and due vaccines (follow-up form attached). Therefore, for each study
           participant, the field workers would collect data 3-4 times during the follow-up period.
           The minimum duration of follow up provided to each participant will be until the child
           receives Measles-1 vaccine (given at 9 months of age per WHO recommendations). The
           maximum duration of follow up provided to each participant will be 11 months.

        3. Completion Form: After the completion of follow-up period, short (15-20 minutes) phone
           or in-person interviews will be conducted to collect follow up vaccination data (if
           missing) and data on experiences of study participants regarding the bracelets
           (completion form attached). Phone numbers and addresses are provided as part of the
           Enrollment form. It is culturally acceptable for in person interviews to be conducted in
           their home. Key data points would include reasons for drop-outs, whether mothers
           understood how to use the bracelets, how often mothers said their babies wore the
           bracelets and why, what mothers liked and disliked about the bracelets and whether
           mothers would continue using the bracelets as reminders moving forward.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      Intention to treat analysis will be used-that is, all subjects will be analysed with the
      assumption that they remained in the treatment group to which they were initially assigned.

      Y=c+β1T1+β2T2+γX+ε

      Y is the relevant outcome measure (for instance Penta-3 coverage) C is the constant that
      gives the value of the outcome for the control group T1 and T2 are treatment dummy variables
      for group 1 (Alma Sana bracelets) and group 2 (Simple silicon bracelets) β1 and β2 will
      provide the difference in outcome variable between treatment one and the control group and
      treatment 2 and the control group respectively X is the set of possible covariates (gender,
      mother's education)

      Logistic regression will be used to determine whether the difference in outcome between the
      two treatment groups and control group are statistically significant and whether the
      difference in outcome between the two treatment groups is statistically significant from each
      other.
    
  