
    
      This study is part of a larger project to investigate the biological and educational
      constraints operating in children with learning disabilities, with a focus on treatment and
      links between assessment and treatment. The project evaluates prevention and treatment of
      reading and writing disabilities, the genetic contribution to subtypes of dyslexia, the
      relationship between brain variables and dyslexia, and the brain's response to treatment for
      dyslexia. Genetic and brain imaging studies occur throughout the project.

      During Year 1, at-risk readers in first grade were targeted for an intervention for mapping
      spoken words onto written words. These students were compared to a control group. During Year
      2, the faster responders (those who reached grade level) and the slower responders (those who
      were not yet at grade level) from Year 1 were compared. Slower responders received additional
      treatment and comparisons were made again at the end of the year. The additional treatment
      was also studied in Spanish-speaking students in first grade. During Year 3, another group of
      at-risk, poor readers in second grade were randomized to either word decoding treatment,
      comprehension treatment, a combined word decoding and comprehension treatment, or a control
      treatment.

      During Year 4, readers at risk for failing state standards in reading (decoding) participated
      in an extended day program providing comprehensive reading instruction. The students were
      compared to a control group. During Year 5, all students grades 4 to 9 took a battery of
      morphological, reading, and writing tests. The testing was administered throughout an entire
      school system.

      During Year 6, older students with dyslexia were randomly assigned to phonological or
      morphological reading training. Students were then compared on pre- and post-test behavioral
      measures and brain activation results. During Year 7, students with dyslexia were randomly
      assigned to an orthographic or morphological treatment for spelling. Students underwent brain
      imaging before and after the intervention. Behavioral and brain activation measures were also
      assessed. During Year 8, students with dyslexia underwent attention or fluency training and
      writing training with and without attentional bridges. Only behavioral measures were
      collected.

      Recruitment of families for the family genetics study is ongoing. Recruitment for the brain
      imaging-treatment studies will begin in 2004 when installation of new brain imaging equipment
      is complete.
    
  