
    
      1. As TDF has not been approved yet in Korea, current KASL practice guideline generally
           recommends to add ADV in LAM-resistant or LdT-resistant patients.

        2. However, several local literatures reported a substantial proportion of patients treated
           with LAM plus ADV combination therapy showed a persistently inadequate or partial
           virologic response('VR') and YMDDm still maintained in spite of under rescue combination
           therapy.

        3. Due to the unavailability of TDF in Korea, ETV plus ADV combination has being considered
           a better salvage therapy with non-overlapping cross-resistance profiles in pts who fail
           to LAM plus ADV rescue therapy and local report demonstrated that the rate of VR was
           significantly higher with ETV+ADV switching group than LAM+ADV continuation group in
           partial responder to LAM plus ADV combination rescue therapy for LAM resistance.

        4. Hence, more earlier combination therapy with the most potent Nucleoside and Nucleotide
           analogue would be a promising salvage treatment for previous NA treatment failures but
           comparative prospective trials are limited.

        5. Therefore, this study will investigate the greater effectiveness and safety of switching
           to the most potent combination versus maintaining LAM(or LdT) plus ADV and also compare
           the rate of VR based on the HBV DNA cut-off level at switching - more than and less than
           20,000 IU/mL.

      All subjects will orally take assigned drugs once daily for 48 weeks. All subjects will be
      assessed at baseline and every three months thereafter. Evaluations at each visit will
      include vital signs, physical examinations, laboratory tests, HBV DNA levels and adverse
      events. At baseline and every six months thereafter, serum will be assayed for HBV serology.
      Genotypic analysis will be performed at baseline and 48 weeks.
    
  