
    
      A total of 160 patients will be randomized into NexoBrid and SOC treatment (80 patients per
      arm).

      Age distribution will be managed as follows:

        -  45 patients 0-23 months old

        -  45 patients 24 months-3 years old

        -  30 patients 4-11 years old

        -  20 patients 12-17 years old The remaining 20 patients will be enrolled to any of the
           above groups, per their age during enrollment.

      The study will be conducted in three stages. In Stage I, at least 24 children age 4-18 years,
      hospitalized in burn units, with deep partial thickness burns ranging from 1%-30% TBSA, and
      who meet the entrance criteria, will be enrolled. Upon completion of stage I, a safety
      analysis will be performed on safety parameters and the results will be evaluated by a Data
      Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) as defined in the agreed charter. If the DSMB does not have
      any safety concerns, Stage II will commence, this time enrolling at least 26 additional
      children aged of 1-18 years according to the study procedures. A DSMB will be convened to
      assess the safety data of the first 50 patients enrolled at stages 1 & 2. If the DSMB has not
      found any safety concerns, stage III will commence in which patients from the age of birth to
      18 years will be included (stage III will include 110 remaining patients required to reach a
      total of 160 patients).

      Following the enrollment of a subject to the study and prior to randomization, physicians
      will define one or more Target Wounds (TWs) per subject according to TWs definition. All
      subjects' DPT and FT burns that fit the specified criteria are intended to receive study
      treatment per randomized study arm and therefore, must be designated as TWs.

      Prior to eschar removal treatment with NexoBrid or SOC subjects will be medicated with
      appropriate analgesia and undergo wound cleansing and dressing of all wounds with
      antibacterial solutions. Following wound cleansing and antibacterial treatments, subjects
      will undergo the eschar removal process as per treatment assignment (NexoBrid or SOC,
      following randomization). Subsequent to eschar removal, all wounds will be assessed and
      treated in the same manner, in accordance with post-eschar removal wound care strategy.
      Furthermore, subjects will undergo daily assessments (Vital signs (VS) and pain assessments)
      for one week and weekly assessments thereafter, until wound closure. Following wound closure,
      subjects will be followed up at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and after that, at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months
      (for a blinded assessment of cosmesis, function and QoL evaluation).
    
  