
    
      Chemotherapy (CT) is a basic element in the therapy of gynecological oncologic diseases
      besides surgery, antibody therapy, anti-hormonal therapy and radiation. The chemotherapeutic
      intervention can be experienced physically and psychologically as a severe stress due to
      unwanted acute and also relevant long term side effects. It is even possible that because of
      severe side effects the CT can not be continued and main goals of the therapy like tumor
      reduction or elimination can not be achieved. Except of some medicinal approaches (such as
      antiemetics) or therapeutic exercise, not many therapeutic approaches are known to help
      reduce CT induced side effects. Against this background it is important to identify and
      scientifically evaluate new approaches to reduce the side effects of CT. The aim of this
      study is to verify the effectiveness of intermittent fasting as a potentially helpful
      supportive therapy in CT. In a prior pilot study of our institute with 34 breast- and ovarian
      cancer patients showed beneficial effects of an intermittent fasting of 72-84 h parallel to
      the application of the CT (manuscript submitted in Cancer Science).

      The results of this confirmatory study are therefore of potentially high clinical relevance
      for all chemotherapeutically treated patients.

      Long term goal: This study can lead to the improvement of tolerance and effectiveness of
      chemotherapeutic tumor therapy through accompanying intense nutritional therapy
      interventions. Beyond that it can be the starting point of a following multi-center
      randomized controlled study.

      A large variety of animal experimental studies as well as three smaller pilot studies suggest
      that intermittent fasting can reduce the unwanted side effects of CT and enhance the quality
      of life. It is being speculated that the anti-tumor effect of fasting is enhanced through the
      reduction of the Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and mTOR as well as p53-signalling
      molecules (differential stress resistance).

      But it is still unclear whether the possible beneficial effect that intermittent fasting
      shows can only be reached by subtotal caloric restriction or a significant reduction of the
      intake of animal proteins and refined sugar could also cause a similar decrease in IGF-1.

      Against this background this confirmatory study aims to test the hypothesis that CT in the
      adjuvant and neoadjuvant treatment of breast- and ovarian cancer is better tolerable under
      intermittent fasting than under a normo-caloric vegan and sugar-reduced diet.
    
  