
    
      Patients with severe LUTO will come for clinical evaluation as part of the standard clinical
      care at the Fetal Center at Texas Children's Hospital. Once the diagnosis of fetal severe
      LUTO is confirmed and the patient is considered for fetal intervention, patient will be
      invited to participate in the present study. Fetal cystoscopy will be offered as an optional
      experimental procedure.

      The following information will be obtained in the standard clinical care visit as usual: a.
      demographics (maternal age, parity); b. gestational age at the diagnosis of LUTO; c. fetal
      ultrasound findings including documentation of cervical length, gestational age,fetal bladder
      size, bladder wall thickness, degree of fetal hydronephrosis, amount of amniotic fluid, fetal
      biometry; d. fetal urinary biochemistry; e. fetal echocardiogram findings.

      The standard management options for fetal LUTO include expectant management, fetal
      vesico-amniotic shunting or termination of pregnancy according to the law. These options will
      be offered to all patients as the first set of management options and the gold standard. In
      addition, the investigators group will offer the procedure as an alternative experimental
      option, with a full explanation of the experimental nature of the procedure, the technical
      benefits and difficulties, and the risks and potential benefits of the procedure and the
      limited long-term outcomes information. Those patients who request participation in the
      present study will be informed that they can, a priori, select a crossover arm if for any
      reason the fetal cystoscopic procedure is not possible. They can elect that a fetal
      vesico-amniotic shunting be performed or prenatal expectant management or even termination of
      pregnancy (as part of the standard management of fetuses with LUTO).

      Participation in the study:

      Once the patient is deemed eligible, all prenatal standard management options will be offered
      first to the patient. Fetal cystoscopy will be offered as an investigational procedure for
      evaluation. If the patient opts for the fetal cystoscopy, we will explain that this procedure
      can be diagnostic and therapeutic. In order to prevent coercion, the investigation procedure
      will be presented to the patient in a manner that is an option and voluntary, if the patient
      chooses not to participate in the investigational procedure, the clinical care will not be
      affected. Informed consent to participate in the present study will be obtained. We will also
      include non-English speaking subjects in the present study. We will submit a full Spanish
      consent via amendment for IRB approval after approval of the English consent. We will not
      enroll any non-English subjects until we receive final approval. The study flow is
      demonstrated in Figure 1 (see attached document).

      Description of the fetal cystoscopy procedure (experimental procedure):

      Fetal cystoscopy will be performed between 16 0/7 and 25 6/7 weeks at the Pavilion for Women
      - TCH. This procedure will be performed under maternal local anesthesia and sedation. In some
      cases, according to the anesthesiologist's indication, maternal epidural may be performed.
      Fetal anesthesia will be performed by ultrasound-guided injection into fetal arm or leg of a
      combination of fentanyl (15µglKg), atropine and vecuronium (0.5-2mg/Kg).

      Prophylactic tocolysis will be used in all patients with a protocol employing magnesium
      sulfate - 6 gram IV loading dose followed by a 2 gram/hour continuous infusion for 24 hours,
      followed by nifedipine 10mg Q6 during until 36 weeks of gestation.

      Prophylactic antibiotics will also be used during the procedure using Cefazolin 2 g IV
      immediately before the procedure. Nafcillin will be injected into the amniotic cavity at the
      conclusion of the procedure. In case the patient has allergies to cephalosporin, clindamycin
      600 mg will be used as alternative.

      Steroids for fetal lung maturation will be given between 24 and 25 6/7 weeks (two doses of 12
      mg betamethasone given 24 hours apart, with the last dose given 48-72 hours before the
      procedure), if the procedure is performed during this gestational period.

      The procedure will be performed percutaneously under ultrasound-fetoscopic guidance. An 18G
      needle will be introduced into the fetal bladder through the maternal abdominal wall and
      uterus under ultrasound guidance. Using a Seldinger technique an 8-9Fr Cook trocar will be
      inserted through the maternal wall towards the fetal bladder. A curved Storz sheath for 1.3
      mm (11530AA, Karl Storz, Tuttlinglen, Germany) or 2.0 mm fetoscopy (26120BA, Karl Storz,
      Tuttlingen, Germany) or flexible ureteroscope will be introduced into the Cook catheter into
      the fetal bladder. After confirming that the trochar is inside the fetal bladder, urine
      samples will be collected for further renal function analysis. The fetoscope will be advanced
      toward the bladder neck and the dilated posterior urethra. If a membrane-like obstruction of
      the urethral lumen is seen, the diagnosis of PUV will be confirmed and at this time the
      valves will be fulgurated using a Diode laser with low energy (15-20W). If necessary, we will
      use a guide-wire to perforate the valves. Fulguration of the valves will be performed very
      cautiously with the laser fiber almost touching them in order to avoid damaging peripheral
      tissues. When the valves are completely disrupted, the urine will be released through the now
      patent urethra, which results in emptying the bladder. A transurethral shunt may be placed
      depending on the cause of the obstruction (urethral stenosis). In addition, power Doppler
      will be applied to confirm passage of fluid through the patent urethra into the amniotic
      cavity. However, if a non membrane-like structure is found, even with the fluid injection or
      the guide-wire, urethral atresia (UA, US or Prune Belly syndrome) will be diagnosed and we
      will not attempt to perforate this structure. A vesicoamniotic shunting placement will be
      performed in this situation depending on the patient's consent prior to the surgery.

      The postsurgical care is going to follow the same standard prenatal care after fetal
      vesico-amniotic shunting. The expected hospital course is 72 hours as it is also expected for
      fetal vesico-amniotic shunting; however, it is possible that the patient will be hospitalized
      for complications or preterm labor. The patient will then be discharged home with
      recommendations for modified bed rest for the first 2 weeks post discharge, but will
      subsequently be allowed to graduate to moderate activity if the uterus is quiescent. Patients
      will return on a weekly basis for clinical and ultrasound evaluation. On ultrasound, fetal
      kidneys, bladder thickness and dilatation, and amniotic fluid volume will be assessed. Fetal
      Surveillance by biophysical profiles and Doppler studies will begin at 34 weeks

      Delivery mode will be performed based on the obstetrical management following the
      investigators clinical algorithm.

      The subjects that undergo fetal cystoscopy will have exactly the same postnatal routine
      (standard of care) clinical follow-up that is provided to all infants with LUTO. All infants
      with LUTO are followed-up by the pediatric urology and nephrology services and may need
      postnatal surgical intervention. At birth, the clinical evaluation will include a renal
      ultrasound, voiding cysto-urethrogram (VCUG) as well as clinical laboratory examinations such
      as serum creatinine, sodium, calcium, potassium and chloride, and a urine analysis will be
      performed as part of the standard clinical care. Information from these routine examinations
      will be collected and documented.
    
  