
    
      Hypotheses, Objectives and Aims:

      The purpose of the GIRLS study is to provide counseling to adolescent girls who are (a) at
      high risk for delinquency and/or are juvenile justice involved and (b) are experiencing
      symptoms of PTSD, in order to help them regulate their emotions, planning, decision-making,
      and actions/ interactions in ways that will reduce PTSD and enhance their safety, responsible
      civic involvement, learning, peer, family, and adult relationships, and physical and
      psychological well-being. The study will be the first randomized clinical trial of a
      therapeutic intervention for complex post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)with girls: 1)
      Trauma Affect Regulation: Guide for Education and Therapy (TARGET; Frisman, Ford, Lin,
      Mallon, & Chang, in press), compared to Enhanced Treatment as Usual (ETAU). Both
      interventions will provide 12 one-to-one manualized, educational and therapeutic sessions
      that teach coping skills and stress reduction techniques.

      The aims of the study are:

      Aim 1) To test if participation in TARGET results in clinically and statistically significant
      improvements in PTSD symptoms, psychosocial functioning, and emotion/impulse regulation.

      Aim 2) To compare the differential affects of TARGET and ETAU on affect regulation, social
      support, stress-related information processing and cognitive coping, and the reduction of
      impulsive or aggressive thinking/behavior.

      Aim 3) To identify changes in daily self-regulation after TARGET and ETAU.

      An ethnically diverse sample of girls at high risk for delinquency and/or with current or
      past juvenile justice-involvement between 13 and 17 years of age will be recruited in clinic,
      community, detention, schools, and residential programs. After screening for eligibility and
      obtaining valid signed consent forms, participants will be randomly assigned to one of the
      two experimental conditions. Within each condition, trained clinicians will administer 12
      sessions of individualized counseling using a manual for the intervention. Psychometric
      self-report and daily monitoring measures will be obtained at baseline, post-treatment, and
      6-month follow-up assessments and multivariate statistical techniques will be used for
      analysis of treatment effects.
    
  