
    
      Introduction: A central challenge in the delivery of evidence-based interventions to promote
      under-five child survival is the coordination of care across the multiple tiers of the health
      system, from frontline health workers, to primary care clinics, to district hospitals, to
      specialty providers. Additionally, children who survive or avoid once-fatal diseases such as
      congenital and rheumatic heart diseases, prematurity, neurodevelopmental conditions, and
      disabilities sustained from traumatic injuries, are increasingly living well into
      adolescence, young adulthood, and beyond. Healthcare delivery systems in resource-limited
      settings, however, are ill-equipped to manage such patients' care. Mobile technologies,
      coupled with effective management strategies, may enhance implementation and coordination of
      evidence-based interventions, but few controlled trials exist to validate this. Particularly
      lacking are strategies that incorporate mobile technologies in an integrated manner across
      the health system.

      Intervention: We have developed a mobile health care coordination and quality improvement
      intervention within two rural district healthcare systems in Nepal, where the child mortality
      rate is an estimated 82 per 1,000, and coordination of child health care is poor. Firstly,
      the intervention aims to increase the timely engagement in acute care for children under the
      age of five to receive evidence-based World Health Organization protocols aimed at reducing
      child mortality-Integrated Management of Pregnancy and Childbirth, Integrated Management of
      Childhood Illness, Integrated Management of Emergency and Essential Surgical Care, and
      Community-based Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition. Secondly, the intervention aims to
      implement a Chronic Care Model for pediatric patients under the age of twenty suffering from
      a chronic disease (congenital and rheumatic heart disease, diabetes, depression, epilepsy,
      asthma, musculoskeletal and neurodevelopmental disabilities, and pre- and post-surgical
      conditions).

      Analysis: We will conduct a quasi-experimental, stepped-wedge, cluster-controlled trial. The
      primary outcome of this trial will be under-two mortality. We hypothesize a 25% reduction in
      under-two mortality rate during the intervention periods, relative to the control period. We
      hypothesize a 50% improvement in follow-up rates, a 30% improvement in global symptoms score,
      a 20% reduction in disability score, and a 20% reduction in inpatient days in hospital. We
      will use both quantitative and qualitative methods to assess the scalability of the
      intervention in terms of logistics, human resources, costs, and utilization.

      Impact: Rigorous evaluations of systems-level child healthcare interventions are needed to
      drive global healthcare policies and their implementation. The trial proposed here will
      inform the potential impact and scalability of health systems strengthening interventions.
    
  