
    
      The morbidity, mortality and costs of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in neutropenic
      patients are high. An effective intervention to prevent IPA would therefore be welcome. The
      incidence of IPA in neutropenic hematology patients in our institution was recently estimated
      to be 5-10%. Currently, only HEPA filtration is routinely used for the prevention of IPA. In
      1988, Schmitt et al. showed a significant delayed mortality in rat model of IPA when rats
      were treated with aerosolized conventional amphotericin-B (amB) two days before infection
      (1). Conventional amB may interfere with surfactant function in the lungs. In contrast,
      liposomal amphotericin-B contains phospholipids that are structurally related to surfactant
      and inhibits natural surfactant function only slightly. Furthermore, in rats, mean
      concentrations of AmB in lungs were 3.7 times higher at day one and almost 6 times higher at
      day seven after a single dose treatment with aerosolized liposomal amB when compared with
      conventional AmB (2). Only one non-placebo controlled randomized clinical trial evaluated the
      prophylactic use of inhalation therapy with conventional amB for the prevention of IPA and a
      non-significant 43% reduction was observed (3). We postulate that the weekly inhalation of
      liposomal AmB in neutropenic hematology patients can prevent IPA.

      In this randomised placebo controlled clinical trial we compare the safety and efficacy of
      the administration of nebulized liposomal AmB (2x/week) with placebo for the prevention of
      IPA in haematological patients with an expected duration of neutropenia of >10d. To
      demonstrate a reduction in incidence of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis from 7% to 1%, a
      total of 170 neutropenic episodes in each arm will be included (power 80%, two-tailed
      alfa=0.05). The primary efficacy endpoint is the cumulative percentage of patients developing
      a proven or probable IPA. Per protocol serum galactomannan levels are monitored 2x/week and a
      HR-CT of the lungs will be performed for unexplained fever (>5d) unresponsive to
      broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. EORTC/MSG criteria are used for diagnosis of IPA. The
      primary safety endpoint is a premature discontinuation of the study drug for >1week due to
      intolerance.
    
  