
    
      Mid-life and older African Americans (AAs), a population that is increasing in number, have
      high rates of cardiovascular-related morbidity and mortality in relation to Whites. For this
      population, dietary and physical activity behaviors are related to the incidence of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). Few tested health promotion interventions tailored for mid-life
      and older AAs are available yet churches have been shown to be an effective environment for
      AA health programs. Thus, the overall goal of this project is to reduce CVD risk factors in
      mid-life and older AAs through implementing and evaluating a church-based health
      intervention. Using the Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change (TTM) and Socio-ecological
      theory (SE), the objectives of this project were to: 1) determine the effectiveness of a
      church-based intervention in relation to dietary behaviors (food choice, dietary quality),
      habitual physical activity) and CVD clinical risk factors of mid-life and older African
      Americans by increasing consumption of fruits, vegetables and calcium-rich foods; decreasing
      consumption of fat, sugar and sodium; increasing habitual physical activity; and improving
      selected clinical outcomes (blood pressure, body weight, glucose, among others); 2) identify
      the differential influence of program components of the intervention; 3) examine variables
      that might mediate the process of goal achievement; and 4) determine variables that are
      related to stage of change progression in goal achievement. Midlife and older AAs (n=221)
      from six churches, three treatment and three comparison, in North Florida were randomly
      selected from the churches, stratifying by age and gender. The intervention, Health for
      Hearts United, was developed using a community-based participatory approach and included
      literature-based conceptual elements of awareness building, clinical learning and efficacy
      development. Instruments included a food and lifestyle habits questionnaire (food frequency,
      NCI fruit and vegetable screener, NCI fat screener, physical activity items, TTM items,
      background characteristics, among others). Clinical data, including 24 hour recall, were
      collected from a subsample of participants (n=104). Data were collected at four points:
      Baseline, 6 ,18 and 24 month. The project was guided by research and community advisory
      committees.
    
  