
    
      Background: Over 100,000 VA patients receive oral anticoagulation (AC) each year to prevent
      blood clots, including strokes. AC is safer and more effective when it is managed skillfully
      and therefore well-controlled. AC control can be measured using percent time in therapeutic
      range (TTR), the proportion of time when patients are sufficiently anticoagulated to prevent
      clots but not excessively anticoagulated (which increases the risk of bleeding). The
      investigators have shown that the anticoagulation clinics (ACCs) of the VA vary widely on
      TTR, from 40% (very poor control) to 70% (excellent control). Improving TTR in the VA would
      prevent thousands of adverse events, including strokes, major hemorrhages, and deaths. The
      investigators have further investigated the structures and processes of care that contribute
      to these wide disparities in TTR performance.

      Objectives: We applied proven methods to change provider behavior. The goal was to facilitate
      the adoption of these evidence-based practices in order to improve TTR in VISN 1. We utilized
      educational outreach, audit and feedback, internal facilitation, and external facilitation to
      promote improvements in three evidence-based processes of care; namely, follow-up within 7
      days after deranged INR values, minimizing loss to follow-up, and use of guideline concordant
      INR targets.

      Methods: Our clinician-focused intervention used a Dashboard to measure site-level TTR and
      processes of care and an Algorithm for routine AC management. Both the Dashboard and the
      Algorithm are concrete representations of our main evidence-based recommendations to improve
      AC management. We promoted their use through quarterly visits to the sites, at which we
      delivered audit and feedback and educational outreach, and also provided external
      facilitation to address ways to improve these performance measures. Our main outcome was
      change in site TTR over time, which was compared between VISN 1 and non-VISN 1 sites using an
      interrupted time series. Secondary outcomes included site-level changes in processes of
      anticoagulation care (measured using automated data). We used a difference-in-differences
      (DID) model to examine changes in anticoagulation control, measured as percent time in target
      range (TTR), as well as process measures, and compared VISN 1 sites to 116 VA sites located
      outside VISN 1. The pre-intervention period was from 5/1/10-5/1/13, while the
      post-intervention period was from 5/2/13-5/10/16.
    
  