
    
      COPD is the fourth leading cause of death in the US, and COPD exacerbations result in
      approximately 700,000 hospitalizations annually. Patients who do not respond to
      pharmacotherapy are placed on invasive (IMV) or noninvasive mechanical ventilation (NIV).
      Although IMV reverses hypercapnia/hypoxia, it causes significant morbidity and mortality. NIV
      is an alternative ventilatory option for acute respiratory failure that provides positive
      pressure ventilation via a mask. Multiple randomized controlled trials and analyses of
      real-world data have shown that patients treated with NIV are less likely to require IMV and
      have better mortality and length of hospital stay. NIV is recommended in all COPD guidelines
      as the first-line treatment for patients with severe exacerbation who have failed
      pharmacologic treatment. Yet, despite compelling evidence of benefit, we have previously
      demonstrated substantial variation in the implementation of NIV across hospitals, leading to
      preventable morbidity and mortality.

      Through a series of mixed-methods studies investigators have found that successful
      implementation of NIV requires physicians, respiratory therapists (RTs), and nurses to
      communicate and collaborate effectively to select appropriate patients for treatment, and to
      carefully manage patients after NIV initiation. These studies suggest that efforts to
      increase the use of NIV in COPD need to account for the complex and interdisciplinary nature
      of NIV delivery and the need for team coordination. The main goal is to conduct a two-arm
      pragmatic type III hybrid implementation-effectiveness trial to compare two educational
      strategies in 20 hospitals with low NIV use in COPD: interprofessional education (IPE) which
      targets complex team-based care in NIV delivery and on-line education (OLE). The primary
      outcome of the trial is change in the hospital rate of NIV use among patients with COPD
      requiring ventilatory support. The central hypothesis is that IPE will outperform OLE,
      leading to greater improvement in the uptake of NIV and that RT autonomy and team
      functionality will act as mediators. The goal will be accomplished by completing three
      specific aims. Aim 1 will compare the uptake change over time of NIV use among patients with
      COPD in hospitals enrolled in the two arms. Aim 2 will explore mediators' role (RT autonomy
      and team functionality) on the relationship between the implementation strategies and
      implementation effectiveness. Finally, Aim 3, will assess acceptability and feasibility of
      the educational training through interviews with providers. This proposal is significant
      because NIV is the only therapy that has been shown to improve short-term survival for
      patients hospitalized for exacerbation of COPD, yet a large number of hospitals still have
      not adopted this approach fully.
    
  