
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oncolytic measles virus encoding
      thyroidal sodium iodide symporter (MV-NIS) when administered with or without cyclophosphamide
      in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the
      confirmed response rate of MV-NIS alone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple
      myeloma who have exhausted all therapeutic options. (Phase II, Cohort A) III. To evaluate the
      confirmed response rate of MV-NIS alone in patients who are relapsing from very good partial
      response (VGPR) or complete response (CR) and have not received myeloma directed therapy for
      at least 12 weeks. (Phase II, Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and toxicity of the intravenous administration of an Edmonston
      vaccine strain measles virus engineered to express the thyroidal sodium iodide symporter
      (MV-NIS) when administered with or without cyclophosphamide in patients with relapsed or
      refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the confirmed response rate of MV-NIS
      in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) III. To further evaluate
      the adverse event profile of MV-NIS in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
      (Phase II) IV. To evaluate overall survival, failure-free survival and progression-free
      survival. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination, and the
      biodistribution of virally infected cells at various times points after infection with MV-NIS
      (when administered with or without cyclophosphamide) using 99m-technetium (Tc) gamma camera
      imaging. (Phase I and II) II. To assess virus replication, viremia, viral shedding in urine
      and respiratory secretions, and virus persistence after systemic administration of MV-NIS
      (when administered with or without cyclophosphamide). (Phase I and II) III. To monitor
      humoral responses to the injected virus. (Phase I and II) IV. To explore the anti-myeloma
      efficacy (i.e. clinical response rate, time to progression, progression free survival,
      duration of response) of the virus using standard myeloma response criteria as well as
      immunoglobulin free light chain measurements. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of MV-NIS followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms (Stage 1 or Stage 2) in phase I and assigned
      to Stage 1 in phase II.

      STAGE 1 (MV-NIS ALONE, closed to accrual on 12/17/2009 and reopened 10/13/2011): Patients
      receive MV-NIS intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1.

      STAGE 2 (MV-NIS AND CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE, temporarily closed to accrual on 10/13/11): Patients
      receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes and then MV-NIS IV over 1 hour 2 days later.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and then
      every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  