
    
      Refractive surgery techniques such as laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK), corneal lenticule
      extraction (SMILE/CLEAR) and photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) are becoming increasingly
      popular among myopic patients. With current surgical planning tools, there is a reported
      10-15 % chance of over/under correction, in particular with higher corrections. The biggest
      factor that leads to this discrepancy is the "one size fits all" approach. Patient specific
      characteristics of the eye such as the corneal material properties, are not considered in the
      surgical planning. This information is also essential for diagnosis and treatment of
      pathologies like keratoconus. New diagnostics devices based on e. g. Brillouin scattering are
      now introduced on the market, with the aim to provide an in-vivo quantification of the
      biomechanical tissue properties. However, the relationship between the Brillouin measurement
      and the biomechanical properties of the cornea is not fully understood yet. The investigators
      aim for determining an improved relationship between the optical Brillouin measurement
      performed in-vivo preoperatively and classical destructive biomechanical testing of the
      extracted corneal lenticule after the surgery. This lenticule is currently discarded after
      surgery.

      The purpose of the study is to investigate the exact relationship between the classically
      determined material properties (by stress-/strain measurements) and optically obtained data
      by Brillouin scattering, which are collected during pre-op investigations. A precise
      characterization and relation between both measurements will allow clinicians to better
      predict surgical parameters and perform better refractive interventions. This information
      will also inform clinicians on the mechanical status of the cornea of patients suffering from
      subclinical keratoconus.
    
  