
    
      Square Stepping Exercise (SSE) can be best described as a visuospatial working memory task,
      with a stepping response and thus may be considered as a cognitive-physical exercise or
      alternatively as a type of mind-motor exercise. The SSE program was developed specifically to
      improve balance and lower extremity functioning and thereby prevent disability and
      institutionalization in older adults with recent evidence also suggesting that it may
      positively impact cognitive functioning.

      Through the investigators' collaboration with Dr. Mike Sharratt, President of the
      Schlegel-University of Waterloo Research Institute for Aging, Jaimie Killingbeck, Program for
      Active Living Coordinator for Schlegel Villages, and Susan Brown, Research Coordinator for
      the Schlegel-University of Waterloo Research Institute for Aging this study aims to: further
      assess the feasibility of square-stepping exercise amongst older adults with a variety of
      cognitive abilities, increase our collaborative efforts in the broader community and to
      engage older adults in physical activity to improve global cognitive functioning through a
      mind-motor exercise intervention.

      This study will be a cluster randomized controlled trial, stratified by long-term care or
      full continuum care of the 4 Schlegel Villages involved, not blinded. The investigators will
      stratify so that 1 long-term care and 1 full continuum will be randomized to begin the
      square-stepping program immediately, and 1 long-term care and 1 full continuum care will be
      randomized to usual-care wait list control group, that will begin the program once 12-week
      measurements are complete. The facilities were stratified to help balance baseline cognition
      between the intervention and control groups. The 4 facilities are: Long-term Care - Glendale
      Crossings and St. Claire; Full continuum Care - Tansley Woods and Winston Park. The sites
      were pre-randomized to allow facilities time to prepare their programming schedules to
      include square-stepping exercise to their residents. Intervention sites include Glendale
      Crossings and Tansley Woods and wait-list control sites include St. Claire and Winston Park.
      Outcomes assessments will be completed by graduate students and research assistants on this
      project. The assessments will be completed at each of the Villages. The Schlegel Villages
      staff Kinesiologists/ Exercise Therapists will implement the square-stepping exercise program
      during the 12 week period. Study staff will train the Schlegel Villages staff on how to
      implement the program.
    
  