
    
      Case notes of all the patients who were referred to the one stop diagnostic heart failure
      clinic during the period (Jan 2002- Dec 2007) will be reviewed and subjects who were found to
      have signs and symptoms of the Heart failure will be identified.

      This cohort of patients will be further analysed and divided on the basis of Echocardiography
      (special scan of the heart that looks at the contraction, relaxation, and the flow of blood
      in the heart chambers) results into two groups.

        1. Those who have impaired contraction (systolic) function of there Left ventricle (left
           side chamber of the heart)

        2. Those who have normal contraction (systolic) function of the left ventricle.

      Case notes of these patients will then be studied in detail with regards to their initial
      presentation, clinical examination, Electrocardiogram (electrical tracing of the heart) and
      chest X ray (picture of the heart and lungs) report.

      These will be co-related with the findings and report of the Echocardiogram.

      Once the diagnosis is established, uptake of evidence based medications (beta blockers, ACE
      inhibitors, spironolactone) and their titration up to the target dose at subsequent follow up
      visits in the heart failure clinic will be examined.

      B) Phase 2 (General practice/ surgery phase)

      This part of the study will be conducted at the GP surgery of the identified patient. This
      will involve accessing the data held at the GP practice with regards to

        1. Was heart failure treatment continued after discharge from the hospital clinic?

        2. If medications continued then for how long?

        3. If medications discontinued then why and by whom (Hospital/GP)?

        4. Current medications and the doses

        5. Admissions to the hospital if any?

        6. Any other co morbidities developed since discharge for the HF clinic?

        7. Outcome in terms of mortality

        8. The cause of death as specified on the death certificate
    
  