
    
      Heart failure (HF) is among the most prevalent chronic conditions and leading cause of
      hospital readmission in adults 65 years of age and older. HF patients discharged from rural
      critical access hospitals (CAHs) had higher 30-day readmission rates compared to patients
      discharged from urban hospitals. Adhering to recommended self-management behaviors improves
      HF patients' health outcomes and reduces readmissions; however, the prevalence of adherence
      is low in HF patients. In rural communities, low adherence can be attributed to the fact that
      rural HF patients received less information about managing their chronic condition based on
      the investigators preliminary study. Previous studies reported inconsistent findings
      regarding the effectiveness of interventions designed to improve self-management adherence.
      The feasibility of these interventions in rural settings is unknown. Therefore, innovative
      programs are needed to identify the intervention to enhance self-management adherence in HF
      patients living in rural communities. The purpose of this prospective, two-group, repeated
      measures, randomized control trial is to test the efficacy and feasibility of a 12-week
      activation-enhancing intervention (Patient AcTivated Care at Home [PATCH]) on self-management
      adherence and health outcome (readmission rates) in HF patients discharged from rural
      hospitals (critical access hospitals). A sample size of 96 subjects with heart failure will
      be recruited over 14 month period. Both intervention and control groups will receive usual
      care. The intervention group will additionally receive 2-phase PATCH intervention: the
      in-hospital discharge education session (Phase I) and 12-week post-discharge education
      sessions delivered by telephone (Phase II). The tailored strategies are developed to activate
      patients engaging in self-management behaviors based on their baseline activation level. The
      investigators central hypothesis, based upon their preliminary data, is that patients with
      higher activation level will have significantly better self-management adherence. The
      investigators will test their hypothesis with the following Specific Aims: To evaluate the
      effects of the patient activation intervention on self-management adherence (Aim 1) and
      hospital readmissions (Aim 2) over time. To evaluate the mechanism of the patient activation
      intervention (Aim 3). To evaluate the feasibility of the PATCH intervention (Aim 4). The
      PATCH intervention is innovative because: 1) it translates patient activation theory into
      intervention strategies to improve self-management in a vulnerable population (rural heart
      failure patients living in rural community), 2) it tests the mechanism of patient activation
      on self-management adherence; 3) it uses the rural nursing theory to guide developing a
      sustainable intervention program in rural communities; and 4) it evaluates a biomarker
      collected by a single urine test as the indicator of self-management adherence in HF
      patients. This study will impact the management of heart failure by adding knowledge about
      the mechanism to improve self-management adherence in heart failure patient living in rural
      communities. Long term adherence to the recommended self-management behaviors is the
      foundation to realize health benefit and reduce burden on patients, their family and the
      healthcare system.
    
  