
    
      History and current related studies Elderly patients after total hip arthroplasty often
      experience postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) and disorders of brain function, such
      as memories, memory storage and concentration, perception and behavioral disorders. POCD is
      often transient, can be effectively controlled if measures can be taken timely; otherwise,
      POCD can become permanent, which may greatly affect the patient's quality of life. At
      present, pathogenesis and therapeutic effect of POCD are not clear in elderly patients
      undergoing total hip arthroplasty.

      With the help of a nerve stimulator, lumbar plexus combined with sciatic nerve block achieves
      the precise positioning of the nerve puncture site, and achieves unilateral limb complete
      anesthesia. The scope of the block is limited, and it has little influence on circulation.
      Lumbar plexus and sacral sciatic nerve block can effectively suppress stress response to
      surgery and pain and improve cognitive dysfunction in patients after surgery. Basic
      fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) has been shown to be associated with cognitive function. The
      decreased bFGF expression can directly affect the function of nerve cells and cause a
      decrease in cognitive ability. Sevoflurane can improve cognitive dysfunction after surgery.
      However, whether sevoflurance can reduce the occurrence of POCD after hip arthroplasty has
      not been reported.

      Adverse events

        1. To record adverse events, including incision pain, waist-dorsal muscle pain, spinal cord
           and nerve injury, hypotension, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, and bradycardia.

        2. If severe adverse events occur, investigators will report details including the date of
           occurrence and measures taken to treat the adverse events to the principle investigator
           and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis, open access

        1. Data collection: Case report forms will be collected, processed using Epidata software
           (Epidata Association, Odense, Denmark), collated, and then recorded electronically by
           data managers using a double-data entry strategy.

        2. Data management: The locked electronic database will be accessible and locked only by
           the project manager. This arrangement will not be altered. The Affiliated Hospital of
           Qinghai University, China will preserve all of the data regarding this trial.

        3. Data analysis: A professional statistician will statistically analyze the electronic
           database and will create an outcome analysis report that will be submitted to the lead
           researchers. An independent data monitoring committee will supervise and manage the
           trial data, ensuring a scientific and stringent trial that yields accurate and complete
           data.

        4. Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS 19.0 software (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA)
           and will follow the intention-to-treat principle.

        2. Measurement data will be normally distributed and expressed as the mean ± standard
           deviation. Count data will be expressed as constituent ratio or rate.

        3. bFGF expression, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score and Montreal Cognitive
           Assessment (MoCA) score in both groups will be compared using two-sample t-test. Above
           indexes at three time points in the same group will be will be compared using repeated
           measures analysis of variance. The incidence of adverse reactions in both groups will be
           compared using Pearson X2 test.

        4. The correlation between serum bFGF expression and cognitive function will be analyzed
           using Pearson correlation analysis.

        5. The significance level will be α = 0.05.
    
  