
    
      A within participant, repeated measures experimental design will be used such that each
      participant will serve as his/her own control. Caffeine and placebo will be administered in a
      double-blind, counterbalanced manner. Caffeine and placebo (white flour) pills will be
      prepared by Kerri Tiedman or Jackie Straughn at the Doctors Park Pharmacy using an analytical
      balance. Anhydrous caffeine or white flour will be placed into opaque capsules. The pills
      will be placed into envelopes by Chris Black. He will then use a computer generated random
      number table to assign caffeine or placebo pills for each testing session in a
      counter-balanced fashion. The participant's identification number, as well as session number
      will be placed on the envelope. A spreadsheet containing only the participants' numbers and
      the testing condition will be kept by Chris Black until the study is complete. Jessica,
      Robby, Alex, Josh, and Jamie the research assistants, who will be blinded to the contents of
      the envelopes, will administer the pills to the participants and collect data from the
      participants. This will ensure the blinding of the researchers to the condition during data
      collection. Following the completion of data collection the spreadsheet will be given to all
      the above stated research assistants and the blinding will be broken for data analysis.

      Total time commitment for the study will be approximately 10 hours over the course of 14
      days. Three familiarization session and 5 testing sessions will be completed.

      Test Day 1: - Potential participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab for a
      30 minute session involving the following:

      D1.1 Written and verbal description of the experiment and all procedures will be given, and
      any questions will be answered. Informed consent will be completed.

      D1.2 A physical activity readiness questionnaire (PAR-Q) will be completed (identifies
      contraindications to exercise.D1.3 A questionnaire screening for the potential adverse
      reactions to caffeine, current medication and supplements as well as an increased risk of
      rhabdomyolysis use will be competed. D1.4 Seated, resting blood pressure will be assessed in
      the right brachial artery. D1.5 Potential participants deemed eligible for the study will be
      asked to orally state to the researchers what they will be expected to do in the study and
      explain the risks and benefits of the study to confirm they understand the procedures, time
      commitment, freedom to withdraw, and risk and benefits of study participation. D1.6 Next,
      participants will practice the procedure for determining maximal voluntary isometric strength
      (MVC) of the plantar flexor muscle group. Participants will be seated in a specially designed
      chair with their hip at an angle of 90 degrees. A series of 3 maximal, all-out isometric
      contractions (contractions against a stationary object where the muscle does not shorten or
      lengthen) will be performed. Each contraction will last approximately 3 seconds. Participants
      will be given verbal encouragement throughout the contraction. Muscle activation (the amount
      or percentage of total muscle mass of the plantar flexors the person is able to use during a
      contraction) during the isometric contractions will be assessed using the interpolated-twitch
      technique (ITT). This technique involves applying an electrical current to the muscle via
      stimulation of the tibial motor axon (nerve) while it is contracting to determine if the
      muscle is able to generate any additional force, above and beyond what the participant can
      generate on their own. The force from this stimulation is compared to the force generated in
      a relaxed, non-contracting muscle to determine the percentage of the muscle the participant
      can active during a contraction. To perform the ITT stimulating electrodes are placed
      proximal to the patella and behind the knee over the tibial nerve. Participants will receive
      a brief (10 milliseconds) high intensity stimulation of the muscle during each contraction,
      and at 4 and 6 seconds following each contraction (while the muscle is relaxed). The MVC as
      well as the ITT will be determined in both the right and left calf.

      Test Day 2: participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab approximately 48
      hours following testing day 1 for a 15 minute session. D2.1 MVC and muscle activation of the
      plantar flexors will be practiced once again as described previously.

      Test Day 3: participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab approximately 48
      hours following testing day 2 for a 15 minute session. D3.1 MVC and muscle activation of the
      plantar flexors will be practiced once again as described previously

      Testing Day 4: Participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab for a 2 hour
      testing session. D4.1 The pressure pain threshold (PPT) of both the right and left calf
      muscles will be assessed. A mark will be placed over the belly of the plantar flexor muscle
      group on each leg. Researchers will place a pressure algometer over the test site and will
      gradually apply pressure at a rate of 0.50 kg/sec until the participant indicates the
      pressure has moved from being "uncomfortable" to "faintly painful." The participant will
      indicate this by depressing a button connected to the algometer. As soon as the participant
      indicates pain, the pressure stimulus will be removed by the researcher. D4.2 Muscle soreness
      in the plantar flexors muscle group will be assessed. This will be done by having
      participants perform 3 separate eccentric contractions of the plantar flexors using their
      body weight. Participants will be instructed to perform each eccentric contraction in a slow
      and controlled manner. After each action the participant will be asked to rate the intensity
      of the pain/hurt/soreness in their plantar flexors during the lift. A 10 cm visual analog
      scale (VAS) will be used to assess soreness. Participants will be instructed to place a mark
      along the 10 cm line that corresponds to the intensity of pain experienced during the lift.
      Anchors of "no pain" and "worst pain imaginable" will be placed on the left and right end of
      the 10 cm line, respectively. D4.3 Spinal excitability will be assessed by determining the
      H-reflex in the tibial nerve. Participants will be seated (as described previously) in the
      specially designed chair with their foot secured to a pedal. Two recording electrodes will be
      placed on the skin over the belly of the soleus muscle in order to record the electrical
      activity (EMG) for the soleus. A ground electrode will be placed over the lateral malleolus.
      Stimulating electrodes will be placed over the tibial nerve in the popliteal fossa and
      proximal to the patella. A series of 25-30 stimulation pulses will be delivered (each lasting
      1 millisecond) in order to visualize the H and M wave recruitment curve. D4.4 Contractile
      characteristics of the plantar flexors will be assessed by performing a series of stimulated
      contractions (via stimulation of the tibial nerve as described above). Six stimulated
      contractions, each lasting 1 second will be performed. Three each at a stimulation frequency
      of 20 hertz and 3 at a stimulation frequency of 100 hertz and each stimulation will be
      separated by 30 seconds. D4.5 MVC and muscle activation of the plantar flexors will be
      assessed as described previously. D4.6 Participants will consume gelatin capsules containing
      either a 5mg/kg body weight dose of anhydrous caffeine or a placebo (white flour). D.4.7
      Participants will rest quietly for 60 minutes. D4.8 PPT of the plantar flexors will be
      assessed as described previously. D4.9 Muscle soreness will be assessed as described
      previously. D4.10 H-reflex will be assessed as described previously D4.11 20 hertz and 100
      hertz contractile characteristics will be assessed as described previously. D4.12 MVC and
      muscle activation will be assessed as described previously.

      Test Day 5: Participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab approximately 24
      hours following testing day 4 for a 2 hour testing session. All procedures from test day 4
      will be repeated on testing day 5. If participants were randomly assigned to receive caffeine
      on testing day 4, they will receive the placebo on day 5, and vice versa.

      Test Day 6: Participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab approximately 24
      hours following testing day 5 for a 30 minute session.

      Participants will complete 60 eccentric muscle actions (6 sets of 10 repetitions) of the
      plantar flexors with their dominant leg using a weight approximating 120% of their maximal
      strength. Participants will be instructed to perform each eccentric muscle action in a slow
      (~ 3 sec) and controlled fashion. Researchers will verbally count during each action to
      assist in controlling the speed of the movement. The researchers will raise the weight prior
      to the start of each lift. This is so that the participant performs eccentric muscle actions
      only. Upon completion of the eccentric exercise, participants will be asked to refrain from
      the use of pain relieving medications, including alcohol, until the experiment has been
      completed. Participants will also be reminded of the instructions for monitoring symptoms
      related to rhabdomyolysis and of the instructions for proper hydration for the duration of
      the study.

      Test Day 7-8: Participants will report to the applied physiology lab approximately 24 hours
      following testing day 6 and 7 for a 2 hour testing session.

      All procedures from test day 4 will be repeated during testing day 7 and 8. Caffeine and
      placebo capsules will be administered in a counter-balanced fashion such that each
      participant will receive caffeine on 1 test day and placebo on the other.

      A completely within participants repeated measures ANOVA will be used to test for differences
      between each outcome measure between conditions and over time. Assuming a power of 0.80, a
      sample size of 20 participants will allow for detection of a difference between conditions of
      approximately 0.50 standard deviation (a moderate effect) for the interaction. Previous
      studies have demonstrated caffeine enhances strength and the h-reflex by approximately
      0.40-0.90 standard deviation. As such the proposed sample size should be large enough to
      detect any meaningful difference between the caffeine and placebo conditions.

      The printed hard copies of subject information and data will be kept in a locked file cabinet
      in the principle investigator's office which will be locked if he is not there. The principle
      investigator will be the only individual with keys to both. All electronic files for the
      project will be kept password protected. Only the principle investigator as well as the
      respective graduate students will know the password. In the event of an adverse event the
      principle investigator. will contact the institutional review board within 2 business days
      with the appropriate documentation.

      Data and Safety Monitoring Board will be comprised of two members the principle investigator
      (Chris Black) and the Co-Investigator (Jessica Renfroe). Monthly meetings will occur between
      these members to review data safety practices. If an adverse event were to occur members will
      discuss any problems and take action to minimize any further safety concerns within 2
      business days.
    
  