
    
      Background and aim:

      The vital signs are critical in assessing the severity and prognosis of infections, i.e.,
      Covid-19, influenza, sepsis and pneumonia. Quick and accurate triage is critical when facing
      a pandemic with an overwhelming number of cases (confirmed and suspected). This study aims a)
      to evaluate a new method for rapid camera-based non-contact measurement of five vital signs;
      body temperature, heart rate, blood oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, and blood pressure,
      and b) if an AI can predict hospitalization or death within 30 days.

      Methods:

      A method-comparison study design is used comparing each vital sign measured with the new
      method to the corresponding standard reference method. Furthermore, a cohort design is used
      to follow up any hospitalization or death within 30 days. The investigated new system
      consists of a high-speed digital video camera, a digital radiometric infrared camera, LED
      lights and a computer for data recording. This system faces the subject at a distance of
      approximately one meter, capturing a 30 second recording of the subject's face. First, all
      vital signs will be measured using one set of reference devices. Secondly the investigated
      device will record a 30 second video of the patient's face. Thirdly, and last, all vital
      signs will be measured using the same set of reference devices. A copy of the vital sign
      readings (using the standard reference methods) will be handed over by an investigator to the
      clinical professionals responsible for the subsequent medical care for each subject.
      Afterwards, the collected 30-second recordings will be run through specific software
      algorithms to extract the vital signs. The results from the new camera-based contactless
      measurement of vital signs and the outcome of the AIs prediction of risk for hospitalization
      or death will not be presented in the care situation of the patient.

      Expected Findings:

      It is expected that the proposed study will show that the new method can estimate body
      temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood oxygen level, and blood pressure with an
      acceptable agreement compared with the reference method and also estimate hospitalization or
      death within 30 days.

      Implications of the expected findings:

      Being able to measure vital signs quicker than before by using a new contactless method would
      greatly facilitate triage of large number of patients. Also being able to predict
      hospitalization or increased risk for death would further improve the triage of patients.
    
  