
    
      Heart Failure (HF) is a growing and challenging public health concern in the United States.
      Current data suggest that there are about 5 million heart failure patients in this country
      with an additional 550,000 patients being diagnosed with this syndrome each year for the
      first time. Despite the significant advances in the management strategy of heart failure
      patients in the last 1-2 decades, there are about 1 million hospital admissions each year for
      Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (ADHF), almost double the number seen 15 years ago. The
      readmission rate for these patients at 6-month following discharge approaches about 50% with
      estimated 5-year mortality of 50%. Approximately, $23 billion are spent for the inpatient
      management of HF patients with another $40 billion for outpatient care. This prevailing
      situation mandates further exploration of novel therapeutic targets to treat this complex
      disease.

      Chronic HF is accompanied by a sustained elevation in sympathetic nervous system activity,
      which is thought to be an important component in the pathophysiology and progression of the
      disease. HF patients also show abnormal breathing pattern with an increased respiratory rate
      and a lower tidal volume. Faster respiratory rate is associated with higher levels of
      sympathetic activity and potentiation of the chemoreflex response to hypoxia and hypercapnia.
      The relationship between sympathetic activity and spontaneous breathing rate is independent
      of age, body mass index, physical activity levels, percentage of body fat, or blood pressure.
      The arterial baroreflex sensitivity is also reduced in patients with heart failure. All these
      factors contribute to the distressing symptoms of fatigue, dyspnea and exercise intolerance
      in these patients.

      Yoga trainees learn to breathe slowly, at a rate of about six breaths per minute, mobilizing
      in sequence the diaphragm and the upper and the lower chest. A handful of studies in normal
      subjects undergoing intensive training in yogic breathing techniques have demonstrated a
      marked improvement in cardiac hemodynamic parameters (cardiac output, cardiac index, stroke
      volume etc.), but such studies have not been conducted in patients with heart failure.

      The purpose of our study is to evaluate the changes in cardiac hemodynamic parameters
      (cardiac output, cardiac index and thoracic fluid content) in patients with acute heart
      failure, chronic ambulatory heart failure and normal healthy subjects after a trial of
      controlled slow breathing. Subjects would undergo non-invasive measurement of cardiac
      hemodynamics while spontaneously breathing. They would then be given instructions in slow
      breathing at a rate of 6 to 10 breaths per minute and asked to practice it for some time
      using heart rate variability as biofeedback mechanism. Hemodynamic measurements would be
      repeated during and after the trial of slow breathing. The difference between these
      measurements would then be statistically analyzed. We hypothesize that even a short trial of
      controlled slow breathing using a biofeedback mechanism in patients with HF would produce
      significant favorable improvement in cardiac hemodynamics.
    
  