
    
      The proposed study is a randomized, 2-arm, parallel, placebo-controlled design Human
      participants (n=44) with BMI >25 and high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (hs-CRP), a global
      marker of inflammation, >1.0 and ≤10 ng/L will be recruited. Recruited subjects must meet all
      eligibility criteria, sign and date a written Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved
      Informed Consent Form. Participants will be randomized into one of the two beverage
      intervention groups i.e., mango or control beverage.

      Each subject will be asked to come for 1 Screening Visit, 1 pre-study, and 3 Test Day Visits
      (two of which will also include OGTT testing). The initial screening visit will provide
      subjects with their site-specific, IRB-approved informed consent document prior to the start
      of any study-related procedures. Subject eligibility will be determined through a high
      sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (hs-CRP) marker value, anthropometric measurements, vital
      signs, fasting blood glucose test (finger prick), and completion of a survey related to
      general eating, health, mood and exercise habits.

      Eligible subjects will follow a limited polyphenolic diet throughout the duration of their
      participation, although stricter guidelines will be imposed during the 3 days prior to a
      study visit that involved blood/urine/fecal collection. Shopping lists and meal plans will be
      provided to subjects, along with counseling by the study investigators, to help subjects
      adhere to the limited polyphenolic diet. The trial will initiate with a 3-day food diary to
      assess background (pre-study) dietary intake followed by counseling to follow a diet
      relatively low in (poly)phenolic rich-beverages/foods, which will be maintained for the
      duration of the experiment. After an initial 7-day wash-in period on the limited polyphenolic
      diet, subjects will be randomized to 1 of 2 test treatments based on a randomization
      schedule.

      The three main Test Day visits will occur at Day 0; baseline), Day 14 (mid-point), and Day 28
      (end-point). Two of the Test Day Visits(Day0 and Day 28) will last about 2.5-3 h and involve
      blood pressure (BP) measurements, anthropometric (weight, waist circumference; body
      composition) assessment, and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed. The
      Test Day Visit on Day 14 will last about 1-1.5 hours, and subjects will be required to remain
      at the Clinical Nutrition Research Center for the duration of the visit. Fasting blood
      samples will be collected via a butterfly needle placed by a certified phlebotomist. Subjects
      will maintain daily food and GI-tract diary during the 4-week feeding trial. The diary will
      include questions about food intake and the condition of gastrointestinal tolerance and bowel
      function. Urine and fecal samples will be collected to monitor modifications occurring in the
      metabolites during the supplementation. .
    
  