
    
      A prospective randomized, double blinded trial of ketamine use in adult and elderly blunt
      trauma patients with associated rib fractures admitted to the trauma service will be
      conducted. Examples of blunt mechanisms include assault, falls, motor vehicle collisions,
      motorcycle crashes, motor vehicle pedestrian collisions, crush injuries, and bicycle
      accidents. The experimental arm of the trial will receive ketamine infusion therapy while the
      control arm receives saline placebo infusions at an equivalent rate. All patients will be
      managed with adjunct therapy including opiates in accordance with the institutional thoracic
      trauma protocols. Two separate trials based on patient age are included in this study.
      Elderly rib fracture patients are certainly of interest but will be evaluated as a distinct
      entity given the discrete differences in the complications of rib fractures and the goals of
      therapy.

      All blunt trauma patients with associated rib fractures will be screened. All patients will
      be enrolled into the institutional standard thoracic trauma pathway. All individuals will
      undergo Intercostal Nerve Block (ICNB) in the Emergency Department or on admission to the
      Intensive Care Unit. In addition to scheduled medications per institutional thoracic trauma
      protocols, all patients will receive adjunct opiate therapy. Patients will be screened by the
      clinical and pharmacy staff following the diagnosis of rib fractures for eligibility.
      Patients enrolled into the trial will be randomized into either the experimental or control
      arm of the trial. The Investigational Drug Services (IDS) department will randomize all
      enrollees and handle administration of all trial drugs. The infusate will be mixed by the IDS
      department and all bags will be labeled "Ketamine / Placebo." The IDS department will have
      unique bag identifiers, which will allow them to identify which bags have active ketamine and
      which are placebo in case of emergency.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion for experimental and control arms. Those
      enrolled in the experimental arm will receive early ketamine infusion therapy at a fixed
      infusion rate. For those enrolled in the adult trial the infusion rate will be 2.5 mcg/kg/min
      while those in the elderly trial will receive infusions at 2.0 mcg/kg/min. All ketamine
      infusions will be calculated based on ideal body weight (IBW), unless actual body weight is
      less than ideal. IBW will be calculated for males as 50kg + 2.3*(number of inches above 5
      feet) and for women as 45.5kg + 2.3*(number of inches over 5 feet). Patients randomized to
      the control arm will receive placebo saline solution at an equivalent rate. Time zero will be
      defined as the time at which the "ketamine / placebo" infusion is begun. For inclusion in the
      trial, initiation of ketamine / placebo infusions must take place within 6 hours of
      presentation to Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital (FMLH). Ketamine infusion therapy will
      be continued for 48 hours. At 6-8 hours post-ICNB all subjects will be assessed for need for
      repeat ICNB. Need for repeat ICNB will be defined by a thoracic specific numeric pain score
      greater than seven. Between eight and ten hours post-ketamine infusion initiation, subjects
      who have thoracic specific pain scores above seven will be evaluated for epidural placement
      by the Regional Anesthesia and Acute Pain Service.

      A subject will be allowed to remove himself/herself from the trial or be un-blinded should
      he/she, pharmacy, anesthesia, and/or surgical staff deem it medically necessary. Medical
      necessity would be determined by inability to treat the patient appropriately without
      knowledge of trial assignment; otherwise the assumption of treating staff will be all
      patients have received ketamine. All adverse events will be recorded and if necessary
      subjects will be un-blinded in the event of a serious adverse event. The trauma and
      anesthesia teams along with the inpatient clinical pharmacists will monitor all trial
      patients for any adverse event trends. Patients will be followed through the time of
      discharge.
    
  