
    
      The objective of PregSource: Crowdsourcing to Understand Pregnancy (PregSource) is: to better
      understand the range of physical and emotional experiences and alterations in behavior that
      women have during pregnancy and after giving birth, the impact of these experiences on
      women's lives, and the perinatal challenges encountered by special sub-populations of women.

      PregSource uses a longitudinal, crowd-sourcing, citizen science approach, asking pregnant
      women regularly and directly about their pregnancies. Participants enter information
      throughout gestation and the early infancy of their babies into online surveys and trackers
      via a website and/or mobile application ("app"). In exchange, participants will be able to
      track their pregnancy data over time, print out reports to share with their healthcare team,
      and view summaries of de-identified data to see how they compare to other women. In addition,
      PregSource will provide participants with links to trusted, evidence-based information from
      partner organizations about pregnancy management, issues, and complications.

      Participants may also be a potential pool of recruits for clinical studies. Based on
      information they enter, eligible women who are interested in participating in clinical
      studies may be sent contact information about observational or interventional studies. Their
      contact information will not be shared directly with researchers.

      After a critical mass of data is collected, de-identified data will be available to approved
      researchers for analysis.

      If you are pregnant and interested in joining PregSource, please:

        1. Go to https://pregsource.nih.gov/.

        2. Select "Join" at the top of the page.

        3. Complete the questions on the Join page

        4. Complete the online consent form.

      After that you will be asked some information for your account Profile, and you should start
      receiving/seeing questionnaires to complete on the My Dashboard page. You can also come in as
      often as you want/need to to complete PregSource's trackers to tell us about your mood,
      activity level, sleep, morning sickness, and weight gain. We also have a separate tracker for
      adding any medications, vitamins, and other supplements you may take during your pregnancy.

      More information is available at: https://pregsource.nih.gov. If you have any additional
      questions, please let us know at pregsource@nih.gov.
    
  