
    
      The global burden of Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is high and represents an unmet public
      health need. GBS is the leading cause of neonatal sepsis and meningitis in most countries. In
      2015, it was estimated that worldwide there were at least 320,000 infants with invasive GBS
      disease, 90,000 infant deaths and 10,000 cases of children with disability related to GBS
      meningitis1.

      Maternal rectovaginal colonization with GBS is a prerequisite for early onset disease within
      the first 6 days of life, with vertical GBS transmission occurring around the time of birth2.
      An estimated 20-35% of pregnant women are colonised with GBS with vertical transmission
      occurring in approximately 50% of colonized cases3. 1-2% of neonates born to GBS-colonised
      women develop invasive disease in the absence of intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP)4.

      Whilst the incidence of Early Onset Disease in the USA has declined significantly following
      the adoption of a universal swab-based screening and IAP policy, in countries adopting a
      risk-based IAP strategy, such as the UK, increases in Early Onset disease burden are
      reported.4. IAP has limitations as a strategy for use in countries such as Uganda due to cost
      and access to healthcare, as well as the risk of antimicrobial resistance developing.

      Given the early onset of neonatal GBS disease and the shortcomings of IAP policies, one of
      the best approaches to prevent GBS disease could be to use vaccination to prevent
      colonisation of pregnant women. The ideal model to test any GBS vaccine would be a controlled
      human infection model in non-pregnant women, however in order to develop this controlled
      human infection model researchers need to understand how host immunity affects GBS
      colonisation. Around 25-30% of non-pregnant women are colonised with GBS at any time and
      colonisation may be lost or gained over a lifetime. Prior to performing controlled human
      infection models, researchers need to further understand the correlation between colonisation
      and GBS antibody production in serum and at mucosal surfaces and researchers need to better
      understand how colonisation changes over time in healthy, non-pregnant women and given the
      observed differences in GBS disease in high and low income countries it would be useful to
      perform these observations in different geographical locations.

      RATIONALE

      Firstly, investigators need to determine levels of pre-existing local and systemic immunity
      in GBS colonised and uncolonised women that could be used as inclusion/exclusion criteria in
      a controlled human infection model, and to achieve this investigators need to optimise
      sampling techniques.

      Secondly, investigators need to understand differences in vaginal immunity that may be due to
      genetic or geographical differences in order to demonstrate the potential for global
      applicability of any potential vaccine candidate this is the rationale for conducting the
      study in the UK and Uganda. Finally investigators need to clarify who could (and would) be
      likely to volunteer to take part in controlled human infection model studies for GBS.

      THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK

      Correlation between vaginal sero-specific Immunoglobulin G to GBS has been found in pregnant
      women with less colonisation in those women with higher levels of Immunoglobulin G suggesting
      a level of natural immunity5. It is unclear how long Immunoglobulin G in blood remains high
      following colonisation and whether this decreases over time leading to increased future
      susceptibility. There is little published research on how GBS colonisation naturally changes
      over time and whether this correlates with vaginal and serum serotype-specific GBS
      Immunoglobulin G levels.

      In order to develop a human infection model, it would be useful to know how natural
      colonisation varies over time and its relationship with natural immunity, such that for
      future vaccine studies researchers would know whether observed non-colonisation is due to
      vaccine or natural immunity.

      A secondary aim is to explore whether human infection models of GBS would be acceptable to
      women given the complex nature of GBS colonisation and its potential impact on subsequent
      pregnancies.

      This will be a prospective cohort study of 100 women (50 colonised with GBS at baseline and
      50 uncolonised with GBS at baseline) at each site sampled over 12 weeks to assess antibodies
      in the vagina every two weeks and in blood every 6 weeks. The study will also include a focus
      group to understand acceptability of methods for the proposed human infection challenge model
      of GBS.

        1. Screening for GBS Women will be recruited for screening for GBS in the UK and Uganda
           (250 at each site). At screening women will be consented for a vaginal and rectal swab
           to assess for GBS carriage and will also undergo an asymptomatic Sexually transmitted
           infections screen according to local usual practice. In both the UK and Uganda this
           screening will look for Chlamydia, Gonorrhoea, Trichomonas vaginalis, Bacterial
           Vaginosis, Candida and for Syphilis, HIV and Hepatitis B and C. Anyone who meets the
           full inclusion criteria following screening will be invited to take part in the sampling
           study until the recruitment targets are reached. If any woman tests positive for any of
           the infections, she will be referred to a local centre for treatment and may still be
           included after completed treatment for the infection. Of the 250 women screened, the
           investigators will aim to recruit 50 women who are positive for GBS and 50 negative for
           GBS to take part in the sampling study. Consent to undertake the screening will be done
           initially with a further consent process for the sampling study.

           Screening will involve three self-taken vaginal swabs and a rectal swab for GBS
           detection and Sexually transmitted infections detection and a venous blood sample for
           HIV, syphilis and Hepatitis B and C. A brief medical history will be conducted at
           screening to exclude women with a history of diabetes, genital dermatoses, Cervical
           Intra-epithelial Neoplasia or other condition which the investigator deems may make them
           unsuitable to take part in the sampling study. A bedside urine pregnancy test will be
           performed at screening. HIV and Hepatitis B and C are not exclusion criteria however
           this information is needed in the analyses as there is a possibility that women with HIV
           in particular do not have the same antibody response to colonisation.

        2. Sampling method optimisation If a woman is deemed to meet all inclusion criteria and no
           exclusion criteria at screening and is willing to take part in the sampling method
           optimisation study, she will be consented again for the further study including consent
           for participation in a focus group at the end of the study. Consent to participate in
           the focus group will be optional.

           The sampling study will last for 12 weeks and samples will be collected as follows:

             1. A self-taken low vaginal swab using swabs at enrolment and then two weekly
                intervals, (Day 0, day 14, day 28, Day 42, day 56, day 70 and day 84) for GBS
                carriage.

             2. A self-taken rectal swab at recruitment and then at two weekly intervals (Day 0,
                day 14, day 28, Day 42, day 56, day 70 and day 84.) which will be tested for GBS
                carriage.

             3. Menstrual cup fluid at recruitment and then at two weekly intervals (Day 0, day 14,
                day 28, Day 42, day 56, day 70 and day 84) which is tested for Immunoglobulin G
                antibody (total and GBS specific).

             4. Serum sample at day 0 and at day 42 and day 84 for Immunoglobulin G detection
                (total and GBS specific) - 10 mls of blood will be collected using sterile needle
                and syringe into serum separator tubes.

             5. Urine pregnancy tests will be performed at day 0, day 42 and day 84 to ensure no
                pregnancies during the study.

           Women may choose whether to self-sample with rectovaginal swabs and menstrual cups at
           home or on attendance for their study visit. Blood tests and urine pregnancy tests will
           always be performed by the study team.

        3. Focus groups In the UK the investigator will recruit up to 20 women from the sampling
           study to take part in focus groups about their experiences with self-sampling methods
           and the acceptability of controlled human infection models. Consent to participate in
           focus group discussions will be included as part of the consent to take part in the
           sampling study but will be optional. Women may opt out of the focus groups at any time
           but remain in the sampling study if they choose.

      In Uganda, the investigators will recruit more widely to our focus groups, including
      representation from midwives and the participant's partners and community leaders.
      Investigators will directly contact potential focus group participants. Focus groups will be
      conducted on the acceptability of controlled human infection models. Investigators will also
      explore potential issues around maternal vaccination, and traditional and contemporary views
      on taking vaginal swabs and blood samples. From the Ugandan focus groups the investigator
      will ask 30 volunteers (10 men and/or community leaders, 10 women and 10 midwives) to
      participate in three further discussion groups to explore more in-depth views about the
      safety and acceptability of vaginal swabs and menstrual cups, potential hesitancy in
      consenting to have samples taken and potential barriers to joining the study.

      Results from the focus groups will be used to inform patient information leaflets and
      sampling protocol for the design of a controlled human infection model study.
    
  