
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the incidence of nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) (average per patient) on the
      sun-exposed skin of renal transplant recipients with a history of NMSC treated with T4N5
      liposomal lotion vs placebo.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the proportion of these patients who develop NMSC on sun-exposed skin during
      treatment and after cessation of treatment with these regimens.

      II. Compare the incidence of NMSC on the sun-exposed skin of these patients after cessation
      of treatment with these regimens.

      III. Compare the incidence of recurrent and de novo actinic keratoses (AKs) in patients
      treated with these regimens.

      IV. Determine whether either of these regimens induces regression of AKs left untreated on
      the sun-exposed skin of these patients.

      V. Compare the proportion of these patients who develop melanoma, in both treated and
      untreated sites, during and after cessation of treatment with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to study center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      Six months before randomization, lesions suspicious for nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) are
      surgically removed and histologically analyzed. All but 10 randomly selected non-suspicious
      lesions are removed. Of these 10 lesions, 5 are shave biopsied immediately pre-treatment for
      histologic and surrogate endpoint biomarker (SEB) analysis and to determine a baseline
      actinic keratosis: wart ratio. Patients also undergo a pre-treatment biopsy of normal
      appearing sun-exposed and non-sun-exposed skin (buttocks).

      Arm I: Patients apply T4N5 liposomal lotion topically to non-occluded, sun-exposed areas of
      the head, neck, face, and upper extremities once daily for 12 months.

      Arm II: Patients apply placebo topically to non-occluded, sun-exposed areas of the head,
      neck, face, and upper extremities once daily for 12 months.

      Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of the development of metastatic cutaneous
      squamous cell cancer or melanoma. Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 6 months.
    
  