
    
      High-speed beveled tip versus standard tip vitrectomy probe: a prospective randomized
      clinical trial

      Background:

      The Advanced Ultravit High-Speed Beveled Probe (Alcon) has a beveled-tip design that allows
      the cutting port to come closer to the retina compared to the previous vitrectr probe design.
      This allows the surgeon to maneuver in tight tissue planes and increases the functionality of
      the vitrector probe. This in combination with the increased cut rate of 10,000 independent
      cuts per minute reduces traction on the retina and increases efficiency of vitreous removal.

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficiency of the new Utravit High-Speed 10000
      cpm Beveled Probe to the current standard vitrector probe- Alcon (non-beveled) Ultravit 7500
      cpm.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial comparing the efficiency of the Advanced
      Ultravit High-Speed Beveled Probe with the current Alcon vitrector probe in a cohort of
      patients undergoing routine vitrectomy surgery.

      Primary objectives:

      -Intraoperative efficiency of vitrectomy surgery regarding time to completion of core
      vitrectomy and shave of vitreous base

      Exploratory Objective:

      -Intraoperative complications (e.g. iatrogenic retinal breaks, intraocular bleeding, retinal
      detachment)

      Postoperative complications:

      The study will not be sufficiently powered to assess safety. Surgeons will want to make sure
      there is no significant increase in complications with a different probe. However, any post
      operative complications would merely be an association, without any causality attributed.

      Primary Endpoint:

      A clinically significant difference in time to completion of core vitrectomy and shave of
      vitreous base between the two groups with 80% power at a 95% confidence interval.

      A p-value of less than 0.05 will be deemed as statistically significant.

      Sample Size Calculation Target: 40 participants (20 in each cohort) Assuming an average core
      vitrectomy time of 12 +/- 3 minutes, a sample size of at least 32 is needed to adequately
      assess for a clinically significant difference between the two groups with 80% power at a 95%
      confidence interval. A p-value of less than 0.05 will be deemed as statistically significant.

      Procedures and Assessments:

      All patients will undergo baseline testing in the study eye including:

        -  Best corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA)

        -  intraocular pressure (IOP)

        -  slit-lamp examination

        -  360 degree indirect ophthalmoscopy

      Enrollment Period:

      9 months

      Study Duration:

      12 months

      Methods:

      On the day of surgery, patients will be randomized to the Ultravit High-Speed Beveled Probe
      or the current non-beveled Alcon Probe. All patients will undergo routine vitrectomy surgery
      as scheduled; patients will be masked to the vitrector probe used. Time to completion of
      vitrectomy and time to completion of vitreous base shave will be recorded by a masked timer.

      All examination will be repeated as regularly scheduled postoperative visits by a masked
      reader.

      Safety will be assessed at each visit by evaluation for any adverse events.

      Randomization:

      Randomization and data storage will occur in RedCap. Patients will be randomized the day of
      surgery. The randomization numbers will be generated using the following procedure to ensure
      that treatment assignment is unbiased and concealed from patients and investigator staff. A
      patient randomization list will be produced by the IRT provider using a validated system that
      automates the random assignment of patient numbers to randomization numbers. These
      randomization numbers are linked to the different treatment arms. The randomization scheme
      for patients will be reviewed and approved by a member of the Randomization Group.

      Data collection measures:

        -  Unique Patient identifier

        -  Vision

        -  IOP

        -  Oculus sinister (Left Eye) /Ocular Dexter (Right Eye)

        -  Surgical Indication

        -  Time to completion of vitrectomy

        -  Time to completion of vitreous base shave

        -  Slit-lamp abnormalities

        -  Dilated Fundus Exam (DFE) abnormalities

        -  Post operation complications

        -  Data collection April 2019 to Dec 2019

        -  Data Analysis Jan 2020

      Adverse Events:

      Reporting of Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events, and Unanticipated Problems Involving
      Risk to Participants or Others will be reported to the Institutional Review Board (IRB)
      pursuant to their policy as outlined under the VANDERBILT HUMAN RESEARCH PROTECTIONS PROGRAM
      Policy III.L.

      Safety:

      Risk Minimization:

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonization
      (ICH) along with the Good Clinical Practices (GCP) guidelines and all applicable local and
      U.S. federal regulatory requirements.

      Prior to entry into the study or initiation of any study related procedures, the subject or
      legal representative must read, sign, and date the current institutional review
      board-approved version of the informed consent form. Fully informed consent or verbal consent
      must be obtained from the subject or legal representative in accordance with local legal
      requirements and IRB requirements.

      Only potential subjects who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in to this
      protocol. The Principal Investigator will oversee all study procedures to ensure subject
      safety and protocol compliance.

      Risk v. Benefits:

      The prospective subject will be carefully screened to ensure inclusion/exclusion criteria are
      met.

      There may be no direct benefit to the subjects ;however, the knowledge gained from this study
      may lead to improved methods of diagnosing, staging and managing Vitrectomy surgery in the
      future.

      There will be no specific ethnic or age group targeted or excluded.
    
  