
    
      Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the US. The risk of heart disease increases
      with diabetes, overweight/obesity and unhealthy lifestyle behaviors. Despite the well
      recognized benefits of a healthy lifestyle in reducing heart disease risk, nutrition is not a
      part of routine medical care. Only about 25% of patients with a chronic disease, such as CVD
      (and only about 12% of those without a chronic disease), receive nutrition education from
      their doctor. Doctors often report a lack of confidence in providing nutrition education, and
      a lack of time in the office visit. Doctors need resources to assess diet and discuss
      nutrition with patients. This research aims to provide doctors with a diet assessment/
      intervention tool to improve rates of nutrition intervention in medical care.

      There are few nutrition assessment tools appropriate for use in a medical office visit. The
      investigators have created a 9-item questionnaire that doctors can use to quickly assess diet
      in the office visit and plan test to it ensure that it measures diet accurately. In this
      study, the investigators will test the new questionnaire against an established, validated
      tool called a food frequency questionnaire. The investigators will also create talking points
      that physicians can use to help their patients make healthy dietary changes. In the future,
      the investigators will create a cell phone app based on the questionnaire that can be
      accessed quickly in an office visit. The app will provide a risk score and personalized
      talking points that can be discussed with the patient or e-mailed to them directly.

      An increase of just 1 serving of fruit per day (1 small apple, 1 cup of berries, 1 orange)
      could save over 1 million lives per year and reduce heart disease risk dramatically. This
      project could help to improve nutrition counseling by physicians during office visits, and
      can be expected to reduce heart disease rates and increase quality of life for those living
      with heart disease. This is important not only because of the statistics above, but also
      because when physicians do discuss healthy lifestyle changes with their patients, patients
      are more likely to make changes and improve their cardiovascular health.
    
  