
    
      The purpose of this study is to see if using Transcranial Light Therapy (TLT), also called
      near- infrared light, helps improve symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Subjects
      will be randomized at a 1:2 ratio into 2 groups: pulse light (TLT) and sham. The sham group
      will be randomized after 8 weeks at a 1:1 ratio in to TLT and sham.

      The study involves 1 screening visit which may last up to 3 hours, 16 weekly study visits,
      and one follow-up visit. There are 2 in-office treatment visits, during which a clinician
      applies transcranial light therapy to the participant's head for about 30 minutes. The other
      study visits involve assessments with a study clinician. The participants will administer the
      treatment once daily at home during the 16-week treatment period.

      If a participant qualifies for the study, the study team assigns the participant by chance to
      receive either active transcranial light therapy or sham transcranial light therapy
      treatment. During sham transcranial light therapy visits, the transcranial light therapy
      device will not produce near infrared waves (e.g., light energy that cannot penetrate the
      skin and cranium). Participants have more than an equal chance of being assigned to the
      active transcranial light therapy or the sham transcranial light therapy over the course of
      the study. Neither the participant, nor the clinician, nor any research staff other than the
      study statistician will know which study group the participant belongs.

      Participants are randomized a second time after 8-weeks in the study. If the participant were
      in the sham group the first 8-weeks, that participant may receive the active transcranial
      light therapy treatment after re-randomization. If the participant were already in the active
      transcranial light therapy group during the first 8-weeks the participant continues receiving
      the active treatment. All in all, participants have a 2 in 3 chance of receiving the active
      transcranial light therapy treatment at some point during the study.
    
  