
    
      The main purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and tolerability of intermittent
      Theta Burst (iTBS), its effectiveness in alleviating depressive symptoms, concomitant
      neuropsychiatric symptoms such as anxiety and fatigue in people with MS, as well as its
      effects on cognition. Although iTBS repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is
      approved for use in major depressive disorder (MDD), there have been no safety and
      tolerability evaluations of this form of rTMS in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patient with MDD.
      Although iTBS rTMS has previously been found safe and effective for treating spasticity in
      people with MS, this will be the first study to investigate the safety and tolerability of
      Left Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex (L-DLPFC) iTBS rTMS for MDD in MS

      This study is designed as an open-label pilot study. Participants will undergo baseline
      evaluations to confirm a diagnosis of MDD and to assess your eligibility for rTMS treatment.
      If deemed eligible, participants will receive iTBS treatment. iTBS is a form of rTMS approved
      by Health Canada for treatment of MDD. iTBS rTMS treatment involves 3 minutes of non-invasive
      brain stimulation, 5 days a week, for 4 weeks, for a total of 20 treatments. While receiving
      iTBS rTMS, participants will be seen daily by the rTMS operator who is a mental health nurse.
      While receiving iTBS rTMS, participants will see the research coordinator and study
      psychiatrist on a weekly basis, to complete clinical assessments to evaluate their
      neuropsychiatric symptoms and assess any side effects from the rTMS procedure. As part of the
      suggested pathophysiological profile of depression the levels of inflammatory cytokines tumor
      necrosis factor ⍺ (TNF-⍺) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) have shown elevated concentration levels
      in plasma of depressed compared to non-depressed individuals. In this study, we aim to
      investigate the levels of these inflammatory cytokine markers and their change with iTBS.
    
  