
    
      OBJECTIVES

        1. Overall Objectives The purpose of this pilot study will be to evaluate the analgesic
           efficacy and tolerability of intranasal ketorolac employed at doses and dosing intervals
           stated in the package insert in patients experiencing moderate to severe pain following
           dental implant surgery. This open label study should provide data that will allow us to
           estimate sample size for a future placebo-controlled trial in the dental implant surgery
           population.

        2. Primary Outcome Variable(s) To determine if intranasal ketorolac significantly reduces
           pain intensity scores when compared to baseline pain intensity as measured by the area
           under the 6-hour pain intensity difference (SPID-6).

        3. Secondary Outcome Variable(s) To determine the median onset of first perceptible,
           confirmed first perceptible, and meaningful pain relief of intranasal ketorolac in
           dental implant surgery patients.

      To compare mean post-dose pain intensity scores at each time-point with the baseline pain
      intensity score during the initial 6-hour evaluation period.

      To calculate the area under the 6-hour pain relief time action curve (TOTPAR-6) for
      intranasal ketorolac.

      To calculate the percentage of subjects who reach a level of at least moderate pain by
      achieving a score of at least 40 mm on a 100 mm visual analog scale within 5 hours after the
      completion of surgery.

      To determine the mean number of days of analgesic dosing in dental implant surgery patients
      when employing intranasal ketorolac as their pain medication.

      To determine the number of patients taking rescue medication (acetaminophen 650 mg) and the
      mean number of rescue medication doses taken in dental implant surgery patients when
      employing intranasal ketorolac as their pain medication.

      To determine the overall tolerability of intranasal ketorolac in dental implant surgery
      patients.
    
  