
    
      Prospective randomized trials have shown that carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is beneficial for
      stroke prevention in symptomatic severe or moderate stenoses of the carotid artery. Medical
      treatment and timing of CEA after a recent stroke due to carotid narrowing, however, remain
      controversial. Prospective, placebo-controlled acute stroke trials did either not screen for
      or excluded carotid stenoses. The early experience with CEA resulted in a generally accepted
      policy to delay surgery for 4 to 6 weeks for fear of clinical deterioration associated with
      conversion of a bland to a hemorrhagic infarction. Subsequent studies suggest that
      endarterectomy need not necessarily be postponed in patients with nondisabling strokes, which
      was not confirmed by Giordano. Furthermore, not all patients recover fast enough to allow
      early carotid surgery for a nondisabling stroke. The risk of a recurrent stroke while waiting
      4 to 6 weeks for CEA was 9.5% in 74 prospectively studied patients and 21% in a retrospective
      series of 19 patients. Similarly, 4.9% of the 103 medically treated patients with stroke and
      severe carotid stenosis had recurrent ipsilateral strokes within 30 days after entry in the
      NASCET trial. Analogous to coronary artery disease, carotid stenoses are assumed to become
      symptomatic from plaque fissure leading to exposure of its contents to the blood, platelet
      activation and thrombosis that may cause cerebral or ocular emboli and further narrows the
      vessel lumen. Therefore, the administration of a drug, which reduces the amount of carotid
      thrombosis and thus stabilizes the plaque would be expected to reduce the risk of recurrent
      stroke and progression of carotid stenosis to occlusion, and allow to postpone CEA.
      Furthermore, also intraoperative ischemic strokes due to cerebral emboli arising from a
      friable plaque during dissection and cross-clamping of the carotid artery may decrease.

      Prospective percutaneous coronary revascularization trials using balloon angioplasty,
      stenting and atherectomy in patients with ischemic heart disease have shown that the addition
      of abciximab, a blocker of platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptors, during intervention
      reduced the rates of thrombotic complications, particularly myocardial infarction, and death
      within 30 days. Symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) occurred in 0.0-0.1% of 2535
      patients treated with abciximab, medium-dose aspirin, low-dose heparin and endovascular
      procedures. Endovascular coronary interventions disrupt or dissect the arterial wall, which
      leads to exposure of plaque contents and components of the vascular wall to the blood,
      resulting in platelet activation and thrombosis. Interestingly, also abciximab given 18 to 24
      hours prior to intervention reduced the rate of thrombotic events suggesting some
      stabilization of the coronary plaque.

      A recent prospective, placebo-controlled safety and pilot efficacy trial of abciximab in 74
      patients with acute ischemic stroke treated within 24 hours from symptoms onset found that
      abciximab caused no symptomatic ICH and showed a trend toward a higher rate of patients with
      minimal residual disability. Thus, abciximab may be an attractive therapy option to prevent
      stroke recurrence in patients with embolic carotid territory stroke due to carotid stenosis.

      The number of microembolic signals (MES) detected in the middle cerebral artery (MCA)
      downstream to a symptomatic carotid stenosis by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) has
      been shown to predict the stroke risk, and is dramatically reduced in patients with acute
      ischemic stroke not caused by carotid artery disease during the administration of the GP
      IIb/IIIa inhibitor tirofiban. These data suggest that the monitoring of MES in the MCA distal
      to a symptomatic carotid stenosis before and after the administration of abciximab may be a
      useful surrogate marker to assess the efficacy of this drug to prevent MES and stroke in
      patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI) has a high
      sensitivity for detecting acute brain ischemia, and recent DWI studies have assessed the
      incidence of asymptomatic ischemic brain lesions in patients who underwent CEA.

      The purpose of the present prospective, randomized, double-blind, double dummy controlled
      multicenter pilot study is to investigate whether abciximab compared with aspirin is able to
      reduce the rate of recurrent ischemic strokes before and during CEA (primary endpoints), and
      the degree of carotid stenosis, number of MES counts, number of ischemic infarcts at DWI and
      amount of intraluminal thrombus at pathological examination (secondary endpoints) in patients
      with ischemic stroke due to a >50% carotid stenosis who will undergo CEA.
    
  