
    
      POD has been reported to be associated with a large number of risk factors: age as POD occurs
      in 10% to 61% of those aged 65 or older, dementia, impaired left ventricular function,
      electrolyte disorder, alcoholism, smoking, high perioperative transfusion requirements,
      intraoperative pressure fluctuation, and use of benzodiazepine POD occurs mostly in some
      types of surgery, such as orthopedic surgeries, major gastrointestinal surgery, and major
      cardiovascular surgeries, surgery under general anesthesia, prolonged surgery, emergency
      surgery

      Previous studies done before to prove the efficacy of melatonin to decrease the incidence of
      postoperative delirium in patients with multiple risk factors for POD as traumatic geriatric
      patients were concerned only with the type of surgery as hip replacement or with spinal
      anesthesia but no study was done before to assess the prophylactic effect of melatonin to
      decrease the incidence of postoperative delirium in geriatric patients under general
      anesthesia ,which represents an independent risk factor for POD. So,this double blinded RCT
      will try to fill this gap in literature.

      Aim of the study:

      To prove the efficacy of melatonin to decrease the incidence of postoperative delirium after
      surgeries under general anesthesia in geriatric patients.

      Methodology After approval of the Research Ethics Committee and written informed consent from
      all patients, A randomized, prospective, controlled, double blind study of the prophylactic
      effect of melatonin on postoperative delirium in geriatric patients undergoing surgeries
      under general anesthesia will be conducted on 100 patients allocated into 2 equal groups. The
      study will be conducted at Cairo University Hospitals, in all surgical units.

      Randomization: Patients who meet all the inclusion criteria will be randomized to either
      Group M (Melatonin group) or Group C (Control group) by using computer generated random
      numbers with closed sealed envelope.

      All patients will fast according to standard rules and will be assessed by an
      anesthesiologist at the night before the surgery.

      All patients will be screened at that time by Abbreviated Mental Test (AMT) ,where patients
      having scores < 6 will be considered to have postoperative delirium.This test has been
      recommended for routine assessment of cognitive function in the elderly by the Royal College
      of Physicians and the British Geriatric Society.

      Questionnare (score) Each scores one point

        1. Age

        2. Time (to nearest hour)

        3. Address for recall at end of test (Ask patient to repeat the address to ensure it has
           been heard correctly)

        4. Year

        5. Name of hospital

        6. Recognition of two persons (e.g. doctor, nurse)

        7. Date of birth

        8. Year of any famous event e.g: the last Egyptian revolution

        9. Name of the present monarch

       10. Count backwards from 20 to 1

      Group M (Melatonin group): will receive 5 mg melatonin orally at 9 p.m. the night before
      surgery and another 5 mg melatonin with 15 ml of plain water 30 min before operation and 5 mg
      melatonin at 9 p.m. in the day of operation and for the first three postoperative days.

      Group C (Control group): received a placebo in the form of one tablet of 500 mg paracetamol
      that packaged the same way as melatonin at the same times.

      The anesthesia residents who will administer the drug and assess Abbreviated Mental Test(AMT)
      score postoperatively will be blinded to the allocation regimen.

      On arrival to the preparation room, wide bore IV cannula will be inserted in the nondominant
      hand, sedation will be assessed by Ramsay sedation scale,with grades from 1 to 6
      where:1-Patient awake, anxious, agitated, or restless ,2- Patient awake, cooperative,
      orientated, and tranquil ,3- Patient drowsy, with response to commands ,4- Patient asleep,
      brisk response to glabella tap or loud auditory stimulus ,5- Patient asleep, sluggish
      response to stimulus ,6- Patient has no response to firm nail-bed pressure or other noxious
      stimuli. patients with score > 4 will be excluded from the study.

      All Patients will be monitored with five lead ECG, noninvasive blood pressure, oxygen
      saturation, capnography and baseline HR,SBP,DBP,MAP,oxygen saturation,ETCO2 , and urine
      output will be recorded then every 10 minutes until 30 minutes postextubation. Induction of
      anesthesia will be done with fentanyl (2 mic/kg), propofol (1-2 mg/kg), atracurium (0.5
      mg/kg). Intubation will be done with oral cuffed endotracheal tube size 6.5-7 mm ID for
      females and 7.5-8 mm ID for males and then a urinary catheter will be inserted. Anesthesia
      will be maintained with isoflurane (0.75- 1.15%), incremental doses of atracurium every 20
      minutes and 1 mic/kg fentanyl IV if HR and/or BP increased 20% or more from baseline in
      response to surgical stimulation.

      After surgery, patients will be transferred to PACU. Abbreviated Mental Test (AMT) scores
      will be reported after recovery from anesthesia (PACU AMT) and in the same day 6 hours after
      operation (Day-0) and in the following three postoperative days (Day-1, Day-2 and Day-3) at
      the same hour of assessment in day 0. Patients having scores < 6 will be considered to have
      postoperative delirium, and will be assessed by a psychiatrist for further management.

      Postoperative pain will be managed by IV 1g paracetamol every 6 hours and 50 mg diclofenac
      sodium oral every 12 hours with rescue analgesia of IV nalbuphine with 0.25 mg/kg not
      exceeding 0.5 mg/kg every 6 hours when the numerical rating score (NRS) or advanced dementia
      scale (PAINAD)(if the patient developed delirium) >4.NRS or PAINAD will be evaluated
      according to at times 0-30 minutes 2, 4,8, 12, 18 and 24 hours. The "zero" point of time will
      be the moment the patient recovered from general anesthesia
    
  