
    
      Surgical intervention of a COVID-19 patient involves the exposure of other patients and the
      group of health workers who face the care of the patient, which generates additional stress
      and a subsequent catastrophic respiratory and cardiovascular decompensation.

      Managing a patient who is going to undergo a surgical procedure as he was infected, makes
      health care workers and other patients aware from the risk of infection by reinforcing
      precautions measures. However, it implies the waste of personal protective elements, and a
      subsequent chance of consuming the limited stocks of those elements.

      Li, Y, et al., described transmission of COVID-19 in a thoracic surgery department. They were
      infected from a single patient, and from three-generation transmission eight more patients
      and eleven health care workers. 3 out of 9 patients were infected and none of the health care
      workers died.

      Lei et al reported a case series of 34 patients undergoing surgical treatment during the
      incubation period of COVID-19. They all developed symptoms. 44% of the patients presented
      dyspnea in the following days and a third presented ARDS. Seven patients (21%) died.

      In both reports it is clear that the failure to identify patients as COVID-19 infected
      patients prevented them from being managed with the proper precautions and preventive
      measures, and that health care workers did not use adequate personal protective elements. On
      the other hand, the reported outcome in both series was worse than the outcome in COVID-19
      patients who did not required surgical treatment. This corresponds to anecdotal reports of
      cases in which manifestations occurred after surgery and did not have a favorable clinical
      course.

      In addition to this, an exponential growth of the infection by the COVID-19 virus in Colombia
      and the large amount of unidentified contaminants, justifies the implementation of a system
      that allows the identification of patients with COVID-19 infection, with the purpose of a
      correct surgical management, isolation, and protection of health care workers and other
      patients.

      Screening with lung ultrasound is an alternative to identify patients with an established or
      suspected infection that requires urgent surgery. Its diagnostic efficacy has not been well
      studied in a systematic way in the scientific literature. Its use has just been described in
      patients with established COVID-19 pneumonia. Therefore, a research study is proposed to
      determine the operational characteristics of lung ultrasound during the screening process of
      patients who are going to be operated urgently.
    
  