
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare local tumor control in women with ductal carcinoma in situ or stage I or II
           breast cancer treated with adjuvant whole breast vs partial breast irradiation following
           lumpectomy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival, recurrence-free survival, and distant disease-free survival in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the cosmetic result in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare fatigue and treatment-related symptoms in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare perceived convenience of care in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare acute and late toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease stage (ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS] only vs invasive and node negative vs invasive
      with 1-3 positive nodes), menopausal status (premenopausal vs postmenopausal), hormone
      receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER]-positive and/or progesterone receptor [PR]-positive
      vs ER-negative and PR-negative), intention to receive chemotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. (Patients who are 50 years of age and over with DCIS
      regardless of hormone receptor status AND patients with invasive breast cancer meeting all of
      the following criteria: ≥ 50 years of age, node-negative, and hormone-receptor positive
      status will not be enrolled in study after 12/30/2006.)

        -  Group 1: Patients undergo whole-breast irradiation (WBI) once daily, 5 days a week, for
           5-7 weeks.

        -  Group 2: Patients undergo partial-breast irradiation (PBI) twice daily on 5 days over a
           period of 5-10 days. This may be delivered by multi-catheter brachytherapy, single-entry
           intracavitary brachytherapy, or 3-D conformal radiotherapy.

      Patients in both arms may receive adjuvant chemotherapy at least 2 weeks prior to initiation
      of WBI OR at least 2 weeks after completion of PBI at the discretion of the treating
      physician. Patients with ER-positive or PR-positive tumors may also receive hormonal therapy,
      beginning 3-12 weeks after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy (or before, during, or after
      completion of WBI or PBI for patients not receiving adjuvant chemotherapy) and continuing for
      at least 5 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 and 6 months, every 6 months
      for 4.5 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4,300 patients (2,150 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 4.6 years. Note: Accrual closed on April 16, 2013, following approval of
      the Data Monitoring Committee to reduce the sample size from 4,300 to 4,214 patients.
    
  