
    
      There is no question that long-term heavy consumption of alcohol leads to increased risk of
      recurrent acute and chronic pancreatitis. While many patients and providers assume that heavy
      episodic alcohol consumption leads to acute pancreatitis, it is yet unknown whether 'binge'
      drinking truly causes pancreatitis and if so, what the relevant timing and duration of
      hazardous alcohol consumption is. Because of the lack of clarity on the transient effects of
      alcohol on acute pancreatitis, patients and providers are left with an uncertain disease
      progression and lack of tailored alcohol reduction recommendations.

      Our study aims to investigate changes in alcohol consumption in the period leading up to the
      onset of pancreatitis and compare that to levels of drinking during asymptomatic periods.
      This epidemiologic design is called the case-crossover study, in which the diseased person
      serves as his/her own control. This study design has advantages over typical case-control
      studies in that factors that do not change within the individual, such as sex, race, genetic
      risks, will not interfere with evaluating the causal role of heavy episodic drinking on
      pancreatitis.

      Participants in this study will undergo detailed interview on recent and lifetime alcohol
      consumption and other correlated health behaviors while they are hospitalized. Blood and
      urine will be collected during the hospitalization. After discharge, they will be interviewed
      again for any changes in alcohol consumption and blood and urine will be collected during a
      standard of care visit. The investigators will chart the progression of their disease through
      quarterly check-up by phone and through the medical records.

      Ultimately, the investigators aim to generate data that will empower patients and providers
      to develop tailored regimens for prevention of recurrent acute pancreatitis, that will have
      lasting beneficial effects in averting irreversible damage to the pancreas.
    
  