
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of oral SAHA in patients with castrate metastatic prostate cancer
      who have progressed on one prior chemotherapy, as measured by the proportion of patients not
      progressed at 6 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of oral SAHA in patients with castrate metastatic prostate cancer
      who have progressed on one prior chemotherapy.

      II. To assess the objective response rate of oral SAHA in patients with measurable disease
      when present.

      III. To assess the rate of PSA decline of >= 50%. IV. To assess progression free and median
      survival in patients with castrate metastatic prostate cancer who have progressed on one
      prior chemotherapy.

      V. To evaluate pre and post-treatment tumor biopsies when available for the presence of
      changes in the expression of AR and Hsp90 client proteins, Thioredoxin, Thioredoxin Binding
      Protein, HDAC 3 (class I), HDAC 7 (class II), EZH2 and p21 expression.

      VI. To determine the effects of oral SAHA on IL-6, soluble IL-6 receptor and soluble gp130
      levels in the blood.

      VII. To determine the accumulation and biodistribution of 18FDHT and correlate these findings
      with standard FDG PET, radionuclide bone scan, CT and/or MRI scans, as well as 18FDHT
      pharmacokinetics and tumor tissue staining for androgen receptor (AR) and Hsp90 client
      proteins (this applies only to patients at MSKCC under a separate protocol #00-095).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who achieve complete response (CR) after 4 courses receive an additional 3 courses.
      All other patients may continue treatment in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are taken on day 15 of course 1, day 1 of course 2, during the last week of
      course 4, and at completion of study treatment. Blood is examined for interleukin (IL)-6,
      IL-6 receptor, and gp130 levels.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for survival.
    
  