
    
      The study investigators have developed two novel PET radioligands that will be evaluated for
      their suitability for use in clinical research settings to quantify mHTT in HDGECs. The PET
      radioligands do not have any pharmacological effect at the microdoses (total dose <100ug) at
      which they will be administered; they will not be administered at pharmacological doses. This
      study has a modular design in two phases, and each phase will enroll a small independent
      cohort. The execution of each subsequent phase is dependent on results from the previous
      phase.

      Phase 1 is the initial evaluation of the PET radioligands. A suitable PET radioligand is
      expected to produce quantifiably higher binding in HD participants' brains compared to young
      HC participants' brains (since they do not express mHTT). Phase 1 is divided in two sub
      phases: Phase 1a will evaluate the basic safety and kinetic properties as well as brain
      uptake in three (3) young HCs; Phase 1b will test the difference in binding in six (6) HDGECs
      with Stage II HD compared to six (6) young HCs (three (3) young HCs will be imaged in
      addition to the three (3) young HCs from 1a. The rationale behind using young HCs in Phase 1
      is to screen out HC participants who may have undiagnosed amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, a potential
      off-target binding site for [¹¹C]CHDI-00485180-R. The rationale behind imaging HDGECs with
      Stage II HD in Phase 1 is based on the hypothesis that the density of mHTT aggregates
      increases with disease severity, and the ability to detect a difference in binding between
      HCs and HDGECs is expected to be higher in Stage II HD (more severe stages of HD will not be
      included in this study). An option to image three (3) pre-manifest HDGECs from Phase 2c (see
      below) will be included in case the results indicate that brain atrophy (i.e., loss of
      aggregate due to atrophy) affects the binding and evaluation of the PET radioligands in
      HDGECs with Stage II HD. For each of the two PET radioligands a Go/ No-Go evaluation will
      take place (for overview see Figure 1); if satisfactory results are not obtained for a
      particular radioligand, then that radioligand will not progress to evaluation in further
      phases. Promising results for either radioligand will lead to that particular radioligand
      continuing to Phase 2 evaluation.

      Phase 2 will evaluate the sensitivity of the PET radioligand(s) to discriminate between
      different stages and severity of HD. In addition, a TRT in Phase 2 will evaluate the
      variability of repeated imaging for the PET radioligand. Phase 2 has a sequential design in
      sub phases that will assess the sensitivity of the radioligand in descending severity of HD:
      2a in six (6) HDGECs with Stage II HD and six (6) age-matched controls; 2b in six (6) HDGECs
      with Stage I HD and six (6) age-matched controls; 2c in six (6) premanifest HDGECs and six
      (6) age-matched controls. The rationale for imaging groups of descending HD severity is based
      on the hypothesis that the density of mHTT aggregates increases with disease severity, and
      the ability to detect a difference in binding between HCs and HDGECs is expected to be lowest
      in the premanifest stage. This design will enable a stepwise assessment of the sensitivity of
      the PET radioligands. After each sub-phase a Go/No-Go evaluation will take place; if
      satisfactory results are not obtained for a particular radioligand then that radioligand will
      not be evaluated in further sub-phases. Promising results for either radioligand will lead to
      that particular radioligand continuing to the next sub-phase.

      This study design allows each radioligand to be reviewed and analyzed after evaluation in
      each cohort. The progression through each level of analysis will indicate whether either or
      both radioligands will measure mHTT aggregate levels with sufficient sensitivity to become
      potential disease progression and efficacy biomarker(s) in HDGECs.
    
  