
    
      The rise in life expectancy in recent decades has resulted in a dramatic increase in the
      population of older people. This has been associated with a rise in the prevalence of
      age-associated conditions, particularly cognitive impairment and dementia. The prevalence of
      dementia in those older than 65 doubles every five years, and reaches a rate of more than 40%
      at age 85 years. Data from the World Health Organization predict 43 million dementia
      sufferers globally in the year 2020.

      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is a syndrome comprising cognitive symptoms and impairment
      beyond population norms based on age and education, without functional loss. MCI represents a
      risk factor for dementia at a rate of conversion of approximately 12% annually. Thus patients
      with MCI characterize an important group for possible interventions in preventing further
      cognitive decline, particularly physical exercise and cognitive training.

      The Feuerstein Program The Feuerstein Instrumental Enrichment (IE) program has been
      well-established as an effective intervention in other age groups and clinical situations.
      The method's creator, Professor Reuven Feuerstein, postulated that the thinking process is
      divided into three major phases - Input, Elaboration and Output - and that in each phase,
      different mental functions are at work. The quality of thinking depends upon the way the
      different functions are activated in each of the phases. The IE tools enable the correction
      or activation of cognitive deficiencies through use of targeted and focused mediation, which
      conserves and reinforces cognitive ability.

      Recently, the Feuerstein Instrumental Enrichment Program for the Elderly was developed
      particularly for older people with cognitive decline.

      Instrumental Enrichment can benefit all senior citizens, but is particularly recommended for
      those who do not constantly face intellectual challenges.

      The process of learning IE is administered in group settings by instructors who have been
      trained to specifically mediate to the geriatric population. Work in groups constitutes a
      challenging, interesting and gratifying activity. It also appears that beyond contributing to
      the conservation and improvement of cognition, participating in the program may also have the
      effect of increasing feelings of competence, independence and improved emotional state.

      15 subjects conforming to inclusion and exclusion criteria with a known clinical diagnosis of
      MCI and who provide informed consent will undergo cognitive and functional assessment to
      confirm the diagnosis of MCI. Baseline assessment using the Mindstreams Mild Cognitive
      Impairment Computerized Assessment Battery will be performed. Subjects will then participate
      30 twice weekly meetings of 90 minutes duration each (for a total of 15 weeks). Mindstreams
      testing will be repeated after 15 sessions and at completion of the study.
    
  