
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) of the shoulder is a disease resulting from the wearing down of cartilage
      over time. OA can be the cause of pain and dysfunction and is a growing occurrence in the
      investigator's aging population. Total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) or Reverse shoulder
      arthroplasty (RSA) are common surgical procedures used to treat patients with shoulder OA.
      TSA is able to keep the "natural anatomy" of the shoulder and involves replacing the worn-out
      ball and socket shoulder joint with prosthetic components. TSA is performed today with high
      success rates, however, complication rates associated with TSA remain prevalent, particularly
      when the arthritis is associated with bone erosion on the glenoid (socket).

      Reverse Shoulder Arthroplasty (RSA) is an alternative surgical procedure commonly used and
      involves replacing and reversing the ball and the socket (i.e. opposite of TSA). RSA is
      typically performed in patients with a rotator cuff deficiency and more severe OA. Though RSA
      procedures show marked increase in clinical and functional outcomes, evidence of its
      long-term results are sparse, and as such is typically reserved for when treating an older
      patient population.

      Few research studies have compared these different surgical techniques to one another, in the
      older patient population.

      This research will provide surgeons with new information regarding the best treatment for
      patients with osteoarthritis of the shoulder. This Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) will
      compare TSA and RSA procedures to determine which approach produces better functional
      outcomes and quality of life outcomes for patients with shoulder osteoarthritis.

      Primary Objective: Determine the difference in disease specific quality of life between
      patients diagnosed with glenohumeral osteoarthritis (OA) who undergo either a TSA or RSA as
      measured by the WOOS score at 24-months post-operative.

      Secondary Objectives: i) Determine the difference in disease specific quality of life between
      patients diagnosed with a glenohumeral osteoarthritis who undergo a shoulder replacement with
      RSA or TSA as measured by the Constant score, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons
      Standardized Shoulder Assessment form (ASES) and the EuroQol Group EQ-5D-5L score at 24
      months post-operative as well as adverse events, and health care utilization.

      ii) To determine the survivorship of the components as measured by the degree of radiographic
      lucencies and component alignment determined by a CT scan at 1- and 5-years post-surgery.

      Clinical Relevance: Shoulder osteoarthritis results in pain and dysfunction, which negatively
      impacts quality of life. As such, determination of superior treatment approach will lead to
      significant improvement in quality of life, and cost savings through avoidance of recurrence
      and/or reoperation, as well as decreased morbidity for patients in this population.
    
  