
    
      Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common malignant primary tumor of the brain. The current
      standard of care for patients with newly diagnosed GBM consists of maximal surgical
      resection, approx. 60 Gy of radiotherapy together with chemotherapy using temozolomide (TMZ),
      followed by maintenance TMZ for 6 months. This treatment scheme was shown to extend median
      survival from 12.1 to 14.6 months compared to surgery and radiotherapy alone. This survival
      was essentially unchanged since 2005 despite numerous clinical Phase 3 trials conducted.

      Although immense efforts were made over the years with different treatment strategies, the
      survival of patients with newly diagnosed GBM remained very poor until recently.
      Tumor-treating fields (TTFields) are low-intensity, intermediate frequency, alternating
      electric fields delivered continuously through adhesive patches, called transducer arrays, to
      the area of the brain where the GBM tumor is located and help slow down or stop glioblastoma
      cancer cells from dividing. These transducer arrays are applied to the scalp and are
      connected to the wearable and portable device.

      TTFields are the first treatment since 2005 to demonstrate significantly extended median
      overall survival and significantly improved long-term survival (one to five year survival
      rates) compared to the current standard of care. In addition, TTFields significantly extended
      progression-free survival.

      In the Phase 3 trial in newly diagnosed GBM (trial EF-14) the results demonstrated that the
      addition of TTFields to maintenance TMZ significantly extends both, median and long term
      survival, as well as progression free survival of patients with newly diagnosed GBM. The
      magnitude of survival benefit seen is even better to that seen for addition of TMZ to
      radiation, which established TMZ as the standard of care for 1st line GBM treatment in 2005.
      Quality of life (QoL) was maintained with the use of TTFields + TMZ in patients for whom 12
      months of QoL data were available. The addition of TTFields to TMZ therapy in patients with
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma was not associated with any significant increase in systemic
      toxic effects compared with TMZ therapy alone. The most commonly reported side effect from
      the delivery of TTFields was a mild-to-moderate skin irritation beneath the transducer
      arrays.
    
  