
    
      Antibacterial drug use

      Systemic antibacterial drug use in adult inpatients discharged between January 1, 2006 and
      December 31, 2010 was obtained from patient-level billing records. These data were aggregated
      and reported for each hospital as days of therapy per 1000 patient days (DOT/1000PD) as
      previously described [10]. Any dose of an antibiotic received by a patient during a 24 hour
      period is counted as one DOT. For example, administration of imipenem/cilastatin 1000 mg
      every 8 hours, or administration of 500mg every 6 hours, is counted as one DOT. We have
      recently reported advantages of measuring antibiotic use by DOTs versus the metric usually
      recommended, the Defined Daily Dose (DDD) [12].

      Antimicrobial susceptibility

      In year 2009 we requested the annual cumulative hospital antibiograms from the 50 hospitals
      for the years in which we had carbapenem drug use. The contact at each hospital was usually
      the antimicrobial stewardship pharmacist, but may also have included the infectious diseases
      physician(s), clinical microbiologist or infection control practitioner. We utilized
      antibiograms with a full calendar year of susceptibility reported for all clinical isolates
      (at least 30 isolates), the total number of isolates and the proportion of resistant
      isolates.

      All hospitals received an on-line survey requesting additional information regarding
      susceptibility testing methods and antibiogram construction. We used the secure survey
      instruments provided by REDCap (Research electronic data capture; www.project-redcap.com) to
      send and compile survey responses. Specifically we inquired about the inclusion/exclusion of
      duplicate clinical isolates in the antibiogram, method(s) of susceptibility testing, policy
      regarding surveillance cultures and we attempted to verify that Clinical Laboratory Standards
      Institute (CLSI) interpretative breakpoints were used for all years. As recommended by
      Schwaber we recorded both proportions and rates of carbapenem resistant P. aeruginosa [13].
      The resistant proportion was the number of resistant isolates divided by total number of
      isolates, and the resistant incidence rate was the number of resistant isolates per 1000
      adult patient days (PD).
    
  