
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the contribution of hydroxyproline metabolism to
      urinary oxalate and glycolate excretion in patients with primary hyperoxaluria.

      Oxalic acid (COOH)2 is an end product of metabolism that is synthesized mainly in the liver.
      The researchers have estimated that 10 - 20 mg is synthesized in the body of healthy adults
      each day. The main precursor of oxalate is glyoxylate (CHO•COOH). The bulk of the glyoxylate
      formed is normally transaminated to glycine (NH2•CH2•COOH) by alanine: glyoxylate
      aminotransferase (AGT) or reduced to glycolate (CHOH•COOH) by glyoxylate reductase (GR). Less
      than 10% of the glyoxylate is oxidized to oxalate by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). In
      individuals with the disease, primary hyperoxaluria, AGT, GR, or hydroxy-oxoglutarate
      aldolase (HOGA) enzyme is deficient and the amount of oxalate synthesized by the liver
      increases to 80 - 300 mg per day. The increased oxalate excreted in urine can cause damage to
      kidney tissue. Calcium oxalate stones may form in the kidney or calcium oxalate crystals may
      deposit in renal tubules and the renal parenchyma (nephrocalcinosis). An increased rate of
      oxalate synthesis could also contribute to idiopathic calcium oxalate stone disease.
      Understanding the pathways of endogenous oxalate synthesis and identifying strategies that
      decrease oxalate production could be beneficial for individuals with these diseases.

      Hydroxyproline is the primary source of glyoxylate identified in the body. Daily collagen
      turnover of bone results in the formation of 300 - 450 mg of hydroxyproline, which cannot be
      re-utilized by the body and is broken down. This metabolism yields 180 - 250 mg of
      glyoxylate. Further hydroxyproline is obtained from the diet, primarily from meat and
      gelatin-containing products. The bulk of the glyoxylate formed is converted to glycine by the
      liver enzyme AGT, some to glycolate and a small amount to oxalate. The proportion of these
      metabolites is not known with any certainty. In this study, a quantitative estimate of the
      metabolites formed will provide estimates of the contribution of hydroxyproline turnover to
      daily oxalate production.
    
  