
    
      There have been no studies to date that have examined the relationship between fish oil and
      alcohol response in humans. The current study was designed to examine the relationship
      between fish oil and subjective alcohol effects in healthy social drinkers.

      This project represents a first step in examining the potential use of fish oil for the
      treatment of alcohol use disorder (AUD). The investigators will evaluate responses to alcohol
      through administration of a steady state blood alcohol level (BAL) with an IV infusion using
      a method that employs an infusion that is titrated to a breathalyzer reading and clamped at a
      steady state. This approach allows direct comparisons of the acute effects of a specific dose
      of ethanol between groups, without the confounding factors of variable alcohol absorption and
      peak BAL's. This approach will allow the examiners to carefully examine if fish oil changes
      the acute effects of alcohol on a number of outcome domains including subjective drug
      effects, cognitive performance, and cerebellar effects.

      As this study is a pilot study, it is not clear whether fish oil will attenuate alcohol
      induced subjective stimulation or sedation. Since this is the first study to evaluate fish
      oil's effects on alcohol-effects in the laboratory, the investigators will be testing for
      attenuation of alcohol-induced sedative and stimulant effects, as well as cognitive effects
      and cerebellar effects.

      In this study, fish oil will be administered at 3 grams/day for 30-40 days (3 capsules twice
      a day). The investigators will use 3 grams/day for two reasons: 1) it is within the range of
      doses safely used in humans (1g to 6g) as a treatment for various psychiatric conditions
      (depression, anxiety, borderline personality disorder), and 2) is a dose that has shown
      efficacy in various clinical trials for psychiatric conditions.
    
  