
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To validate previously identified associations between 10 specific single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (single nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs]) and discontinuation of treatment with
      aromatase inhibitors (AIs) due to the development of musculoskeletal symptoms (MSS) among
      women with breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether other SNPs in cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP), glucuronosyltransferases
      (UGT), Vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are associated with discontinuation of
      treatment due to the development of severe aromatase inhibitor-associated musculoskeletal
      symptoms (AIMSS).

      II. To determine whether other SNPs in CYP, UGT, Vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are
      associated with the development of other potential complications of AI therapy.

      III. To develop a gene signature that can identify patients at risk for developing severe
      anastrozole-related AIMSS and other potential complications of AI therapy.

      IV. To determine the epidemiology and predictors of severe AIMSS and of AI discontinuation.

      V. To describe patient reported outcomes for minority patients with breast cancer treated
      with AIs.

      VI. To assess the utility of the Patient Reported Outcomes Management Information System
      (PROMIS) system to collect patient reported outcomes in a cooperative group study, and
      validate the PROMIS Physical Function 20a form in patients with AIMSS.

      VII. To develop a model that incorporates patient ratings of treatment burden, fear of
      recurrence and adherence behaviors to describe patient decisions to continue or discontinue
      anastrozole.

      VIII. To collect serum samples for future testing for biomarkers of AIMSS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive anastrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 12 months.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.
    
  