
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the relative efficacy, in terms of overall survival, of the combination of
           androgen suppression and radiotherapy versus androgen suppression and radiotherapy
           followed by docetaxel and prednisone in patients with localized, high-risk prostate
           cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the disease-free survival and incidence of adverse events in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Compare the biochemical control, local control, and freedom from distant metastases in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the validity of prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-defined endpoints as a
           surrogate for overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the time interval between biochemical failure and distant metastases with
           respect to testosterone level in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to risk group.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive androgen suppression therapy comprising luteinizing
           hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist (e.g., leuprolide acetate, goserelin,
           buserelin, or triptorelin) and oral antiandrogen (i.e., oral flutamide 3 times daily for
           2 months or oral bicalutamide once daily for 2 months). Beginning at week 8, patients
           undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately 8 weeks. Antiandrogen therapy is
           discontinued at completion of radiotherapy, but LHRH agonist therapy continues for 20
           months.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive androgen suppression therapy and undergo radiotherapy as in arm
           I. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive docetaxel IV
           over 1 hour on day 1 and oral prednisone daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients continue LHRH agonist therapy as in arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  