
    
      Design:

      Randomised open multicentre trial.

      Patients:

      Number 1,200

      Randomisation:

      PCI with DES vs CABG

      Individuals for inclusion will be recruited among the patients referred to the participating
      centers for LMCA treatment. The patients will not be recruited by advertising and will
      receive no honorarium for participation.

      Primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed by an independent endpoint committee (IEC).
      The endpoint committee will consist of experienced cardiac surgeons and cardiologists.

      Follow-up All patients will be seen at the outpatient clinic of the participating centers
      after one month and after 1, 2 ,3 ,4 and 5 years. The outpatient visit may be substituted
      with a telephone contact and subsequent investigation and documentation of possible study
      events (MACCE). Finally, there will be a 10-year registry assessment of total mortality.

      The index angiograms will be assessed by the QCA-laboratories at the Department of
      Cardiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, Denmark. The left main lesion and the
      non-left main lesions will be described and classified and a SYNTAX SCORE calculated.

      The angiography obtained during the PCI-procedure will be used as index angiography. There
      should be at least two cine-runs before the procedure and after the procedure with the same
      angulations and proceeded by 0.1 mg intracoronary nitroglycerine (documented on the
      angiogram). The diagnostic/guiding catheter should be well visible, near the center of the
      angiogram and filled with dye. The index lesion should be well visible, near the centre of
      the angiogram and shown without foreshortening. There should be an angulation difference
      between the two baseline angiograms of at least 30 degrees. Between the pre and post
      angiograms all balloon inflations and stent implantations should be documented by short
      cine-runs.

      Statistics and data management:

      The statistical analyses will be performed at the Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus
      University Hospital.

      Analysis population:

      The results will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle, i.e. patients
      randomized to a certain group will be followed and assessed irrespectively of the actual
      treatment. Protocol violations will be noted and the responsible centers notified.

      Sample size calculations:

      Primary endpoint of 2-year MACCE Sample size calculation is based on the combined primary
      endpoint of death, stroke, non-index treatment related MI and new revascularization (PCI or
      CABG) after 2 years.

      The study is planned as a non-inferiority study, where an experimental treatment of a disease
      (E, here PCI) is compared to a standard treatment (S, here CABG). E is not allowed to be more
      than clinically insignificantly inferior to S to be declared non-inferior. Calculations are
      based on the following:

        -  mean follow-up time 24 months

        -  all event curves are exponential

        -  zero dropout

        -  randomization into 2 equally sized groups

        -  α = 0.05 (one-sided)

        -  1- β (power) = 80% The non-inferiority limit is based on a 12 months MACCE rate of 12%
           in the CABG and 16% in the PCI group (the SYNTAX study). With exponential event curves
           (S(t)=exp(-λ*t)) this corresponds to a hazard ratio of 1.36, PCI versus CABG, and, with
           t in months, λ=0.0107 in the CABG group. In continuation if this, the present study uses
           hazard ratio 1.35, E versus S, as limit for non-inferiority, and λ=0.011 to describe
           MACCE in the CABG group. These figures correspond to a 24-month MACCE rate of 30% and
           23% in the PCI and CABG group, respectively.

      The above preconditions and assumptions result in a necessary number of patients in each
      randomization group of 593 (and a total number of events - in both groups - of 275).
      Consequently, 1,186 patients should be randomized.

      By including 600 patients in each group, possible dropouts before follow-up and treatment
      estimation errors are accounted for.

      Data management The study is reported to Danish Data Protection Agency, and the agency's
      guidelines for data management will be followed. Dedicated case record forms will be used and
      faxed to PCI research, Cardiac Cath. Lab., Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, 8200 Aarhus N,
      Denmark. Data will be stored in an Access database and double data entry will be used as
      quality control. There will be a log of accesses and attempt of accesses. Back-up data and
      original data will be encrypted.

      Monitoring of the study:

      The study will be monitored according to the GCP rules by independent professionals. During
      the study period, monitors will have regular contact to the participating departments to
      ensure that the trial is conducted in compliance with the protocol, GCP and applicable
      regulatory requirements.

      The monitors will ensure that the used products are all right and will review source
      documents for verification of consistency with the data recorded in the CRFs. The monitors
      will also provide information and support to the investigator(s).

      Investigators and other responsible personnel must be available during the monitoring visits,
      audits and inspections and should devote sufficient time to these processes.

      The investigator should provide a CV or equivalent documentation of suitability to be
      responsible for the trial. All investigators and other responsible personnel should be listed
      together with their function in the trial on the signature list.

      Publication:

      Results, positive as well as negative, will be published in an international cardiovascular
      journal. Publication and author issues will be decided by the steering committee on basis of
      general involvement in the study (drafting of protocol, core lab. function, endpoint
      committee membership, etc.) and on number of included patients. Thus, the sequence of authors
      will be determined by the inclusions rates of the participating centres and the most
      including centre will be offered the position as first author.
    
  