
    
      Real-time intraoperative identification and functional maintenance of structures are of major
      importance in endocrine surgery, with a critical role in clinical outcomes and patients'
      quality of life. Despite the advances in preoperative imaging techniques, there is still need
      for precise intraoperative visualizing [1]. Limitations of naked eye inspection and
      subjectivity of palpation are imposing challenges even for the most experienced surgeons
      [1-3]. Nowadays, attention is attracted to intraoperative imaging techniques using Near
      Infrared Fluorescence (NIRF) with endogenous or exogenous contrast agents. These imaging
      techniques are attractive in biomedicine due to its high penetration depth and low scattering
      in human tissue [2].

      Autofluorescence is the ability of several natural substances or drugs to be fluorescent
      after the absorbance of light or radiation. It has been already proved that parathyroid
      glands emit their own light after near-infrared (NIR) around 820nm , providing high contrast
      to the surrounding tissues. This made near-infrared autofluorescence a potential useful tool
      in hands of experienced endocrine surgeons in order to distinguish parathyroid glands from
      other anatomic structures during thyroidectomies.

      Approximately 7.6% of thyroid surgeries resulted in hypoparathyroidism, with 75% of these
      cases being transient and 25% being chronic. The mechanisms that underlie hypoPTH are related
      to disruption of parathyroid arterial supply or venous drainage, mechanical injury, thermal
      or electrical injury, and either intentional or inadvertent partial or complete removal.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the value of intra-operative autofluorescence
      imaging concerning the unintentional excision rate of parathyroids during total thyroidectomy
      with central lymph node compartment dissection. Moreover, we are going to evaluate
      correlation of autofluorescence with 24 hours post-operative PTH.
    
  