
    
      Drugs that suppress the immune system have contributed to increased success of
      transplantation; however, to prevent organ rejection, transplant recipients need to take
      immunosuppressive drugs for the rest of their lives. These drugs make patients more
      susceptible to infection and certain kinds of cancer. Belatacept is an experimental
      medication that specifically targets immune reactions against transplanted organs and has
      been shown to be effective in preventing kidney transplant rejection in previous clinical
      trials. Both thymoglobulin, an antibody, and sirolimus, an anti-rejection drug, prevent
      rejection by lowering the response of the immune system to the transplanted organ. This study
      will evaluate whether belatacept, along with thymoglobulin and sirolimus, is safe in kidney
      transplant patients. The study will also evaluate this regimen's potential to allow tapering
      and eventual discontinuation of all immunosuppressive drugs.

      This study will last up to 4 years. At the time of transplant, participants will begin an
      immunosuppressive treatment regimen consisting of thymoglobulin, sirolimus, and belatacept.
      Participants will receive infusions of thymoglobulin on days 1 through 4, and a combination
      of oral sirolimus (daily) and belatacept infusions at day 5, then weeks 2, 4, 8, and monthly
      for at least 2 years. Dose reduction of belatacept will occur at 12 weeks post-transplant. At
      Year 2, eligible participants may choose to begin drug withdrawal or continue study therapy
      through the end of the study. Study visits will occur weekly for the first two months, then
      monthly. These visits will include belatacept treatment, general medical assessments, blood
      and urine collection, and other assessments to determine overall health of the recipient's
      immune system and kidney transplant and to better understand the way the immune system works
      in the acceptance or rejection of organ transplants.

      *** IMPORTANT NOTICE: *** The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the
      Immune Tolerance Network do not recommend the discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy
      for recipients of cell, organ, or tissue transplants outside of physician-directed,
      controlled clinical studies. Discontinuation of prescribed immunosuppressive therapy can
      result in serious health consequences and should only be performed in certain rare
      circumstances, upon the recommendation and with the guidance of your health care provider.
    
  