
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cigarette smoking is recognized as the most important factor in the development of chronic
      airflow obstruction, yet only a minority of cigarette smokers develop clinical disease. In
      1985, interest focused on the role of increased levels of airways responsiveness and atopy as
      possible potentiating factors for the development of chronic airflow obstruction. Then
      current epidemiologic studies had data on only one of these potential risk factors or were
      too small to adequately address the issues involved. The present study assesses both airways
      responsiveness and atopy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study used the population and data base of the Veterans Administration Normative Aging
      Study (NAS) which began in 1963. The NAS population consists of over 1,900 men originally
      selected for good health and their wives. The NAS currently administers a cigarette smoking
      history questionnaire, the NHLBI-ATS respiratory symptom and illness questionnaire, and
      spirometry at regularly scheduled examinations three years apart. The current study assessed
      airways responsiveness as measured by response to methacholine inhalation and atopy as
      measured by skin test, blood eosinophilia, and serum IgE in NAS participants when they
      returned for their next two examinations. The data were used to examine the relationship of
      airways responsiveness, atopy, and cigarette smoking to respiratory symptoms both
      cross-sectionally and longitudinally.

      The study was renewed in 1996 to prospectively identify factors that influence the rate of
      decline in pulmonary function and to identify predictors of chronic obstructive lung disease
      (COLD) and asthma in a population sample of older adults. The investigators hypothesize that
      the development of accelerated decline in FEV1 and the occurrence of respiratory symptoms in
      older adults are determined by two environmental exposures: tobacco smoke-induced injury and
      IgE-mediated hypersensitivity to inhaled aeroallergens. The extent to which allergen exposure
      and airway responsiveness lead to fixed airflow obstruction in older adults is unknown. The
      primary allergens of interest include: house dust mite (Der p I, Der fI), cockroach (Bla g I,
      Bla g II), cat (Fel d I), and fungi. Airway hyperresponsiveness to bronchoconstricting
      stimuli is a physiologic characteristic that may be thought of both as a manifestation of
      airway disease and as an intrinsic host characteristic which predisposes to the development
      of airway disease and determines its clinical pattern. They are using the extensive
      longitudinal information on respiratory symptoms and illnesses, cigarette smoking, pulmonary
      function, airway responsiveness, indices of atopy (skin test, total and antigen-specific
      IgE), indices of inflammation (eosinophil and leukocyte counts in peripheral blood), and
      allergen levels in dust and air in NAS participants and their wives to address the following
      hypotheses: that the association of increased airway responsiveness with accelerated
      longitudinal decline in pulmonary function is modified by gender, smoking, level of FEV1, and
      skin test reactivity;. that the level of exposure to common indoor allergens affects the rate
      of longitudinal decline of pulmonary function; that high levels of exposure to common indoor
      allergens leads to longitudinal increases in airway responsiveness over time; and that
      settled dust levels of fungi (culturable and countable organisms) and antigens, cockroach
      (Bla g l, Bla g II], and cat (Fel d I) are correlated with airborne levels of these agents.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  