
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, single-blind, comparative clinical trial with an
      allocation ratio of 1:1. The primary endpoint is the MRI-based cartilage thickness
      measurement. The secondary endpoint is the The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities
      Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) total score. There are 2 arms: PRP treatment and HA treatment.
      Due to the treatment procedure, the study will not be blinded to either the subject or PI.
      However, the radiologist that scores the cartilage thickness will be blinded with regard to
      clinical characteristics and treatment of subjects.

      The subjects are randomized with 1:1 block randomization with a block size of 4 patients. The
      patient population is symptomatic patients diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis K-L grade 2 or
      3. The sample size is 100 total subjects (50 in each arm). The duration is approximately 13
      months, final data accumulated at month 12 after treatment at single site - NorthShore.

      All potential subjects will complete screening blood work which will consist of a complete
      blood count to include platelets and differential (CBC with Diff), c-reactive protein (CRP),
      and a sed rate (ESR).

      Patients randomized into the PRP group will also have at the time of the procedure whole
      blood and PRP analyzed for PLT, WBC, and RBC per injection, and a CBC with leukocyte
      differential will be performed on the PRP to evaluate the fold increase in platelet
      concentrations. The amount of blood taken for the procedure will be approximately 15 ml (3-4
      teaspoons). Four to six milliliters are injected back into the knee as plasma rich platelets.

      Patients randomized to the HA group will not undergo any laboratory testing.

      Data will be summarized as mean±sd for continuous variables and frequencies and percentages
      for categorical variables. For the primary analysis, repeated measures ANOVA will be
      performed on both primary and secondary endpoints using baseline and 12 months data to
      examine the differences in changes between PRP and HA groups. In addition, linear mixed
      models will be used to analyze WOMAC scores (baseline, 1m, 3m, 6m, and 12m) and MRI data
      (baseline, 6m, 12m) using all available data collected from all time points. All analysis
      will be performed with SAS 9.3 (SAS Inc., Cary, NC). A p value <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  