
    
      Interventions:

      Forty patients were enrolled in total. The first 20 patients (hyperoxia group) underwent a
      2-hour period of normobaric hyperoxia (FiO2 1.0), according to the protocol applied in. No
      variation in the FiO2 was applied for the other 20 patients (control group). All patients
      were enrolled in the morning and hyperoxia was performed in the time range between 10am-2pm
      in order to minimize variability due to the circadian rhythm of EPO production. No variations
      to sedation or vasopressor dose were applied during the study period.

      Measurements:

      On the study day, measurements were taken at 2-hour intervals: baseline (t0), under 1.0 FiO2
      (t1) and after returning to baseline FiO2 (t2). These included: body temperature, heart rate
      (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2), arterial partial
      pressure of oxygen (PaO2) and carbon dioxide (PaCO2), PaO2/FiO2, arterial pH, bicarbonate,
      base excess) and central venous saturation (ScvO2) blood gases, arterial lactates, evaluation
      of the sublingual microcirculation and tissue oxygenation. The same measurements were
      performed in the control group at 2-hour intervals. In 24 patients (12 patients per group),
      arterial blood samples (10 mL) were taken at each time point and immediately centrifuged;
      plasma and serum were stored at -70°C for subsequent analyses. Serum EPO, reticulocyte count,
      hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit were measured at 8am in all patients on the study day, at 24
      and 48 hours.

      Microcirculation measurements with sidestream dark field imaging The sublingual
      microcirculation was evaluated with sidestream dark field (SDF) videomicroscopy (Microscan,
      Microvision Medical, Amsterdam, NL). This technique has been described in details elsewhere.

      Poor-quality images were discarded, and three images for each time point were selected and
      analyzed by using a computer software package (Automated Vascular Analysis Software;
      Microvision Medical BV). According to the consensus report on the performance and evaluation
      of microcirculation using SDF imaging, total vessel density (TVD), perfused vessel density
      (PVD), De Backer score, proportion of perfused vessels (PPV), microcirculatory flow index
      (MFI), flow heterogeneity index (FHI) and blood flow velocity (BFV) were calculated in small
      or medium vessels (diameter ≤ or >20 μm, respectively), as previously described. In addition
      to discontinuous microvascular measurements at 2-hour intervals, the investigators evaluated
      the early response of the microcirculation to variations in the FiO2 on one and the same site
      of sublingual mucosa in order to detect even minute changes in the microvascular density and
      flow. Directly after obtaining measurements from 5 different sites, the SDF probe was placed
      in a stable position and manipulated to avoid any pressure artifacts or secretions
      interfering with the analysis. By manually supporting the microscope, continuous video
      recording was performed for at least 2 minutes during the variation of the FiO2 (start or end
      of hyperoxia). Video clips of 10 s (2 per time point) corresponding to before (baseline or 2h
      FiO2 1.0) and after (2 min FiO2 1.0 or 2 min after returning to baseline FiO2) the variation
      of FiO2 were subsequently selected and analyzed.

      Evaluation of peripheral tissue oxygenation and microvascular reactivity with near infrared
      spectroscopy.

      Near-infrared reflectance spectrophotometry (NIRS) (InSpectra™ Model 650; Hutchinson
      Technology Inc., Hutchinson, USA) was used to measure peripheral tissue oxygen saturation
      (StO2) and tissue Hb index (THI) at baseline and during a vascular occlusion test (VOT). A 15
      mm-sized probe was placed on the skin of the thenar eminence, and a sphygmomanometer cuff was
      placed around the (upper) arm to occlude the brachial artery. After a 3-minute period of StO2
      signal stabilization, arterial inflow was arrested by inflation of the cuff to 50 mmHg above
      the systolic arterial pressure. The cuff was kept inflated until the StO2 decreased to 40%
      and then released. StO2 was continuously recorded during the reperfusion phase until
      stabilization. The StO2 downslope (%/minute) was calculated from the regression line of the
      first minute of StO2 decay after occlusion, providing an index of O2 consumption rate. The
      StO2 upslope (%/minute) was obtained from the regression line of StO2 increase in the
      reperfusion phase. The area under the curve (AUC) of the hyperemic response was also
      calculated. StO2 upslope and the AUC of the StO2 reflect microvascular reactivity. All the
      parameters were calculated by using a computer software package (version 3.03 InSpectra
      Analysis Program; Hutchinson Technology Inc.).

      Immunoassays :

      Levels of ROS and GSH were measured in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer.

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analysis was performed by using GraphPad Prism version 6 (GraphPad Software,
      USA). Normality of distribution was checked by using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Data were
      presented as mean ± standard deviation or median [1st-3rd quartile], as appropriate. One-way
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures with Bonferroni post-hoc test or Friedman
      test with Dunn's multiple comparison test were used to evaluate changes over time in the same
      group. Two-way ANOVA for repeated measures with Bonferroni post-hoc test was used to evaluate
      differences between the two groups, where applicable. For non-normally distributed variables,
      the Mann-Whitney U test was applied to evaluate difference between the two groups at the same
      time point. A Spearman correlation coefficient was calculated to assess correlations between
      variables. The alpha level of significance was set a priori at 0.05.
    
  