
    
      Subjects This study will be conducted in two Public Hospital from Montevideo, Uruguay. A
      total of 200 women (100 by group) will be recruited.

      Description of the Study Design This will be a two-arm, randomized controlled clinical trial
      in which 200 women having a single vaginal delivery and receiving prophylactic oxytocin for
      the management of the third stage of labor at two public hospital in Montevideo will be
      allocated to one of two interventions: CCT or a "hands-off" policy. All outcomes will be
      measured before maternal discharge from the hospital. The primary outcome is postpartum blood
      loss.

      Duration of the Study We estimate that we will need a total of 11 months to complete this
      study. Three months will be needed for preparation (installing data collection resources and
      training data collectors and birth attendants), and 6 months for recruitment, and two months
      for data analysis and preparation of reports and manuscripts.

      Where Subjects Are/ Study Site and Populations The study will be conducted in two public
      hospitals from Montevideo, Uruguay. These are third level public hospitals supported by the
      University of the Republic, with a total of 9,900 deliveries per year.

      Full Description of Risks There is no evidence to suggest that there were risks from this
      study to the women or the newborns, because it is not known if CCT is associated with serious
      complications in the mother. In all previous active management trials and in the two CCT
      trials, there were no reported cases of uterine inversion, and currently, CCT is the
      recommended standard of care during delivery. In theory, the most severe potential
      complication is uterine inversion, which can be a life-threatening condition if adequate care
      is not provided. However, this event is unlikely with the simultaneous use of uterotonics to
      assure a well contracted uterus and eventually, it can be successfully managed in hospital
      settings.

      Benefits for Subjects and/or Society:

      We do not expect a clinical and important benefit from this study at an individual level of
      the pregnant women. However, this study will provide useful information to evaluate one
      specific intervention recommended for the management of third stage of labor.

      Inducement for Participants:

      No monetary inducement will be offered to the participants.

      Costs to Subjects: N/A

      Statistical Analysis Before addressing the research question, descriptive statistics and
      summary graphics such as histograms will be prepared and examined for outcomes and
      demographic variables. All analyses addressing the study research questions will use the
      "intention to treat" principle, thus comparing the original intervention group to the
      original nonintervention group, even if individuals have withdrawn from the study or shifted
      to another group. The analysis plan and presentation of results will follow the
      recommendation of the CONSORT statement. In this study the primary outcome is continues
      (blood loss), therefore, median and inter-quartile ranges will be computed as part of
      descriptive data analysis to understand the distribution of the outcome variables and to
      assess the need of data transformation or adoption of nonparametric tests, including
      Mann-Whitney U tests. Means for the two groups will be compared by the two-sample t-test. A
      similar analysis will be performed for the duration (in minutes) of the third stage of labor.

      Methods of Recruitment:

      Enrollment will be done during and previous to women's labor at the maternity. Screening will
      start at the time of admission and when possible during prenatal care, and for those eligible
      women, a signed consent form will be required. Sealed envelopes opened just before
      delivery(at delivery guard) will be used to determine whether the woman should receive CCT or
      not. A random allocation scheme will be derived from a computer-generated list of numbers,
      with randomly permuted blocks.

      Informed Consent Services directors will provide written authorization to participate in this
      study. Individual birth attendants will receive an information sheet describing the
      objectives of the study and including the name and phone number of the study coordinator.
      Birth attendants will also be invited to participate in the training workshops. Women will be
      invited to participate upon admission to the hospital (or during prenatal care when possible)
      and, if they agree to participate, will provide written informed consent to their birth
      attendant. The birth attendant will then be required to disclose to the patient all of the
      facts about the nature of the trial, interventions under comparison, the risks involved,
      available alternatives and their risk, and reasonable expectations for the treatment outcome.
      This study was submitted to the Institutional Review Board of the School of Medicine,
      University of Uruguay for approval and the Institutional Review Board of Tulane University .
      The PI and co-PI have attended training sessions on the protection of human subjects and have
      been certified by the Institutional Review Boards at their institutions. The coordinator and
      research assistant invited to participate in this study will be asked to complete an on-line
      training session on protection of human subjects.
    
  