
    
      Knee arthroplasty is currently a widespread treatment either for osteoarthritis (OA) as well
      as other joint disorders. Specifically, total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is commonly considered
      one of the most effective orthopedic procedure in the treatment of end-stage knee OA as well
      as various rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, leading to a substantial pain
      relief and functional improvement. Besides, unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA)
      represents a viable alternative in the treatment of unicompartmental knee OA showing a lower
      morbidity. Nevertheless, since knee arthroplasty involves soft tissue dissections and
      numerous bone cuts, several perioperative complications can be observed. Particularly, the
      subsequent local hemorrhage can lead to anemia, functional limitation, nerve palsy as well as
      increase in wound tension resulting in healing impairment. Moreover, the local hematoma could
      represent a growth environment for bacteria. Although TKA usually shows a higher hemorrhage
      rate, some patients undergoing UKA still show the aforementioned complications. Accordingly,
      intraarticular suction drainage placement can likely ease the hematoma drain, leading to
      swelling decrease, surgical wound healing improvement as well as reduction of postoperative
      infections. However, despite suction drainage is routinely used in TKA as well as UKA, there
      are still no precise guidelines and its effectiveness remains controversial. Indeed, drain
      use is likely associated to an increased risk of blood transfusion due to the lack of
      tamponade effect, as well as a higher infection rate. Moreover, the drainage conduit could
      obstruct physiotherapy leading to a delayed recovery. Therefore, since fast-track program has
      been increasingly applied in the management of TKA and UKA, an early drainage removal is
      recommended. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the real usefulness of suction
      drainage in perioperative bleeding control in the management of TKA and UKA.
    
  