
    
      Obesity continues to be a major source of morbidity and mortality in the United States. The
      association between obesity and type II diabetes is well known. Several studies suggest that
      fat may generate a low grade inflammatory response that may be responsible for the metabolic
      changes in obese patients. More specifically, a certain type of white blood cell that causes
      inflammation called a dendritic cell has been found in high concentrations in omental fat.
      This cell has not been extensively studied in human patients with morbid obesity, though it
      may play a central role in the development of insulin resistance. Aside from weight loss, the
      surgical treatment of obesity also results in a decrease in the markers of inflammation. Many
      of the comorbidities of morbid obesity improve or are cured. Laparoscopic adjustable gastric
      banding is safer than other gastric bypass procedures and results in similar amounts of
      weight loss after 2 years postoperatively.

      Much of the work regarding dendritic cells in human subjects has been in patients with
      Crohn's disease. Both the cytokine profile and characteristics of the dendritic cells have
      been extensively studied in Crohn's patients, but not in obese individuals. In addition to
      this, these cells have not been re-evaluated after a period of weight loss.

      A more detailed analysis of the inflammation of obesity and its subsequent resolution with
      weight loss will contribute to the growing body of information on this subject. Further work
      will lend insight into the pathogenesis of the comorbidities of obesity and may contribute to
      uncovering potential treatments for these illnesses. Dendritic cells have been extensively
      studied in animal models. We now know specific cell surface markers and signaling pathways
      for these cells, their responses to stimulating factors, and their ability to secrete
      anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10. We hope to translate these findings to humans.

      It is now recognized that chronic low-grade inflammation is the critical element leading to
      insulin resistance in insulin target cells. The evidence for this is substantial, including
      consistent measurements of elevated inflammatory markers in plasma from insulin
      resistance/diabetic humans and rodents. This concept was further established by the recent
      discovery that obese adipose tissue contains large numbers of resident macrophages. In fact,
      in the lean state, about 10% of all the cell types within adipose tissue consist of
      macrophages, and this number can go as high as 50% in obesity. Furthermore, FACS sorting of
      adipose tissue macrophages based on surface markers, has indicated that it is a subpopulation
      of macrophages which accounts for this remarkable increase. This subpopulation involves
      macrophages which are positive for F4/80, CD11B and CD11C and are, therefore, dendritic-like
      in their phenotype. There are also reports in the literature which suggests that visceral
      adipose tissue may be particularly "inflamed" compared to subcutaneous adipose tissue and
      that increased macrophage infiltration and inflammatory markers are expressed in visceral
      fat. More recent evidence, in which the macrophage inflammatory pathway is specifically
      disabled, in knock-out mice, conclusively demonstrates that the macrophage can be the
      initiating or orchestrating cell type responsible for the inflammatory response which
      ultimately leads to systemic insulin resistance.

      These concepts will be assessed in using the subcutaneous and visceral fat samples obtained
      under this protocol. The adipose tissue samples will be collagenase digested to release all
      of the adipocytes and non-adipocyte cell types within the tissue. Using differential
      centrifugation and filtration, the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) will be separated from the
      adipocytes. The SVF contains the macrophages, and these cells will undergo FACS analysis
      based on the expression of F4/80, CD11B and CD11C to determine the absolute number of
      macrophages within a given adipose tissue sample, and the proportion of classical macrophages
      versus dendritic cell-like macrophages. The cells will then be sorted, and inflammatory
      marker expression will be measured in the classical macrophages (F4/80 positive, CD11B
      positive, but CD11C negative) versus the dendritic-like cells (F480 positive, CD11B positive,
      and CD11C positive). This analysis will involve direct measurement of cytokine expression by
      these cells (TNF, IL-1, and IL-6) as well as PCR-based measurements of mRNA expression of
      inflammatory pathway components. These measurements will be performed on the subcutaneous and
      visceral adipose tissue obtained at the time of the initial surgery, as well as on the
      subcutaneous adipose tissue samples at follow up after weight reduction.
    
  