
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension, a complex disease involving the interplay of genetic and environmental factors,
      affects an estimated 50 million Americans and is a major predisposing factor for myocardial
      infarction, vascular disease, stroke, and renal failure. It has been estimated from
      segregation analysis and twin studies that approximately 45 percent of the interindividual
      differences in blood pressure are accounted for by genetic differences. The identification of
      the genes whose variants contribute to high blood pressure will have far-reaching effects on
      our understanding of the pathophysiology of the circulation and may suggest new preventive
      measures and rational therapeutic approaches.

      One of the principal advantages of the genetic approach is that it identifies primary
      molecular defects. As a result, it will be possible to stratify the general hypertensive
      population into subgroups based on genotype and intermediate phenotype and thereby evaluate
      preventive strategies and therapeutic approaches in more homogeneous groups. In addition, the
      identification of hypertensive genes also provides the basis for an understanding of the
      interactions between genes and environmental factors. It is very likely that particular
      environmental variables exert their effects only in the presence of certain genotypes.

      Until recently, the techniques for dissecting the genetic determinants of high blood pressure
      were not available or were not developed to an extent that would make the Family Blood
      Pressure Program initiative feasible. However, several recent advances in technology and
      analytical methods, together with the rapid construction of genetic maps, have substantially
      improved the chances of detecting these genetic factors.

      The concept for the Family Blood Pressure Program was conceived in the Report of the Expert
      Panel on Genetic Strategies for Heart, Lung, and Blood Diseases. The initiative was approved
      by the Arteriosclerosis, Hypertension, and Lipid Metabolism Advisory Committee (AHLMAC) in
      March, 1993. The genetic-epidemiological aspects were approved by the Clinical Applications
      and Prevention Advisory Committee (CAPAC) in February, 1993. The Request for Applications was
      released in March, 1994. Awards were made in September, 1995.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The network consists of five centers: two field centers, a rat genotyping center, a human
      genotyping center with statistical genetics and informatics, and a genetic analysis center.
      After genetic loci regulating blood pressure are identified, genomic markers are used to
      study genetic linkage with red blood cell lithium-sodium countertransport, hyperkinetic
      hyperadrenergic state, and the renin-angiotensin system in sibships and tested in several
      Black populations.

      The well-characterized Tecumseh population was utilized as a first step in determining
      genetic linkage to hypertension, using the quantitative trait locus (QTL) approach. A total
      of 250 white sibships in the Tecumseh population were examined using 400 anonymous markers
      and candidate genes. Approximately 100 markers that demonstrated linkage were used to examine
      250 African-American sibships in Maywood, Illinois. Fifty refined candidate markers were used
      to study several extant Black populations in Jamaica and Nigeria, as well as individuals in
      the other two populations. A unique feature of the network is the inclusion of a rat
      genotyping center. Crosses of inbred hypertensive and normotensive rats are used to identify
      genomic regions linked to hypertension. The regions are then used to identify homologous
      human candidate genes in addition to those already selected from previous research.

      The GenNet Network was renewed in September 2000 to continue studies of
      hypertension-associated phenotypes in United States whites, African Americans, Mexican
      Americans, and West Africans and Caribbeans. The Family Blood Pressure Program as a whole
      carried out five specific aims in the renewal period. These aims were grouped according to
      two complementary themes: First, the investigators created and analyzed a database of blood
      pressure-related phenotype and genotype data from all FBPP participants (Aim 1). Within
      linked regions, they identified allelic variation within positional candidate genes and
      evaluated the relationship of these polymorphisms with blood pressure levels and hypertension
      status (Aims 2 and 3). Second, they used quantitative measures of target organ damage to
      identify genes that influenced susceptibility to develop hypertensive heart and kidney
      diseases (Aims 4 and 5). In addition to the Program specific aims, each network, including
      GenNet, carried out its own specific aims alone, based on unique aspects of their population
      and interests and expertise of the investigators. In GenNet, progress has been made in the
      identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in candidate genes and work was
      underway to develop rapid genotyping methods in individual and pool samples. The search for
      genes in diverse human populations was complemented by mapping studies in rat strains, in
      which linked regions that overlap with regions showing evidence for linkage in the human
      studies were selected for positional cloning.

      In the next phase of the FBPP ending in August, 2008, a major emphasis is placed on making
      the Program a shared resource for hypertension researchers in the United States and
      throughout the world. In Aim 1, the investigators will build, maintain and update a publicly
      available knowledge-base to facilitate research by non-FBPP investigators on the genetics of
      hypertension, its risk factors and its complications. In Aim 2, they will use
      state-of-the-art genetic linkage analysis methods to identify additional linkage regions
      using subgroups of pedigrees and physiologically relevant combinations of phenotypes that
      will aid in localizing hypertension genes. In Aim 3, they will use a combination of
      bioinformatics, a dense array of SNPs, and state-of-the-art data analysis to follow-up
      regions of interest and identify the underlying hypertension genes. The regions to be
      followed-up include those identified during the current phase of the FBPP and Aim 2 of this
      renewal phase. In Aim 4, they will evaluate the hypertension genes identified in Aim 3 for
      their association with multiple measures reflecting the cardiovascular and renal
      complications of hypertension, including left ventricular mass and microalbuminuria. It is
      the long-term goal of the FBPP to have the hypertension genetics community develop a
      comprehensive picture of the genetic architecture of human hypertension, including its risk
      factors, complications, and response to treatment.
    
  