
    
      Endovascular treatment is the revascularization after ischemic stroke due to large-artery
      occlusion by mechanical removal of thrombi with an intraarterial catheter. The area around
      the infarction called the penumbra, which has partial blood supply by collateral vessels, can
      thereby be salvaged and the neuronal function restored. EVT lowers the disabilities and the
      morbidity if it is performed within 6 hours of onset or within 24 hours in stroke patients
      with a significant penumbra (Rodrigues, Neves et al. 2016).

      However, complications can arise during EVT including critically failing CBF, intracranial
      hemorrhage and embolization of the thrombus to more peripheral vessels, which can all result
      in further brain damage.

      To avoid these repercussions or detect them as fast as possible as well as detecting
      successful interventions, a suitable method for monitoring CBF over time is needed. NIRS is a
      commonly applied method that examines CBF in the cerebral cortex, which has already been used
      as intraoperative monitoring during abdominal and cardiac surgery (Yu, Zhang et al. 2018),
      but only in minor studies of EVT patients, where results have been very promising and
      associated to long-term outcomes (Hametner, Stanarcevic et al. 2015, Ritzenthaler, Cho et al.
      2017). NIRS exploits that absorption of infrared light is only changed by hemoglobin, which
      can therefore by measured over time. NIRS is a non-invasive and safe method that measures
      oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin in the cerebral cortex (Ferrari and Quaresima 2012).

      Cerebral autoregulation (CA) is a complex mechanism that maintains an relatively constant and
      adequate CBF, which is often impaired in acute stroke patients (Paulson, Strandgaard et al.
      1990). The nature of CA can be examined with NIRS (Obrig, Neufang et al. 2000, Reinhard,
      Wehrle-Wieland et al. 2006, Schytz, Hansson et al. 2010, Zweifel, Dias et al. 2014) and
      impairment can be shown (Li, Wang et al. 2010, Han, Li et al. 2014, Han, Zhang et al. 2014,
      Phillip and Schytz 2014). NIRS examinations of CA has never been done during EVT and the
      relation between changes in CA and patient outcome remains unknown.

      This leads to the following hypothesis:

        -  CBF and CA can be monitored with NIRS before, during and after EVT and detect
           complications and successful EVTs.

        -  CBF and CA during and after EVT can be associated to the disabilities and mortality of
           stroke patients 3 months after the treatment.

      The investigators will examine stroke patients who receive EVT with NIRS. The equipment will
      be placed on participants forehead when they arrive to the department and monitored for up to
      2 hours after EVT. A 20-minute follow-up NIRS examinations will be done at 24 hours and 3
      months after EVT. National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) will be performed before
      and after EVT, at 24 hours and 3 months after EVT. Participants will be assessed for
      functioning level and scored for independence with Modified Ranking Scale and screened for
      new vascular events, complications related to EVT and death by cause after 3 months.

      To satisfy power calculations, 100 patients will be enrolled in the study.
    
  