
    
      The primary objective is to determine whether autologous bone marrow (BM) (ie taken from the
      patients themselves rather than from a BM donor) cell therapy is truly beneficial in chronic
      multiple sclerosis - as our small, uncontrolled phase 1 trial suggested
      (www.nature.com/clpt/journal/v87/n6/full/clpt201044a.html).

      The investigators also aim to answer the following questions:

        1. Do BM mesenchymal stem cells from patients with MS differ in the range or extent of
           reparative and neuroprotective properties from those from control individuals?

        2. What reparative and neuroprotective properties do BM stem cell subpopulations other than
           mesenchymal stem cells possess, and do these differ between MS patients and controls?

        3. Can BM stem cell subpopulations be isolated from blood samples from MS patients
           following treatment, and, if so, for how long?

      Bone marrow contains stem cells capable of replacing all the cells in the blood. Recently,
      bone marrow has been found to contain cells capable of replacing cells in tissues and organs
      other than blood. In addition, infusion of bone marrow-derived cells has been shown to have
      significant effects on the immune system and to promote the survival of central nervous
      system cells under toxic conditions. These properties are of considerable interest to those
      working to develop cell-based therapies for neurodegenerative disease.

      The potential of such cells to aid repair in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been examined in
      experimental models of MS. Myelin is the substance that insulates neurons within the central
      nervous system and is attacked in MS. Infusion of adult bone marrow cells into a vein aids
      myelin repair (remyelination) in these models of MS. Recently, the investigators performed a
      small pilot study to examine the effects of harvesting bone marrow from MS patients and
      infusing this back into each patient's vein. This was well tolerated and no significant
      adverse events were encountered. Electrophysiological studies appeared to show some
      improvement but, given the small numbers of participants in the phase 1 trial, no definitive
      conclusion can be made regarding this.

      The current study seeks to address the question of whether genuine improvements in
      neurophysiological tests are seen in MS patients with progressive disease following infusion
      of bone marrow.

      A prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, stepped wedge design will be
      employed at a single centre (Bristol, UK). Eighty patients with progressive MS will be
      recruited; 60 will have secondary progressive disease (SPMS) but a subset (n=20) will have
      primary progressive disease (PPMS). Participants will be randomised to either early
      (immediate) or late (1 year) intravenous infusion of autologous, unfractionated bone marrow.
      The placebo intervention is infusion of autologous blood. The primary outcome measure is
      global evoked potential derived from multimodal evoked potentials. Secondary outcome measures
      include adverse event reporting, clinical (EDSS and MSFC) and self-assessment (MSIS-29)
      rating scales, optical coherence tomography (OCT) as well as brain and spine MRI.
      Participants will be followed up for a further year following the final intervention.
      Outcomes will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis.
    
  