
    
      Despite the decline of global incidence, gastric cancer still affects public health
      substantially due to the considerable medical burden in the treatment of disease at the
      symptomatic stage. This fact has prompted clinicians to extend their attention from the
      multidisciplinary therapies to the design of preventive strategies. Gastric cancer
      development follows a carcinogenic process from non-atrophic gastritis, atrophic gastritis,
      intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and eventually to the adenocarcinoma. Helicobacter pylori
      (H. pylori) infection triggers this carcinogenic cascade and its eradication is currently the
      most reliable regimen to arrest the histologic progression in order to prevent gastric
      cancer. Emerging data have suggested that the benefit of H. pylori treatment earlier in the
      course of infection is larger and cannot be outweighed by a disfavored discount rate as a
      result of different time horizons between early treatment and later benefit of averting
      advanced cancer.

      In the Asia-Pacific area, however, virulent strains of H. pylori infection are highly
      prevalent and premalignant gastric lesions may have already developed at the take-off age of
      active intervention. Our current knowledge remains limited in answering whether H. pylori
      eradication can regress these premalignant lesions and if so, what determinant can contribute
      to a positive response is unknown. The concept of "a point of no return" suggests that the
      benefit of H. pylori eradication may diminish at later stages when many types of molecular
      damage become irreversible. Several population-based studies, in contrast, found that the
      premalignant gastric lesions were potentially reversible given a sufficiently long duration
      free from infection. The inconsistence may reflect the facts that studies with adequate
      sample size and long enough follow-up are rarely available and that some important factors,
      such as the variation in host susceptibility to disease and dietary exposure to carcinogens,
      are difficult to be measured but they are likely to confound the results.

      Therefore, the present study was to:

        1. Determine the efficacy of a novel regimen to treat the H. pylori infection in the
           general population.

        2. To address the question whether the premalignant gastric lesion could be reversed
           following the cure of infection.

        3. To simulate the cost-effectiveness of this chemoprevention.

        4. To use individual data to empirically calculate the cost-effectiveness of this
           intervention.

        5. To address the host genetic susceptibility to gastric cancer development.

        6. To follow-up the gastric cancer incidence following the eradication of H. pylori.
    
  