
    
      Controlled clinical trial composed of children of adolescents aged 1 to 19 years with
      refractory epilepsy drug polytherapy (antiepileptic drugs). Children of both sexes are being
      included. The control group receive the diet classical ketogenic while the case group receive
      the ketogenic diet modified reduction of at least 20% of the supply of saturated fat and
      increase> 50% of the acid supply monounsaturated fatty, increase> 50% of acid content
      polyunsaturated fatty and a lower ratio w6 / w3 at least 50% compared to classical diet used
      by the control group. Patients are followed in 3 times: baseline, 3 months and 6 months after
      the intervention.

      Exclusion criteria: Children and adolescents who use any type of hormone replacement;
      Children and adolescents who present diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism or
      hyperthyroidism; Children and adolescents with acute illnesses such as heart disease and
      kidney disease that prevent indication of the DC evaluated by medical history and complete
      physical examination by the neurologist doctor in charge of the clinic.

      Outcome Measures:

      a. Characterize the sample as the demographics (gender, age), scioeconomic, quality of life
      and clinical; B. To assess dietary intake through food records; c. Evaluate the
      anthropometric profile and classify the nutritional status (Z score of body mass index for
      age [ZBMI / I]); d. Assess body composition (percentage of fat, lean mass, total body water
      and phase angle); e. Determine the concentration of cholesterol and triglycerides,
      lipoproteins (TC, TG, LDL and HDL); f. Determine the concentration of apolipoproteins: APOA-1
      and APO-B; g. Detect the concentration of ketone bodies in the plasma (β-hydroxybutyrate); H.
      Detecting LDL (-) and oxidized LDL in plasma; i. To detect anti-LDL autoantibodies (-) and
      anti-oxLDL autoantibodies in plasma; j. Determine subfractions HDL, LDL and high LDL particle
      size; k. To evaluate the concentration of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFAs); l. Assess the
      concentration of fatty acids in plasma; m. To assess the concentration of substances reactive
      to thiobarbituric acid (TBARS) in plasma.

      n. Determine the concentration of antioxidants in plasma: α-tocopherol, beta-carotene and
      retinol.

      O. Determining the lipidomic plasma profile gathering lipid species in more classes
      associated with the risk of cardiovascular disease; P. Detecting inflammatory markers: Tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF-α), interleukin (IL-6) in plasma.

      Q. Determine the concentration of hepatic enzymes R. Determine the leptin, adiponectin,
      ghrelin and resistin S. To evaluate the liver ultrasound and carotid ultrasound
    
  