
    
      This is a multi-institutional Phase I dose-escalation and dose-expansion trial for patients
      with advanced, solid tumor malignancies who have pre-identified deleterious germline or
      somatic mutations in the homologous recombination deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair pathway
      (HR deficient). The trial is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of niraparib plus
      carboplatin in patients with evidence of HRD. The primary endpoint will be identifying the
      recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and schedule of niraparib plus carboplatin, as well as
      establishing the anti-tumor efficacy of niraparib plus carboplatin as determined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria.

      Patients will be pre-identified from participating centers as having either a germline
      deleterious mutation or tumor expression of a deleterious mutation in one of the genes listed
      below, as determined by Next-generation DNA sequencing (NGS) only, completed prior to
      enrollment in this protocol. Patients with advanced solid tumor malignancies with the
      presence of somatic or germline deleterious mutation in a gene(s) critical to DNA repair
      through homologous recombination, including but not limited to: ARID1A, ATM, ATRX, MRE11A,
      NBN, PTEN, RAD50/51/51B, BARD1, BLM, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1, FANCA/C/D2/E/F/G/L, PALB2, WRN,
      CHEK2, CHEK1, BAP1, FAM175A, SLX4, MLL2 or XRCC, and who have an adequate performance status
      (PS), bone marrow, hepatic, and renal function as well as biopsiable and measurable disease
      will be screened for enrollment.

      Appropriate patients will be enrolled in a 3+3 alternating dose escalating fashion, to a
      maximum dose of niraparib of 300mg daily and a maximum dose of carboplatin area under the
      curve (AUC) of 4. The 3+3 schema will be employed to insure safety and tolerability. However,
      within any given cohort, a full contingent of 6 patients (assuming adequate tolerability)
      will be enrolled to capture a sufficient number of patients and samples for pharmacodynamic
      assessment of DNA damage.

      Once the RP2D and schedule are identified, a Phase Ib expansion cohort of 20 additional
      patients will be enrolled as a pilot subgroup to determine efficacy. Of the 20 patients in
      this Phase Ib cohort, no more than 10 patients will have underlying breast cancer; and
      additionally no more than 10 patients may harbor BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.

      To assess the efficacy of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition and the extent of
      DNA damage, patients will undergo serial tumor biopsies to measure DNA damage as quantified
      by levels of ᵞH2AX and RAD51 foci formation, as well as an assessment of PARP inhibitory
      activity. Tumor biopsies will also be used to assess the mechanisms of resistance to PARP
      inhibitor-based therapy.

      Assessment of safety including blood tests, clinic visits and exams will occur weekly at the
      start of therapy, then will transition to every 3-week clinic visits and exams at the
      beginning of cycle 4. For the Phase Ib portion, patients will undergo weekly lab work and
      clinic visits for cycle 1 only. The researchers hypothesize that in this HR deficient patient
      population, the addition of niraparib to carboplatin will lead to significant anti-tumor
      responses with acceptable toxicities.
    
  