
    
      This study is a descriptive retrospective observational cohort study using data from Turkish
      patient medical records from 81 different internal medicine and/or endocrinology clinics
      across the whole country.

      The study cohort will include T2D patients who received at least one prescription for
      dapagliflozin for the first time between July 2016 and Aug 2017 and who have been registered
      in that centre for at least 6 months prior to the first dapagliflozin prescription.

      The selection of sites and investigators will be made with an aim to achieve
      representativeness of the way dapagliflozin treated T2D patients are managed across Turkey.
      The National Coordinator will provide advice regarding the proportion of the different types
      of centres (Internal medicine, endocrinology clinics, different types of hospitals,
      geographical distribution) and investigators (different types of specialists) involved in
      dapagliflozin treated T2D patient management. The National Coordinator will also provide
      insight on the national situation regarding dapagliflozin medication prescription
      (reimbursement, public or private insurance). All this information will be used to select
      sites and investigators for the study, resembling as closely as possible, the real-world
      situation.

      Sites will also be evaluated for existence and use of electronic medical records as part of
      feasibility. Data quality of sites will be assessed before initiation visit. The study centre
      database should provide at least 20 patients to the study. In case the study centre, can
      provide more than 20 patients, then patients will be selected randomly by the Contract
      Research Organization. Contract Research Organization will also record total number of
      eligible patients, their age and sex details before performing randomization. The
      randomization process will be performed at the study site after initiation visit by Contract
      Research Organization. The investigator of the centre will enter only selected patients to
      study Case Report Form. The Contract Research Organization will also perform 100% source
      document verification following completion of Case Report Forms by the investigator. All
      centres will be evaluated by Contract Research Organization at initiation visit in terms of
      data quality (Baseline, first visit and second visit data of eligible patients)

      The date of the first prescription for dapagliflozin in patient medical records is the index
      date. Patients will be followed from the index date until the earliest of transfer out date,
      death date or end date of patient records (last date of data collection). Required data
      mentioned in baseline characteristics (section 5.1) will be recorded at index date, first
      visit (2 or 3 or 4 months after index date) and second visit (5 or 6 months after index date)
      of treatment (section 5.2).

      Dataset quality will be assessed by Contract Research Organization at initiation visit. Site
      investigator is responsible for entering data to Case Report Forms. Paper based Case Report
      Form system will be used for this study. Datasets can differ for each hospital and patient's
      records can be electronic and/or printed. The investigator will collect all necessary data
      for each patient retrospectively from the most reliable data source in the clinic. All
      collected data will be verified by the Contract Research Organization.
    
  