
    
      This is an open label Phase 1 study of the Ad-PfCA vaccine designed to 1) provide reagents
      for the development and refinement of cell-mediated immunoassays for measuring the human
      immune response to candidate malaria vaccines (especially protective malaria vaccines such as
      DNA/Ad-PfCA where better assays are needed to identify the correlates of protective immunity)
      and 2) to provide a repository of antigen-specific PBMCs that can be used as positive and
      negative controls in cell mediated immunoassays. The study group will consist of up to 35
      healthy adults aged 18 to 50 years who have been screened to meet inclusion and exclusion
      criteria.

      Subjects will be eligible for participation regardless of baseline adenovirus 5 serostatus.
      At least 6 subjects will be "malaria naïve", meaning that 1) they have not been the recipient
      of a malaria vaccine, 2) they have no history of malaria infection or travel to a malaria
      endemic region within 6 months of first leukapheresis procedure or 60mL blood draw, 3) they
      have no history of long-term residence (>5 years) in an area known to have significant
      transmission of P. falciparum, and 4) they have a negative P. falciparum circumsporozoite
      (PfCSP) ELISpot assay at baseline. (From herein, for simplicity, we refer to PfCSP simply as
      CSP). The remaining subjects will have no restrictions regarding receipt of malaria vaccines,
      travel history or baseline CSP ELISpot results. Although it is more difficult to recruit
      "malaria-naïve" subjects, the inclusion of at least 6 such subjects should provide a more
      varied array of immune responses; this may be helpful for assay development.

      Eligible subjects will receive a single administration of the Ad-PfCA malaria candidate
      vaccine at a dose of 2 x 1010 pu by intramuscular injection. Approximately 1 month
      pre-immunization, study subjects will either have a large number of PBMCs collected by means
      of leukapheresis, or a simple 60 mL blood draw, dependent upon initial pre-screening.
      Pre-immunization samples designated for the repository do not require large volume sampling
      of PBMCs. Rather, a 60 mL whole blood draw is sufficient for repository purposes. Thus,
      subjects will be separated into sub-groups, dependent upon initial pre-screening. Subjects
      whose samples are designated for the repository will undergo a simple, 60 mL blood draw in
      lieu of leukapheresis #1 (sub-group A). Samples assigned for assay development will be
      obtained from sub-group B.

      Approximately 1 month post-immunization, study subjects in both sub-groups will have PBMCs
      collected by means of leukapheresis. Consultation with immunology experts after
      post-immunization screening will assist to identify those subjects whose samples do not meet
      assay development or repository needs. In an effort to eliminate unnecessary procedures for
      subjects, these individuals will not undergo a second leukapheresis, but will return for
      their safety visit on day 84.

      Prior to each leukapheresis/60 mL blood draw, a sample will be tested by CSP-ELISpot and AMA1
      ELISpot; the results will be used to categorize samples (see below). Follow up visits will
      occur 2, 7, 14, 21, and 84 days following immunization. Depending on guidance from the FDA,
      subjects will then be followed annually by phone, email, or mailings up to five years from
      the time of immunization per FDA recommendation.
    
  