
    
      Dental patients will be recruited in a consecutive manner from orthodontic department faculty
      of dentistry Cairo University.

        -  Medical history will be taken, thorough oral examination will be done, and a full
           questionnaire will be filled for each patient.

        -  Full questionnaire will be filled, then full mouth periodontal examination and charting
           will be done for each patient.

        -  The questionnaire will be filled through a face-to-face personal interview with the
           patient using simple, short, easily comprehended questions.

        -  The interview questions will be prepared in English, translated into Arabic and then
           reverse translated by a certified translator to ensure accuracy.

        -  All the interviews done by the same investigator.

        -  Before the interview, the aim of the study will be explained to the patient and the
           patient's acceptance to participate in the survey will be received.

        -  Non-respondent patients or patients refusing to participate will be reported with the
           cause of their refusal.

        -  Conventional clinical examination will be held on a dental unit using the light of the
           unit, mirror and probe.

        -  Periodontal status will be evaluated including assessment of gingival index (GI), plaque
           index (PI), probing pocket depth (PPD) and number of teeth with gingival recession by
           using UNC 15 periodontal probe which is 15mm long probe with markings at each millimeter
           and color coded at 5th ,10th and 15th mm.

        -  The questionnaire which was applied in previous study will include the following:

        -  A series of questions related to demographic characteristics of the individuals; age,
           gender, duration of fixed orthodontic treatment, and the patient's current oral health
           behaviour (frequency and duration of tooth brushing, and auxiliary aids).

        -  Questions about periodontal knowledge of the individuals.

        -  Questions about awareness of patients toward the periodontal health.

        -  Questions related to subject's attitude toward orthodontic treatment and periodontal
           health.
    
  