
    
      Background:

      The President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health has called for a transformation of
      the mental health system to partner with consumers of those services in delivering effective
      interventions focused on recovery, and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has developed
      aMental Health Strategic Plan to address these recommendations. One promising approach is to
      implement Illness Management and Recovery (IMR), a structured curriculum to help mental
      health consumers manage their illnesses and pursue goals related to recovery from mental
      illness.

      IMR was developed from a review of effective approaches for illness self-management training
      in persons with severe mental illness. The 9-month curriculum is taught using educational,
      motivational, and cognitive-behavioral techniques, and incorporates five evidence-based
      practices: education about mental illness, strategies for increasing medication adherence,
      skills training to enhance social support, relapse prevention planning, and coping skills
      training. The program was developed for widespread dissemination and includes a manual,
      worksheets, an introductory video, a clinical training video, a fidelity scale, and
      informational brochures for consumers, family members, clinicians, and administrators.

      Objective:

      Although IMR is based on practices shown to be effective in controlled research,
      effectiveness of the comprehensive package of IMR has not yet been demonstrated in a
      randomized, controlled trial. The primary aim of the proposed research is to test the
      effectiveness of IMR as an implementation package. Our primary focus is to examine the impact
      of IMR intervention on consumer outcomes related to illness self-management and recovery.

      Methods:

      This is a randomized, controlled trial comparing IMR to usual mental health treatment, with
      an attention-control group in 200 veterans with schizophrenia spectrum disorders. Assessment
      will include semi-structured interviews and standardized measures at baseline, 9 months, and
      18 months to assess illness self-management (e.g., symptoms), objective indicators of
      recovery (e.g., role functioning), and subjective indicators of recovery (e.g., perceptions
      of well-being). Electronic medical records will be accessed to determine the impact of IMR on
      other service utilization and costs.

      Impact:

      The proposed study directly addresses a stated need in the VA's Mental Health Strategic Plan
      and is a critical first step to systematically evaluating the effectiveness of a
      comprehensive, manual-based approach to improving recovery outcomes for veterans with severe
      mental illness. As an implementation package, IMR offers mental health providers useful tools
      that could be widely disseminated across the VA system.
    
  