
    
      Changes in ovarian hormones across the menstrual cycle impact responses to cocaine in women.
      Studies have shown that cocaine's effects are dampened during the luteal phase of the
      menstrual cycle, when estrogen and progesterone concentrations are high, relative to the
      other phases of the cycle, when concentrations of these hormones are relatively low. The
      purpose of this study is to determine whether progesterone reduces subjective and
      physiological responses to cocaine in cocaine dependent individuals. In addition, this study
      will help to advance the possibility of hormonal progesterone and pharmacologically-related
      drugs as potential treatment components for cocaine abuse.

      Participants will undergo two 4-day inpatient periods, totaling 8 days of treatment. For
      women, the inpatient periods will occur during two consecutive menstrual cycles; for men,
      these will occur during two consecutive months. On Day 1, participants will receive a first
      dose of either progesterone or placebo. On Day 2, participants will receive a second and
      third dose of study medication. Participants will also participate in an adaptation session,
      which will familiarize the participant with the smoking equipment that will be used the
      following day. On Day 3, participants will receive a fourth dose of medication 2 hours prior
      to a smoking lab session. Prior to beginning the smoking lab session, participants will be
      asked to rate their current cocaine craving, anxiety level, appetite, and premenstrual
      symptoms. Participants will then be given a sample of the cocaine dose for the given day.
      During the smoking lab session, participants will be asked additional cocaine craving
      questions at pre-determined intervals and will be given the option to trade in previously
      earned tokens for either money or a dose of cocaine. Following completion of the smoking lab
      session, participants will receive their fifth dose of medication.
    
  