
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tetrathiomolybdate in
      psoriasis therapy. Psoriasis is a common skin disease affecting an estimated 2.6% of the US
      population. It is a chronic, recurrent condition for which there is no cure but ways to
      control it. Psoriasis is characterized by epidermal hyperplasia, increased dermal
      angiogenesis, and infiltration of activated lymphocytes. Beginning with the observation that
      cyclosporin A, whose primary action is to inhibit lymphokine release and proliferation of T
      cells, was effective in the treatment of psoriasis, the last two decades saw a major paradigm
      shift in the pathogenesis of psoriasis, from a view of psoriasis as a disease of epidermal
      origin to a view of it as an epidermal response to immunological injury. In fully activated T
      cells in psoriatic skin, the T1/T2 cytokine balance is shifted in favor of T1 expression,
      with production of IL-2 and IFN-γ. Activated T1 lymphocytes also produce TNF-α. This is a
      pivotal cytokine that regulates an array of proinflammatory mediators. Recently, anti-TNF-α
      therapy using a chimeric anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody (infliximab) and a
      TNF-receptor-immunoglobulin fusion protein (etanercept) have shown to be highly effective in
      patients with severe psoriasis. Efforts to treat psoriasis by inhibiting neovascularization
      of psoriatic plaques have also been shown to be effective. A randomized phase I/II clinical
      trial using Neovastat, a naturally occurring inhibitor of angiogenesis, resulted in
      dose-dependent improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score, thus
      providing further evidence that altered angiogenesis is an integral part of psoriasis
      pathophysiology. Since TM has proven antiangiogenic and anti-TNF-α activities, we are very
      encouraged that TM therapy will be beneficial in psoriasis.
    
  