
    
      Dengue fever has various levels of severity, from mild disease to severe hemorrhagic
      complications and shock. Dengue is endemic world-wide and has been found in the United
      States. The mortality from dengue fever can be as high as 15-20%, with nearly 22,000 deaths
      annually, most of them children (Reddy, 2013). There is no reliable way to immediately
      predict which children presenting with a fever during a Dengue fever outbreak will progress
      to more severe disease. Some children with dengue fever will improve with limited clinical
      interventions, but others require intensive therapy. Limited healthcare resources in
      developing countries make decisions on treatment or disposition difficult as many children
      and poor clinical decision increase morbidity and mortality. In more developed countries such
      as the United States, early identification of patients with dengue fever has the potential to
      identify children who may benefit from early interventions. Identifying those patients is the
      first step in exploring early therapies to effect mortality. Previous research has
      demonstrated that intrathoracic/ peritoneal fluid and gallbladder wall thickening is
      associated with worsening of the clinical prognosis for hospitalized patients with dengue
      fever (Michels, 2013). We will explore earlier presentations in the emergency department and
      outpatient department.

      Our hypothesis is that the presence of gallbladder wall thickening and/or pleural effusions
      in children correlates with progression to Dengue hemorrhagic fever and Dengue shock. In
      addition, we hypothesize that sonographic imaging of pediatric patients presenting to the
      emergency department with a fever during a Dengue fever outbreak will change management and
      disposition. Our specific aim is to 1) compare the accuracy of bedside ultrasound detection
      of intra-thoracic fluid, peritoneal free fluid, and gallbladder wall thickening and physical
      exam versus physical exam alone in diagnosing dengue fever and 2) determine the association
      between sonographic features of dengue (intra-thoracic fluid and gallbladder wall thickening)
      and clinical outcome in children with dengue fever.

      This study is a prospective observational clinical study in the emergency department,
      inpatient ward, intensive care unit, and outpatient department of the Angkor Hospital for
      Children in Siem Reap, Cambodia. Study subjects will include children 16 years or less, who
      present during the annual Dengue Fever outbreak with suspected Dengue fever. Subjects include
      children with an acute febrile illness, and two of the following: headache, retro-orbital
      pain, myalgias, arthralgia, rash, hemorrhagic manifestations, or plasma leakage (i.e.
      shortness of breath, abdominal distention/pain). Clinicians will determine their clinical
      suspicion of dengue, intended therapeutic interventions and disposition following a history
      and physical exam but before ultrasound imaging. Study personnel will perform diagnostic
      bedside ultrasound imaging of the gallbladder and peritoneal and pleural spaces (FAST exam)
      and the clinician again determine their clinical suspicion of Dengue, intended therapeutic
      interventions and disposition. Patients will be followed to determine clinical outcome,
      therapeutic interventions and disposition. The primary endpoint is progression of disease.
      The secondary endpoint will be change in clinical care provided in the emergency department
      related to ultrasound imaging.
    
  