
    
      Main objectives of the project:

        -  To evaluate the usefulness of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) to achieve a lower
           percentage of positive margins.

        -  To validate clinically the efficacy and safety of the method in breast tumors smaller
           than < 2 cm.

      Specific objectives of the project:

        1. To demonstrate that , after RFA, clear margins are increased in the intraoperative
           pathological analysis compared to conventional surgery.

             1. To quantify the number of positive margins requiring intraoperative extension in
                each patient, comparing the ratio in both groups.

             2. To quantify the percentage of patients requiring intraoperative extension compared
                in both groups.

        2. To demonstrate a reduction in the volume of breast tissue removed after RFA compared to
           conventional surgery.

             1. Comparing in both groups the anteroposterior, transverse and craniocaudal diameters
                of the excised specimen, measured in cm, and to calculate the volume.

             2. Tumor weight in grams (including extensions) will be measured to compare the
                weights in both groups.

        3. To evaluate the differences in cosmetic outcome after RFA versus conventional surgery.

           a. An international scale will be used and the scores will be compared. There will be
           two independent assessments, one for the physician and another for the patient.

        4. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the RFA by cluster "cool-tip" electrode in the
           experimental group.

             1. RFA is considered as complete when no viable tumor tissue is evidenced by
                oxidation-reduction reaction mediated by NADH-diaphorase after surgical resection.
                Mitochondrial dysfunction will be also evaluated by semiquantitative and
                quantitative method using the enzyme cytochrome c oxidase or Complex IV (COX) and
                tunel. Any residual viable tumor tissue will be considered as incomplete RFA.

             2. Risk factors for incomplete ablations will be analyzed, especially tumor
                vascularization.

        5. To demonstrate the safety of RFA by cluster "cool-tip" electrode in breast cancer tumors
           a. To quantify all side effects that may occur after the RFA and / or surgery and to
           correlate the complication rate in each group with severity.
    
  