
    
      The ageing of the population is associated to a rapid increase of chronic conditions and more
      specifically geriatric syndromes for which the health care system is largely unprepared.
      Being in frontline of this huge arising burden, family practitioners (FP) will need adapted
      tools to identify and manage elderly patients with complex needs and prevent functional
      decline while improving quality of life. It is however well recognized that effective and
      efficient evidence-based interventions adapted to the primary care setting are lacking. The
      AGE program (Active Geriatric Evaluation) was launched in 2011 and aimed at developing a
      comprehensive assessment and management tool for FP's to better identify and manage geriatric
      syndromes. The AGE tool consists of a 20-minute clinical screening instrument (Brief
      Assessment Tool, BAT), which performances for identifying geriatric syndromes was already
      assessed in general practice along the AGE program, and a comprehensive approach that
      encompasses: complementary diagnostic evaluations and propositions of management & treatment
      for each syndrome. The efficacy and efficiency of the AGE tool for preventing functional
      decline was never assessed in real life settings of general practice.

      The aim of the study is to determine whether a comprehensive tool combining a brief
      assessment tool (BAT) for the early diagnosis of geriatric syndromes with a structured
      diagnostic and management strategy impacts on the functional decline and quality of life of
      elderly patients.

      Design: Two-arm open label cluster randomized trial in FP practices, randomization unit: FP

      Participants and setting: FP's and their patients aged ≥ 75 years in the French part of
      Switzerland. In total: 40 FP's (2x20) and 400 patients (2 x 200)

      Intervention: Active Geriatric Evaluation. Controls: Usual care provided by FP's. Duration of
      study: 3 years (2 years of follow-up). Expected outcomes:functional ability of patients in
      the intervention arm ,measured through the activities of daily living, will be conserved
      compared to patients in the usual care arm.
    
  