
    
      Before starting in the treatment part of this study, leukemia cells and skin fibroblasts will
      be collected from the patient - called "procurement" - to allow us to make the vaccine. These
      leukemia cells are taken from either peripheral blood, leukopheresis product or bone marrow.
      The fibroblasts will be prepared in the laboratory with specially produced human viruses
      (adenoviruses) that carry the IL-2 or the CD40L gene. The viruses will "drop off" the genes
      inside the fibroblasts. The CD40L and IL-2 genes are meant to help stimulate the immune
      system to fight the leukemia. The modified fibroblasts will be injected with a number of
      leukemic cells under the skin. All the cells will be irradiated before injection to stop them
      growing. Patients will receive three shots. Depending on the response, patients may be able
      to have three additional shots.

      In order to collect the skin fibroblasts at the very beginning of the study, and then during
      the study, we will perform small skin biopsies. In particular before the second shot, and
      then again about 1 week later, we will look for both the modified and leukemia cells that
      have been re-injected under the skin. We will do this by taking a skin biopsy from the place
      where the cells were injected. The area where the skin biopsy will be obtained will be
      sterilized and then numbed with a local acting agent. The skin will be removed with a "tissue
      punch" which will cut a circle of approximately 1/4th of an inch into the skin. The site
      where the skin was removed will be closed with suture, tape or stitches. The area will be
      covered with dry gauze and adhesive tape. These tests are to see whether the shots are
      killing leukemia cells and to make sure leukemia cells are not growing at the injection site.

      To study how the immunity is working in the system, we will take blood samples before first
      injection, then weekly for 10 weeks, on week 12, once a month for a year, and then eventually
      once a year for fifteen years. These samples will be approximately 1 tablespoons of blood,
      which is considered a safe amount. If the patient has additional injections, blood will be
      drawn prior to each injection. Additional office visits may be necessary.

      Also, patients will need to have a bone marrow test before enrolling on the study and at week
      12. If the patient is not responding, they may have treatment with other chemotherapy or
      radiation. Patients will need to come to the clinic on the days of blood drawing and to be
      seen at Texas Children's Cancer Center/The Methodist Hospital at weekly intervals for 10
      weeks, then every other week for 6 weeks, and then monthly for a year. Thereafter, patients
      will either be seen in the clinic or contacted by one of the research staff working on this
      study once a year for 15 years. Additional visits may be necessary.
    
  