
    
      Cognitive Interviews:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be take part in a cognitive interview. A
      cognitive interview is a process that helps researchers test out questions on a few people so
      the questions can improved.

      During the interview, a research staff member will use a questionnaire to ask you about many
      different health and social topics.

      As the questions are read to you, please answer them, but also tell the research staff member
      what you're thinking. Please try to think out loud and say everything that comes to mind,
      whether it seems important or not. You will be asked how you came up with your answers and
      how you understood the questions. If any question seems unclear or hard to answer, please
      tell the research staff member. A member of the research staff will be taking notes during
      the interview.

      The cognitive interview should take up to 45 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the cognitive interview.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 10 participants will be enrolled in this part of the study. All will take part at
      Thomas Street Health Center.

      Phase I:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire about your age,
      education level, income, and general health behaviors. This questionnaire should take about
      20 minutes to complete.

      After completing the questionnaire, you will take part in a focus group discussion with other
      women who are patients at Thomas Street Health Center. There will be up to 8 women in each of
      the 5 groups.

      In the focus group, you will be asked questions about personal and clinic-related factors
      that might make it more difficult to receive pap smear screenings. You will also be asked to
      discuss what might make it easier or encourage women to receive pap smear screenings. The
      focus group discussion should last 60-90 minutes.

      The information discussed in the focus groups may be sensitive, so you will be asked to keep
      the information discussed in the group private.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the questionnaire and
      participate in the focus group discussion.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in this part of the study. All will take part at
      Thomas Street Health Center.

      Phase II:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 2 questionnaires. The first
      questionnaire will ask about your age, education level, income, and general health behaviors.
      This questionnaire should take about 20 minutes to complete.

      The second questionnaire will ask about many different health and social topics. This
      questionnaire should take up to 45 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the 2 questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 200 participants will be enrolled in this part of the study. All will take part at
      Thomas Street Health Center.
    
  