
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1986, the Department of the Navy initiated the National Bone Marrow Donor Registry.
      Because the support of a National Bone Marrow Donor Registry was not very closely related to
      the Navy's primary missions, in 1989 the management of the contract for the program was
      transferred by the Congress from the Navy to the NHLBI.

      By 1989, bone marrow transplantation had become an effective and accepted treatment for an
      increasing number of diseases of the bone marrow and the immune system. Until only a few
      years prior to 1989, most marrow donors were siblings, carefully matched for HLA (tissue)
      antigens. Since only a small proportion of candidates for a bone marrow transplant have
      matched brothers or sisters, additional family members were tried as donors. These included
      parents, children, slightly mismatched siblings, and other relatives. Even with the
      broadening of the bone marrow donor source, no more than 30-40 percent of patients with
      diseases amenable to marrow transplant therapy had available donors. Improved results with
      these selectively mismatched relatives and a distinct need to provide appropriate treatment
      for more patients led to trials with unrelated, HLA-matched community volunteers as bone
      marrow donors. By 1989, research had progressed to the point where transplants from such
      unrelated donors were nearly as successful as those from matched siblings, when stratified by
      disease status and risk parameters. In 1989, 20 to 25 percent of patients for whom a formal
      donor search was initiated received a transplant. This was expected to increase
      substantially.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The program was established by the Department of the Navy in 1986 and transferred to the
      NHLBI in 1989. The purpose was to develop and maintain a registry of individuals willing to
      donate bone marrow for patients in need of transplants, to facilitate marrow transplants by
      serving as a coordinating and communications center for a network of donor, collection and
      transplant centers in the United States and internationally, and to facilitate research into
      the efficacy of unrelated donor marrow transplants. In 1992, the program was enlarged to
      support a limited number of demonstration projects to develop, implement, and evaluate
      innovative models for minority marrow donor recruitment. In 1995, the NMDP was transferred to
      the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), although NHLBI provided funds in
      this year.
    
  