
    
      METHODS:

      This study will be conducted at The Christ Hospital. Informed consent will be obtained from
      the patients in the pre-operative care unit prior to administration of any medications.
      Candidates for the study will clearly understand consenting to enroll in the study includes
      not only the randomized assignment of urinary catheter care postoperatively but also a
      follow-up phone survey to be administered approximately 2 weeks after discharge. Patient
      reasons for not enrolling in the study will be recorded.

      Study population All women presenting to The Christ Hospital for gynecologic surgery
      anticipated to require an at least 1 night stay and in whom would be expected to have an
      indwelling catheter overnight are eligible to participate in the study. Patients with a
      current urinary tract infection being treated with antibiotic(s), anticipated concomitant
      prolapse or incontinence surgery, a preoperative diagnosis of gynecologic malignancy, a
      history of chronic indwelling catheter use, a history of renal transplant or current dialysis
      use, or intraoperative lower urinary tract injury necessitating prolonged postoperative
      catheter use are to excluded from study participation. Following application of the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, postoperative urinary catheter care (conventional vs. fast track)
      will randomized upon arrive to the postoperative care unit (PACU). These patients will
      compose the study population.

      Protocol:

      Per routine anesthesia practice once a patient has met criteria for discharge from the PACU,
      and following randomization into either the conventional or fast track cohorts, the subject
      will either have immediate removal of the catheter with a trial of void or the catheter will
      remain in place over night per routine practice with a trial of void arranged at the time of
      discharge.

      The trial of void protocol will consist of backfilling the existing catheter with 300cc of
      sterile saline (or to a volume the patient reports to be subjectively full) and recording her
      voided volume that should occur within 30 minutes. The patient's self-reported percent of
      normal force of stream will be recorded (0-100% in 10% increments) along with her voided
      volume. If the patient voids at least 150cc of the instilled volume OR reports at least a
      >50% of normal force of stream she will be considered to have passed the voiding trial. The
      patient will be scanned for residual urine volume following the next spontaneous void or any
      time she reports symptoms consistent with obstructed voiding.

      Duration of catheter use will be determined as the time from placement in the operating room
      (time 0) to the time it is removed on the hospital ward. Time will be recorded in hours.
      Discharge from the hospital will occur per the attending physician's routine practice. At
      hospital discharge subjects will complete a brief survey recording bladder function before
      and during their hospitalization. Also included in this survey will be an assessment of their
      overall satisfaction with their catheter management and hospital stay. Institution standard
      practice is to obtain a urinalysis in the operating room on all patients anticipating an
      overnight stay. This urinalysis and any other urine studies obtained during the
      hospitalization will be extracted from the medical record. The number of subjects who fail
      the trial of voiding between cohorts will be collected from the electronic medical record
      (EMR). After discharge, subjects will be contacted by phone 2-3 weeks after the index
      surgery. At this call subjects will be administered a survey reviewing their post-surgery
      bladder function including symptoms of a bladder infection. A review of the patient's
      hospital record will also be conducted to identify any additional urine studies ordered
      during the 2-3 weeks following surgery.

      Randomization protocol: Permuted block randomization will be used to ensure a balanced
      enrollment of patients in the clinical trial. Selecting a block size of 4 will ensure that
      for every four patients enrolled, 2 will be assigned to the "Fast-track" cohort and 2 will be
      assigned to the "Conventional" cohort. In order to effectively conceal the randomization
      sequence, investigators will use sequentially numbered, opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE). It
      will not be feasible to blind the physician, nurse and patient in this study, they will all
      be aware of the randomized allocation assignment. The study personnel administering the
      postoperative telephone questionnaires will be blinded by simply not informing them of the
      group allocation of the patient. Plans to manage incomplete data between cohorts will include
      meeting with nursing managers and supervisors to ensure that questions are completed and to
      verify how to enter information into the EMR. At the completion of the study every effort
      will be made to have all patient questionnaire completed.
    
  