
    
      This study aims to evaluate the safety and usability of a telemedicine system which includes
      intelligent tools for blood glucose analysis and supporting routine clinical monitoring
      carried out by nurses and endocrinologists.

      Type of study: Prospective, controlled, randomized (2:1) Participants: pregnant women
      diagnosed with gestational diabetes according to the National Diabetes Data Group criteria
      between 14 and 34 weeks of gestation. Patients with suspected clinical diagnosis of type 1 or
      type 2 diabetes will be excluded.

      In addition to the signed acceptance to participate in the study, requirements are:

        -  Availability of a desktop computer or laptop with an internet connection and USB port.

        -  Sufficient knowledge of Catalan and/or Spanish

        -  A mobile phone Objective: To technically evaluate the SineDie telemedicine system and
           also the users' degree of satisfaction.

      Methodology of the study: Once signed consent for participation the patient will be
      randomized either to continue regularly scheduled visits (33% chance) or to use the
      Telemedicine system (66% chance). The randomization will be done using a system of allocation
      based on random numbers. The SINEDiE system includes:

        -  Educational Program

        -  Automatical Evaluation of glucose data -immediately after each download (frequency not
           exceeding 72 hours)

        -  Alerts in case of failure of receiving information at the scheduled time or in case of
           incompleteness.

        -  Alerts for glucose values higher than desirable but which could be corrected by diet
           changes and / or exercise

        -  Alerts for high glucose values which cannot be corrected with the previous mentioned
           changes. In this case an appointment for face-to-face visit would be made.

      All warnings are also reported as an email to the endocrinologist and nurse

      Variables:

        -  Statistical analysis of data: blood glucose, standard deviation, number of preprandial
           values> 90, the number of postprandial values of> 140 messages and warnings

        -  Analytical variables: HbA1c at the start and every 4 weeks

        -  Complications of pregnancy and childbirth if any.

        -  Neonatal Complications if any

        -  Survey of satisfaction with telemedicine tool

      Expected duration of the study: 6 months Number of patients included 20 patients
    
  