
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the probability of a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) following cycle 1 of
      experimental regimens (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride [pegylated liposomal
      doxorubicin] [PLD] and atezolizumab and PLD/bevacizumab and atezolizumab). (Safety lead-in)
      II. Estimate and compare the hazard of first progression or death (progression free survival
      [PFS]) of each experimental regimen relative to the reference regimen, PLD and bevacizumab.
      (Phase II study) III. Estimate and compare the hazard of death and the hazard of first
      progression or death (PFS) of the experimental regimen relative to the reference regimen.
      (Phase III) (24-FEB-2021)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate and compare the probabilities of response (objective response rate [ORR], either
      partial or complete response) defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria on each study regimen. (Phase II study) (24-FEB-2021) II.
      Estimate the frequency and severity of adverse events as classified and graded with Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) in those patients who initiate their randomly
      assigned study treatment. (Phase II study) (03/19/2018) III. Estimate and compare ORR in each
      treatment group. (Phase III study) IV. Estimate the frequency and severity of adverse events
      in those patients who initiate their randomly assigned study treatment. (Phase III study) V.
      Estimate and compare mean patient reported outcome scores (PROs) as measured by National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) ovarian
      symptom index (NFOSI)-18 disease-related symptoms (DRS). (Phase III study) VI. Estimate and
      compare the treatment groups on the basis of the PROs: treatment side effects (TSE),
      function/well-being (FWB), fatigue (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy
      [FACIT]-fatigue subscale) and abdominal discomfort (FACT/Gynecologic Oncology Group
      [GOG]-abdominal discomfort [AD] subscale). (Phase III study) (10/16/2017)

      TRANSLATIONAL SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether biomarker levels in pre-treatment tissue, and pre- or on-treatment
      peripheral blood, and stool specimens are associated with ORR, PFS and/or overall survival
      (OS).

      II. Estimate pre-treatment PD-L1 expression on tumor cells measured by quantitative
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), and determine whether it is associated with the duration of PFS
      or overall survival. (Integrated Biomarker) III. Analysis of T cell receptor (TCR)
      repertoires by deep sequencing of peripheral blood samples. (Exploratory Biomarkers
      [10/16/2017]) IV. Tumor "immunogenicity" as determined by the neo-antigen landscape and
      characterization of the tumor microenvironment using next-generation sequencing, including
      but not limited to whole exome sequencing and/or RNA sequencing. (Exploratory Biomarkers
      [10/16/2017]) V. Microbiome analysis via stool sampling. (Exploratory Biomarkers
      [10/16/2017]) VI. To determine whether changes in quantitative biomarker parameters after the
      first 6 and 12 weeks of therapy predict ORR, PFS and/or OS.

      OUTLINE: Patients will be randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over
      60 minutes on day 1 and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. (Closed to
      accrual as of February 09, 2021)

      ARM II: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1, bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15, and atezolizumab IV over 30-60
      minutes on days 1 and 15.

      ARM III: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      In all arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years, and then every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  