
    
      This study aims to compare a new formulation of WET referred to as WET-for suicide (WET-S)
      that includes crisis response planning + treatment as usual (TAU) compared with TAU among
      high-risk, suicidal service members with PTS admitted to the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical
      Center (CRDAMC) acute inpatient psychiatry unit at Fort Hood, Texas.

      Aim 1: Determine if WET-S reduces the presence, frequency, and severity of suicidal ideation,
      suicide plans, suicide gestures, suicide attempts, non-suicidal self-injurious behaviors, and
      rehospitalization for suicidality.

      Aim 2: Determine if WET-S + TAU reduces PTS symptom severity among service members admitted
      to an acute psychiatric inpatient unit for SI and/or attempt compared with TAU.

      Aim 3: Determine if reductions in PTS symptoms mediate the association between treatment
      condition and suicide-related outcomes (suicidal ideation, plans, gestures, attempts,
      non-suicidal self-injurious behaviors, and rehospitalizations).

      Aim 4: Develop a tool kit for WET-S implementation through a needs assessment with key
      stakeholders and evaluation of contextual factors among DoD inpatient facilities to determine
      readiness for successful implementation of WET-S.

      Study investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the efficacy
      of the WET-S + treatment as usual (TAU) compared with TAU among high-risk, suicidal service
      members with PTSD or posttraumatic stress (PTS) admitted to the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical
      Center (CRDAMC) acute inpatient psychiatry unit at Fort Hood, Texas. Investigators will
      conduct a needs assessment with stakeholders during the RCT to develop a tool kit for WET
      implementation in other DoD inpatient psychiatry units.

      Data will be collected in Texas. Investigators conservatively anticipate enrollment of
      approximately 140 service members to achieve a final sample size of 124 (n = 62 per
      condition) after accounting for 15% attrition. CRDAMC receives approximately 4500 admissions
      each year for SI/attempt. TAU on the inpatient unit consists of crisis management and
      stabilization. Suicide risk and PTS symptom severity are the primary outcomes. Secondary
      outcomes include subsequent hospitalizations for suicidal thoughts and behaviors and suicide
      attempts.
    
  