
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the antitumor activity of gemcitabine and carboplatin vs methotrexate,
           carboplatin, and vinblastine in patients with transitional cell cancer of the urothelium
           who are ineligible for cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxicity and acute and intermediate (1-2 years) side effects of these
           regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the complete response rates, progression-free survival, and overall survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the symptoms and quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive methotrexate* IV and vinblastine IV on days 1, 15, and 22 and
           carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin
           IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: * Methotrexate is omitted for patients with pleural effusion or ascites until complete
      resolution and for patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min or
      creatinine greater than 2 mg/dL

      Patients in either arm who achieve a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses of
      chemotherapy beyond CR.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after every 2 courses of chemotherapy, and within 6
      weeks of completion of therapy.

      Patients are followed within 6 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 156 patients (78 per treatment arm) will be accrued for the
      phase II portion of this study. A total of 225 patients will be accrued for the phase II +
      III portions of this study within 5 years.
    
  