
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine whether POLYE (Polyphenon E) treatment is associated with
      a significant percent decrease in the number of rectal Aberrant Crypt Foci (ACF) (% change in
      ACF) identified during the pre-intervention and post-intervention chromoendoscopy exams.
      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the relative tolerability and safety of treatment with
      2 capsules of POLYE taken twice a day by mouth (Note: each capsule of Polyphenon E contains
      approximately 200 mg of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) versus placebo administered for 6
      months. TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the effect of the study drug vs. placebo on EGCG
      levels in plasma and to correlate EGCG levels with drug compliance and toxicity. II. To
      characterize ACF based on four criteria and correlate such characterizations with the
      intervention (vs placebo), as well as exploring the natural history of ACF over 6 months in
      persons at high risk for colorectal cancer randomized to placebo. III. To correlate the
      6-month measurements of ACF size (e.g., number of crypts/ACF), number, morphology, and
      histopathology with the adenoma recurrence data at the next surveillance endoscopy. IV. To
      assess caffeine and black tea consumption via a Beverage Consumption Questionnaire and
      correlate with study endpoints. V. To assess the effects of POLYE versus placebo on a focused
      panel of tissue biomarkers using re- and post-intervention biopsy samples obtained from ACF
      and normal-appearing rectal mucosa. Residual tissue will be stored for further analysis. VI.
      To study the association of clinical (toxicity and/or ACF response or activity) with the
      pharmacokinetic parameters, and/or biologic (pharmacodynamic) results. OUTLINE: Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive Polyphenon E orally (PO) twice
      daily (BID). ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID. Courses in both arms repeat every 28
      days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After
      completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  