
    
      During the last two decades, cancer research has shifted from using cell lines and animal
      models to directly using human tissue. This is especially true for research focused on
      premalignancies for which there are few good animal models. Research utilizing human tissues
      and sera not only addresses many issues/questions of medical research that cannot be
      evaluated in cell lines and/or in animal models of human disease, but it also provides a
      system to test the relevance of these findings to human diseases. Various biologic and
      genetic changes that occur in the developmental stages of human neoplasia can be identified
      and analyzed using human tissues.

      Research using human tissues and sera is making great strides in the effort to define
      possible markers of developing neoplasia and will promote the design of targeted cancer
      treatments and possible prevention. It is important to link research findings in tissue and
      blood specimens to the clinical outcome of patients with malignancy so we can pinpoint when
      and where, during the course of cancer development, molecular changes occur.

      Many malignancies of the female genital tract may arise in more than one location, either
      synchronously or metachronously, giving rise to the concept of a "field" effect of
      carcinogenesis. By collecting tissue from multiple epithelial sites (sampled by the
      physician) it is possible to compare the molecular changes seen in preinvasive to those that
      occur in invasive neoplasia for differential expression profiles of potential markers. If
      protein markers are identified in cells present in the diseased tissue we can check the
      patient's serum and urine to see if the proteins can be detected. This information will
      enable us to screen and possibly identify these protein markers in patient serum and urine to
      correlate with the presence of a premalignant or malignant state.

      Malignant ascites is excess fluid that accumulates in the space between the membranes lining
      the abdomen and abdominal organs, otherwise known as the peritoneal, or abdominal cavity.
      Malignant ascites typically occurs because of a disease, infection, or cancer in the
      peritoneal cavity that produces excessive fluid. Ascites fluid accumulation is very common in
      gynecologic cancers, especially ovarian. If protein markers are identified in the cells
      present in the diseased ascites fluid we may be able to correlate these markers with
      metastasis of the disease/cancer and possibly help prevent the spread of several gynecologic
      cancers.
    
  