
    
      The Phase II will be conducted in 11 NICUs, in 4 countries (France, UK, Finland and Denmark).
      The estimated recruitment period is 6 months to enroll 30 preterm infants of 23-26 weeks of
      gestation. Four different loading/maintenance doses will be tested. The first level will be
      20 mg/kg followed by 7.5 mg/kg quarter in die (QID) which correspond to the dosage selected
      for neonates with a PMA ≥27 weeks in the phase III according to data from Finland (Härkin, J
      Pediatr. 2016). The 2nd, 3rd and 4th level doses will stand for 25%, 50%, and 75% increase of
      the first level:

        -  20 mg/kg loading dose then 7.5 mg/kg/6hours during 5 days (total = 20 doses)

        -  25 mg/kg loading dose then 10 mg/kg/6hours during 5 days (total = 20 doses)

        -  30 mg/kg loading dose then 12 mg/kg/6hours during 5 days (total = 20 doses)

        -  35 mg/kg loading dose then 15 mg/kg/6hours during 5 days (total = 20 doses)

      The first cohort of patients will be treated at the lowest starting dose level. Both, the
      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) and the statistician will be informed about the
      therapeutic response observed and the safety of treatment. The statistician will use these
      data for re-estimation of the posterior probability of success. The DSMB will be then
      informed about the statistical recommendation for the next dose level to use in the next
      cohort of 3 patients. The decision to go up, go down or stay on the same dose level will
      remain to the DSMB who will be free to follow or not the statistical recommendation. Dose
      escalation will not increase by more than one level, although dose de-escalations could be
      large.

      At inclusion, basic data (pregnancy, blood results, birth and transfer) are recorded. After
      inclusion, systemic arterial pressure is measured before administration of the first dose of
      acetaminophen. Then the preterm infant receives a loading dose of acetaminophen. A first
      blood sample is collected just after end of loading dose infusion (T15min) to analyze
      Acetaminophen plasma level (0.2mL) ans ALT/AST (0.1ml to 0.3ml, according to local biological
      laboratory). Each 6 hours during the first 5 days of life, each preterm infant receives a
      perfusion of acetaminophen, so 20 doses are administered in total. Systemic arterial pressure
      is measured at 30', 60', 90', 120' after each dose. Each day, a cardiac echography is
      performed. After Dose 10, a second blood sample (0.3 ml to 0.5 ml according to local
      biological laboratory) is collected to analyze acetaminophen plasma level and ALAT & ASAT.

      During visit 1 at day 3, eCRF is completed for period Day 1 to Day 3. A few "bottom of blood
      tubes" sampled for routine care will be kept for others acetaminophen plasma level analysis.
      This will be done in centres where this procedure is possible.After the last dose of
      acetaminophen, a blood sample of 0,3 to 0.5ml (ideally 6 hours after the start of last
      infusion) is collected to analyze ALAT & ASAT and Acetaminophen plasma level (0.2 ml).

      During visit 2 at Day 5, eCRF is completed for period Day 4 to Day 5. A cardiac echography is
      performed after the last dose of acetaminophen. Data from a cerebral echography performed in
      routine care during the first week after the first dose will be recorded.

      During Visit 3, at Day 7, CRF is completed, and the information about primary outcome
      (closure or not of the Ductus Arterosus) is sent by email to experts of the research unit EA
      7323 " Evaluation of Therapeutics and pharmacology in perinatality and pediatrics ",
      University of Paris-Descartes, Paris, France.

      The Phase III is a pragmatic trial. At inclusion, basic data (pregnancy, blood results, birth
      and transfert) are recorded. After inclusion, randomization is performed. After
      randomization, each infant receives a loading dose of acetaminophen or placebo before 12
      hours of life. After the loading dose of Acetaminophen, a supplement of 0.1 to 0.3 ml of
      blood will be collected, as supplement of a blood sample performed in routine care for
      AST/ALT analysis. Each 6 hours during the first 5 days of life, each preterm infant receives
      a perfusion of placebo or acetaminophen, so 20 doses are administered in total. After the
      dose 10 of Acetaminophen, a supplement of 0.1 to 0.3 ml of blood will be collected as
      supplement of a blood sample performed in routine care for AST/ALT analysis. Few "bottom of
      blood tubes" sampled for routine care will be kept for acetaminophen plasma level analysis in
      50 first preterm infants (25 in each gestational age group) chosen hospitalized in the NICUs
      participating to Phase II. This will be done in NICUs where this procedure is possible).

      During visit 1 at Day 7, data describing baby care are recording day by day from Day 0 to Day
      7. Around Day 7 (between Day6 and Day 10) one cardiac echography is performed.

      During visit 2 at Day 28, a review of different cares received by the baby between Day 8 and
      Day 28 is recorded. Data from a cerebral echography performed in routine care, before 36
      weeks of postmenstrual age or before discharge if it occurs before will be recorded in the
      eCRF. Result of the last ophthalmological examination performed in routine care before 36
      weeks of postmenstrual age or before discharge if it occurs before, should be noted in the
      eCRF.

      During visit 3 at 36 weeks of postmenstrual age or at first discharge home, whatever comes
      first, a review of mobidity (BPD, cerebral lesions, retinopathy, necrotizing enterocolitis)
      is performed to complete the primary endpoint. At the end of hospitalization, clinical data
      at discharge are recorded
    
  