
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify barriers of receiving primary breast cancer treatment for older patients with
           either Medi-Cal insurance or who are 65 years of age and older.

        -  Describe steps and processes involved in resolution of barriers to receiving primary
           breast cancer treatment for these patients.

        -  Identify barriers of receiving primary breast cancer treatment for patients who are
           Hispanic with either Medi-Cal insurance or aged 65 years and older.

        -  Describe steps and processes involved in resolution of barriers to receiving primary
           breast cancer treatment for these Hispanic patients.

        -  Describe breast cancer participants' perceptions of Patient Navigation.

        -  Demonstrate the significant role of a Patient Navigator in identifying and resolving
           barriers to treatment.

        -  Increase opportunities for participation of breast cancer patients with either Medi-Cal
           insurance or who are 65 years of age and older, or who are Hispanic, to breast cancer
           clinical trials.

        -  Integrate a patient navigation program within City of Hope designed to support
           underserved patients during primary treatment for breast cancer.

      OUTLINE: For the first 3 months of the study, medical charts are reviewed.

      Beginning in month 4, patients are introduced to the Patient Navigator who provides them with
      telephone and e-mail contact on an Appointment Reminder Card, and develops a plan for
      eliminating identified barriers and/or addressing immediate concerns. Patients' plans may
      include contacting others on behalf of the patient, coaching the patient on how to solve a
      problem, referring to resources within City of Hope (COH) or in the community, and
      investigating possible solutions. Patients are also oriented to COH's services, open clinical
      trials, and resources. Navigation of care includes assistance during initial and ongoing
      evaluations by all cancer specialists, during initiation and completion of all primary
      treatment, and through the first post-treatment follow up. Patients are contacted weekly for
      8 weeks of the study and at least once a month for 9 months.

      The Patient Navigator will track identified barriers, processes to resolution, and time
      required to resolve barriers.

      Patients complete questionnaires at baseline, and periodically during study, on
      socio-demographic, quality of life, resource-use satisfaction, and satisfaction with care and
      Patient Navigator.

      After completion of study intervention, patients continue to receive Patient Navigator
      support for up to 30 days.
    
  