
    
      DESIGN: This is a double-blind, randomized controlled clinical trial. A total of 150 adults
      ages 19-65 years with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and/or subthreshold of full diagnosis of
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) will be recruited for the study (estimated 100
      completers). They will be read the telephone recruitment script (attached) and asked
      questions that determine whether or not they are eligible for the study. Eligible
      participants will be randomized into either SMART training or the Brain Health Workshop as a
      control condition. All the participants will go through the neuropsychological testing and
      clinical interviews before and after the treatment program and six months later to assess
      long terms changes. These testing procedures are explained below. During the treatment
      program, SMART participants will participate in a 6-hour program over a 1-week period (two
      3-hour sessions), and one 3-hour booster session a month later. Participants in the Brain
      Health Workshop condition will attend sessions that include education on brain topics of the
      same duration. TESTING SESSIONS: Participants will attend an initial eligibility visit and a
      second visit in which they will complete neuropsychological tests. They will also complete a
      packet of self-report questionnaires at home in between the first two visits (listed in
      section 2c below). At the initial eligibility visit, they will met with a clinical
      interviewer/neuropsychological technician (a graduate student working under Dr. Samuelson's
      supervision) who will administer the following measures:Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale
      (CAPS),Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF), Glasgow Outcome Scale - Extended
      (GOSE),Ohio State University TBI Identification Method (OSU-TBI-ID), NIH Toolbox Standing
      Balance Test (motor),and Test of Memory Malingering Trial. These measures will determine
      eligibility for the study (i.e., diagnosis of TBI and/or subthreshold or full PTSD, no
      diagnosis of psychosis, bipolar disorder, or substance dependence, and no malingering). At
      the second visit, the technician will administer neuropsychological tests , which will take
      2.5 to 3 hours: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV (WAIS-IV) Coding, WAIS-IV Symbol Search,
      WAIS-IV Digit Span, Wechsler Memory Scale-IV (WMS-IV) Logical Memory, Test of Strategic
      Learning (TOSL),Visual Selective Learning Task, Go/No-Go, WMS-IV Logical Memory II, WAIS-IV
      Vocabulary, WAIS-IV Similarities, WAIS-IV Matrix Reasoning, Delis-Kaplan Executive Function
      System (D-KEFS) Verbal Fluency Test, D-KEFS Color-Word Interference Test , D-KEFS Trail
      Making Test, Brief Visuospatial Memory Test - Revised (BVMT), Rey Complex Figure Test &
      Recognition Trial (RCFT), Animal Fluency-Verbal, California Verbal Learning Test, Controlled
      Oral Word Association (COWAT) , Wide Range Achievement Test-4 (WRAT-4) Word Reading, Paced
      Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT). TREATMENT: Following baseline testing sessions, the
      participants will be randomly assigned to either SMART or Brain Health Workshop (BHW). In the
      SMART treatment condition, participants will be taught new strategies in a group setting to
      improve brain functions such as critical thinking, reasoning, problem solving and improved
      comprehension of information. To accomplish improvement in these brain functions,
      participants will be involved in activities such as analyzing information from a book, or a
      newspaper article, writing comprehensive passages etc. Training will also include application
      of these strategies to other daily activities. In this treatment group, participants will
      also be given homework assignments for each session including maintaining a journal, provided
      by the clinician to record the use of the strategies taught in the treatment sessions in
      their daily activities and the homework provided by the clinician. The intervention will be a
      total of 9 hours - 6 hours over the course of one week and then a 3-hour booster session a
      month later. Post-testing occurs within one week of the booster session. In the BHW
      condition, participants will be taught topics about the brain in a similar format to SMART.
      Topics include anatomy, neurotransmitters, effects of TBI on cognitive functioning, and
      principles of neuroplasticity. Participants will also be given take-home reading assignments
      and quizzed on the readings at the beginning of the following session. Post-Treatment:
      Following the interventions patients will repeat the assessments (except for Test of Memory
      Malingering (TOMM), and TBI interviews) identical to the pre-treatment assessment within one
      week of completing the intervention. This testing session will occur in 1 day and take
      approximately 3.25 to 4 hours. Participants will be tested again at 6 months following the
      intervention with the same tests.
    
  