
    
      Diabetes is a global public health emergency with ~463 million cases worldwide which is
      projected to reach ~578 million by 2030. This is associated with a huge financial burden, as
      12% of global health expenditure is spent on diabetes treatment and its associated
      complications. In addition to the obesity crisis, society faces an increasingly ageing
      population, and the number of people affected by dementia is expected to triple within the
      next 30 years. The increase in age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases
      such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease has important health and social implications.

      Regular physical activity slows the progression of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular events
      due to the beneficial effects on body weight, insulin sensitivity, glycaemic control, lipid
      profile, endothelial function and aerobic capacity. In addition, cardiorespiratory fitness is
      inversely associated with cognitive decline and dementia. Despite overwhelming evidence that
      an inactive lifestyle leads to chronic disease and premature death, many adults fail to meet
      physical activity guidelines. Clearly, new strategies are urgently needed to increase
      physical activity participation in the increasingly sedentary population to combat the rising
      rates of metabolic disease and cognitive decline in our ageing population.

      Changing behavioural and environmental factors including urbanization, mechanization and
      increased motorized transport are largely responsible in addition to a number of common
      exercise barriers. Lack of time is cited as the main barrier to exercise, as many individuals
      feel that increasing work hours and family commitments mean they cannot achieve the physical
      activity guidelines. Other common barriers within the general population include limited
      access to facilities and appropriate equipment, difficulty with transportation, inadequate
      financial resources, bad weather and lack of motivation. In an attempt to overcome many of
      the aforementioned barriers to exercise, members of the investigators' research group
      developed a virtually-monitored exercise intervention that used simple on-the-spot bodyweight
      exercises, that could be performed in the participant's home without supervision or
      equipment. This home-based intervention was designed to be a practical and effective training
      strategy capable of producing metabolic and functional adaptions while removing many of the
      common barriers to exercise uptake and adherence such as "intimidating" gym environments,
      difficulty with access to facilities, travel time and financial constraints were eliminated.
      However, although these studies demonstrated success, more engaging exercise strategies are
      needed to increase engagement in the sedentary population.

      Inspired by current trends in the fitness market, Sphery Ltd. developed an immersive and
      motivating fitness exergame, the "ExerCube". The ExerCube allows a full-body workout that
      concurrently challenges physical and cognitive functions and adapts to the fitness and skill
      level of the individual. Previous research has shown that the ExerCube is an effective
      training method that is more enjoyable than conventional exercise training. Development of a
      home-based version of the ExerCube has the potential to make this system available to more
      individuals, and reduce major barriers to exercise, providing an attractive means to improve
      cardio-metabolic health of the population. Innovative home-based exergames are particularly
      in demand given the increase in the number of people wanting to exercise at home.

      The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgent need to develop effective and engaging
      home-based exercise options, with a number of governments worldwide implementing strict
      lockdowns and the closing of sports facilities. The restricted access to sports facilities
      and sports clubs has made bodyweight exercises done at home the only viable option for many.
      This trend in home-based exercise and long distance personal training is likely to continue
      following the pandemic. Development of an attractive and effective home-based exergaming
      system as the investigators propose here is likely to have increasing social and societal
      importance in the future.
    
  