
    
      After taking informed written consent, the recruited patients will be subjected to the
      following:

        1. Detailed history

             -  Personal History: Name, age ,residence ,special habits of medical importance

             -  Obstetric history: first day of last menstrual period for accurate estimation of
                gestational age and antenatal care

             -  Past history: history of any medical disorder or surgical history with particular
                emphasis on prior PPROM or preterm labor

             -  History of the present pregnancy: Medical or surgical condition to define high risk
                pregnancy.

        2. Examination of the patients General examination: blood pressure, pulse, temperature

           Abdominal examination:

             -  Inspection: fundal level, scars, umbilicus.

             -  Palpation: presence of contractions, fetal lie and presentation.

             -  Pelvic Examination only by sterile speculum to exclude cord prolapse , bloody
                liquor and cervical dilatation and effacement

             -  Non stress test to ensure reassuring fetal well being

             -  Ultrasound examination to:-

                  -  Assess fetal viability.

                  -  Amniotic fluid index.

                  -  Determine gestational age.

                  -  Exclude major anomalies.

                  -  Placental location.

        3. Baseline laboratory investigations:

             -  Complete blood count (CBC).

             -  Prothrombin time (PT).

             -  Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT).

             -  Liver and kidney function.

      The included patients were randomized using sealed opaque envelope method into one of two
      groups:

      Group I (study group): in which 17-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) (250 mg in castor oil,
      1 mL total volume, intramuscular injection weekly) will be administered.

      Group II (control group): in which an identical-appearing placebo (1 mL castor oil only) will
      be administered.
    
  