
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the feasibility of randomizing patients with bladder cancer to undergo an
           open cystectomy versus a minimal-access cystectomy (laparoscopic or robotic cystectomy).

      Secondary

        -  To assess the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic or robotic cystectomy and the reasons
           for non-acceptance of randomization.

        -  To collect safety and toxicity data, including measures of postoperative morbidity and
           surgical complications. (Exploratory)

        -  To investigate anatomical lymph node dissection (an indicator for oncological clearance)
           and completeness of cancer surgery. (Exploratory)

        -  To determine the quality of life of these patients using EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC
           QLQ-BLM30 questionnaires. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients who consent to the interview-only (but not
      randomization) undergo a qualitative interview exploring factors relating to this decision.
      Patients who consent to randomization are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo an open radical cystectomy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo a minimal-access radical cystectomy (laparoscopic or robotic).

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-BLM30) at
      baseline and at 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after completion of study
      therapy. Blood, urine, and tissue samples are collected from some patients at baseline and
      during study for laboratory analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6
      months.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 92 patients (72 patients for the randomized portion and 20 for
      the interview-only portion) are accrued for this study.
    
  