
    
      Pituitary adenoma's represent 10 to 25% of all central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms and
      have an estimated population prevalence of 94 per 100,000. Asymptomatic adenomas go largely
      undetected since there is no screening protocol implemented with the purpose for early
      identification. Asymptomatic adenomas can be detected incidentally on CNS imaging for other
      indications in approximately 10% of studies and rarely require surgical intervention. In
      2011, the Endocrine Society published practice guidelines on the management of pituitary
      incidentalomas and provided the surgical indications. Incidental microadenoma's (< 10 mm)
      rarely need surgical intervention, however, incidental macroadenoma's (> 10 mm) often
      required surgical resection due to the proximity of the optic nerves and chiasm.

      Most symptomatic pituitary adenomas require transnasal transsphenoid surgical resection. Due
      to the potential for hormone secretion and location to vital structures such as the optic
      chiasm/nerves, carotid artery, and cavernous sinus, management of symptomatic pituitary
      adenomas often require a multi-disciplinary team involving neurosurgery, otolaryngology,
      neuroophthalmology, and endocrinology. Traditionally the microscope was used for
      visualization during pituitary tumor surgery, however with recent technologic advances, the
      endoscopic approach has largely replaced the microscopic approach. A recent systematic review
      and meta-analysis compared the microscopic and endoscopic approaches and have demonstrated
      that the endoscopic approach results in a significant reduction in the rate of cerebral
      spinal fluid (CSF) leak, improved tumor resection, improved patient comfort, and reduced
      hospital length of stay. Furthermore, the endoscopic approach appears to provide an overall
      cost savings compared to the microscopic approach.

      Several recent studies have demonstrated that the endoscopic approach for pituitary adenoma
      resection results in improved disease-specific quality of life (QoL) and general QoL. All
      studies have utilized the posterior septectomy approach which involves removing the posterior
      nasal septum to create a common posterior nasal cavity. The open posterior nasal cavity
      provides excellent surgical access to the sphenoid sinus and pituitary gland. Disadvantages
      of the posterior septectomy approach include the permanent posterior septal perforation which
      may predispose to postoperative crusting and epistaxis. A recent article by Stamm et al.
      described a novel endoscopic approach whereby the posterior septal mucosa is preserved while
      still providing excellent access to the sphenoid. The primary advantage of this approach is
      preventing a posterior septal defect, however disadvantages include being a more challenging
      technique and the potential for reduced surgical visualization. Furthermore, there is still a
      risk of a septal perforation due to intraoperative trauma and significant postoperative
      crusting which often develops along the surface of the healing septal mucosa. Both endoscopic
      approaches have inherent advantages and disadvantages and there has been no study comparing
      these approaches. Surgeons performing endoscopic pituitary tumor resections utilize both
      approaches and neither is considered the standard of care.

      The purpose of this randomized, single-blinded study is to determine the clinical outcomes
      between the posterior septectomy and Stamm approach for endoscopic pituitary adenoma
      resection. We hypothesize that there will be no difference in disease-specific QoL and
      general QoL between the two surgical approaches.
    
  