
    
      The Assets for Independence (AFI) evaluation is being conducted in two sites. Both sites are
      located in major metropolitan areas of the southwestern U.S., serving client populations that
      are 60-75 percent Hispanic. Both have some similar program features: maximum savings periods
      of 24 months and matchable savings amounts of up to $1,000. Important for estimating design
      feature differences, there are also key differences in program parameters: required hours of
      financial education and IDA match rates. The sites enrolled their samples within a 19-month
      period from January 2013 through July 2014. Sample members in each site were randomly
      assigned to two equal-sized groups: a treatment group (those able to enter the site's IDA
      program) and a control group (those not able to enter).

      IMPACT STUDY

      The impact study is the primary quantitative component of the research. The data collection
      and analysis will provide estimates of the effect of IDA participation on short- and
      long-term client outcomes, as measured through 12-month, 36-month, and 60-month follow-up
      periods.

      Participant outcomes will be measured at the time of random assignment and 12, 36, and 60
      months after random assignment. Measures that pertain to short-term program effects include
      amount of savings and material hardship avoidance. These are the effects most likely to
      emerge within the first year. Additional measures include employment status, earnings,
      means-tested public benefit receipt, and net worth. In the long-term, effects on
      homeownership, business ownership, and secondary education attainment are likely to emerge.

      An unexplored area of short-term effects of IDAs is the use of unmatched savings to meet
      emergency needs. In the early stages of AFI participation, households may establish a savings
      habit but may need to draw on their savings for unexpected expenditures or to offset an
      unanticipated drop in income. The hypothesized effect of such unmatched withdrawals of IDA
      deposits is an avoidance of material hardship in food and health. This effect will be
      estimated using a small set of household-level survey questions, including some items drawn
      from the adult well-being topical module of the Survey of Income and Program Participation
      (SIPP).

      RTI International has developed a web-based sample enrollment tool for IDA project staff at
      each site to use in administering informed consent, a baseline questionnaire, and random
      assignment for each study-eligible applicant. The study's 30-minute baseline questionnaire
      gathered information in the following survey modules: demographics, use of financial
      services, current residence, employment, household income and expenses, financial experience
      and assets, debts, material hardship, social engagement and outlook, and locating information
      (for purposes of re-contacting the respondent for follow-up surveys). Site-provided
      administrative data will provide additional baseline covariates and (for treatment cases)
      descriptive information on IDA openings, deposits, withdrawals (matched and unmatched), and
      balances.

      Note that person-level measures are specific to the "primary household member": the first
      individual from his/her household to apply for the IDA program during the study enrollment
      period. This person is the respondent for the baseline questionnaire and follow-up surveys.
      If other (secondary) members of the same household subsequently apply to enter the site's IDA
      program, they are not separately subject to random assignment (and do not add to the sample
      count) but are regarded as having been assigned to the same sample group ( treatment or
      control) as the primary member. Household-level outcomes are measured for the household to
      which the primary member belongs.

      The follow-up surveys obtain outcome and other contextual measures. The surveys take 30
      minutes and are conducted via telephone, web, or an in-person interviewer. The respondent is
      the primary sample member, the same individual who applied to enter the AFI project and who
      completed the informed consent form and baseline questionnaire. The surveys obtain data on
      outcome measures, within the same topical headings as shown earlier for the baseline
      questionnaire.

      The estimation of program impacts will use conventional multivariate regression techniques as
      appropriate to the statistical properties of the dependent variable (continuous, dichotomous,
      or multinomial). For each outcome measure, the key parameter to be estimated is the
      coefficient on the randomly assigned (treatment versus control) status of the case. This
      coefficient indicates the regression-adjusted treatment-control difference in the measured
      outcome. All estimating equations will include covariates measured through the baseline
      questionnaire. The program effect estimated is the intent-to-treat (ITT) effect, comparing
      the outcomes between control group cases and all treatment group cases, regardless of whether
      the treatment case opens an IDA account. Stated otherwise, this procedure yields an estimate
      of the effect of the offer of IDA participation, as not all treatment group members will open
      IDAs. We will also estimate the treatment-on-the-treated (TOT) effect (i.e., the impact of
      the program on those who complete it).

      In addressing the first research question--the impact of AFI participation on the outcomes it
      is designed to address (e.g., savings and asset purchases)-we will estimate the program
      effect separately by site as well as from the pooled sample combining data from both sites.
      The pooled sample data will provide the study's most precise single estimate of the program
      effect, fully utilizing all available sample observations.

      The second research question-regarding the effect on other outcome domains that the program
      might influence (e.g., material hardship, alternative financial product use, economic
      well-being)-will also be addressed by estimating effects on the pooled sample and separately
      by site.

      Under research question 3 we will test for differential program impacts by participant
      subgroups. The subgroups of interest will be identified from the baseline data. We anticipate
      these subgroups will reflect such differences as age, initial income level, initial
      indebtedness, initial education level, or initial homeownership status.

      IMPLEMENTATION STUDY

      The implementation study will describe and document how the AFI project is designed,
      implemented, and operated in the participating grantee sites. This information will provide
      the context for understanding findings from the impact analysis. The main data collection
      approach involved site visits to the AFI grantees that included interviews with key
      administrators, staff, and stakeholders; observations of grantee services; and reviews of
      relevant documents and data.

      The site visits to the selected AFI grantees were two days each and occurred during 2014.
      While on site, we conducted semi-structured in-person interviews with individuals in
      differing roles to obtain a range of perspectives on the AFI project, including IDA grantee
      staff, financial education providers, and representatives of partner organizations.

      The interviews examine issues related to the design and implementation of the AFI project,
      challenges projects face and their strategies for overcoming them, and other factors that may
      not be captured in the quantitative analysis but that may affect project outcomes. Questions
      about design and implementation draw from information gathered during site selection, site
      training, initial random assignments, and monitoring calls, and cover whether, how, and why
      project changes have occurred. Through site selection and the on-site interviews with staff,
      we obtained information on organizational stability and capacity, level of IDA project
      complexity, number of staff and amount of staff involvement, and participant recruitment.
      Specific questions included: What outreach activities did you conduct to inform individuals
      of your IDA project? What forms of program support are provided to IDA accountholders? How
      often are AFI project staff in touch with participants after they open an account? What
      non-IDA program services were available to members of the comparison group through your
      organization? Do you feel that that there are any important effects (positive or negative) of
      your AFI project on participants beyond the measured outcomes we are tracking through the
      evaluation?

      In addition to asking respondents about the challenges they face, interviews with IDA project
      administrators and staff probe further on challenges such as helping participants attain
      realistic savings goals, navigating the requirements of diverse funding sources and
      requirements, raising nonfederal funds, and coping with limited funds for administrative
      costs. The interviews also explore external factors or special circumstances that may affect
      project outcomes. This information will be vital both for interpreting the impact analysis
      findings and for the generalizability of the findings to other sites. It will be
      fundamentally important to understand why a program has resulted in its estimated effects on
      participants and whether such effects could be replicated elsewhere. Finally, the interviews
      give respondents an opportunity to identify intangible outcomes, whether positive or
      negative, that they feel are significant but that may not be captured in the formal impact
      analysis, and help identify participant stories to share.

      During the site visits, we observed financial education classes and other project-participant
      interactions to capture what is actually happening during project service delivery.
      Observations were guided by predetermined topics that map to the specific study issues, and
      observers were as unobtrusive as possible. The observations will provide insights into how
      particular project aspects may influence participant outcomes.

      The implementation study also will include a document review to understand how the AFI
      project administrative structure and project design may influence project outcomes. Written
      documentation of the number and roles of staff and volunteers involved in the IDA project and
      in the organization itself, project rules, and overall project goals and objectives will set
      the context for identifying variables that could affect participant outcomes. Project
      communication materials provided to project participants, such as recruitment flyers,
      orientation materials, and program welcome letters, will be collected to understand project
      messaging. In addition, we are obtaining data that the projects are collecting, such as data
      on service take-up.
    
  