
    
      Functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) are extremely common in children and
      adolescents, and represent a wide range of disorders that are related to the gastrointestinal
      tract, but have no clear structural, anatomic, or histopathologic cause. FGIDs represent an
      enormous burden on patients and families, and patients with these functional disorders have
      much higher health care utilization and related costs. As there are no biochemical markers or
      structural abnormalities that can be used to diagnose these disorders in children
      objectively, FGIDs are diagnosed according to the symptom-based Rome criteria. While
      gastroenterologists care for many of the pediatric patients with FGIDs, the majority of the
      burden continues to be borne by general pediatricians, especially with respect to initial
      diagnosis. Unfortunately, FGIDs are often diagnosed incorrectly by primary care providers,
      and patients often wait months to years before a correct diagnosis is made, and effective
      treatment is begun. Furthermore, primary care providers are often unaware of recent guideline
      changes or the evidence base for children with FGIDs, leading to overuse of testing,
      inappropriate or ineffective treatment, and increased costs. Given this information, it is
      essential to develop interventions that target pediatric primary care providers to improve
      their care for children with FGIDs. This study proposes that using a Clinical Decision
      Support System (CDSS) that incorporates the Rome IV criteria for diagnosis and evidence-based
      care for FGIDs will improve the (1) accuracy of diagnosis and (2)_ effectiveness of clinical
      care. A CDSS has advantages with respect to guideline adherence and automated diagnosis,
      because it can provide focused, real-time, patient-specific data to the clinician. Studies of
      barriers to guideline implementation have shown multiple factors at work: unfamiliarity with
      a guideline, lack of self-efficacy, or difficulty implementing the guideline components
      within the current workflow of a practice. CDSS can overcome many of these barriers because
      they are integrated with systems that routinely store and retrieve patient information and
      can improve workflow by providing clinicians with patient-specific advice at the time of the
      patient visit. The study investigators hypothesize that automation of screening, diagnosis,
      and management of FGIDs using the Rome IV criteria will result in improved resolution of
      FGIDs (primary outcome), as well as decreased utilization of medical services (secondary
      outcomes). This hypothesis will be tested utilizing a randomized controlled trial. The
      intervention clinic sites will be provided access to both the FGIDs Screening Module and the
      Treatment Module. The control clinics will have the FGIDs Screening Module. However, control
      clinics will not have access to the FGIDs Treatment Module. These clinic sites will be given
      access to the pre-screener form section of the module, so that providers are made aware of a
      positive screen for a FGID. The investigators have chosen not to have an arm without provider
      notification due to concern that identification of symptoms without notifying the patient's
      provider represented an ethical concern. If anything, this will bias towards a null result.
      Since FGIDs have both a high rate of relapse, and a high rate of spontaneous resolution, it
      is necessary to assess the pattern of symptoms across multiple time points. As such, we plan
      to gather various data from parents/patients at 1, 3, 6 and 12-months via phone interview.
      Additionally, the study will assess parental satisfaction with the screening and treatment of
      their child's particular FGID at the 3-month phone interview. For assessment of health care
      utilization, the study will look at the following variables in the 12 months after initial
      Rome IV screening positive: a) outpatient sick visits for any complaint; b) outpatient sick
      visits with an associated GI billing code; c) visits to statewide providers, including
      inpatient hospital stays, outpatient clinic visits, and emergency room visits; d) GI-related
      testing and procedures; e) use of any medications prescribed to treat Rome IV diagnoses.
      These data will be obtained from multiple sources including the EMR, and Indiana Network for
      Patient Care (INPC).
    
  