
    
      Study on PFPS patients:

      Non-randomized Control Clinical Trial. The patient that satisfies inclusion and exclusion
      criteria is informed about the nature study at the orthopaedic outpatient clinic. If
      necessary, the study coordinator provides additional information to the patient. Informed
      consent will be obtained prior to inclusion in the study. The patient will be asked to
      undergo a dynamic scan of the knees prior to and after the physiotherapy treatment. The
      physiotherapy treatment is not specifically controlled but best evidence-based guidelines are
      provided to the patient's physiotherapist in order to have an intervention as homogeneous as
      possible. Guidelines suggest a tailored and progressive exercise program to improve muscle
      strength and control, joint mobility, and patient understanding of the problem and how to
      manage it. Additional interventions like tape or manual treatment can also be implemented but
      should not be exclusive. During imaging acquisition, the patients lay on the CT's bed with
      the lower limb inside the gantry. They are asked to perform a repetitive movement of the knee
      into different planes of motion (i.e. flexion-extension). Before the start of the dynamic CT
      scan protocol, a physical examination is performed by a physiotherapist. It consists of
      muscle strength (dynamometer) and joint ROM assessment. VAS scale and Kujala and KOOS
      questionnaires will be also administrated to the patients. Healthy volunteers will be
      provided with a brief explanation of the study the moment they make contact to be involved.
      Further information and informed consent will be obtained on the day of the scan. Identical
      procedure for the CT scan and physical assessment used with the patient will be used for the
      healthy subjects.

      Study on patients with ACL injury:

      Non-randomized Control Clinical Trial. The patient that satisfies inclusion and exclusion
      criteria is informed about the nature study at the orthopaedic outpatient clinic. If
      necessary, the study coordinator provides additional information to the patient. Informed
      consent will be obtained prior to inclusion in the study. The patient will be asked to
      undergo a dynamic scan of the knees prior to and approximately 6 weeks after ACL surgical
      reconstruction. Type of surgical intervention is on surgeon discretion following
      Best-Evidence practice guidelines.

      During imaging acquisition, the patients lay on the CT's bed with the lower limb inside the
      gantry. They are asked to perform a repetitive movement of the knee into different planes of
      motion (i.e. flexion-extension). Before the start of the dynamic CT scan protocol, a physical
      examination is performed by a physiotherapist. It consists of muscle strength (dynamometer)
      and joint ROM assessment. VAS scale and Lysholm and IKDC questionnaires will be also
      administrated to the patients. Healthy volunteers will be provided with a brief explanation
      of the study the moment they make contact to be involved. Further information and informed
      consent will be obtained on the day of the scan. Identical procedure for the CT scan and
      physical assessment used with the patient will be used for the healthy subjects.
    
  