
    
      Brain injury during cardiac surgery results primarily from cerebral embolism and/or reduced
      cerebral blood flow (CBF). The latter is of particular concern for the growing number of
      surgical patients who are aged and/or who have cerebral vascular disease. Normally, CBF is
      physiologically autoregulated (or kept constant) within a range of blood pressures allowing
      for stable cerebral O2 supply commensurate with metabolic demands. Cerebral autoregulation is
      impaired in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who have cerebral vascular disease and in
      many others due to other conditions. This could lead to brain injury since current practices
      of targeting low mean arterial blood pressure empirically (usually 50-70 mmHg) during
      cardiopulmonary bypass may expose patients with impaired cerebral autoregulation to cerebral
      hypoperfusion. The hypothesis of this proposal is that targeting mean arterial pressure
      during cardiopulmonary bypass to a level above an individual's lower autoregulatory threshold
      reduces the risk for brain injury in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Monitoring of
      cerebral autoregulation will be performed in real time using software that continuously
      compares the relation between arterial blood pressure and CBF velocity of the middle cerebral
      artery measured with transcranial Doppler and with cerebral oximetry measured with near
      infrared spectroscopy. The primary end-point of the study will be a comprehensive composite
      outcome of clinical stroke, cognitive decline, and/or new ischemic brain lesions detected
      with diffusion weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Delirium assessed using a validated
      procedure that includes validated tools is a secondary outcome measure. Autoregulation is
      mediated by reactivity of cerebral resistance vessels. A secondary aim of this proposal is to
      evaluate whether near infrared reflectance spectroscopy can be used to trend changes in
      cerebral blood volume and provide a reliable monitor of vascular reactivity (the hemoglobin
      volume index). Assessments for extra-cranial and intra-cranial arterial stenosis will be
      performed using MR angiography to control for this potential confounding variable in the
      analysis. Finally, an additional aim of the study will be to assess whether preoperative
      transcranial Doppler examination of major cerebral arteries can identify patients who are
      prone to the composite neurological end-point. Near infrared oximetry is non-invasive,
      continuous, requires little care-giver intervention and, thus, could be widely used to
      individualize patient blood pressure management during surgery. Brain injury from cardiac
      surgery is an important source of operative mortality, prolonged hospitalization, increased
      health care expenditure, and impaired quality of life. Developing strategies to reduce the
      burden of this complication has wide public health implications.
    
  