
    
      Children exposing to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) has been a global concern in public
      health. Home environment, especially parental smoking, has been identified as the major
      exposing source for children. Therefore parents' involvement becomes critical in preventing
      program. The purpose of this project is to develop and examine the effects of a parent-child
      interactive program to decrease the level of children's exposure to environmental tobacco
      smoke at home, promote parents' and children's preventing strategy, knowledge of its hazard
      and attitude against environment tobacco smoke. The other purposes included promoting
      family's anti-ETS climate that parents perceived and children's self-efficacy of ETS avoidant
      behavior.

      A clustered randomized controlled trial was administered to 75 parents of school-aged
      children (ITT) and their children (parent-child dyads) from six primary schools in New Taipei
      City, Taiwan. Parent-child dyads in intervention group received a parent-child interactive
      program comprising three weekly group sessions and one individual telephone counseling
      session, which was administered 4 weeks after the group sessions. The participants in the
      control group received written materials related to tobacco information by mail four times
      during the same time period in place of the intervention sessions. The parent-child
      interactive intervention was developed according to the Transtheoretical Model and I-change
      Model. The main focuses of the intervention are to instill knowledge regarding the mechanism
      of the harmful effect of ETS, correct people's perceptions of the smoking patterns that lead
      to ETS exposure at home and effective and ineffective strategies for reducing ETS, and assist
      parent-child dyads in formulating strategies for maintaining a smoke-free home. The written
      materials mailed to participants in control group included information on ETS and its adverse
      effects, smoking behavior that causes ETS at home, and smoking cessation.

      The outcome indicators were measured at baseline, 8 weeks, and 20 weeks. The primary outcome
      include children's exposure of ETS at home and prevention of children's ETS exposure.
      Children's exposure of ETS at home was measured by parents smoking at home and at the
      presence of the children for the last 7 days, and children's urinary cotinine level. The
      final collection of children's urine was performed 6 months after the intervention rather
      than 3 months after the intervention because of a delay in receiving urine cotinine
      measurement kits. Prevention of ETS exposure was measured by Parent-reported preventing
      strategies and child-reported avoiding behaviors. The second outcomes include parent/children
      reported knowledge of and attitude toward ETS, parents-reported family's anti-ETS climate and
      its influence, and children-reported their self-efficacy in avoiding ETS exposure. Collected
      data was analyzed by Chi-square test and generalized estimating equation. A pre-and-posttest
      pilot study on 10 parent-child dyads from two primary schools was conducted before this
      study.
    
  