
    
      Background information Asherman syndrome, which occurs after trauma to the basalis layer of
      the endometrium generally after endometrial curettage, may manifest as hypomenorrhea,
      amenorrhea, dysmenorrhea, infertility or recurrent miscarriage.

      At present, hysteroscopic adhesiolysis is the recommended standard diagnostic method and
      treatment for IUA. Recurrence of uterine cavity adhesion post-operatively is frequently
      reported, especially in severe IUA patients. A number of strategies have been proposed to
      prevent recurrence of adhesion reformation, including the use of post-operative estrogen.
      However, it is still not known if estrogen therapy is indeed necessary or effective. In a
      prospective randomized study which evaluated the efficacy of estrogen in preventing IUA
      following hysteroscopic septal resection, it was found that estrogen did not have any benefit
      in reducing adhesion formation. In another RCT study on women with Asherman syndrome, there
      did not appear to be any difference in the recurrence of IUA and pregnancy rate between those
      who did or did not receive adjuvant hormonal medication. On the other hand, large doses of
      estrogen may result in endometrium fibrosis and inhibited endometrium receptivity.

      It seems that the role of postoperative estrogen therapy in the prevention of recurrence of
      IU adhesions is still controversial. In this prospective, randomized, controlled study, we
      wish to determine if estrogen therapy is of benefit in preventing adhesion reformation after
      IUA for Asherman syndrome. As the effect may be different for subjects with different degrees
      of IUA, we propose to stratify the subjects into those with mild and severe IUAs.

      Objectives To investigate if estrogen therapy can prevent adhesion reformation after
      adhesiolysis.

      Patients The patients will be recruited from the hysteroscopy Center of the Fuxing Hospital,
      Beijing, China. Before the surgery all patients with suspected Asherman syndrome will undergo
      preoperative evaluations, including a detailed history of the menstrual pattern, any previous
      intrauterine surgery, reproductive history, as well as trans-vaginal ultrasonography. The
      severity and extent of intrauterine adhesions will be scored according to a classification
      system recommended by the American Fertility Society (AFS) (1988 version). The inclusion
      criteria include [1] women aged 18-40 years; written consent obtained; and agreement to have
      second-look hysteroscopy. The exclusion criteria included:1 has received estrogen therapy
      within 3 month of enrolment. 2 suffers from leiomyoma, endometrial polyps, cancer, or
      polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). 3.History of genital tuberculosis; and 4.
      contraindications for estrogen therapy.

      Study Design After the completion of hysteroscopic adhesiolysis, recruited patients will be
      randomized to one of the two treatment groups by computer-generated numbers: having estrogen
      after hysteroscopic adhesiolysis three months, all patients in this group will be treated
      with hormone therapy for 3 cycles; each cycle consists of estradiol 4mg per day for 21 days
      with addition of progestogen in the form of dydrogesterone 10mg per day for the last 7 days;
      and the control group without estrogen treatment. A second-look hysteroscopy and ultrasound
      assessment of the endometrium will be carried out 4 weeks after the surgery, and again at 8
      weeks after the surgery.

      Power Calculation On the basis of the results of the two published retrospective cohort
      studies comparing the balloon and hormone therapy group (control group) in the prevention of
      adhesion reformation, in the mild intrauterine adhesion (AFS score 1~6), we estimate that the
      adhesion reformation rate the hormone therapy group is 10% and control group is 30%.
      Accepting a type 1 error (a) of 0.05, and a type 2 error (b) of 0.10, the number of subjects
      in each arm of the randomized, controlled trial would be 39. Assuming that the dropout rate
      is 20%, the total number of subject to be recruited would be 49 in each arm. In the severe
      intrauterine adhesion (AFS score7~12) group, we estimate that the adhesion reformation rate
      the hormone therapy group is 25% and control group is 50%. Accepting a type 1 error (a) of
      0.05, and a type 2 error (b) of 0.10, the number of subjects in each arm of the randomized,
      controlled trial would be 37. Assuming that the dropout rate is 20%, the total number of
      subject to be recruited would be 44 in each arm.

      Procedure Surgical procedure The surgery will be carried out by one of three experienced
      hysteroscopic surgeons with the use of a 4.5-mm rigid hysteroscope (Olympus) with 5% saline
      perfusion under 100 mm Hg pressure. The primary procedure will be performed under general
      anesthesia in a day surgery unit. Ultrasonographic guidance will be routinely used. Once the
      extent and severity of uterine adhesion has been assessed, the adhesions will be divided with
      the use of mono-polar instrument until normal uterine anatomy is achieved.

      Postoperative treatments All subjects will be treated with oral antibiotic for 5 days. In all
      cases hormone therapy will be started from the day of operation, consisting of estradiol
      valerate at a dose of 4mg/d for 21 days, with the addition of dydrogesterone at a dose of 10
      mg/d for the last 7 days of the estrogen therapy. After the withdrawal bleed, the hormone
      therapy will be repeated for another cycle. Second-look hysteroscopy will be carried out in
      the early proliferative phase, 4 weeks after the initial operation; a third-look hysteroscopy
      will be carried out 8 weeks after the initial operation. After assessment of the extent and
      severity of any reformed adhesion, hysteroscopic adhesiolysis will be carried out at the time
      of the second-look or third-look procedure, if adhesion had recurred. The surgeon who later
      performs the second-look and third-look hysteroscopy will be blinded to the randomization.
      All patients will be treated with hormone therapy for a total of three cycles.
    
  