
    
      Surgical site infection (SSI) is a major cause of nosocomial infection in surgical patients,
      with the highest rates being reported (ranging from 15% to 30%) in colorectal surgery. SSI is
      an independent predictor of postoperative mortality and is associated with longer hospital
      stay, a 5-fold likelihood of postoperative readmission and a 2- to 3-fold increase in costs
      of care. Given the high prevalence and financial burden associated with SSI, American and
      European guidelines have been issued providing evidenced-based recommendations for the
      prevention of postoperative SSI. However, the prevalence of SSI remains high despite
      adherence to these guidelines and the application of evidence-based preventive measures.

      Risk factors for SSI, whether modifiable or not, are mainly related to the patient condition
      (including age, severe comorbidity, diabetes, nutritional status, steroid use, smoking, and
      immunosuppression) and/or the surgical procedure (especially the surgical duration and skin
      disinfection). The prevention of SSI consists of several individual measures, and antibiotic
      prophylaxis covering aerobic and anaerobic bacteria is highly recommended in patients
      scheduled to elective colorectal resection, with French and European guidelines recommending
      the administration of intravenous cephalosporin within 30 minutes before surgical incision.

      Recent data from retrospective studies and two meta-analyses of clinical trials provided
      compelling arguments that oral antibiotic administration before surgery in addition to
      conventional intravenous prophylaxis may be useful in further reducing by almost 75% the
      incidence of SSI (relative risk 0.55 [CI95%: 0.41 to 0.74]) after elective colorectal cancer
      surgery.

      However, most of these studies have limitations precluding extrapolation of data into routine
      care, especially:

        1. prolonged duration of intravenous antibiotic administration, which is no longer
           recommended in elective surgery;

        2. the use of antibiotics for oral prophylaxis whose availability is limited;

        3. only a few studies focused specifically on colorectal resection;

        4. most studies did not include enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) programs, which was
           found to improve outcome following colorectal surgery, and

        5. most studies have used mechanical bowel preparation, which is no longer recommended in
           colonic surgery while the issue still remains open for rectal surgery.

      Investigators hypothesized that oral antibiotic prophylaxis using ornidazole, which has a
      spectrum of activity extended to most anaerobic bacteria and whose pharmacokinetic profile
      allows a single administration the day before surgery, in addition to intravenous antibiotic
      prophylaxis could be more effective than intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis alone using
      cephalosporin in reducing the incidence of SSI after elective colorectal surgery. Given the
      number of patients operated of colorectal surgery each year, the study is of significant
      clinical importance
    
  