
    
      Several groups of drugs involved in the treatment of major pathologies act within the
      lymphocyte, such as anticancer, immunosuppressive and antiretroviral drugs. These molecules
      depend on membranous transporters to get inside the lymphocyte and be effective. Among those
      transporters, the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) plays a major role, especially because of the variety
      of its substrates among therapeutic molecules. Its expression and activity are well known
      within the adult population, as well as its modulations mediated by certain groups of drugs,
      such as protease inhibitors in the treatment of HIV. Yet, there is very little data on
      children, even though they are exposed to the same therapeutic molecules as the adults.
      Therefore, we aim at studying the evolution of this transporter's expression and activity on
      the different lymphocyte populations, in relation to the human development from newborns to
      adults. We also aim at studying the influence of HIV and antiretroviral treatments on this
      transporter, especially anti-protease drugs, within the children population. P-gp activity is
      quantified by flow cytometry, through the efflux of a fluorescent substrate, in the presence
      or absence of a P-gp inhibitor. P-gp expression is measured on isolated motonucleus cells
      with the quantification of mRNA encoded for the transporter by RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription
      - Polymerase Chain Reaction). Patients of every age, from newborns to adults, are recruited
      within eight different age groups and three HIV status groups (HIV non infected, HIV infected
      untreated, HIV infected treated). The objective is to recruit ten patients in each age group
      for each HIV status. Blood samples are obtained from hospitalized children and adults with
      their consent. The patients will be recruited for one year. Our objective is to determine
      whether the P-gp expression and/or activity are influenced by age, HIV status and
      antiretroviral treatments, in order to prevent, depending on developmental stages,
      ineffectiveness or toxicity due to inadequate intracellular concentrations.

      After the first evaluations, principal investigators decided to add one year more for three
      groups on eight.

      For two groups of these three, genetic polymorphism of Mdr1 will be done.
    
  