
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the lower airways. The inflammatory process is
      associated with changes in airway hyperresponsiveness (irritability), and airflow limitations
      caused by bronchoconstriction, edema, and mucous plugging. Mast cells, basophils,
      eosinophils, activated T-lymphocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and airway epithelial cells
      all play a role in this inflammatory process by releasing mediators directly responsible for
      local inflammation and by releasing mediators that encourage a further influx of inflammatory
      cells (Expert Panel Report 2, 1997). These cells and their products eventually produce a
      state of chronic allergic inflammation leading to increased vascular leakage, mucous
      secretion, smooth muscle hyperresponsiveness, and nerve activation. Clinically, this process
      is characterized by intermittent shortness of breath, wheezing, coughing, and chest
      tightness.

      Although most asthmatics are atopic (allergic), non-atopic asthmatics exist and can develop
      equally severe disease. Non-allergic asthmatics have a trend towards higher than normal
      levels of the allergic antibody (IgE) though obviously they lack skin test specificity. When
      examining skin test reactivity and serum IgE as independent variables for asthma risk, there
      was a stronger association with serum IgE elevation than skin test reactivity. In fact, serum
      IgE tended to be high in asthmatics regardless of skin test reactivity.

      Omalizumab (Xolair®) is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that binds specifically
      to the (FceRI) binding site on human IgE. The binding of omalizumab inhibits the ability of
      IgE to bind to basophils or mast cells.

      Omalizumab recently received FDA approval for the treatment of moderate to severe persistent
      allergic asthma in pediatric (12 years of age and above) and adult patients. The addition of
      omalizumab to standard asthma therapies has been found to reduce asthma exacerbations and
      decrease both inhaled corticosteroid dose and rescue medication use. (Busse, 2001). In a
      phase III double blinded placebo controlled trial involving 525 severe allergic asthmatics,
      omalizumab treated patients had fewer exacerbations during both a steroid stable phase and
      steroid reduction phase than did placebo controls (Busse, 2001). The median reduction in
      steroid dose during reduction phase was 75% and 50% in the omalizumab and placebo groups
      respectively. In a similarly designed steroid reduction study involving 6 to 12 year-old
      moderate to severe allergic asthmatics, steroid reduction was possible in 100% of treated
      patient verses 66.7% of placebo treated patients (Milgrom, 2001). Other steroid reduction
      studies have had similar results (Buhl 2002, Soler 2001). Omalizumab has also been shown to
      improve quality of life in allergic asthmatics as measured by the Asthma Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (AQLQ). In adults, AQLQ demonstrated greater improvement at 16, 28 and 52 weeks
      in omalizumab treated patients than in placebo treated (Finn 2003). Similarly in pediatric
      populations, AQLQ improvement reached statistical significance in omalizumab treated patients
      (Lemanske 2002).

      Omalizumab has shown itself to be a promising new therapy for the treatment of moderate to
      severe allergic asthma. It is currently not indicated for patients with non-allergic asthma.
      The objective of this study will be to define the effects of omalizumab on cell surface FceRI
      expression and serum IgE of non-allergic asthmatics.
    
  