
    
      Background and study aims:

      People are living longer and many experience a good old age. Unfortunately longer life is not
      always accompanied by health and wellbeing. Older people can become lonely, isolated and
      unhappy as a result of a whole number of factors such as diminished physical abilities and
      bereavement.

      Our research programme is examining how people aged 75 years and over can be helped to retain
      wellbeing and not feel unhappy due to feelings of loneliness and isolation. It is examining
      the possible benefits of group friendship over the telephone. Telephone befriending services
      are usually provided through the voluntary sector and are available in a number of locations.
      Befriending can take place on a one-to-one basis or through small groups of people linked
      together by telephone (teleconferencing). A small amount of research has already been
      conducted into telephone befriending. It appears to provide benefit but intevestigators need
      evidence from more people who have experienced befriending by telephone to be able to make
      clear statements about whether it should be recommended.

      What does the study involve? To ensure that the research is thorough investigators want to
      recruit and involve 248 older people aged 75 years and over who live in Sheffield. It will
      take us over a year to recruit the number of older people investigators need as the
      befriending services can only accommodate a certain number of people at any one time.

      The main method of inviting people to participate in the research is through letters of
      invitation from primary care. However investigators are also using other ways to get the
      information to those who might be interested such as giving talks at community venues and
      asking health and social care professionals to identify people who they think might benefit.

      Everyone who has volunteered and is eligible to take part is randomly allocated to one of two
      groups. Not everyone will receive the research intervention (telephone friendship). Everyone
      is then asked questions about their wellbeing and health when they first meet a researcher
      and once again six months later. The investigators will compare the results from responses
      collected at the start of the study with the results collected six months later. The
      investigators will look to see whether those involved in telephone friendship groups feel
      happier about their lives compared with the group who were allocated to help in the research
      by answering questions only. To find out whether there might be any lasting benefit
      investigators will then ask all participants the same questions for a final time about 12
      months after the start.

      Those people allocated to receive telephone friendship will firstly receive up to six
      one-to-one calls from a trained and Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) checked Age UK Sheffield
      volunteer. The volunteer will talk to the participant for approximate 20 minutes and
      introduce them to the idea of group discussions over the telephone. They will then be invited
      to join a telephone friendship group with around six to seven other people. The friendship
      group then talk once a week for about one hour for 12 weeks with the group being assisted by
      an Age UK Sheffield volunteer.

      As telephone friendship/ befriending services are relatively new, the investigators will look
      to see how they are being delivered and how people experience the service by talking with a
      small number of people have participated in the telephone friendship group. The investigators
      will also interview the Age UK Sheffield volunteers to find out if the telephone friendship
      service delivered to older people was as the investigators intended.

      Older people are also helping us with the management of the study and continue to give their
      views on the progress of the project and any information that is being prepared. This is
      helping the researchers to ensure that what investigators ask people to do and any written
      material produced can be easily understood and meets the needs and expectations of those who
      are invited to take part.

      Where is the study run from? The study is being organized by the University of Sheffield in
      partnership with Age UK and Community Network.

      When is study starting and how long is it expected to run for? The study started on 1 October
      2012 with invitations to join the study starting in June 2012 and continuing until May 2013.
      The study will run until December 2014 to enable us to follow-up participants, analyze the
      results and write a report of our findings.

      Who is funding the study? National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), Public Health
      Research programme.
    
  