
    
      THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK:The treatment outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis have dramatically
      improved with the recognition that the inflammatory component of disease needs to be
      suppressed optimally at every stage in its evolution. However, all existing conventional oral
      therapies are associated with limited efficacy and loss of effectiveness over time.
      Furthermore all of these therapies are associated with significant toxicity and tolerability
      problems. Another approach to treatment involves the use of biologic (protein based),
      parenterally administered therapies directed against important inflammatory molecules or
      cells involved in disease pathology. Despite the notable success of anti-TNF therapy, which
      is one of these biologics,approximately one third of patients do not respond adequately and
      the costs of drug production are very high.

      This causes rationing in all healthcare economies. There is therefore a need for new, safe,
      well tolerated and effective drugs that are cost effective. Tranilast (a tryptophan
      metabolite) is already licenced in Japan for the treatment for allergy. Basic science studies
      including those undertaken at The Kennedy Institute indicate that this drug suppresses the
      activity of a number of key inflammatory mediators as well as the activation of lymphocytes
      (white blood cells) responsible for the perpetuation of inflammation and associated tissue
      destruction in rheumatoid. Therefore, there was a rationale to test the effectiveness of
      tranilast in vivo for the treatment of arthritis. In an animal model of arthritis, tranilast
      effectively reduces joint swelling and read outs of pain. Since tranilast is well tolerated
      and safe in the licenced treatment indication in man, it is timely to test its effectiveness
      in rheumatoid arthritis. The majority of patients with this condition are treated with
      methotrexate often in combination with other anti-rheumatoid drugs. The current study is a
      prelude to a larger randomised controlled study investigating the efficacy of tranilast in
      rheumatoid arthritis.

      PURPOSE:This study will evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of an oral
      medication, tranilast, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who are on another disease
      modifying medication, methotrexate.

      DESIGN:The study is a randomised crossover pilot study with an optional higher dose open
      label phase.

      METHOD:During the study the patient will either receive tranilast (300mg twice a day) or a
      placebo drug for a period of seven days. The patient will then have a seven day break
      followed by another period of seven days in which the patient will receive the other
      medication. They will attend the clinic on at least 6 occasions(screening, day 2,3 8 and 9
      then on 5 occasions in session 2 plus a follow up session. During the study blood samples
      will be taken to assess safety and serum concentrations of the study drug and interactions
      with methotrexate.
    
  