
    
      The resolution of acute inflammation was once thought to be a passive process, meaning that
      inflammatory mediators from the acute response (e.g. chemoattractants, complement components,
      prostaglandins, chemokines and cytokines) would simply dilute and dissipate to stop the
      infiltration of leucocytes into the tissues. Conversely, more recently it was shown that
      tissue resolution of inflammation is actually an active programmed process, requiring a
      temporal lipid mediator class switch that leads to the production of specialized
      pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) derived from essential fatty acids.1-4

      There are several distinct classes of SPMs: the lipoxins derived from the n-6 polyunsaturated
      fatty acid (n-6 PUFA), AA, and the resolvins, protectins and maresins derived from the n-3
      PUFAs, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). These SPMs counter
      regulate pro-inflammatory mediator production, including prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and
      select cytokines. They also stimulate leucocyte responses including bacterial phagocytosis
      and efferocytosis of apoptotic cells, key processes in the clearance of infections and return
      to homeostasis, without apparent immune suppression.5-7 In addition, Serhan and colleagues8
      recently identified a new family of sulfido-conjugated mediators that promote wound repair
      and tissue regeneration. An increasing body of research has shown the beneficial actions of
      these mediators on improving the inflammatory process in several disease states, such as
      sepsis, peritonitis, colitis, Alzheimer's disease and peripheral vascular disease.9-13 In
      addition, it was demonstrated that RvE1 has direct bone-preserving and bone regeneration
      functions in a mouse model of periodontal disease.14

      There is also increasing evidence suggesting that inflammation has a significant impact on
      postoperative clinical outcomes. Kimura et al.15 demonstrated that patients who developed
      postoperative infectious complications after liver resection had significantly higher levels
      of IL-6 on days 0 and 1 after surgery than did those without infections. In addition,
      elevated pre-operative CRP-levels in patients undergoing palliative surgery is associated
      with a higher complication rates and decreased overall survival.16 Pillai et al.17
      demonstrated two groups among patients undergoing abdominal aorta aneurysm (AAA) surgery
      based on their temporal profile: one group displayed a pro-inflammatory profile throughout
      the intra-operative and postoperative time course, while the other group was characterized by
      a pro-resolving mediator profile. The authors suggested that these two broad categories may
      reflect an early resolver population and a delayed resolver population and that enhancing the
      patient profile of endogenous pro-resolving mediators may shorten recovery times, resolution
      and improve outcomes in these patients.

      In this proposal the investigators aim to determine whether pre-operative dietary
      supplementation with a nutritional supplement containing omega-3 PUFA and its derivatives
      will improve the metabolo-lipidomic, inflammatory, and resolution profile of patients
      undergoing total knee arthroplasty. Lipinova速 (Solutex) is an over the counter nutritional
      supplement that differs from other commercially available "Fish Oil" in that it contains
      standardized levels of the omega 3- PUFAs, Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic
      acid (DHA) as well as the derived monohydroxylated precursors (17-HDHA, 18-HEPE and 14-HDHA).
      The standardized levels are obtained from anchovy and sardine oil through advanced
      fractionation technology and purification technology.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Specific Aim 1: To characterize the pro-resolving lipid mediator (LM) or specialized
      pro-resolving mediator (SPM) signature in patients scheduled to undergo total knee
      arthroplasty. We hypothesize that orthopedic surgery will induce an up-regulation of
      pro-inflammatory pathways and down-regulation of pro-resolving lipid mediator pathways on
      postoperative day 1, when compared to pre-operatively.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine if pre-operative dietary supplementation with Lipinova速, a
      purified, fractionated form of fish oil, containing standardized amounts of n-3 essential
      fatty acids, alters the metabolo-lipidomic profile in patients undergoing total knee
      arthroplasty. We hypothesize that the oral administration of Lipinova速, which contains
      precursors for SPMs will upregulate the pro-resolving lipid mediator pathways and
      down-regulate pro-inflammatory pathways in patients scheduled to undergo total knee
      arthroplasty, both pre-operatively and on postoperative day 1.

      Specific Aim 3: To define a dosing regimen to maximize SPM availability in patients
      undergoing total knee arthroplasty surgery. We will compare changes in metabolo-lipidomic
      profiles between patients receiving 2 different doses of Lipinova速 supplementation.
    
  