
    
      This study is classified as a randomized double-blind clinical trial. Will be held in the
      Department of Physiotherapy of the university clinic of the Federal University of Pernambuco,
      located in University City, Recife-PE. Data for the survey will be collected during the
      course of the Masters in Physiotherapy, from April 2015 to September 2015, for further
      analysis.

      The analyzed groups shall consist of women aged 30-50 years referred to the Department of
      Physical Therapy - UFPE, with clinical diagnosis of fibromyalgia and migraine performed by
      doctors of Rheumatology clinics and Neurology, Hospital das Clinicas, UFPE. Being invited to
      participate and informed about its content, saying their participation by signing a Term of
      Consent. Data collection is in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and will begin
      after the project was approved by the Ethics Committee for Research on Human beings of the
      Federal University Health Sciences Center of Pernambuco, in accordance with Resolution
      466/2012 of the National Research Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Health, the body that
      regulates research involving human subjects. The study will be registered in the digital
      Clinical Trials platform after obtaining the registration number of the Ethics Committee.
      Initially there will be a pilot study with 20 women, then the results will be used to
      calculate the sample size using the G Power (version 3.1.9.2, Germany), considering a
      statistical power (β) of 80% with a significance level (α) of 5%.

      Will be excluded those that have some other rheumatologic disease, cardio-respiratory or
      cardiovascular that prevents the realization of aerobic exercise protocol; low attendance
      during the implementation of the exercise program (over three consecutive absences);
      cognitive impairment or neurological disease that compromises the understanding and the
      exercises; Body mass index ≥ 30.0 (obesity, according to the World Society of Health);
      pregnant women and patients classified as level of active or very active physical activity by
      IPAQ (International Physical Activity Questionnaire).

      3.1. Randomization

      Initially, patients will undergo will a simple randomization through the site
      www.randomization.com, resulting in two groups:

        1. Aerobic Training: Submitted to a protocol consisting of heating, aerobic training with
           adequate heart rate and slowdown;

        2. Control Training: Heating Protocol with speed and low intensity (heart rate will next
           basal).

      Randomization will be performed by an examiner A, not research participant to ensure
      allocation concealment (patients and principal investigator will not be aware of which group
      are allocated). All women will be evaluated (both groups) through questionnaires and
      spirometry before the start and the end of the exercise protocol. Every four weeks, the
      patients will be submitted to revaluations through the questionnaires. The evaluation of
      these volunteers will be conducted by an examiner B (principal investigator), blinded to
      randomization; and the exercise protocol implementation will be the responsibility of the
      examiner C, only one will know to which group the patients belong. Corroborating the
      double-blinding, the evaluator to perform statistical analysis of the data will not know to
      which group belongs the results.

      3.2. Evaluation

        -  Socio-demographic questionnaire Prepared by the researcher to characterize the groups,
           which answer questions for identification and history (name, date of valuation,
           telephone, address, date of birth, age, weight, height, body mass index / BMI,
           profession, education, marital status, physical activity and frequency, use of
           medication, type of medication, medication time). One minunciosa history regarding the
           use of drugs will be held: types, frequency, duration of treatment.

        -  Identification of the impact of migraine Will be evaluated by the Migraine Disability
           Assessment Test (MIDAS), which contains five items that measure the amount of days lost
           in the activities of daily living (ADLs) and professional (AVPs) due to the presence of
           migraine in the last three months; the patient declares the amount of days and, from the
           result of the sum of the scores, ranks the degree of disability of the individual (0-5
           points: grade I / minimal disability; 6-10 points: grade II / mild disability; 11-20
           points: grade III / moderate disability;> 20 points: grade IV / severe disability).

        -  Clinical characteristics of the headache Will be filled the journal Headache, based on
           criteria established by the International Headache Society (ICHD-III beta version,
           2013); assesses the amount and duration of migraine attacks over a period of 30 days,
           pain intensity, symptoms associated with headache, medication use.

        -  Investigation of sleep quality The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), used to
           measure the subjective quality of sleep; consists of 19 items divided into seven
           components that punctuate 0-3 (total score of 0-21 points, the higher the score, the
           worse the quality of sleep). Was adapted and validated for the Brazilian population by
           Bertolazi and colleagues (2011), with a high reliability (α Cronbach = 0.82).

        -  Quality of life assessment Measured by the FIQ (Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire),
           consisting of 19 questions divided into 10 items: the first item has 10 sub-items with
           four response options ranging from 0-4 points; the second and third items, the patient
           should choose an option on a scale of 0-7; in the other, is given a score of 0-10 in
           response (the higher the score, the greater the impact of fibromyalgia on quality of
           life). Adapted and validated for the Brazilian population.

        -  Tracking of symptoms of anxiety and depression The presence of depression will be
           assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), consisting of 21 questions that add up
           to a maximum score of 63 points (level of depression: 0-9 points = No; 10-18 points =
           mild depression; 19- 29 points = moderate depression;> 30 points = severe depression).
           It is validated and adapted for the Brazilian population, with a Cronbach's alpha of
           0.81. The Beck Anxiety (BAI) will be used to identify and classify anxiety; consists of
           23 statements that have the maximum score of 63 (0-10 points: minimum Anxiety, 11-19
           points: Light Anxiety, points 20-30: moderate anxiety,> 31 points: severe anxiety), is
           validated and adapted to Brazilian population.

        -  Evaluation of the level of physical activity Proposed by the World Health Organization
           (1998), the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) aims to measure the
           total physical activity level (AFT) from the energy expenditure (METs.min-¹). Will be
           used to short IPAQ (version 8), which consists of 4 questions with two sub-items (b) on
           activities of daily living, professional life activities and practice of walking; where
           the frequency and duration respond if (days and hours / minutes) of activities and its
           intensity (moderate or vigorous = 3.3-4 METs = 5.5 to 8 METs) for one week. From the
           data obtained, sum up the frequency and duration of activities (walk + moderate +
           vigorous intensity) and, from this result, classifies individuals in: sedentary;
           irregularly active; active or very active. This questionnaire is validated and adapted
           for the Brazilian population, with excellent reproducibility (ICC = 0.79).

        -  Assessment of exercise tolerance Ergospirometry or cardio-pulmonary function test
           assesses precisely, the cardio-respiratory capacity and metabolic by direct measurement
           of maximum oxygen consumption and determining the maximum ventilatory thresholds. He is
           currently considered the gold standard for evaluation of exercise tolerance by providing
           non-invasive and very precise exercise intensities featuring aerobic or anaerobic
           metabolism (anaerobic threshold - LA). It is the most appropriate test for prescription
           of aerobic exercise intensity in sedentary individuals or with regular physical
           activity. Oxygen consumption (VO2 max) appears to be the most accurate indicator of
           exercise capacity. The test will be performed on a treadmill, coupled with a spirometer
           and a computer system in a climatically standardized environment. To minimize air
           leakage, will be employed the use of face masks with tiny dead-space. The main
           parameters obtained in the test are the ventilatory thresholds: anaerobic threshold (AT)
           and respiratory compensation point, which will characterize the aerobic and anaerobic
           workouts. The variables obtained during the test, with clinical relevance are: maximal
           oxygen uptake (VO2 max), carbon dioxide release (VCO 2), rate of gas exchange (R),
           estimated lactate threshold, expired minute volume (VE) , ventilatory reserve (RVE),
           ventilatory equivalents, end-expiratory pressures (PEF), ventilatory pattern, arterial
           gas tensions / oxyhemoglobin saturation, physiological dead space, electrocardiograms,
           heart rate, peripheral O2 saturation (SpO2) and blood pressure (BP ).

      The responses to the cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPX) are obtained by means of an
      incremental protocol, which consists in progressive load increases at predetermined time
      periods. A typical incremental protocol should provide: a resting phase (2-3 minutes or
      more), in which we observe a lack of hyperventilation before starting the test; a heating
      period with zero charge (2-3 minutes); incrementing a time (8-12 minutes) and an active
      period of recovery with no load (3-6 minutes if possible). For the intervention protocol,
      heart rate obtained just below the anaerobic threshold, recommended for proper intensity to
      gain fitness with greater security and compliance will be used. Generally, oxygen consumption
      levels in the anaerobic threshold are lower in these patients.

      -Re-Reviews Initially, will be held the evaluation of patients through questionnaires and
      cardiopulmonary stress test to investigate exercise tolerance before the start of exercise
      protocol (review 1). Every 4 weeks, the patients of both groups will be reassessed by the
      re-application of all questionnaires: 4 weeks - review 2; 8 weeks: evaluation 3. At the end
      of the 12 weeks of training, the review 4 will be held, with repetition of the questionnaires
      and cardiopulmonary exercise testing.

      3.3. Intervention protocol The intervention protocol will be made by the examiner C, one who
      is not blind to the research. After randomization and evaluation, patients will be allocated
      to one of the groups: experimental or control. After the evaluation of cardiorespiratory
      capacity of patients, will be established starting parameters appropriate to the level of
      physical activity each based on heart rate obtained just below the anaerobic threshold
      (ensuring aerobic work).

      The experimental group will follow the following protocol: performing heating for 5 minutes
      at low speed on a treadmill; after heating, the speed is increased gradually until the
      patient reaches the proper heart rate for aerobic training obtained during cardiopulmonary
      exercise testing, maintaining the same for 20 minutes to perform the aerobic workout;
      completed, the velocity will be decreased to regain speed heating maintained for 5 minutes
      and finishing training. It is envisaged that in practice using the FC to ensure proper
      aerobic exercise for 20-60 minutes at a frequency of 3-5 times per week are effective in
      increasing the functional capacity of individuals with low fitness (American College of
      Sports Medicine - ACSM, 2006). In the control group, these women will be guided to perform 10
      minutes of heating on the treadmill with a low speed that does not cause patient effort
      (monitored by the Borg scale and FC close to the basement).

      Both groups will be followed for 12 weeks, with a driving frequency of 3 times per week.
      Heart rate and saturation of peripheral oxygen (SpO2) will be continuously monitored through
      the use of finger pulse oximeter during the course of all practices of all the volunteers of
      research to ensure that HR is within the established for each group
    
  