
    
      The therapy regimens of MM were very limited before 2000, mainly including VAD (vincristine,
      doxorubicin, dexamethasone), methylpheniram, corticosteroids and autologous stem cell
      transplantation (ASCT). The development of proteasome inhibitors (PIs) and immunomodulatory
      drugs (IMiDs) in the 2000's significantly improved the survival of MM patients. Combined
      chemotherapy containing new drugs has become the first-line therapy for the treatment of
      newly diagnosed MM patients.

      In addition to direct cytotoxicity, IMiDs also play a variety of immune regulatory roles. The
      effects on immune system include reducing TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-12, increasing production
      of IL-2 and IFN-γ, increasing T cell initiation, enhancing the absorption of tumor antigen by
      dendritic cells (DCs), enhancing the efficiency of antigen presentation, inhibiting
      regulatory T cells (Treg), and enhancing the activity of natural killer cells (NK) and NKT
      cells. Lenalidomide, a kind of IMiDs, also have the effects on osteoclasts, which are
      important in bone disease in MM patients.

      In 2006, the combination of lenalidomide and dexamethasone (RD) was approved in the United
      States for the treatment of relapsed/refractory MM. The RD regimen was approved for the
      treatment of newly diagnosed MM patients in 2015. Four lenalidomide-containing triple drug
      regimens were approved for the treatment of relapsed/refractory MM from 2015 to 2016.
      However, the application of lenalidomide-containing triple drug regimens in newly diagnosed
      patients with multiple myeloma needs to be further validated. Therefore, we designed the
      randomized controlled clinical study and aimed to compare the efficacy and safety between RDD
      (lenalidomide, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, dexamethasone) and VDD (bortezomib, pegylated
      liposomal doxorubicin, dexamethasone) in newly diagnosed patients with MM.
    
  