
    
      This is a feasibility trial informed by the MRC guidelines. It is a small RCT, where
      participants are randomised to either the MBCT intervention or waiting list control.
      Participants will be receiving their diabetes care in Aberdeen and Glasgow, and randomisation
      will occur at each site. The participants who are allocated to the waiting list control group
      will receive the MBCT intervention 3 months after the intervention group complete their MBCT
      programme.

      The investigators will recruit participants using posters and leaflets, word of mouth from
      diabetes professionals, and from writing to those who are eligible. All of these methods are
      simply to raise awareness of the study. The intervention requires considerable commitment
      from participants (as indicated below) and this will be fully explained and explored. It will
      be up to potential participants to make initial contact with the research team, at which
      point they will be invited to the diabetes outpatient clinic for a discussion about what the
      project entails, the nature of mindfulness, and to go through the usual consent procedure.

      In the cases of those people who agree to participate, the investigators will write to their
      GP and to their diabetes consultant to let them know that their patient has enrolled in the
      study, and provide brief information about the project.

      The MBCT intervention is manualised and delivered to groups. The aim of the MBCT intervention
      is to increase mindfulness skills and to facilitate their use in relation to emotional
      wellbeing and diabetes self-management. Participants will attend on 8 occasions, once per
      week, for 2 hours. These meetings will have a standard structure. First, participants will
      describe their efforts to practice mindfulness at home over the previous week, followed by
      discussion of an educational topic relevant to the aims of the course. Finally, the group
      will do a mindfulness practice together, and the home practice for the following week will be
      set. In-between meetings, participants are asked to practice mindfulness by listening to an
      audio file or CD for about 30 minutes per day.

      The research assistants will administer brief, self-report inventories at baseline;
      post-treatment and at 3 months follow-up to establish participants' level of mindfulness
      (Cognitive and Affective Mindfulness Scale-Revised);

        1. diabetes-specific distress (Problem Areas in Diabetes; PAID);

        2. anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale; HADS);

        3. positive emotional wellbeing (Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale);

        4. satisfaction with treatment provision (Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire);

        5. health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L),

        6. and the Fear of Hypoglycaemia Scale.

        7. During the intervention, the investigators will also ask participants to keep a diary of
           the number of times they completed the formal mindfulness exercises or these will be
           recorded using an specially designed app, and keep a record of attendance at group
           sessions.

      Moreover, the investigators will request details of the frequency of severe hypoglycaemia
      (defined as occasion they needed help to correct blood glucose levels); mild-moderate
      (self-corrected) hypoglycaemia, and the number of admissions for diabetic ketoacidosis in the
      6 months preceding the beginning of the MBCT course and for the period between the end of
      treatment and follow-up. The investigators will record the baseline HbA1c values and again
      obtain this at the 3 month follow-up point. Finally, participants will be asked to keep a
      diary of their health care use (for example, GP visits; calls to the diabetes specialist
      nurses; visits to secondary care diabetes health professional, and so on) during the previous
      6 months at baseline and 3 months prior to follow-up. In addition, NHS Scotland; NHS
      Grampian, and NHS Glasgow electronic systems (eg, SCI-Diabetes and SCI-Store) will be used to
      obtain an accurate account of contact with secondary health professions.

      The research assistants will also conduct one-to-one qualitative interviews with 10-15
      participants, with equal numbers (for example, 6) from the MBCT group about 1 month after the
      end of the intervention. Interviews will be conducted with participants located in Aberdeen
      and Glasgow. These semi-structured interviews will focus on patients' views on why they
      volunteered; their expectations of the intervention; the acceptability of the intervention
      and measures; perceived benefits, and any difficulties they experienced during their
      participation. The investigators will also be keen to hear their thoughts on key
      characteristics of the facilitators; how best to attract potential participants in a future
      definitive trial, and ways to overcome any pragmatic difficulties, they experienced. The
      investigators will also attempt to contact all study drop-outs for a brief (5-10 minute)
      telephone interview on reasons for drop-out. This will include those who drop out prior to
      participation in the groups, those who drop out during group sessions, and those who complete
      group participation but fail to complete follow-up measures. Consent to contact for this
      reason will be obtained on entry to the study and this has proved acceptable in a current
      MBCT feasibility study using volunteer recruits. Analysis of qualitative data will be
      theoretically informed by Normalisation Process Theory (NPT) which specifically addresses the
      identification of barriers and facilitators to up-take of interventions or processes of
      change.

      Standard demographic information including socio-economic status will be collected as will
      the co-existence of other conditions (co-morbidity). The investigators will also record
      standard diabetes health information such as time since diagnosis; any complications present,
      and any changes in medication between baseline and follow-up. The Scottish Index of Multiple
      Deprivation (SIMD) will be ascertained from participants' postcodes. The study will end on
      the date that the last data are collected.
    
  