
    
      Although awareness regarding sport-related concussion is growing, rehabilitative strategies
      for this commonly occuring injury have been a focus of very little research. With the
      exception of our pilot RCT, no RCTs to date have evaluated the efficacy of cervical spine
      physiotherapy in combination with vestibular rehabilitation in sport-related concussion.
      Current evidence has suggested positive effects of low-level aerobic exercise in youth and
      adults who are slow to recover following a concussion (Gagnon et al, 2016). However,
      low-level aerobic exercise has not yet been compared to cervicovestibular physiotherapy. A
      shift in clinical practice (to implement cervicovestibular physiotherapy or low level aerobic
      exercise) is occurring, but a direct comparison of the effects of low level aerobic exercise
      and multimodal physiotherapy treatment has not yet been conducted. A combination of these two
      forms of treatment may be more beneficial than either in isolation. Thus, the combination of
      physiotherapy and low level aerobic exercise treatment also requires evaluation.
      Identification of management strategies for individuals with persistent symptoms following
      concussion is urgently required to inform practice and optimize treatment strategies in this
      commonly occuring health problem.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Research Question:

      1. Does cervical and vestibular rehabilitation (CVPT) 1) result in a greater proportion of
      individuals medically cleared to return to sport (yes/no); 2) improve quality of life
      compared to a control group of low level aerobic exercise (LLAE) (following an 8-week
      intervention in individuals with persistent symptoms of dizziness, neck pain and/or headaches
      following concussion)?

      Secondary Research Questions:

      1. Does a combination of CVPT and LLAE 1) result in a greater proportion of individuals
      medically cleared to return to sport; 2) Improve quality of life compared to CVPT or LLAE
      alone (following an 8-week intervention in individuals with persistent symptoms of dizziness,
      neck pain and/or headaches following concussion)?

      Exploratory Research Questions:

        1. Does cervical and vestibular rehabilitation (CVPT) result in a greater proportion of
           individuals medically cleared to return to sport compared to a control group of low
           level aerobic exercise (LLAE) (following an 8-week intervention in individuals with
           persistent symptoms of dizziness, neck pain and/or headaches following concussion) when
           stratified by subgroups based on time since injury, previous history of concussion, sex
           and age?

        2. Does a combination of CVPT and LLAE result in a greater proportion of individuals
           medically cleared to return to sport compared to CVPT or LLAE alone when stratified by
           subgroups based on time since injury, previous history of concussion, sex and age?

        3. What clinical characteristics predict response to treatment?

        4. What changes in symptoms and clinical measures of cervical and vestibular function occur
           with treatment?

        5. What changes in measures of disability, self-efficacy, neuropsychological and
           psychosocial function occur with treatment?

        6. What other factors may affect treatment outcome (i.e. medical clearance) and quality of
           life in youth with persisting symptoms following concussion?

      METHODS:

      The study design is a single blind randomized controlled trial (RCT). Participants will be
      recruited through the University of Calgary Acute Sport Concussion Clinic and through
      community sport medicine offices, family physicians and allied health in the City of Calgary
      and surrounding areas.

      All participants will undergo an initial physiotherapy assessment at inclusion into the
      study. This assessment will be repeated at the time of medical clearance to return to sport
      (if less than 8 weeks) or at 8 weeks following initiation of treatment. Participants will be
      randomized into a cervicovestibular physiotherapy intervention (CVPT) group, a low level
      aerobic exercise group (LLAE), or a combination of cervicovestibular physiotherapy and low
      level aerobic exercise group (combination). All study participants will meet weekly (30
      minute appointment) with a study physiotherapist for eight weeks (or until the time of
      medical clearance to return to sport if clearance occurs prior to 8 weeks). All groups will
      follow a protocol of graded exertion as per the 4th International Consensus Guidelines
      (Zurich 2012, McCrory et al, 2013).
    
  