
    
      Today, low back pain is one of the most common health problems in the world in which create a
      considerable individual, social and financial burden on the society. Low back pain is
      classified as specific and nonspecific. While, 10 percent of the paints are suffered from
      specific low back pain, non-specific low back pain is occured in approximately 90 percent of
      the population. If low back pain persists for six weeks, it is classified as acute back pain,
      subacute back pain between six weeks and three months, and chronic low back pain if it lasts
      for more than three months.

      Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is a complex problem that continues for a long time without a
      cause and is the most common in the musculoskeletal system, leading to disability.
      Individuals with CLBP have a lower quality of life than the general population. It causes
      individuals to decrease their activities due to pain and prepares the ground for the
      continuation of pain. Lack of movement caused by pain in individuals; It negatively affects
      the quality of life by triggering the continuation of symptoms, causing a decrease in
      functional levels, limitation in daily life activities, problems in family and work life.
      There are many physical, psychological and social factors that cause low back pain to become
      chronic. Age, race, occupation, obesity, smoking, alcohol consumption and stress are the most
      important factors that trigger the chronicity of low back pain. The effectiveness of a
      multidisciplinary treatment program and determination of risk factors in the management of
      CLBP is known. Treatment approaches include medical treatment, surgical treatment and
      physiotherapy applications. In physiotherapy programs, patient education, back schools,
      electrotherapy applications, traction, massage, superficial heat applications, corsets and
      exercise approaches are used. Stretching exercises, trunk flexion-extension exercises,
      resistantce exercises, stabilization exercises are the main exercise approaches used to cope
      with low back pain. In addition to exercises performed under the supervision of a
      physiotherapist, home exercise programs are also provided for low back pain. Stabilization
      exercises have various benefits on the musculoskeletal system. Stabilization exercises that
      aim to protect and support the spine by regenerating muscle control, applied in muscle
      activation losses caused by injury or degenerative changes, increase strength and
      flexibility. Stabilization exercise has been reported to be effective in reducing pain and
      improving functional disability in patients with nonspecific CLBP, improving individuals
      psychologically and also increasing the quality of life of patients. Stabilization exercises
      have been found to be effective in increasing the cross-sectional area of the lumbar
      multifidus muscle, which is one of the muscles needed to maintain the proper stability of the
      spine.

      Today, in line with technological developments, the use of common information processing,
      sensor networks, three-dimensional (3D) computer graphics, internet and mobile phone
      applications in healthcare services is widespread. Telerehabilitation refers to the provision
      of rehabilitation services through information and communication technologies. Clinically
      this term; covers a range of rehabilitation and habilitation services including assessment,
      monitoring, prevention, response, control, training, consultation and counseling. Along with
      telerehabilitation, rehabilitation practices can be applied in health centers as well as
      homes, schools or community-based work sites. Mostly, there are studies in the literature
      regarding its use in musculoskeletal disorders, coronary heart disease, some types of cancer,
      type 2 diabetes, hypertension and physically disabled individuals. Due to the social distance
      and isolation, which are the effects of the covid-19, which spread in a short time in our
      country and all over the world, there are disruptions in individuals' continuing their
      treatment. Telerehabilitation allows one-to-one physiotherapist-patient meetings without the
      need for contact and provides flexibility to patients in terms of time. Exercise is one of
      the treatments that physiotherapists can give using telerehabilitation. With the applications
      made with telerehabilitation, individuals are provided to take an active role in their own
      rehabilitation and individuals can have the ability to manage themselves.
    
  