
    
      People with MS experience a wide variety of symptoms including impaired muscle strength and
      balance, fatigue, impaired cognition, depression and spasticity. Of these, impaired balance
      and severe fatigue are described as two of the most debilitating symptoms leading to
      limitations in activities such as upright posture and gait. Generally, pharmacological
      symptomatic treatment has not proven efficient in the treatment of balance problems, fatigue
      and walking impairments, with the exception that Fampridine has beneficial effects on gait
      performance in a subgroup of patients. Consequently, non-pharmacological interventions that
      effectively target these symptoms are warranted.

      In the last decade progressive resistance training (PRT) has proven to be one of the
      promising interventions in patients with MS showing a consistent and positive effect on
      muscle strength. However, the effect of PRT on functional outcomes are heterogeneous but with
      promising effects on daily activities such as walking and chair rise. The evidence for a
      beneficial effect of PRT on balance and postural control is divergent and yet inadequately
      investigated. Regarding fatigue, a recent Cochrane review reported that one could expect
      improvements in MS fatigue after exercise interventions, despite methodological flaws in the
      existing literature, but only few studies evaluating PRT were located.

      Another promising intervention is task specific training of motor function that is widely
      used by physiotherapists in neurorehabilitation. In this study protocol, motor function is
      limited to gait related functions with a particular focus put on balance and motor control,
      why the term Balance and Motor Control Training (BMCT) is applied. There is no universally
      accepted definition of human balance, but balance defined as "the inherent ability of a
      person to maintain, achieve or restore a specific state of balance and not to fall, with
      reference to the motor and sensory systems and to the physical properties of the person", is
      applied in this study.

      Effects obtained from BMCT partly result from plastic changes in the nervous system. To
      induce such effects, repetition of a simple task only has limited efficiency in order to
      improve performance. Once a task has been learned to a certain level, further practice of the
      same task will not be accompanied by further induction of plasticity and little is therefore
      gained by continued practice of the task. To provide challenges that ensures continued
      learning, training exercises have to progress from simple movement trajectories to more
      complex movements, that also incorporates goal setting. Moreover, it has been shown that
      shaping and variation of tasks in combination with feedback on movement quality is of great
      importance for the learning outcome. The underlying concept for performing BMCT is,
      therefore, that improved motor control will optimize the movement strategy, which further
      leads to improved gait function.

      Regarding the effects of BMCT on fatigue, there are diverging results in the literature, but
      the literature on BMCT for patients with MS is generally of low quality with an inadequate
      description of interventions, why further studies are warranted.

      Interestingly, the principles of task specific training do fundamentally contrast the
      principles of PRT, that normally consist of monotonous movement patterns performed under
      heavy loading for a low number of repetitions. Consequently, studies comparing the effects of
      BMCT and PRT on gait function would add to the current literature as no studies doing so
      could be located. Such a comparison would help clarify whether potential effects are
      overlapping or differentiated and would therefore help guiding future rehabilitation
      interventions in persons with MS.

      The primary objective of this study is, therefore, to investigate and compare the effects of
      10 weeks of PRT to BMCT on gait function, balance and fatigue in mobility limited persons
      with MS.

      It is hypothesized that PRT will be superior in improving maximal straight gait speed,
      whereas BMCT will have a greater impact on balance, fatigue, and more complex walking tasks
      that include elements of balance and coordination.
    
  