
    
      Each individual will participate separately in four testing sessions. Each testing session
      will last for approximately 5 hours and will be separated by a minimum of one week.
      Participants will arrive at the Temple University GCRC or CORE at either 7:30 a.m. or 8:30
      a.m. after an overnight fast (10-12 hours) to ensure that all participants are in the same
      metabolic state. Upon arrival the experimenter will ask participants to complete a
      pre-session questionnaire and rate their feelings of hunger and satiety on a visual analog
      scale (VAS). An indwelling catheter will be inserted in an antecubital vein by the study
      nurse and a baseline blood sample will be obtained for measurement of glucose and insulin
      concentrations. Glucose will be measured by the glucose oxidase method using a glucose
      analyzer and insulin will be measured by radioimmunoassay.

      One of four isocaloric meals (see example below), varying in macronutrient content and GI
      value of foods, will be administered in random order at either 8:00 a.m. or 9:00 a.m. Energy
      density will be controlled. The meal and 8 ounces of water will be consumed within fifteen
      minutes. A short visual analog questionnaire will be distributed at the conclusion of the
      meal to rate the meal consumed. Blood samples will be taken 15 minutes after food consumption
      and at 30 minute intervals (i.e., 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, and 240 minutes) over four
      hours following administration of the meal. Four milliliters of blood will be collected at
      each time point (via indwelling catheter), resulting in a total of 40 milliliters of blood
      collected at each study session and 160 milliliters (i.e., 40 ml x 4 testing sessions) within
      an 8 week time period. Participants will be asked to rate their feelings of hunger at these
      time points. Following the last blood sample, participants will be given the opportunity to
      consume food ad libitum from a buffet style lunch. Based on known serving sizes and
      measurements of unconsumed food, the amount of food eaten and its associated energy content
      will be determined.
    
  