
    
      Although complex metabolic, hormonal, and neural networks operate to control body weight,
      obesity is in most cases, the result of over-feeding and inactivity.

      In the majority of obese patients, patterns of fundamental behavior determine the success or
      failure of weight loss interventions. Behavior is controlled to some degree by conscious
      decision making and is influenced by signals from the integrated networks involved in body
      weight regulation. The contributions of behavior, environment, socioeconomic status,
      physiology and genetics assure that no single therapeutic regimen will be successful in all
      obese individuals. In order to explore the factors that impede weight loss and result in
      weight regain, the obese phenotype and its variants must be defined. The purpose of this
      study is to detail hormonal, metabolic, cognitive and behavioral traits across the spectrum
      of weight categories utilizing the state-of the-art facilities of the Metabolic Units at the
      Mark O. Hatfield Clinical Research Center, NIH. Genetic material will be banked for analysis
      of phenotypic subgroups as they emerge.

      Patients over the age of 18 are eligible for this study. While childhood obesity is an
      important public health issue, the variables of growth and hormonal controls will be
      delineated in separate studies. Over-weight and obese patients are encouraged to participate
      in as full an evaluation as feasible. Lean individuals will be recruited to create a
      normative database for body composition (dual energy x-ray absortiometry, air displacement
      plethysmography), energy expenditure (resting energy expenditure, 24h respiratory chamber and
      doubly labeled water) and other techniques used to study traits of importance. The study will
      be conducted in both the inpatient and outpatient setting and can include evaluation of
      hormones, diurnal variation, sleep, eating behavior and taste perception, physical fitness,
      psychological and neurocognitive functioning. Importantly, this protocol is the means by
      which pilot data are obtained to develop novel approaches and hypotheses for studying obesity
      and its associated traits.
    
  