
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Post-menopausal hormone use is becoming increasingly widespread based on evidence of the
      benefits of estrogen use for bone and the heart. However, because estrogen alone
      substantially increases the risk of endometrial cancer, estrogen users who have not undergone
      a hysterectomy are frequently also placed on a progestogen (E/P), a strategy that reduces the
      likelihood of endometrial cancer when compared with use of estrogen alone. In 1991, there
      were almost no data on the risk of cardiovascular disease in post-menopausal women who used
      E/P combinations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study had a case-control design, Cases were women hospitalized with MI or stroke in any
      of nine participating Northern California Kaiser Permanente hospitals in a 36 month period.
      For each case, one control, matched by year of birth, was selected at random from among
      members of the Kaiser Permanente Health Plan who were expected to use the same nine hospitals
      for their medical care. Information about use of estrogen, E/P combinations, past use of oral
      contraceptives, menopause, hysterectomy and oophorectomy, demographics, general health
      status, preventive health care, and cardiovascular risk factors were collected in interviews
      done of the subjects or, for fatal cases, a surrogate. Information about then current use of
      estrogen and E/P combinations were also gathered by reviewing medical records.

      The investigators used conditional logistic regression analysis to estimate the relative
      risks of MI and of stroke in users of E/P combinations, taking into account prior
      oophorectomy and other potential confounders. They also estimated the risks of acute MI and
      of stroke in users of estrogen alone, accounting for prior oophorectomy and potential
      confounders.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  