
    
      SUMMARY This study is a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study
      to determine the safety and efficacy of erythropoietin (Epo) as an add-on therapy to
      methylprednisolone (Mpred) in subjects with acute autoimmune optic neuritis.

      The primary study endpoint is nerve fiber loss in the optical nerve head determined by
      optical coherence tomography at weeks 4, 8, and 16 compared to baseline.

      Further study objectives include visual acuity, visual field perception, optic nerve atrophy
      determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and recovery of visual evoked potentials
      (VEPs).

      A number of 40 subjects will be randomized in equal numbers into one of the two treatment
      groups.

      Treatment groups:

      Epo or placebo will be administered i.v. at three consecutive days. Epo or placebo is to be
      given once daily following application of Mpred preferably between 8 and 10 a.m..

      Subjects will be randomized to one of the following two treatment groups and dosed as
      follows:

        -  Mpred at a dose of 1000 mg per day on days 1 - 3 given as an i.v. infusion AND 3.3 x
           10^4 IU recombinant human Epo per day on days 1- 3 given as an i.v. bolus injection.

        -  Mpred at a dose of 1000 mg per day on days 1 - 3 given as an i.v. infusion AND placebo
           (normal saline) on days 1 - 3 given as an i.v. bolus injection.

      Men and women between the ages of 18 and 50, inclusive, diagnosed with acute unilateral optic
      neuritis with or without prior diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (according to McDonald
      criteria; Polman et al., 2005) will be considered for inclusion into the study. Those
      subjects must have a decreased visual acuity on the affected eye to 0.5 or less and must have
      signed written informed consent. While safety will be monitored during the study, an efficacy
      evaluation will be done after all subjects have completed week 16.

      Each subject included in the study will be seen by a treating neurologist and an examining
      neurologist as well as by an examining ophthalmologist. The treating neurologist will
      function as the primary treating physician and conduct all subject safety assessments. The
      examining ophthalmologist and the examining neurologist will conduct all evaluations of
      vision/optical nerve head atrophy and neurological symptoms, respectively, but will not be
      involved in any other aspect of patient care. A neurophysiologist will perform measurements
      of VEPs. MRIs will be performed by a neuroradiologist.
    
  