
    
      Thyroid ultrasound is a first-line procedure to assess patients with thyroid nodules.
      Unfortunately, standard ultrasound has low sensitivity, and thus low positive predictive
      value, for malignancy and many patients with thyroid nodules are referred for additional
      imaging studies or biopsy. Shear wave elasticity imaging (SWEI) is a non-invasive ultrasound
      technology that allows clinicians to assess the stiffness of tissues. In many solid tumors,
      increased stiffness is highly specific for underlying malignancy, and preliminary studies
      have shown this to be true for thyroid malignancies. Both standard sonography and SWEI can be
      performed on the same ultrasound equipment and within the same imaging session. Therefore,
      integrating SWEI into standard thyroid diagnostic workflow is a logical approach towards
      improving the positive predictive value of these first-line sonographic studies. Other
      studies have demonstrated the ability of SWEI techniques to differentiate benign from
      malignant thyroid nodules. However, shear wave techniques still need to overcome challenges
      before they can be successfully integrated into the clinical paradigm. These techniques still
      struggle to accurately classify follicular carcinomas and few have been validated in patients
      with multiple thyroid lesions, a scenario which is clinically common. The researchers believe
      that a multi-angle compound SWEI (MAC-SWEI) algorithm, which generates shear images based on
      multiple angled push beams, has the potential to generate more accurate shear wave images in
      the context of thyroid imaging. To this end, this study will perform proof-of-concept studies
      of MAC-SWEI in thyroid patients undergoing standard ultrasound scans and compare the results
      of shear wave images to results from corresponding pathology.

      Study participants will undergo a single SWEI session within their normally-scheduled
      preadmission testing during which both standard b-mode and shear images of the thyroid
      nodule(s) will be acquired. The 36 patients will be randomized to receive MAC-SWEI, standard
      SWEI, and ultrasound, or only standard SWEI and ultrasound.
    
  