
    
      Innovative and intensified disease management (IDM) includes a range of different
      interventions - ranging from medicine to surgery - to relieve the symptoms and consequences
      of a group of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) for which effective tools are scarce or
      where the widespread use of existing tools is limited. The World Health Organisation (WHO)
      has developed a series of strategies to achieve the control, elimination and eventual
      eradication of these NTDs, comprising universal access to early diagnosis and prompt
      treatment, improving active surveillance, integrating passive surveillance into
      health-service provision, and accelerating efforts towards elimination and eradication by
      intensifying core interventions. Appropriate targeting of IDM interventions requires accurate
      epidemiological data on the distribution of these NTDs within endemic countries. In most
      instances however, existing case register data generated through national health management
      information systems or during programmatic activities do not provide an accurate
      representation of the true burden of IDM NTDs.

      A number of IDM NTDs are characterised by cutaneous manifestations that are associated with
      long-term disfigurement and disability. These include Buruli ulcer, cutaneous leishmaniasis,
      leprosy, mycetoma, yaws, onchocerciasis and lymphoedema and hydrocele (resulting from
      lymphatic filariasis and podoconiosis). These diseases require similar case-detection
      approaches, presenting opportunities for the development of novel, integrated mapping
      approaches. Population-based prevalence surveys (PBPS) are the gold standard methodology for
      obtaining accurate disease estimates when case detection and reporting through the health
      system is incomplete, and these have been used to provide sub-national estimates of disease
      distributions for yaws and podoconiosis. For less common outcomes (fewer than 1 case in 1000
      individuals) however, standard PBPS rapidly become unfeasible. Given that the expected
      prevalence range for many of these IDM NTDs in endemic regions lies between as low as 1 in
      10,000 for Buruli ulcer and 1-5% for yaws, it is clear that the PBPS approach requires
      adaptation to achieve the samples sizes needed to generate sufficiently precise prevalence
      estimates.

      One alternative to randomly sampling individuals or households is to screen all residents
      within sampling clusters. House-to-house screening by mobile expert teams would likely yield
      the highest number of cases, but such a strategy would be expensive and difficult to sustain.
      As an alternative, trained village volunteers have been used during programmatic activities
      to effectively detect and refer diseases such as Buruli ulcer and leprosy in a number of
      countries. Given how difficult it is to diagnose many IDM-NTDs accurately, using community
      volunteers to perform an exhaustive house-to-house case search would require follow up expert
      case validation. The success of such an approach would thus rely on high levels of community
      awareness, coupled with well-trained village volunteers being able to recognise possible
      conditions, and a highly skilled, mobile case-validation team to confirm all potential cases.
      Effectively incorporating skill development in IDM-NTD screening among village volunteers
      could however represent a long-term and sustainable solution to the complex issue of managing
      these conditions at the community and primary health care level.

      This study aims to establish the prevalence and distribution of case-management NTDs in the
      county of Maryland, Liberia using an integrated two-stage cluster-randomised sampling
      approach, including assessment of the proportion of cases not currently known to the health
      system.

      The specific objectives include:

        1. To generate regional prevalence estimates of (i) lymphatic filariasis-associated
           lymphoedema and hydrocele, (ii) yaws, (iii) Buruli ulcer and (iv) leprosy in Maryland,
           Liberia, including the proportion of cases not currently known to the health system

        2. To model the endemicity status of (i) lymphoedema and hydrocele, (ii) yaws, (iii) Buruli
           ulcer and (iv) leprosy to support the development of targeted, integrated control
           strategies.

        3. To compare case detection rates from active community-based screening and validation
           with passive case detection reported through routine health system reports and health
           management information systems.

      This protocol represents a novel tool for integrated mapping of IDM-NTDs. These conditions
      are difficult to diagnose and lack effective tools for both case finding and disease
      management purposes. This strategy may provide a template for cost-effective case
      identification and management that can be integrated within routine health systems in similar
      epidemiological settings.
    
  