
    
      Background The main objective of this study is to analyze the short-and long-term influence
      of recombinant growth hormone on clinical and questionnaires based criteria of attention
      deficit/hyperactivity disorder in children and adolescents. This will be examined in children
      prior to GH therapy and 3, 6 and 12 months during treatment, by filling validated
      questionnaires (Vanderbilt rating scales) evaluating ADHD. All participants will be treated
      by rhGH doses acceptable by the FDA recommendations.

      Trial Goal The main goal of this trial is to assess if there is any association between
      treatment with rhGH during a short period of 3 months, or a long period of 3-12 months and
      the development of characteristics of ADHD (measurable parameters )

      Hypothesis Our research hypothesis, is that although parents fear of hyperreactive symptoms
      after rGH administration, our study will demonstrate that providing regular management of
      recombinant human growth hormone therapy over time, will not be associated with significant
      change in attention deficit/hyperactive characteristics compared to matched age and sex
      controls who did not receive GH treatment. This prospective case control study format study
      has been chosen in order to observe and document any behavioural influence with the
      recommended and standard treatment with GH treatment given according to current guidelines.

      Study population and size were decided according to a statistician calculation of 80% power
      and 5% significance and with a consiideration of 15% drop-out

      Trial design An open prospective observational case control study that will recruit children
      and adolescents prior to initiation of GH treatment. This is a single-site study, however
      patients who comply with inclusion and exclusion criteria, may be recruited by the media, by
      representatives of pharmaceutical companies, medical associations and the Children's
      Endocrinology Association. Every eligible participant, wherever treated for his condition may
      take part in the study.

      The study design is to compare, in a controlled case-control manner, prospectively. The
      development of ADHD characteristics in a group of patients from initiation to 12 months of
      treatment with rhGH compared to a similar gender and age controlled group, not treated by
      rhGH.

      Statistical Analysis All data will be presented in mean ,min and max. The data will be
      divided according to age and results.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by ANOVA with repeated measures, which will examine
      the difference between the trial and control group, at the 4 different time points, as well
      as the difference in each patient for itself, the influence of time and the interaction
      between these measures.
    
  