
    
      The purpose of this phase II clinical trial study is to assess the resection rate among
      subjects who have been initially diagnosed with unresectable or borderline resectable
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This will be done by providing preoperative treatment that will
      include alternating cycles of chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment. In addition, this
      clinical trial will assess the safety of preoperative chemotherapy with radiation therapy for
      subjects with unresectable or borderline resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head,
      assess margin-negative resection rates, disease-free survival, assess overall survival rates,
      and determine patterns of local and distant recurrence.

      The study population in this clinical trial will consist of untreated subjects 18 years or
      older who have a histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of unresectable or
      borderline resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head. Once the patient has undergone
      the necessary tests and the tumor has been staged, the principal investigator or
      co-investigators will determine if the patient is suitable to be inducted in this clinical
      trial. The course of preoperative treatment in this study will consist of an alternating
      combination of 6mg/M² of Gemzar for 24 hours and 7.0 Gy of radiation therapy. The subject
      will undergo one of these therapies alternating daily for a total of 10 days then the subject
      will be allowed to rest for 4 weeks before undergoing restaging and surgery. After surgery,
      the subject will then undergo the conventional chemotherapy regimen consisting of 6 cycles of
      1000mg/M² of Gemzar over a 30 minute infusion rate.

      The primary outcome of this clinical trial is the margin-negative resection rate. This will
      be determined by the tumor's response to the pre/post-operative treatment so that the tumor
      can be removed surgically via pancreaticoduodenectomy. Once the subject has completed the
      treatment as described in the protocol, he/she will continued to be followed to assess
      survival and patterns of local and distance recurrence. The purpose of this clinical trial
      will be an attempt to provide subjects with a more hopeful alternative to treatment for a
      disease that otherwise offers a grim prognosis.
    
  