
    
      Background: Epidemiological studies suggest that raised plasma concentrations of total
      homocysteine (tHcy) may be a common, causal and treatable risk factor for
      atherothromboembolic ischemic stroke, dementia and depression. Although tHcy can be lowered
      effectively with small doses of folic acid, vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, it is not known
      whether lowering tHcy, by means of multivitamin therapy, can prevent stroke and other major
      atherothromboembolic vascular events, dementia and depression.

      Purpose: To determine whether vitamin supplements (folic acid 2 mg, B6 25 mg, B12 500 ug)
      reduce the risk of stroke, other serious vascular events, dementia and depression in patients
      with recent stroke or transient ischemic attacks of the brain or eye (TIA).

      Methods: An international, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      clinical trial.

      Subjects: Patients with stroke or TIA in the previous 7 months.

      Primary outcome measure: Non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, or death due to
      vascular causes.

      Secondary outcome measures: TIA, Revascularisation procedures, Dementia, Depression.

      Sample size calculation: To reliably identify a 15% reduction in relative risk of the primary
      outcome event from 8% to 6.8% per year with an alpha of 0.05 and power of 80%, 8,000 patients
      need to be randomized and followed-up for an average of two years.

      Current progress: As of November, 2004, more than 4,400 patients have been randomized in 73
      centers in 19 countries in five continents: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Hong Kong,
      Italy, Malaysia, Moldova, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Republic
      of Georgia, Serbia & Monte Negro, Singapore, Sri Lanka, United Kingdom, and United States.

      VITATOPS aims to recruit and follow up 8,000 patients between 2000 and 2006, and provide a
      reliable estimate of the safety and effectiveness of dietary supplementation with folic acid,
      vitamin B12, and vitamin B6 in reducing recurrent serious vascular events, dementia and
      depression among a wide range of patients with stroke and TIA.
    
  