
    
      One of the challenges of the practical application of immunotherapy for brain tumors is the
      lack of expression of tumor antigens as well as the down-regulation of Major
      Histocompatibility Complex (MHC Class I and II ) molecules, which are needed for antigen
      presentation. Considering the ability of 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (DAC) to facilitate the
      expression of cancer/testis (CT) antigens and major histocompatibility complex molecules
      (MHC) and the fact that it has good blood brain barrier penetration, it is reasonable to test
      this approach in a vaccine study for patients who have experienced disease recurrence. The
      use of a combined approach to tumor immunotherapy - antigen upregulation followed by
      vaccination - has not been studied in this patient population, and there is a strong biologic
      rationale for this strategy.

      Patients with pediatric brain tumors (medulloblastoma, CNS PNET, high grade glioma) who have
      experienced disease relapse or progressive refractory disease will be eligible. Each cycle
      will consist of DAC at low dose administered over a 5 day period, followed by two weekly
      vaccinations consisting of autologous dendritic cells pulsed with pooled, overlapping peptide
      mixes derived from full-length MAGE-A1, MAGE-A3, and NY-ESO-1. This dose of DAC is lower than
      all previously reported doses that have been safely administered in adult patients with
      Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and was used in a previous
      protocol for relapsed and refractory pediatric neuroblastoma and sarcomas. A novel way of
      stimulating CD4 and CD8 antigen specific T cells is to use a dendritic cells (DC) vaccine
      approach in which the cells are pulsed with overlapping peptides derived from these antigens,
      so that patients from several different HLA backgrounds can be enrolled. Overlapping peptide
      mixes derived from full-length NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A1, or MAGE-A3 have been acquired and consists
      of 15-mers, with 11 amino acid overlap. The number of DC given in our study (8-10 x 106
      peptide pulsed DC) is within the range of doses given in previous studies. Vaccinations are
      spaced at weekly intervals, based on multiple previous studies in which this approach is
      taken, and the fact that in vitro re-stimulation of cytolytic T lymphocyte (CTL) generally
      occurs on a weekly basis. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is given
      days 1 through 5 during vaccine weeks, to minimize leukopenia from DAC and to help facilitate
      antigen presenting cell function. The adjuvant poly-interstitial Cajal-like cell (ICLC;
      Hiltonol) will be injected immediately after and adjacent to DC vaccine site to enhance DC
      maturation. We will accrue 10 patients with relapsed, refractory, or progressive pediatric
      brain tumors over a 3 year period. Cycles will repeat every five weeks, for two cycles.
      Patients who do not have disease progression after two cycles may receive an additional two
      cycles of therapy.
    
  