
    
      In 2006, the vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) rate was 8.5%, compared to a rate of 28.3%
      in 1996. This was also associated with a rise in the rate of cesarean section from
      approximately 20% to 31.1% over that same period of time. In that 10 year period, some
      hospitals stopped offering a trial of labor after cesarean (TOLAC) altogether.

      Currently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists states in Practice
      Bulletin 115 (2010), Vaginal Birth After Previous Cesarean Delivery, "it is reasonable to
      consider women with 2 previous low transverse cesarean deliveries to be candidates for
      TOLAC…Data regarding the risk for women undergoing TOLAC with more than two previous cesarean
      deliveries is limited."

      In 1994, a study reviewing10 years of data regarding trial of labor after cesarean. Of their
      population with 3 or more previous cesarean deliveries, 30% of patients underwent a trial of
      labor, with a 79% success rate. In this group, the uterine rupture rate was 1.2% with zero
      perinatal deaths related to rupture, which is compared to a rupture rate of 1.8% and 1
      perinatal death in the group of 2 previous cesarean deliveries.

      In 2002, another study described the outcomes of women who underwent a trial of labor after 2
      or more previous cesarean deliveries at two large university hospitals in the Netherlands,
      but it included just 59 patients total and only 4 of these had 3 previous cesarean
      deliveries. No patients with more than 3 previous cesarean deliveries had a trial of labor.

      A study in 2010, described a large cohort of women from the northeastern United States with 3
      or more previous cesarean deliveries, including those attempting VBAC. This cohort included
      89 women, of whom 79.8% had a successful VBAC. However, of the women who had a TOLAC, 40.4%
      delivered in a university hospital and only 18.0% in a hospital with an OB/GYN residency,
      compared to 56.9% and 25.4% of women who had an elective repeat cesarean section. In the
      group that had a TOLAC, there were no cases of uterine rupture.

      There still remains a lack of data about the outcomes of the delivery of women who desire a
      trial of labor after 3 or more previous cesarean deliveries at a single institution.

      The investigators will analyze and compare the management and outcomes of women and neonates
      for patients who attempted a trial of labor after 3 or more previous cesareans. We will also
      compare them to women and neonates of patients who underwent a repeat cesarean section
      without a trial of labor.
    
  