
    
      Main objective Establish a pharmacokinetic relationship between plasma concentration and the
      effect of norepinephrine in patients under concentration-target intravenous anesthesia by
      identifying significant covariates during general anesthesia.

      Primary Evaluation Criteria Relationship between exposure and the effect
      (desired-effectiveness or undesirable-toxicity) of norepinephrine during hypotension induced
      by anaesthetic drugs in a pharmacokinetic model (PLASMATIC DOSAGES) and pharmacodynamic model
      (HEMODYNAMIC EFFECTS MODELISED)

      Experimental design This is a single-center, "non-interventional" study.

      Population concerned The study involves major patients who have benefited from intraoperative
      hemodynamic optimization with norepinephrine (as noradrenaline tartrate) for maintaining
      blood pressure under general anaesthesia in neurosurgery and interventional neuroradiology in
      adults.

      Research Proceedings Arterial catheter sampling for plasma noradrenaline assay

      Individual benefit:

      There is no benefit for the patient

      Collective benefit:

      Intraoperative hemodynamic optimization with the use of norepinephrine (as noradrenaline
      tartrate) to maintain blood pressure under general anaesthesia in neurosurgery and
      interventional neuroradiology in adults. Continued intravenous administration of
      norepinephrine should meet hemodynamic goals within a narrow time frame. Depending on the
      intensity of hypotension the dosage is variable. It is adjusted in real time while it is
      excessive or insufficient at times. Therefore, the development of modeling should predict the
      kinetic and hemodynamic effects based on dosage and individual.

      Risks and minimal constraints added by the research No added risk This clinical research work
      is "non-interventional" on adult patients who benefit from a neurosurgical or
      neuroradiological intervention and whose blood pressure monitoring justifies the installation
      of a blood pressure catheter. The use of blood pressure monitoring and recording monitors and
      blood samples do not require any additional invasive procedures on patients since it uses the
      vascular accesses already in place.

      The first sample (T0) is taken before the start of the infusion, thus determining the
      endogenous concentration (C0).

      After a norepinephrine bolus, the second sample (T1) is taken at least 15 minutes after the
      start of the steady flow infusion or 10 minutes after the last flow change to measure the
      plateau concentration (C1) These fixed timeframes were calculated by taking into account an
      incompressible timeframe linked to the estimated dead catheter volume of 2 minutes plus the 5
      half lives of norepinephrine estimated at 3-4 minutes.

      A third sample (T2) is taken 10 minutes after a flow change or before the end of the infusion
      (end of the procedure).

      To study the kinetics of the norepinephrine bolus, a rapid kinetics of 5 samples in TO, T30,
      T60, T120, T5 minutes is carried out in order to obtain the peak and speed of decrease in
      norepinephrine blood concentration for 5 patients.

      Number of selected subjects Selection of patients up to 30 analysable patients Number of
      Centre : 1 Research Agenda inclusion period: 18 months duration of participation (treatment +
      follow-up): duration of the surgical intervention or interventional neuroradiology procedure:
      1 day total duration: 18 months Number of planned inclusions by centre and month : 2 Number
      of subjects required : 30

      Statistics

      Descriptives: analysis by means of the two-step compartmental approach, which consists in
      estimating the pharmacokinetic parameters of each individual, then averaging them (obtaining
      the average pharmacokinetic parameters) and evaluating their distribution for the population
      studied.

      Selection and incorporation of all significant covariates into the basic model by
      Ascending-descending strategy: the pre-selected covariates are tested one by one on the basic
      model. Those that meet the criteria described above are selected and introduced at the same
      time in the basic model. A descending construction is then carried out: the covariates are
      removed one by one. If the objective function does not increase by more than 6.63 points and
      the interindividual variability of the parameter of interest is not increased, the covariate
      is considered to be insignificant. This process is renewed until all covariates in the model
      are significant.

      Validation of the model: Bayesian estimation: it allows once the final model has been
      validated, the estimation of pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic parameters for each
      individual by taking into account a priori the known information of fixed and random effects,
      population parameters, residual variability, the value of covariates of the different
      subjects and n observations of x subjects.
    
  