
    
      The Veterans Millennium Health Care and Benefits Act (Millennium Act) of 1999 mandated the
      Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide non-institutional long-term care to veterans.
      Adult Day Health Care (ADHC) is a key component of that spectrum of long-term care services.
      ADHC provides health maintenance, rehabilitation services and socialization in a group
      setting during daytime hours. Veterans in ADHC commonly suffer from limited physical
      functioning, depression, cognitive difficulties and low quality of life. These factors
      increase the likelihood of continued deterioration in functioning, loss of independence,
      hospitalizations, nursing home placement and death. Previous studies, including our own work,
      have demonstrated that sleep disruption is associated with depression, low quality of life,
      functional decline, nursing home placement, and death among older people. The investigators
      have found that sleep disturbance is common among ADHC patients, it is not addressed within
      routine clinical care, and treatment is commonly limited to medications (e.g., hypnotics,
      sedating antidepressants). Numerous studies show that both untreated insomnia and
      pharmacological treatment of insomnia can be associated with increased risk of falls and
      other adverse health events among older persons. On the other hand, nonpharmacological
      interventions on sleep do not show these adverse effects, have been shown to be effective and
      are associated with improvements in mood, quality of life and health.

      The goal of the study was to test the effectiveness of a cognitive-behavioral intervention to
      improve self-reported and objectively-measured sleep quality among older veterans with
      insomnia in a VA ADHC program. The intervention program involved a 4-session manualized
      treatment. This Sleep Intervention Program (SIP) was compared to an active Sleep Education
      control that also included 4 individual sessions using a randomized trial with 72 veterans.
      To our knowledge, this study is the first to address the unmet need for non-pharmacological
      treatment of sleep problems among ADHC patients. The intervention design (e.g., use of a
      manualized treatment that can be provided by non-psychologists) will facilitate translation
      into routine care and application in other similar VA programs.
    
  