
    
      Procedures involved in this study include:

      - Intraoperatively, following procurement of the fibula or scapula bone graft and at the time
      of surgical wound closure, all patients will receive the placement of a continuous infusion
      catheter into the donor site wound bed. The infusion reservoir will be connected to a
      catheter-based On-Q pump, and the catheter will be placed in the donor site. A stab incision
      separate from the surgical wound will be used to bring the catheter through the skin.
      Patients will be randomized to receive 6 ml/hr of 0.2% Ropivacaine or 6 ml/hr of normal
      saline via the infusion reservoir. The catheter will be left in place with continuous
      infusion for first 48 hours of the post-operative period. The catheters will be removed by
      the housestaff on POD2. There is minimal risk to removing the OnQ catheter. Any opening in
      the skin will be covered with gauze to allow primary healing. Solutions of saline and
      ropivacaine will be prepared and made available for infusion by the Mount Sinai Pharmacy.
      Solutions will be blinded, and identical in appearance. Patients will be assigned to
      ropivacaine or saline intervention by the research pharmacy through coded envelopes.
      Patients, physicians, nurses, and research personnel will be blinded to treatment assignment.
      Every 8 hours for the first 48 hours, patients will be asked to complete a visual analogue
      scale (VAS) for reporting their pain. The VAS will be performed six times over the course of
      the 48hrs. These will be performed during regular flap check monitoring, to ensure patients
      are not disrupted additional times throughout the day for this study. Patients will otherwise
      receive standard of care pain management, including Tylenol 650 q6hr standing as well as a
      dilaudid PCA set to low-dose, opioid naïve. On post-operative day 2 patient will receive a
      physical therapy evaluation.

      Prior to discharge from the hospital, the study subjects will be asked to complete a brief
      survey (APS-POQ-R Pain Survey) regarding their experience, with regard to pain management.
    
  