
    
      Participants will be randomly allocated to one of two groups. Those in the first group
      receive electro-acupuncture, which involves having needles inserted into acupuncture points
      (locations on the body affected by acupuncture) which are stimulated manually for 10 seconds
      to create "De Qi" sensation and an electrical apparatus (HANS-200A acupoint nerve stimulator,
      Nanjing Jisheng Medical Co., Ltd. production, wave of 2/100Hz) was then connected to the
      needles with alligator clips to stimulate the needles in pairs ST36-SP9/GB34 and ST34-SP10.
      The stimulus intensity will be increased until the patient reported a strong but comfortable
      intensity. Those in the second group have the same schedule as the electro-acupuncture group
      except that the electrical apparatus has working power indicator and sound without actual
      current output. Both groups will receive 30-minute, 24 sessions intervention over eight
      weeks. Moreover, a number of questionnaires at the start of the study and then again after 4,
      8, 12 and 16 week will be completed by participants.

      It is expected that participants will benefit from a decrease in pain and improved function.
      The risks of participation are minimal. Occasionally, acupuncture can make people feel
      nauseous or experience a temporary increase in pain either during or after treatment. Rare
      side effects during acupuncture treatment include fainting, infection and subcutaneous
      hematoma (pooling of blood under the skin). Participants will be warned of these potential
      side-effects before consenting to have acupuncture.

      Participants will be allowed, or required, to withdraw from the trial based on the following:

        1. A major protocol violation;

        2. Development of a serious disease preventing continuation in the trial;

        3. Adverse events related to acupuncture;

        4. Request to be withdrawn from the trial. The purpose is to accumulate clinical data,
           obtain the outcome data of the intervention method and prove the feasibility of the
           study protocol. Sixty patients will be selected as the sample size according to clinical
           experience.
    
  