
    
      This study will take place in Sunnybrook Veterans Centre (VC), a long-term care facility
      (LTC) with many residents above the age of 85 years living with dysphagia. These residents
      with dysphagia are at high risk of respiratory tract infections from aspiration of
      food/liquid particles into the lungs, exacerbated by factors like increased dependence for
      feeding and oral care, decreased mobility, multiple medical comorbidities, polypharmacy, and
      increased frailty.

      Expiratory muscle strength training (EMST) applied within a four-week intensive program (25
      sets/week) has had promising results in improving cough function and reducing laryngeal
      penetration/aspiration (P/A) during swallowing in community-dwelling adults above the age of
      65 years. The EMST150 is a handheld device with adjustable resistance that trains respiratory
      muscles used in exhalation. One set is defined as five exhales through the device set at a
      resistance level of 75% of an individual's maximum load, with a one minute break between
      breaths.

      The intensive four week EMST program outlined in previous literature was appropriate for the
      active, community-dwelling population they were studying. However, it would not be
      appropriate for most of the residents in the VC due to the extreme age, multiple medical
      comorbidities, increased frailty, and decreased functional independence in this population.
      An important aim of this study is to promote success by creating a protocol that fits into
      the average resident's schedule in a feasible way, but also has a similar number of total
      breaths through the device, in order to achieve clinical results. Resident perspective was
      sought from the Residents' Council executive and meeting attendees, and the final protocol
      was approved in a Residents' Council meeting. Participants would continue doing their usual
      therapies and activities with the EMST protocol being an add-on to that.

      The purpose of this study is to explore whether a modified, slow-stream EMST protocol of 12
      sets/week over eight weeks is an effective therapy for improving pulmonary clearance and
      swallowing safety in LTC residents above the age of 85 years who have dysphagia. Primary
      outcomes will be assessed through a pre-post analysis of voluntary cough strength measured
      using spirometry, as well as laryngeal P/A measured under videofluoroscopy. Secondary outcome
      of swallowing-related quality of life will be measured using Dysphagia Handicap Index -
      Emotional scale and the International Dysphagia Diet Standardization Initiative Functional
      Diet Scale pre and post intervention, as well as at a 3 month follow-up. Incidence of
      respiratory tract infections requiring antibiotics in the three months post-intervention will
      be measured and compared with broader institutional data.
    
  