
    
      Endothelial and baroreceptor function are impaired in patients with heart failure.

      Impaired baroreflex control of the heart and peripheral circulation and endothelial
      dysfunction are thought to play an important pathophysiological role in chronic heart failure
      and confers a poor prognosis.

      In patients with essential hypertension we demonstrated an improvement in baroreceptor
      function after treatment with folic acid.

      Therefore, the aim of the present randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to
      evaluate endothelial function and baroreceptor function in patients with heart failure before
      and after 1-month therapy with folic acid (5 mg) or placebo.

      Endothelial function will be assessed with novel high-resolution ultrasound devices, which
      allows to investigate endothelial function in vivo. This method makes use of the property of
      the endothelium to release nitric oxide in response to shear stress and increased flow as
      previously described. Endothelium-dependent flow-mediated dilation (FMD) and
      endothelium-independent glycerol trinitrate (GTN) (0.4 mg sublingual, Nitrolingual Spray,
      Pohl-Boskamp, Germany)-induced vasodilation of the brachial artery will be assessed by a
      high-resolution ultrasound vessel wall tracking device with a 10 MHz linear array transducer
      . FMD of the brachial artery is induced by release of a wrist cuff inflated 50 mmHg above
      systolic pressure for 5 minutes. After sublingual GTN application, used as
      endothelium-independent stimulus, the diameter will be recorded every 30 seconds for 6
      minutes.

      Multifiber recordings of muscle sympathetic nerve activity will be obtained from the peroneal
      nerve posterior to the fibular head with tungsten microelectrodes. The sympathetic nervous
      activity will be measured continuously together with ECG, respiration rate and blood
      pressure. Baroreceptor modulation of muscle sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate would
      be assessed by intravenous infusion of sodium nitroprusside.
    
  